y',o
N'cv ^
( \ (<^ < \
3^ i
THE ',
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CANE, M1WERVA-PRESS, LEADENHALL-STREET.
THS HEW TORt
PUBLIC LIBRARY
X8TQR. LENOX AND
TlU>tt» FOUNDATIONS
R
/
PK O^T LS'PTK r K .' /;v. //.

- i/'/VrM//.i n/rtfr/t?*/ //•//// ///-! ,;/"////r
>
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON ;CRUSOE,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
—**—*^———-—---—
BY ,
DANIEL DEFOE.
fim^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
a netp ŒWtion,
KnrkM with elegant Plates descriptive of the Subject.
^ „. . */ -
VOL. II.'. ***. V -.'
£_,--,-'a»,j e
LONDON: \/:\'j':''.
PRINTED AT THE
Sginnt)a.lE)tt&,
FOR LANE AND NEWMAN,
LEADENH ALL-STREET.
1805.
'r-
THE NEW YORK
j PUBLIC LIBRARY
758787 A
ASTOR, LENOX AND ,
T1L.DEN FOUNDATIONS]
H 1635 I-
THt
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
BOBINSON CRUSOE.
THt
THAT homely pfOverB, used on so many occasions
in England, viz. That what is bred jn the bone
tvill not go out of the flesh, was never more verified than
in the story of my life.—Any one would think, that
ifter thirty-sive years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which sew men, if ever any, went
through before; and after near-seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the sulness of all things; grown old, and
when, if ever it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle lise, and to know which
was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
say, after all this, any one would have thought that the
native propensity to rambling, which 1 gave an account
of in my first setting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be sully evaporated, or at least condensed,
and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing lite
and fortune any more.
Nay, sarther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no fortune to
make—1 had nothing to leek.—If 1 had gained ten thou-
A 3 laud
° ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
sand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that I had was visibly increasing; for having no great
samily, 1 could not spend the income of what I had,
unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great samily, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli-
nation to, so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit
still, and sully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase
daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical dis-
stemper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in
my head continually.—I dreamed of it all night, and
my imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost
in all my thoughts, and my sancy worked so steadily
and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep;
in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind.—It
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it
made my conversation tiresome; for 1 could talk of no-
thing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to imper-
tinence; and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that
all the stir people make in the world about ghosts and
apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagination,
and the powersul operation of sancy in their minds;
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like: that people's pouring affec-
tionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
sancying, upon lome extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them,
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing, and they really know nothing of the matter.
For my part, 1 know not to this hour, whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spectres,
or walking of people alter they are dead, or whether
there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind,
more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and
. -wandering sancies.—But this I know, that my imagina-
tion
tion worked me up to such a height, and brought me into
such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
1 actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at
my old castle behind the trees; I saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's sather, aud the reprobate sailors, whom I lest
upon the island. Nay, I sancied I talked with them,
and looked at them fo steadily, tho' I was broad awake,
as the perfons just before me; and this I did till I often
frightened myself with the images my sancy represented
to me.—One time, in my sleep, I had the villainy of
the three pirate sailors fo lively related to me by the
sirst Spaniard and Friday's sather, that it was serprising j
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they let sire to the provisions
they had laid up, on purpose to distress and staive them;
things that I had never heard of, and yet they were all
of them true in sact; and it was fo warm in,my ima-
gination, and fo realized to me, that to the hour I
saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or
would be true; alfo how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them, all three
to be hanged.—What there was really in all this shall
be seen in its place;' for however 1 came to form such,
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits
injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of it true.
I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and
specisically true; but the general part was fo true, the
base and villanous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been fo much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
of the fact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them\ severely, fo if I had hanged them all, I had been
much in the right, and should have been justisied both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: in this kind of temper
I had lived fome years; I had no enjoyment of my
lise, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion, but
what had fomething or other of this in it; fo that my
wise, who taw my mind fo wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powersul impulse of Providence upon me,
a 4 • which
t
which had determined me to go thither again; and that
she found nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged to a wise and children. —She told me, that it was
true, she could not think of parting with me; but as she
was.afTured, that if <he was dead, it would be the first
thing 1 would do; so, as it seemed to her, that the thing
was determined above, she would not be the only ob-
struction; for, if I thought fit, and resolved to go-
Here she found me very intent upon her words, and that
1 looked very.earnestly at her; so that it a little difor-
dered her, and £-.; tropped. I asked her why she did not
Z° 1Z, and say out what she was going to say. But I per-
ceived her heart was too sull, and some tears stood in
her eves.—Speak out, my dear, says I, are you willing
I shoiild go? No, says she, very affectionately, I am sar
from willing; but if you are resolved to go, &ys she,
rather than I will be the only hindrance, 1 will- go with
you; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,
said she again, weeping, I will not leave you; for if it be
of heaven, you mult do it, there is no reusing it—and
if heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also make
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that
I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wise, brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider what
1 was doinf — I corrected my wandering sancy, and be-
gan to argue with myself sedately, what business I had,
aster three score yei'.rs, and after such a lise of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy
a manner, I say, what business had 1 to rush into new-
hazards, and put myself upon adventures, fit only for
youth and poverty to run into.
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage-
ments—that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
then great with child of another; and that I had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what 1 had gained, than of scek-
inn-to increase it; that as to what my wise had said, of
its^ being an impulse from heaven, and that it should
be my duty to go, I had no notion of that; so after
many
many of these cogitations, I. struggled with the power
of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as 1 believe
people may always do in like cases, if they will, and, in
a word, I conquered it : composed myself with such argu-
ments as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present
condition surnished me plentisully with; and particular-
ly, as the molt effectual method, I resolved to divert my-
self with other things, and to engage in some business
that might efsectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; for I found the thing returned upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of moment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little sarm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I- sound was capable of great improvement, and that it
-was many ways suited to my inclination,Avliioh I delight-
ed in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving;
and particularly, being an inland county, I was removed
from converting among (hips, failors, and things relating
to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my sarm, settled my sa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon,
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriousljr to work,
became in one half year a mere country gentleman:
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting,
&c. and 1 lived, as I thought, the most agreeable lise
that nature was capable of directing, or that a man,
always bred to misfortunes, was capable of being re-
treated to.
1 sarmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay,
•was limited by no articles; I could pull up, or cut
down, as 1 pleased; what I planted was for myself,
and what 1 improved was for my samily; and having
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the leail discomfort in any part os my lise, as to this
world. Now 1 thought, indeed, that 1 enjoyed that
middle- state of lise which my father so earnestly re-
commended to me; a kind of heavenly lise, something
like what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a
country lise.
a 5 free
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this selicity, one blow frpm
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only-
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse inso
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, tfeing
born in my very blood, foon recovered its hold of me,
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible force upon me; fo that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow was
the loss of my wise.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my
wise, to give a character of her particular Virtues, and
make roy court to the sex by the flattery of a suneral
sermon. She wr.s, in a sew words, the stay of all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises; the engine,
that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass
I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project
that fluttered in my head, as above; and did more to
guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a
sather's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own
reafoning powers could do. 1 was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her intreaties, and to
the last degree defolate and dislocated in the world by
the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked aukwardly
round me: I was as much a stranger in it, in my
thoughts, as 1 was in the Bralils, when I sirst went on
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist-
ance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world busy
Tound me, one part labouring for bread, and the other
squandering it in vile excesses, or empty pleasures,
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still
tied from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur-
seited of their vice, and heaped-up work for forrow
and repentance: and the men of labour spend their
strength in daily strugglings for bread, to maintain the
vital strength they laboured with; fo living in a daily
dr-
11
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live; as if daily bread were the only end of a
wearisome life, and a wearisome lise the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the lise I lived in my king-
dom, the island, where I sufsered no more corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause I had no more use for them: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce
the savor to be looked upon in 20 years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search surther than human
enjoyments for a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end of lise,
superior to all these things, which was either to be pos-
sessed, or at least hoped for on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run before the wind:
my thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign
adventures, and all the pleasing innocent amusements
of my sarm, and my garden, my cattle, and my samily,
which before entirely possessed me, where nothing to me,
had no relish, and where like music to one that has no
ear, or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved
to leave off housekeeping, let my sarm, and return to
London; and in a sew months aster I did sb.
When 1 came to London, 1 was still as uneasy as be*
fore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person,
of whom it may be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing matter to the rest
of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing, which of all circumstances of lise was the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an
active lise; and 1 would Often say to myself, a state of
idleness is the very dregs of lise; and indeed I thought I
was much more suitably employed, when I was 26 days
making a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I had
a 6 brought
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of
a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa,
being the first he bad made; he came to me, and told
me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East-
Indies and to China, as privatetraders: and now, uncle,
lays he, if you will go to sea with me, 1 will engage to
land, you upon your old habitation in the island, for we
are to touch at the Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a suture
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of things,
which we form in our minds, persectly Reserved, and not
communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and 1 knew nothing
of what he had in-his thoughts to say; when that very
morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
consusion of thought, and revolving every part of my
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that 1 would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-
captain, and so, if it was rational and practicable, {
would so and see the island again, and see what Was be-
come of my people there. I had pleased myself also with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession,
•nd. I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in
comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither, in his way to the East-Indies.
• . I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at
him, What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky er-
rands? My nephew startled, as if he had been'frighted
at first; but perceiving I was not much displeased with
the proposal, he recovered himself; 1 hope it may not be
an unlucky proposal, fir, says he; I dare say you would
be pleased to see your new colony there, where you onefe
Teigned with more selicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.
In a word the scheme hit so exactly with my tem-
per, that is to say, with the prepossession I was under,
and of which. I have said so much, that I told him in
few. wokIs, if. he; agreed with the merchants, I woitfd
<> go
go with him,: but I told him, I would not promise to go
any sarther than my own island. Why, Sir, says he, you
do not want to be left there again, I hesbe? Why, said I,
can you not take me up again in 3rour return? He told
me it would not be possible to do fo,; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his wav,
and might be three or four: Besides, Sir, if I should mis-
carry, said he, and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of fome
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island, and sinished, sit to go to sea-in a sew
days.
I was not long refolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew, joined in fo esfectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wise being dead, I had nobody that concerned
themselves fo much for me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend the wi-
dow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard
of a lon<r voyage; and, above all, my young children:
but it was all to no purpose, I had an irresistible desire
to CTo the voyage; and I told her, 1 thought there was
fomethin"' fo uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind for the voyage, that it would be a kind of
resitting Providence, if I should attempt to stay at home;
after which the ceased her expostulations, and joined
with me, not only in making provision for my voyage,
but alfo in settling my family-asfairs in my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that I was persectly easy and
satissied they would have justice done them, whatever
might befal me; and for their education, I left it
wholly to my widow, with a sussicient maintenance to
herself for her care; all which she richly deserved: for
no
/
no mother could have taken more care in their educa-
tion, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came
home, 1 also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning
of January, 1694-5, and 1, with my man Friday, went
on board in the Downs the flth, having, besides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which, if I did not find in good condition, 1 resolved to
leave so.
First, I carrried with me some servants, whom I'
purposed to place there, as inhabitants, or at least, to
set on work there upon my own account while I staid,
andeither to leave them there, or carry them forward',
as they should appear willing, particularly I carried twa
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious sellow,
-who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general me-
chanic, for he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a
good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we call him.
our jack of all trades.
With these 1 carried a taylor, who.had offered himself
to go passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but
afterwards contented to slay on our new plantation, and-
proved a most necessary handy sellow as could be desired,
in many other businesses besides that of his trade; for as
I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ-
ments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not
kept an account of particulars, consisting of a sufficient
quantity os linen, and some thin English stuffs for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there, and enough
of them, as by my calculation might comfortably supply
them for seven years; if 1 remember right, the materials
which I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats,
shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could
want for wearing, amounted to above 2001. including
some beds, bedding, and houshold stuff, particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c.
besides near 1001. more'in iron-work, nails, tools of
every
every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and
susils, besides fome pistols, a considerable quantity of
shot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what
time, and what extremities, I was .providing for, I car-
ried an hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, and
cutlasses, and the iron part of fome pikes and halberts,
fo that, in stort, we had a large magazine of all forts
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two smalt
quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his stip, to
leave behind, if there was occasion, that when they
came there, we might build a fort, and man it against
all forts of enemies; and indeed at sirst I thought there
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island, as stall be
seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had
been used to meet with, and therefore stall have the less
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet fome odd accidents, cross-winds, and bad weather
happened, on this sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz. my sirst voyage to Guinea,
in which I might be laid to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst designed, begnn to think the same ill
sate still attended me; and that I was born to be never
contented with my own store, and yet to be always un-
fortunate at sea.
Contrary winds sirst put us to the northward, and
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay windbound two-and-thirty days ; but we had this
satissaction with the disaster, that provisions were here
exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; ib th;.t while
we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather
added to them; here alfo I'took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which 1 refolved, if 1 had a good
passage, to put astore in my island, but we found occasion
to dispose otherwise of them.
We
'-
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had
a very sair gale of wind, for some days; as I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came info
the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and
heard a gun fired: and while he was telling; us of it, a
boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another.
This made us all run out upon the quarter deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a sew minutes we
saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that
there could be no land that way in which the fire
shewed itself, no, not for 500 leagues, for it appeared
at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be some
ship on fi^e at sea; and ashy our hearing the noise
of guns just before, we concluded it could not be sar
off', we stood directly towards it, and were presently sa-
tisfied we should discover it, because the sarther we sailed
the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light
fora while: in about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being sair for us, though not much of it, and the weather
cleaving up a little, we could plainly discern, that it was
a great ship on fire in the middse of the sea. I was
moss, sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the perlons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, in what condition
I was in when taken up by.the Portuguese captain; and
how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to the ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them; upon this I im-
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one
soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them, that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat;
for though we could see the flame in the ship, yet they,
it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, onl}r- driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and imme-
diately,
diately sunk! This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting
sight; for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded,
must be either all destroyed, in the ship, or be in the ut-
most distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
-which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not
see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanthoras for, and kept
firing guns all the night long, letting them know by
this, that there was a ship not sar off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
• theship's boats, by the help of our perspective-glasses,
and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, aiid deep in the water; we perceived they
rowed, the -wind being against them; that they saw our
fliip, and did the utmost to rrake us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. Jn a little more than half an hour we
i came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women and children;
for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-
stiip of 300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in
the river of Canada. The master gave us a long ac-
count of the distress of his ship, how the fire began in the
steerage by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the
first fire had gotten into some part of the ship, so disficult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the cieling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the (kill and -all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large;
being their long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a
small skifs, which was of no great service to them,
other than to get some fresh water and provisions rnto
her
her, after they had secured themselves from the sire.
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats, at that distance from any land; only,
as they said well, that they were escaped from the sire,
and had a pQflibility that fome ship might happen to
be at sea, and might take .them in. They had sails,
oars, and a compass, and were preparing to make the
best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing
pretty sair, for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it
so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about 12 days, in which, if they had no bad weather,
and no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he
might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take fome sish to sustain them till they might go
on (hore. But there were fo many chances against
them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and
founder them, rains and cold to benumb and periQi
theif limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them, that it must have been next to miraculous if they
had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being
hopeless,, and ready to despair, the captain, with tears
in his eye's told me, they were on a sudden surprised with
the joy os hearing a gun sire, and after that four more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at sirst
seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I designed it should,
'viz. that there-was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they! took
down their masts and sails, the found coming from
the windward, they refolved to lie by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they sired
three musquets, one a considerable while after another;
but*ihese, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as 1 have said, I caused to
be sired all the rest of the night; this set them to
work with their oars to keep their boat's a-head, at
least that we might the fooner come up with them:
18 ADVENTURES OF ROBtNSON CRUSOE.
and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they sound we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures,
the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these
poor delivered people run into, to express the joy ot' their
fouls at so unexpected a deliverance; grief and sear are
easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and a very lew moti-
ons of the head and hands, making up the sum of its vari-
ety: but an excels of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagancies in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the
greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving add down-
right lunatic; some ran. about the ship stamping- whh
their seet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, several singing, some laughing, more crying,
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word, others sick
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to saint, and
a sew were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thanksul afterwards; but the passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it; they were thrown intoecstacies and a kind of frenay,
and so there were but a very sew who were composed
and serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
from the particular circumstances of the nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whose temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations. 1
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen before came up to it: the ec-
stacies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he
found his sather in the boat, came the nearest to it; and
the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
1 delivered from the two villains that set them on more
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that 1 saw in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is sarther observable, that these extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the va-
riety would -appear in a short succession of moments,
in'
in one and the same person. A man that we sa* this
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and consounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like
an antick, and the next moment tearing his hair, or
pulling his cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under
his seet like a madman; a sew minutes after that, we
should have him all in tears, then sick, then swooning;
and had not immediate help been had, would, in a sew
moments more, have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest
part of them; and, if 1 remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let above thirty of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot on board our (hip, and
saw himself sase, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance; not the least sign of lise could be perceived
in him ; 'our surgeon immediately applied* proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ihip
that believed he was not dead; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having first chased and' rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his eves,
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke;
grew better, and, in a little time, quite well; after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
sectly well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself.
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had sainted, and told him, the
priest was gone stark mad. It teems he had began to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind,
and this put him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits
•whirled about saster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and severish, and the man was
as fit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon
him
him, and he waked next morning persectly composed
and well.
The younger priest behaved himself with great com-
mand of hrs passion, and was really an example-of a
serious well-governed mind; at his first coming on boaid
the sbip, he threw himself flat on his sace, prostrating
himself in thanksulness for his deliverance, in whxh 1
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really think-
ing he had been in a swoon; but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks
also.
1 was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only
left him, but kept others from interrupting him also;
he continued in that posture about three minutes, or
a little more, after 1 left him; then came to me, as he
said he would, and, with a great deal of ieriousness.
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, given him, and to many miserable
creatures their lives. 1 told him 1 had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: but I added,
that it was nothing but what reason and humanity' dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he
to give thanks to God, who had blessed* us so sar as to
make us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his
creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his
countrj'-folks, laboured to compose them, persuaded,
intreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did tils utmost
to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with some he had success, though others were, for a
time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whose hands it may sall,
in the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies of
their passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what will not the extravagancies of anger, rage, and
a provoked mind, carry us to? And indeed, here I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding strict watch over our
passions
passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satis-
saction, as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravaganices
among our new guests for the first day; but when they
had been refreshed, lodgings provided for them as well
as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most of them did, being satigued arid frightened, they
Were quite another fort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments
for the kindness shewn them was wanting; theFrenchl
'tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that way.
The captain, and one of the priests, came to me the
next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my ne-
phew, the commander, began to consult with us what
Ihould be done with them; and first they told us, that, as
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little,
enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the
-flames; and if we would accept it, they were ordered to
-make an ofser of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our wajr, where, if possible, they
might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards;
but I over-ruled him in that part, for 1 knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all I had for ray deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brasils, as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases, a much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was
our duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them, but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
but that we took them up to serve them not to plunder
them;
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on shore, and leave them;
that this would be fh-st to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drawing, and
then abandon them to starving; and therefore 1 would
Hot let the least thing be taken from them; as to setting
them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceed-
ing great difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East Indies, and though we were driven out of our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
-was directed by heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilsully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was,
to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West Indies, and get them
passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they -could not but be very thanksul for it; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; they then entreated me, that, teeing 1 was driven
so sar to the westward before I met with them, I would
at least keep on the same courle to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ship or sloop that they-might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part; and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole company to the
East Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity to
the poor people,*but would be ruining our whole voy-
age by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unsoreseen acci-
dent made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no
one could fay we were to blame; for the laws of God
and Nature would have forbid, that we should resuse
ta take up two boats sull of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing as well re-
specting
'->.
"X
specting ourselves, as the poor ptople, obliged us to see
them on shore somewhere or other, for their deliver-
ance ; so I consented that we would carry them to New-
foundland, if wind and weather would permit ; and, if
not, that I would carry them to Martinico in the West
Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good, and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France ; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been
so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no passengers for sear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea' there
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to
France, if they could get provision to victual themselves
with; when, 1 say, all the French went on shore, I
mould remember, that the young priest 1 spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the,
coast of Coromandel; I readily agreed to that, for I
wondersully liked the man, and had very good reason,
<is vvill appear afterwards; also four of the seamen
'entered themselves in our ship, awl proved very usesul
sc-llows.
From hence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about 20 days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity to work
upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes NY
and the 19th day of March, lb'94-5, when we. espied
a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon perceived
it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us; but
could not at first know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
top-mast, fore-mast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fires
sires a gun as a signal of distress; the weather was pretty
good, wind at N. X. W. a fresh gale, and we foon came
to spes.™ with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
Barbadoes, but had been blown cut of the road at Bar-
badoes, a sew days before she was ready to sail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate
were both gone on shore; fo that besides the terror of the
storm, they were but in an indisFtrent case for good
artists to bring the ship home: they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge, to the westward,
and in which they lost their masts, as above; they told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the fouth-east,, by a
strong gale of wind at N. N. W. the same that blew
now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a
main-course, and a kind os square-sail upon a jury fore-
mast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand nway for the
Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the satigues
they had undergone: their bread and slelh was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had had
none for eleven days: the only relief they had was,
their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; fome
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured, and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board
the evening before the hurricane began: and having no
provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe,
vol. ii. B I had
I ha<], perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity
liad not led me, the weather being sair, and the wind
abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, who,
rpon this occcasion commanded the ship, had been on
hoard our ship: and he told me indeed, that they had
three passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a
deplorable condition; nay, says he, I believe they are
'dead, for 1 have heard nothing of them for above two
days; and 1 was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for 1 had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relief we could spare; and indeed I had fo sar over-ruled
things with my nephew, that I would have victualled
them, though we-luid g^ne away to Virginia, or any
part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves;
but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were
afraid oseating too mulsh, even of that little we gave them;
the mate or commander bi ought six men with him in his
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were fo weak, they could hardly lit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
fliare and share alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before
him immediately, and he had not eaten three mouthsuls
before he began to be tick, and out of order: fo he stopped
awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up fomething with
fome broth, which he said 'would be to him both food
and physic; and after he had taken it, he grew better:
in the mean time, I forgot not the men; I ordered
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather
devoured than eat it ;• they were fo exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no com-
mand of themselves; and two of them eat with fo much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very moving
'to me, and brought to mind what I had a terrible pros-
pect of at my iirst coming on shore in my island, where
I had not the least mouthsul of food, or any hopes of
'procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension 1 had
of
of being made the food of other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
tondition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story- he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin (viz.) the mother, her
fon, and the maid servant, whom he had heard nothing
of for 'wo or three days; and whom he seemed to con-
sess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being fo great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all; and that therefore they
must be perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
floor or desk of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men to refresh them, fo I also
forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the mip, and with
my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or sive pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men's
taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little
at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and see what condition the poor passen-
gers -were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them, and
give them what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with fome of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satissied with this; but, as I said above,
haviisg a great mind to see the scene of misery, which I
knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, 1 took the
captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult
o get the victuals out of the boiler before it was ready:
but my mate observed his order, and kept a good
guard at the cook-room door; and the man he
B Z placed
placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them ofs by force: however, he caused
some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave them every one one, to stay their stom-
achs, and told them it was for their own sasety that
he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and officers with me, and with
good words, and some threats also of giving them no
more, i believe thev would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and tore the meat out of the surnace;
for words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however we pacified them, and sed them gradu-
ally and cautiously for the first time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last filled their bellies, and the
men did well enough.
Rut the misery of the poop passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and sar beyond the rest; for as, first,
the ship's company had lo little for themselves, it was
but too true, that they had at first kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had no
food at all, and for several days before very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was
a woman of good sense, and good breeding, had spared
all (he could get so affectionately for her son, that at last
she entirely sunk under it; and when the mate of our
ihip went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her
back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
-were lathed sast, and her head sunk in between her shoul-
ders, like a corpse, though not quite so dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and with
a spoon put some broth into her mouth; she opened her
lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet
she understood what he said, and made signs to him, in-
timating, that it was too late for her; but pointing to
her child, as if she would have said, they should take
care of him.
However the mate, who was exceedingly moved with
the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her
mouth ; and, as he said, got two or three spoonsuls down,
though
though I question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most
assectionate mother's lise, was not lb sar gone; yet he lay
in a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him; he had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him some time aster but two or
three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was very lick, and
brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that
had sallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for
lise; her limbs were destorted, one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped it
so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go; her
other arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both to-
gether, set sast against the frame of the cabin-table; in
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when
our surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge
and experience, and with great application recovered her
as to lise, he had her upon his hands as to her senses, for
she was little less than distracted for a considerable time
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
fired to consider, that visits at sea are not like a jour-
ney into the country, where sometimes people stay a
week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts; how-
ever, as their captain begged of us to help him to set up
b 3 a main-
a main-top-mast, and a kind of top-mast to his jury-^
fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or
four days, and then having given him sive barrels of beef
and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of
peas, flour, and what other things we could spare; and
taking three casks of sugar and fome rum, and fome
pieces of eight of them for satissaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
dejected with the loss of his mother, and as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months before at Bar-
badoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out ot the ship; for he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed fo they had, that
is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no jus-
tice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how sar we were going, and how
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put
him perhaps in as bad circumstances almost as we
found them in; that is to say, starving in the world.
He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among:
that the captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing of my nephew) had saved his lise, and
he was sure would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thank-
sul for it, let us carry them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case fo affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could
not be removed, or come at; and as the youth had a
bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a
writing, obliging him to go, as foon as he came to Bris-
tol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the
Jouth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which
wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
, deceased
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in fo disabled
a condition, and fo sar from any land, that I am of opi-
nion, the sirst storm she met with afterwards, she might
founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage
in her hold, when 1 met with her.
I was now in the latitude of I;) deg. 32 min. and had
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at
sirst the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-
body with the little incidents of winds, weather, cur-
rents, &c. on the rest of our voyage; but shortening
my story for the lake of what is to follow, shall observe
that-* came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th
of April, 16M5. It was with no small dissiculty that I
found the place: for as 1 came to it, and went from it
before, on the fouth and east side of the island, as com-
ing from the Brazils, fo now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor
any land mark, 1 did not know it when I saw it, Ot
know whether 1 saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque
but none for my purpose; only this I learned by my
coasting the shore, that 1 was under one great mistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw,
from the island I lived in, was really no continent, but
a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from
one to the other side of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other Barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited fomething nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, i visited several of the islands to no purpose;
fome 1 found were inhabited, and fome were not. On
one of them I found fome Spaniards, and thought they
had lived-there; but, speaking with them, found they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch fome pearl-muscles
is they could; but they belonged to the isle de Trini-
dad, which lay surther «orth, in the latitude of 10 and
11 degrees.
b 4 Thus
Thus coasting from one island to an other, fometimes
with the ship, fometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore
kept her with their very good will, at length I came sair
on the fouth-tide of my island, and I prelently knew the
very countenance of the place; fo I brought the ship
sase to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where
was my old habitation.
As foon as 1 saw the place, I called for Friday and
asked him, if he knew where he was? tie looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried; O yes, O
there, O yes, O there, pointing to our old habitation, and
sell a dancing and capering like a mad sellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim aihore to the place.
Well, Friday, said I, do you think we shall sind any
body here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
your sather? The sellow stood mute as a stock a good
while j but when I named his sather, the poor affectionate
creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his sace very plentisully. What is the matter Fri-
day, said I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him
more, no ever more see again. Why fo, said I Friday?
How do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he
long ago die! long ago he much old man! Well, well
said 1, briday, you don't know : but shall we see any one
else then: the sellow,*it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
though we lay half a league off, he cries out, Me see ! me
see! yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and
there! I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass; which was, 1 suppose, because I could
not hit the place; for the sellow was right, as I found
upon enquiry the next day, and there were sive or six
men altogether stood to look at the ship, not knowing'
what to think of us.
As foon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused
the English ancient to be spread, and sired three guns,
to give them notice we were friends; and about half
a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoke rise •
from the side of the creek; Ib 1 immediately ordered
a boat
a boat out, taking Friday with- me; and, hanging out a
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore;
taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the
manner of it, and every particular, both of my myself
and those that I left there, and who was on that account
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about
sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any new
guest there which we did not know of; but we ha.i no
need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the first
man I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, and whom I knew by his sace persectly well;
as to his habit, I shall describe it, afterwards. I ordered
nobody to go on shore at first but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate crea-
ture had spied his sather at a distance, a good way offof
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and
if they had not let him go on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on more, but
he flew away to his sather, like an arrow out of a bow.
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the
firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this
poor sellow's joy, when he came to his sather; how he
embraced him, kissed him, stroked his sace, took him
up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down
by him; then stood and looked at him, as any one
would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour
together; then lay down upon the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kifled them, and then got up again, and*
stared at him; one would have thought the sellow
bewitched; but it would have made a dog laugh to see?
how the next day his paffion ran out another way : in the
morning he walked along the shore, to and again, with
his sather several hours, always leading him by the hand,
as if he had been a lady; and every now and then would
come to setch something or other for him to the boat,
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, or some-
thing or other that was good In the afternoon his fro-
lics run another way, for then he would set the old
man down upou the ground, and dance about him, and
B 5 made
made a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all the
-while he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of
-what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In
short, if the same silial afsection was to be found in chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts of the world, one
would be tempted to say, there hardly would have been
any need of the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It
-would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first
Spaniard, whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he
whose lise I saved; he came towards the boat, attended
by one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did
not only not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no
notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him:
Seignior, said I, in Portuguese, do you not know me? At
which he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to
the nAn that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and
saying something in Spanish that I did not persectly hear,
came forward, and embraced me, telling me he was inex-
cusable, not to know that sace again that he had once
seen, as of an angel from heaven, lent to save his lise. He
laid abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred
Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning to
the person that attended him, bade him go and call out
his comrades. He then asked me, if I would walk to
my old habitation, where he would give me possession os
niyown house again, aud where 1 should see there had
.been but mean improvements; so I walked along with
him; but alas! 1 could no more find the place again,
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so
many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so thick
and close to one another, in ten years time .they were'
grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways, as they them-
selves only who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these, fortifica-
tions? He told me, 1 would say there was need enough
of it, when they had given an account how they had
passed their time since their arriving in the island, espe-
cially after they had the misfortune to sind, that I was
.s
gone: he told me he could not have but fome satisfac-
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
in a good ship, and to my satissaction; and that he had
oftentimes a strong persuasion, that one time or other he
should see me a^ain: but nothing that ever betel him
in his lise, he said, was fo surprising and afflicting to him
at sirst, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found I was not theTe.
As to the three Barbarians (fo he called them) that
were left behind, and of whom he said he had a lone
story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
much better among the savages, only that their number
was fo small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and
with that he crofll'd himself upon the breast. But, Sir,
says he, 1 hope you will not be displeased, when 1 shall
tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our
own preservation, to disarm them, and making them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers. 1 answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when 1 left them there; and no-
thing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not come back, that 1 might have put thenvin
possession of every thing sirst, and left the other in a state
of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very sar from
sinding any sault with it; for 1 knew they were a parcel
of refractory ungovernable villains, and were sit for any
manner of mischief.
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, ' and with him eleven men more: in the
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what na-
tion they were off}' but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, Sir, are fome of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you; and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which
they all came up one by one, not as if they had beea
sailors, and ordinary sellows, and 1 the like, but really,
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I
a monarch, or a great conqueror: their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous,- and yet
£ 6 mixed
mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very well
became them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind:
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the former part of my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given,
that 1 cannot but commit them, with great delight, to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in
the first person, which will put me to the expence of
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's,
and I told him's, and the like; but I shall collect the
sacts historically, as near as 1 can gather them out of my
memory from what they related to me, and from what I
met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I left
the island, and which the persons were in, of whom I
am to speak. At first it is necessary to repeat, that I had
sent away Friday's sather and the Spaniard, the two
whose lives 1 had rescued from the savages; I say, I
had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as I
, then thought it, to setch over the Spaniard's companions,
whom he had left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he had been in: and in order
to succour them for the present, and that, if possible
we might together find some way for our deliverance
afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance
of, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance,
any more than I had twenty years before; much less had
I any foreknowledge of what after happened, 1 mean of
an t-nglish ship coming on shore there to setch them off,
and it could not but be a very great surprise to them,
when they came back, not only to find that I was gone,
but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of
all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise
have been their own.
The
The first thing, however, which I enquired into,
that I might begin where I left off, was of their owa
part: and I desired he would give me a particular ac-
count of his voyage back to his countrymen with the
boat, when I sent him to setch them over. He told
me there was little variety in that part; for nothing re-
markable happened to them on the way, they having
jvery calm weather, and a smooth sea; for his coun-
trymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him: (it seems he was the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain -of the vessel they
had been shipwrecked in, having been dead some time).
They were, he*said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was sallen into the hands of
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he
told them the story of the deliverance, and in what
manner he was surnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them: and their astonishment, they
said, was something like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the
story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but when
he shewed them their arms, the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey
or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes or periagua's on pre-
tence of going out a fishing, or for pleasure.
In these they came.away the next morning; it seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither cloths, or provisions, or any
thing in the world, but what they had on them, and a
sew roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get off from the island; leaving three of the most
impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with, to
the poor Spaniard's great grief and disappointment,
you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when
the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long
paper of directions, which I had left with them, con-
taining the particular methods which! took for managing
every part of my lise there; the way how I baked my
bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn;
how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
every thing I did; all this being written down, they
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English
well enough; nor did they resuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for thev agreed very well
for some time, they gave them an eo^al admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
method, and Friday's sather together, managed all their
affairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing
but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this,
would the others but have let them alone; which, how-
ever, they could not find in, their hearts to' do long:
hut, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would not let others eat neither: the
-differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and
Tuch as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed, to com-
mon sense; and though it is true, the first relation of it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the i.ccusers, yet, when I came to examine the sellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, £
must supply a desect in my former relation; and this
•was, that 1 forgot to set down among the rest, that,
just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there
hap-
happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was ,
afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force,
and making two of the most refractory sellows prison-
ers, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former diforders, and let sall some ugly danger-
ous words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the -ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; .upon which it was desired, that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had done for the time past, should
be paidoned. So I went, and after passing rhy honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so,
when I caused the two men, who were in irons, to be
released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night, the wind also salling calm: next morning we
found, that our two men who had been laid in irons
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wea-
pons, (what powder or shot they had, we knew not)
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet
hauled up, and runaway with her to their companions
in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and. away they
•went to seek the rogues; but they could neither find
them nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
•was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their plantations, burnt all their houshold-stuff
and surniture, and- left them to shift without it; but
4 having
having no order lie let all alone, left every thing as
they found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, carne
on board without them.
These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that after they had been two or three days together,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they for a good while be persuaded
to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come. ,
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business
began to go forward; the Spaniards would have per-
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their
two countrymen again, that, as they said, they mi^ht
be all one samily; but they would not hear of it: so
the two poor sellows lived by themselves, and finding
nothing but industry and application would make them
live comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines aud stores in; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and
especially some of the peas which I had left fhem, they
dug and planted, and inclosed, after the pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well; their first
crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was
but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and find them with bread and other eatables;
and one of the sellows, being the cook's mate of the
ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations as the rice, and the milk, and
such little flesh as they got, surnished him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them
they
they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first; and
aiked them to come and sit down, and see what fine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they demanded : and one of them merrily told them,
if they were ground-landlords, he hoped, if they built
tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant
them a long lease, and bid them go setch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and raging,
told them, they should see they were not in a jest; and
going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and clasps it to the outside of their hut, and very
sairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt
down in a sew minutes, if one of the two had not run to
the sellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with
his seet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended
his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their musquets; and the man that
was first struck at with the pole, knocked the sellow
down, who began the quarrel, with the stock of their
musquet, and that before the other two could come to
help him; and then seeing the Test come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The other had fire-arms with them too; but one of
the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they offered to
move hand or foot, they .were aU dead men; and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him re-
solute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sufficiently
with the blow; however, they were much in the
wrong,
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them
an account how the rogues had treated them; for the
three villains studied nothing bat revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to croud this part with an,account of the les-
ser part of their rogueries, such as treading down their
corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat, which
the poor men had got to breed up tame for their' store;
and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this
manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time
they had a sair opportunity. In order to this they re-
solved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my
old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together at that time, intending to have a sair
'battle, and the Spaniards mould stand by to see sair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, *had seen one of the two
Englithmen, whom, for distinction, I call the honest men,
a,nd he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of
the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn, that they had laboured so hard
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kidSj which was all they had provided for their
sustenance; and'that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove
the three Englithmen, though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and sifted them, how they could be so cruel, they
being harmless inoffensive sellows, and that they were
putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour,
and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring
things to such persection as they had.
Our
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What
had they to do there? That they came on shore without
leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the
island; it was none of their ground. Why, says the
Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they must not
starve. The Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn
tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'd, they should
not plant nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, Seignior, says the Spaniard? Another of the
brutes returned, do! d—n them, they should be servants,
and work for them! But how can you expect that of
them? They are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants. The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the Governor had given
it to them, and no man had any thing to do there but
themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that he
would go and burn all their new huts; they should
build none upon their land.
Why, Seignor, says the Spaniard, by the same rule,
we must be your servants too. Ay, says the bold dog,
and fo you shall too, before we have done with you,
mixing two or three G—d d—mine's in the proper in-
tervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, come
Jack, let us go and have the other brush with them:
we will demolish their castle, I will Warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions.
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered fome
infolent things among themselves of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity osfered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not ib persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know;
but it seemed they wandered about the country, part of
the night; and then lying down in the place which I
used to call rriy bower, they were weary, and overslept
them-
themselves. The case was this: they had refolved to
stay till midnight, and fo take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, in-
tending to set sire to the huts while they were in them
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out; and as malice seldom sleeps very found, it
was very strange they would not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had alfo a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much sairer one than that
of burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, before
the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither and found the men gone,
Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest man, called out
to his comrades, ha, JackJ here's the nest! but d—n
them, the birds are flown 1 They mused awhile to think
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad
fo foon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it; and with that they shook
hands, and swore to one another that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As foon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they sell to work with the poor
men's habitation; they did. not set sire indeed to any
thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and pul-
led them fo limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
they stood; they tore all their little collected household-
stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a
manner, that the poor men found, afterwards, fome of
their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up the
inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered every thing
as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them
out, and had refolved to sight them wherever they had been,
though they were but two to three: fo that, had they
met, there certainly would have been bloodshed among
them; for they were all very flout, refolute sellows to
give them their due.
But providence took more care to keep them asunder
than
y

- 7/f./
-robiisoi^r amsoe s
'//./,
l .
han they themselves could do to meet; for as they
had dodged one another, when the three were gone
hither, the two were here; ancl afterwards, when the
vo went back to sind them, the three were come to the
old habitation again: we shall^fee their different con-
duct presently. When the three c%me back, like surious
eatures, flushed with the rage which the work they .
Ivd been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to
tne of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
oys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
ead, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his sace,
fays he to him—And you Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the same sauce, if you do not mend your manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his sist, knock-
ed him down, as an ox is selled with a pole-as, at which
one of the rogues, infolent as the sirst, sired his pistol at
the Spaniard immediately; he missed his body indeed,
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt
than he really was, and that put him into fome heat,
for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but now re-
folving to go through with his work, he stooped and
took the sellow's musquet whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the man who had iired at
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave,
came out, and calling him not to shoot, they stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and giving the
•Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards considering the seud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that
it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from one another, told them they would do them
no harm; and if they would live oeaceably they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do
mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reason
than to a6t reason; but being resused their arms, they
•went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
ing what they would do, though they had no fire-arms:
but the ipaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them; and if they sell into' their hands
alive, they would certainly be hanged. However this
-was sar from cooling them; but away they went, swear-
ing and raging like suries of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion-and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for having been
at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and de-
stroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough: they could scarce have room to
tell the tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange enough to find, that three
men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed them, made light of their threat-
enings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out. v
But the Spanirds interposed here too, and told them,
that they were already disarmed; they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms,
and perhaps kill them; but, said the grave Spaniard,
who was their Governor, we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for, as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a sull satissaction .for yqu; and
upon
upon this condition we hope you will promise to use no
violence with them, other than in your desence.
The two Englishmen yielded to this very aukwardly,
and vyith great reluctance; hut the Spaniards protested
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not fo many
of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity
we should not be all good friends. At length they did
consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,' living for
fome days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about sive days after the three .vagrants, tired
with wandering;, and almost starved with hunger, having
chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while, came back
to the grove; and sinding my Spaniard, who, as 1 have
said, was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the side of the creek, they came up in a very
submiflive humble manner, and begged to be received
aj.ain into the samily. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted fo unnaturally by
their countrymen, and fo very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them, and dis-
course about it, and they should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it;
for it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged he would send them out fome bread
in the mean time; which he did, and sent them at the
same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a broiled
parrot; which they ate very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a hng debate had about them, their two country-
men charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned
before, and therefore could not deny now; upon ihe
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not'
to hurt the three, while they were naked and unarmed,
fo they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows two huts, one to be of the lame dimensions,
and the other larger than they were before; also to sence
their ground again, where they had pulled up the sences,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state
as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of
the trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovere'd.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these
three sellows could never be persuaded to work; I mean
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased: however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and gave them liberty
to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesome as before; but, however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which en-
dangered the sasety of them all; they were obliged to
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preserva-
tion of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
night, and could by no means get any steep: he was
persectly well in body, as he told me /the story, only
found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men
lighting, and killing one another, but was broad awake,
and could not by any means get any fleep; in short,
he lay a great while; but growing more and more
uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay, being so many
of them, upon goatskins, laid thick upon such couches
and pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks
fliocks and ship-beds, as 1 did, who was but one; so
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but
to get up on their seet, and perhaps put.on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could see little or nothing; and besides, the tree*
which I had planted, as in my former account is de-
scribed, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his
fight, so that he could only look up, and lee that it was
a clear star-light night-; and, hearing no noise-, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to any
thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them waked,
and, calling, asked who it was that was up? The go-
vernor told him how it had been with him. Say you
so? says the other Spaniard J such things are not to be
flighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working, says he, near us; and presently he asked him,
Where are the Englishmen? The are all in their huts,
says he, sase enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. Well, says the Spaniards there is something in it,
lam persuaded from my own experience; 1 am satisfied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive in-
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world:; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we know how to make use of it.
Come, says he, let us go out and look abroad; and if
we find nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of
the justice of my proposing it.
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
oil), where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up by the latter, and then pulling it
UP after them, to go up a second stage to the top, hut
v°l. ii, c were
bt> AD-VEIfTUB.E|a.OF-i.Rf>BlNS©N CRUSCME,
were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they'%c-re surprised with seeing a light,
as of a fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one,-or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages land*
•ing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
•them making the least discovery of their being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any necessity
-they came to know it, they selt it so efsectually, that
they who got away were fcarce able to give any account
of it, for we disappeared as soon asi possible, nor did
ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one else,
except it were the three savages in our last encounter,
who jumped into the boat, of whom I mentioned,
that 1 was afraid they should go home, and bring more
lielp.
Whether it was in consequence of the escape of those
men, that so great a number cam:: now together; or
-whether they came ignprantly and by accident on their
-usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
-understand; but whatever it was, it had been their
business either to have concealed themselves, and not
have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen, that there Were any inhabitants in the place;
fout to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not a
man of them should have escaped, which could only-
have been by getting in between them and their
iboats; but this presence of mind was wanting to them,
-which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great
-while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this sight, ran back imme-
diately, and raised their sellows, giving them an account
of the imminent danger they were all in; and they again
,as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close within where they were, but
.that they must all runout to lee how things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well, enough,
and they had opportunity enough for some hours to
view them by the light of three fires they had made
at some distance from one another; what they were
doing
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many; nnd>
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore ki several places.
The Spaniards were in no srhall'consternation at this
'light; and, as they found that the sellows ran^straggling
all over the shore, they made no -doubt but, first or last,
some of them would chop in'ur)bn their habitation, or
-upon some other place, where'they could see the takehs
of inhabitants; and:'they were in great perplexity also
for sear of their'flock Of goats, which would have be^n
little less than starving them, if chey should have been
destroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon, was to
dispatch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need
were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one
body, and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved,
if there had been an hundred of'them, to have attacked
them; but that could not be obtained, for, they were
'some of them two miles off from the other, and,
as it appeared afterwards, were of two different
nations.
After having mused a gtfeat while on the'course they
'should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
;presentcircumstances,they resolved at last, while it was
dark, to send the old savage (Friday's sather) out as a
:ipy, to learn, if possible, something -concerning them,
as what they'came for, and.what they intended to
'do, and the like: the old rhan readily undertook it,
and, stripping himself quite naked, as most of the
-savages were,nway he went. After he had been gone
an hour-dr two, he brings word, that he had been
among them undiscovered, that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war
with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country, and ,that both sides having hail several
prisoners taken in the sight, they were b" mere chance
'landed in the same island, for the devouring their pri-
soners, and making merry: bat their coming so by
chance to the same place, had spoiled all their mirth:
c 2 that
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were
so near, that he believed they would sight again, as soon
as day-light began to appear; but he did not perceive
that they had no notion of any body's being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of
telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were
engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather used all the arguments he could to per-
suade our people to lie dole, and not be seen: he told
them their sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pie-
Tail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
-was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they
must run out and see the battle: however, they used
some caution, viz. they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling,, but went sarther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might se-
curely see them ma-nage the fight, and, as they thought,
not to he seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did
fee them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive that
some of them were men of great bravery, of invincible
spirits, and of great policy in guiding the fight.
The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
could guels which party would be beaten; but then
that party which was nearest our people's habitation,
began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
some of them .began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, left any of those that fled
should run into the grove, besere their dwelling, for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved, that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever
came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall, and kill them ; so that, if possible, not one should
return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
them
them down with the stock of the musket, not by shoot-
ing them, for sear of railing an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three of the routed
army fled for lise, and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter: the
scout they kept to look abroad, gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satis-
faction, viz. That the conquerors had not pursued them,
or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the
Spaniard Governor, a man of humanity, would not suf-
fer them to kill -he three sugitives ; but, sending out three-
men by the top of the hill, ordered them to go jround,,
and come in behind them, surprise and take the^m' pri-
foners, which was done; the residue of the conquered'
people fled to their canoes, and gor off to sea; the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a body together, ga-e two great
screaming lhouts, whici they supposed were by way of
triumph, and fo the sight ended; and the same day,
about three o'clock in the afternoon, they alfo marched
to their canoes, and thus the Spaniards had their island
again- free to themselves, their fright was over, and they
few no savages in several years afterwards.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and, viewing the iield of battle, they found
about two-and-thirty dead men upon the spot; fome
were killed with great long arrows, several of which
were found sticking in their bodies; but most of
them were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen;
or seventeen of which they found in the sield of battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows; these
swords were great unweildy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them; most of those men that
were killed with them, had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains-
knocked out, and several of their arms and legs broken;
so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible rage and*
sury; they found not one wounded man that was-not-
stone dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they
have quitekilled them, or they carry all the wounded'
men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
c 3 This
/
This- deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
while: the sight had silled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, especi-
ally upon supposing that, fome time or other they should
sall into the hands of those creatures; who- would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food as we
kill our cattle. And they prosesied to me, that the
thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had,
fomething in it fo horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs,.made them sick when they thought of it, and
silled their minds with unusual terror, that they were, not,
themselves for fome weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even,the three English brutes.I
have been speaking of; and for a great while after-they
were very tractable, and went about the common busi-
ness of the whole fociety well enough; planted, fowed,
reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country;
but fome time after this, they sell all into such simple
measures again, as brought them into a great deal of
trouble..
They had taken three prifoners, as I had observed;
and these three being lusty stout young sellows, they made
them servants, and taught them to work for them, and,
as slaves they did well enp.ugh; but they did not take-
their measures with thern as I did by my man Friday,
viz to begin with them, upon the principle of having
saved their lives, and then instructed them in the rational
principles of lise,, much less of religion, civilizing and
reducing them by kind usage, and asfectionate arguings;
but as they gave them. their, food every day, ib they
gave them their work too, and kept:them sully employed
in drudgery enough; but they sailed in this by it, that
they never,had thim to assist them and sight.for them, as,
J had my, man. Friday, who was as true to me as the very,
flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the samily part; being all now good
friends (for common danger, as 1 said above, had ef-
fectually reconciled them,) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came
under their consideration was, whether seeing the
sayages particularly haunted.that, side of the island,
ana\
incT that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way ofliving, and manisestly to'
fheir advantage, they should not rather remove their ha-
feitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
sasety, and especially for the security of their cattle and'
corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived, that
they mould not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear from,
their governor again, meaning me: and if I should send
any one tu seek them, I would be sure to direct them on:
that tide, where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and
,we were >;one, and lo our supply would go away too. -
But as to their corn and caule, they agreed to remove
them into the vatley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was
land enough; howeve, upon second thoughts, they al-
tered one part of that resolution to, and resolved only
to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part of
their corn there; and so if one part was destroyed, the
other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they
used, which it was very well they did, viz. That they
never trusted these three savages, which they had taken
prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there;
much less of the cave there, which they kept in case of
necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also
the two barrels of powder, which 1 had left them at my
coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had caresully co-
vered it first with a wall or fortification, and then with
a ' grove of trees; so, seeing their sasety consisted en-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
sully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal
the place yet more effectually than before: to this ptir-
posen as*l had planted trees, (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) for softie good
distance before the entrance into my apartment, they
went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest of
that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set,
c 4 quite
quite down to the side of the creek, where, as I said, I
landed my floats, and even in the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabouts ;• these stakes also, being of a wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller than
those which 1 had planted, and placed them so very thick
/ and close, that when they had been three or four years
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any'conside-
rable way into the plantation; as for that part which I
had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh; and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a pali-
sado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate' it, but with a little army, to cut i
all down; f r a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all ;• for they did the same by all the
ground to the right hand, and to- the left, and round
even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not fo
much as for themselves to come out, butby the ladder
placed up to the side of the hill, and then listed up,
and placed again from the first stage up to th« top;
-which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing But
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come at
them.
This was excellently well contrived'; nor was it less
than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the
authority of Providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction of Providence to set it to work; and, would
we listen caresully to the voice of it, I am sully per-
suaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now by our. own negligence subjected to.
But this by the way.' ,
I return to the story :- they lived two years after this
in persect retirement, and had no more visits from the
savages; they had indeed, an alarm given them one
morning, which put them in a great consternation;
6>r, some of the Spaniards being out early one morning,
on the west, side, or rather end of the island, which, by
the,;
the way, was that end where I never went, for sear of
Being discovered, they were surprised with seeing above
twenty canoesof Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night, to make obsrvation ;, but they had the good luck
to be mistaken; for wherever the savages went, they did
not land at that time in the island, but pursued some otb.ee-
design.
And now they had another broil with tHe three Eng-
lishmen; one of which, a most turbulent sellow, being in
a rage.at one of the three slaves,-which 1 mentioned they
had taken, because the sellow had not done something,
right which he bid him do, and seemed a little untrac-
table in his shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and seir upon ther
poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him-
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give
the sellow a barbarous Gut with: the hatchet, which he
aimed at his head, but struck into hisshoulder, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arm off', ran.
to him, and intreating him not to murder the poor man,,
elapt in between him and the savage, to prevent the:
mischief.
The sellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him.as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were work-
ing in the field about the corn-land) knocked the brute
down: Another of the Englishmen, running at the
same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
man, and a third Englishman sell upon them. They
had none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he
made at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both.,
This fray set the whole samily in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prison-
ers*.' The next question was, what should be done with,
c 5 them t
them? They had been so often'mutinous, and were so
surious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew
not what course to take with them; for they were mis-
chievous to trfe last degree, and valued not what hurt they
did any man; so that, in. short, it was not sase to live
-with them. %
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in so many
"Words, that if they had been hisl-own countrymen, he
would havehanged.them all; for all laws, and all govern- .
ors, were.to preserve society; and those who were dan-
gerous to society, ought to be expelled out of it; but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
kindness .of an, Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, .and said, ,
they desired it. might not be left to them; for, says he, _
I am sure we ought.to sentence them to the gallows; and
-with that gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the
three, had proposed to have all the five'Englishmen join
-together, and murder all the Spaniards,- when they were_
in their sleep.
When the Spanish Governor, heard this, he calls to.
Will Atkins: How, Seignior Atkins, says he, will you i
murder us all ? • What have you to say to that? That --
hardened villain was so sar from denying it, that he said
it was true^and, G—*>>-d:d—mnhim^ they would do it still
before they had done with them.' Well, but Seignior
Atkins, said the Spaniard, What have we. done to you, „
that you would kill us? And what would you get by
killing us? And what must we do to prevent. your .
killing us1?- Must we kill you, or will you kill us!-'
Why will.you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior -
Atkins? says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling. ,-
Seignior Atkins, was in such a rage at the Spaniard's .
making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three
men,, and withal had- no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have, attempted to have-killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider se-
riously what was to be done. The two Englishmen and .
the,.Spaniard, wha.sa,Yed the poor savage, were of the
opjaion,
- • -' - )
opinion, That they should hang one of the three for an
example to the rest; and that particularly it should be
he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his
hatchet, and indeed there was some reafon to belive he-'
had done it-, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received,. that it was
thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he--
had murdered half of them; nay, he said, if he had
been killed himself by an Englishmen, and had time left
to speak, it should be, that they should pardon him.
This was fo positively inlisted on by the governor Spa-
niard that there was no gainsaying it; and, • as-mercisul
councils are-most apt to prevail where.they are fo ear-
nestly pressed,, fo they all Game into it; but .then it was
to be considered, what should bedone.tokeep them from
the mischief they designed ; -for all' agreed, governor and
all, that means-were to be osed for preserving the fo--
ciety from danger. After a long debate it was agreed,
soft, That-"they should be disarmed, and not permitted •
to have either gun, or powder, or snot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be tamed out of the fociety, and
left to live where they would, and how they could, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards
orEnglish, flwuld converse with them, speak with them,
or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the reft dwelt; ami that if they offered to com-
mit any diforder, fo as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any
of the corn,-planting, buildings, sences, or cattle belong-
ing to the fociety, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them-wherever they could sind them.
The governor, a man of great humanity,- musing up-
on the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn- •
kg to the two honest Englishmen, said, Hold; you must
reflect, that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, and they must not starve;' we must
therefore allow them provisions. So he caused to be
added, that they should have a proportion of corn given
them, to last them eight months, and for seed to fow, by
which time they might be supposed to raise fome o£ their
c 6 own
^
own; that they should have six milch-goats, four IteV-
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present sub-
sistence, as for a store; and that' they should have tools
given them for their work in the field; such as, six
liatchets, an axe, a saw; and the like :• But they should
have none of their tools, or. provisions, unless they would
swear solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any os
the Spaniards with them, or of their sellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned*
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
iullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away,
or to stay; but, as there was no remedy, they went-pre-«
tending to go and chute a place where they should set-
tle themselves, to plant and live by themselves ;. and
some provision were given, but no weapons..
About four or five days after, they came again sor,
some victuals, and gave the governor an account were
they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out-
an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient
place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in.
my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to surround
the island.
Here they bulk themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner-likemy first habitation,,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides of it; so that by
planting others, it would be very, easily covered- from
the sight* unless narrowly searched for; they ^desired-
some dry goat-ftins, for beds and covering, which were .
given them; and upon their giving their words, that
they would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their
plantations) they gave them hatchets, and what, other
jtools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,,
for sowing, andi in a word,.any thing they, wanted,,
but'arms and ammunition..
They lived in this separate condition about six months, .
and had got"m their first harvest, though the quantity,
-was but small, the parcel- of land they, had planted be-
ing but little; for indeed, having all their plantation to
sorm, they had a great deal of work upon their hands ;.,
•*»d when they.came to make boards and pots, and such.,
things,
tilings, they were quite out of their clement, and could,
make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they, could not keep-
their grain dry, and it was in great' danger of spoiling ;.
and this humbled them'much, so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did %.
and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn, and
other things from the rain; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments in it.
About three quartersof a year after this separation,,
a new frolic took these rogues, which, together with,
the former villany they had committed, brought.mis-
chief enough upon them,, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony; the three new associatesi
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious lise they,
led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the Continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them, do the laborious part of the
work for them.
The project was not so preposterous,, if th»y had gone
no surther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing;
but had either mischief in.the design, or mischief in the
event; and; if I'may give my opinion, they seemed to.
be under-a blast from heaven; for, if we will not allow
a visible curie to pursue visible crimes, how shallwe re--
concile the events of things with divine justice? It was
certainly an apparent vengeance of their crime of mu--
tiny and piracy, that brought them to the state they
were in.; and, as they shewed net the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding,
3 poor Have, because he did not, or perhaps could not,,
•understand to do what- he was directed; and to wound
him in, such a manner, as no question, made him a.
cripple all his lise; and in. a place where no surgeon.
or medicine could be had for his cure: and, what was,
siill -worse; the murderous intent; or, to do justice to.
the.
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure
it was, as was afterwards the formed rietign they all
laid,', to- murder the Spaniards in cool- blood, aid lh-
their'sleep.
But r leave observing, and return to the story: .The-
jhree sellows came down to the Spaniards one morning
and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to
speak with them: the Spaniards very readily beard
what they had to say, which was this: that they were
tired of living in the manner they did; that they were
not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted;
and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to
take one of the canoes which they came over in, and-
give them arms and ammunition, proportioned for their'
desence, they would go over to the main, and seek their
fortune, and so deliver them from the trouble of sup-
plying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,,
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them, they had
suffered such hardships upon, that • very spot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that'
they would be starved or murdered; and badethem,
consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be -starved .
if they staid here, for they could not work; and would
not work: and they could but' be starved abroad;. and
that if they were murdered, there wasan end of them, .
they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, .
in short, insisted importunately upon their demand, de-
claring that they would go, whether they would give
them any arms or no.
The.Spaniards told them, with'great kindness, that,
if they wer« resolved to go, they should not go like naked
men, and be in,no condition to desend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare their, fire-arms, .having
not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have
two musquets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, apd given <
ib.ero.as much goat's .flesh as they could eat while it was
sweets
sweet, and a great bastcet-sull of dried grapes, a pot-sulF:
of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they bold-
lyset out in a canoe so*-a voyage over the sea, where it
was at least forty milesbroad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried 15 or 20 men; and therefore was ra-
ther too big for them to manage; but as they had a sair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough: they had made a mast of a long; pole, and a.
sail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed,
orlaced together; and away they .went merrily enough;
the Spaniards - called after them,. Bon-Veajo; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and
the two honest -Englishmen, who remained behind, how
quiet and comfortably they lived, now-those three tur-
bulent sellows were gone; as for their ever coming again
that was the remotest thing from their thoughts that
could be imagined; when behold, after 22 days ab- •
fence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his
planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards .
him at a distance, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, aaif he was bewitched, .
and became frighted and amazed to the governor Spa-
niard, and tells them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell
who i-the Spaniard pausing a while, says to him, how
do you mean, you cannot tell who i They are savages
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishman, they are men .
in clothes, with arms: Nay then, .says the Spaniard,
why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they,
must .be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon.,
earth, but will do us good rather than harroj
.While they were debating thus, came the three Eng--
Hshmen, and,' standing without the wood, which was .
new planted, hallooed to them; they presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased*
But now the admiration was turned upon another ques-
tion, viz. What could be the matter, and what made:
them come back again.
It was not long before they brought the men in; and
enquiring wheieihey had been, and what they had been.
doing;?
doing? They gavethem a sull account of their voyage,,
in a sew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows,
to sight them, they durst not go on. shore, but sailed on
'to the northward 6 or 7 hours, till they came to a great,
opening, by which they perceived that the land they
saw from our island was not the main, but an illand;
that-entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand north, and several more west ;.
and, being resolved to land somewhere,., they put over
to one of the islands which lay west* and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots, and
some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the.
women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to eat, and.
-brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued, here four days, and enquired, as-
well as they could of them by signs, what nations werat;
this way, and that way.; and were told of several fierce
and terrible people, that lived almost every, way; who,
as they made known by signs to them, used to eat men ;.
but as for themselves, they said that they never eat men
or women, except only such asthey took in the wars;.
and then they owned, that they made a great seast, and
eat their prisoners. .
The Englishmen enquired, when they had a seast of
that kind; and they told them, two moons ago, pointings
to the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their
great king had 200 prisoners now, which he had taken,
in his war; and they, were seeding them to make themv
sat for the next seast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous to see those prisoners ;. but the others mistaking,
them, thought they were desirous to have some of
them, to carry away for their own eating. So they
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun,
and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at sun rising, they would bring some for
them ; and accordingly, the next morning, they brought
down five women, and eleven men; and gave them
to the EngUshmeB, to carry with, them on their.
wyagej.
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did
not know what to do ; to resuse the prisoners, would have
been the highest afsront to the savage gentry Jhat offered
them; and what to do with them they knew not; how-
ever, upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them;
and in return, they gave the savagesthat brought them,
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knise, and lix or
seven of their bullets, which, though they did not under-
stand they seemed extremely pleased with ; and then, ty-
ing the poor creatures hands behind them, they (the
people) dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon
as they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited the
donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respects and
thanks that could well pass between people, where on
one side, they understood not one word they could say,
they put off with their boat, and came back towards
the first island, where, when they arrived, they set eight
of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of
them for their occasion.
In their voyages they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prisoners, but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they could
•say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was
looked upon as going about to murder them; they first
of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed
at that, especially the women, as if they had just selt the
lenise at their throats; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the sama
thing; then they concluded it was for sear they should
fink in flesh, and so not be sat enough to kill: if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was
settest and. fittest takill first;, nay, after they had brought
than
them quite over, =&d&egan to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make ar
dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderershad given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard,
asked them, where their new samily was. And being:
told that they had brought them on shore,.and put them.-
into one of their huts, and were come to beg some vic-
tuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the oti;*r two
Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony resolved-
to go all down to the place, and see them, ;;nd did so,,
and Friday'? sather with rhem.
W hen they came into the hut, there they sat all bound f=
for when they had brought tbetn on shore, they bound-
tkeir hands, that they might not take the boat and'
make their escape; there, 1 say, they sat, all of them-
stark-naked; first, there were three men,, lusty comely
sellows, well shaped, strait and sair limb*, about 30 or
35 years of age, and 5 women, whereof two might be
from 30 t^,40, two more not above 24 or 25, and the
fifth a tall comely maiden, about 16 or 17 •• the.women
were well-savoured agreeable-persons, both in shape and
seatures, only tawny; and'two of them, had they been-
persect white, would have passed for handsome women,
even in London itself, having very pleasant agreeable
countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, especially
when they came afterwards to be cloatbed,. and dressed
as they called it, tho' that dress wasvery indifferent, it
must be consessed: of which hereafter.
The sight you may be sure was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men of- the best behaviour, of the most calm,
sedate tempers, and persectigood humour, that ever I
met with; and in particular,, of the most modesty, as
will presently appear: I say, the sightlwas very uncouth,
to see three naked men, and five naked women, all toge-
ther bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
that human.nature could be supposed to be, viz. to he*
expecting every moment to. be dragged out, and have
their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like-
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The fust thing they did was to cause the old Indian*
Friday !*>
Friday's sather, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their speech:
as soon as the old man.eame in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them, neither could any of
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could,
make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, thatthe men into whose hands they
were sallen were Christians, that they abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would'
not be killed; as soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a jpy, and by such aukward and several
ways, as is hard to describe;, for it seems they were o£.
several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bidV Mb
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to be
servants, and to wot k for the men who had brought-
them away, to lave their lives? At which they all sell-
a dancing; and presently one sell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carty on their,
shoulders,, to intimate that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women,
among them would presently be attended with some
ioconveniency, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, alked the three men, what they intended to
do with these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants, or as women. One of the.
Englithmen answered very boldly, and readily, that they,
would use them as both. To which the governor said,.
I am not going to restrain you from it;, you are your
own masters as to that; but this 1 think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you,, and I desire
it of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these women, as a
woman, or wife, he shall take but one; and that having;
taken one, none else should touch her; for though wo
cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable, that
while you stay here, the woman any of you take,
should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
ihould be his wise; I mean, says he, while he continues
here; and that none else should have any thing to do>.
with her. All this appeared so just^ that every one
agreed to it without any difficulty Thsu,
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, if they de-
signed to take any of them? But every one answered,
no: fome of them said they had wives in Spain, and'
the others did not like women that were Mt Christians:
and altogether declared, that they would not touch one
of them; which was an instance of such virtue, as I
have not met with in all my travels: on the other hand,
to be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a
wise;' that is to foy, a temporary wise; and fo they set
up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's
sather lived in my oki habitation, which they had en-
larged exceedingly within; the three servants, which,
they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived
with them, and thele carried on the main part of the
colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found ne-
cessity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how sive such re-
fractory ill-matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two of them should not pitch upon
the same woman, especially seeing two or three of them,
were, without comparifon, more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent
quarrelling among themselves; for they set the sive wo-
men by themselves in one of their huts, and they went
all into the other hut, and drew lots among them who
should chuse sirst.
He that drew to chuse sirst went away by himself to-
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that
he that chose sirst, took her that was reckoned the home-
liest, and the oldest of the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it:
but the sellow considered better than any of them, that:
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and she proved'
the best wise in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in. a row
thus, and fetched out one'by one, the terrors of their
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed, that they were now going to be devoured : ac--
COj:dingly» when the English tailor came in and fetched-
... . out
•out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
and hung about her, and took their leave of her with
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they setched the old man,
Friday's sather, who instantly let them know, that the
sive men who had setched them out one by one, had
•chosen them for their wives.
W hen they had done this, and the fright the women
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a sew
hours they had built them every one a new hut or tent
for their lodging apart: for thole they had already, were
crouded with their tools, houshold-stuffand provisions;
Thethree wicked ones had pitched sarthest off', and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north-shore of
the island, fo that they continued separate as before; and
thus my island peopled in three placrs, and, as I might
say, three towns were began to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it
often happens in the world (what the wile ends os God's
providences are in such a disposition of things, 1 cannot
fay), the two honest sellows had the two worst wives:
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit for nothing, ancl neither seemed born
to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever,
diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that the two
sirst were ill wives as to their temper or humour; for all
the sive were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected
creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning
is, they were not alike capable, or ingenious, or indus-
trious, or alike cleanly neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace of a slothsul, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management of the several
little colonies, the two men had fo sar outgone the
three, that there was no comparifon: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they
wanted; and the reafon was, because, according to my
rule,
rule, nature dictated, and that it was to no purpose to
sow more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the sences, and indeed
every thing else, was easy to be seen as first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation quite demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shewn
in its place, yet they 'had restored all again, and every
thing was flourishing and thriving about them; they had
grapes planted in Order, and managed like a vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen any thing of that
kind; and by their good ordering their vines, their
grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thickest part
of the woods, "where, though there was not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief
which followed happened-, they secured their wives and
children, so as they-could never be found: they having
toy sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood,
which, as I said, grew so easily, made a grove impassa-
ble, except in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part; and then went in by ways o€
their own leaving.
As to the three teprobates, as I ju-ftly«all them, tho*
they were much civilized by their new settlement, com-
pared to what they were before, and were not so quar=.
relsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of
the certain companions of a prossigate mind, never left
them, and that was their idleness; it is true, they plants.
ed corn, and made sences; but Solomon's Words were
lie er better verrified than in them; • 1 went by the
vineyard of the slothsul, and it was overgrown with
thorn ;' for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in tome places for weeds; the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten
in, and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a
dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable door after
the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony -
•colony of the other two, there was the very sace of in-
dustry and success upon all they did; there was not a
-weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their
hedges: and they, on the other hand, verrisied Solomon's
words in another place: • The diligent hand maketh.
itch ;' for every thing grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they had more tame cat-
tle than the others, more utensils and necessaries within
doors, and yet m-re pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
•cleanly within doors: and, having learned the English
way of dressing and^cooking from one of the other Eng-
lishmen, who, as 1 s id, was a cook's mate on board
the ship, they drefled their hnsbind's victuals very nice-
ly; whereas the other could not he brought to under-
stand it; but then the hustmnd, who, as I said, had been
cook's mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands
of the three wives, ithey Voitered aHout, setched turtles'
eggs> and caught sisli and birds: in a word, any thing
but labour; and they sared accordingly, she diligent
lived well and'comfortably, and the slothsul lived hard
and beggarly-; and fo I believe, generally speaking, it is
all over the world.
But now I come to a scene, different from all that had
happened before, either to them or roe, and the origin of
the story was this;:
Early one morning there came on shore sive or fix
•canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please; and there is no^room to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; bur
that part was no* fo samiliar to the Spaniards, and to
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about
it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
'experience, that the.r only business was to lie concealed,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the lkvages,
they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to do but to give no-
tice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to Ihew themselves; only placing a scout in a
4 proper
proper place, to give notice when the boats went off to
sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole co-
lony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying
sast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed, they had
either been so gorged with their inhuman seast, that like
beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when the
others went, or they wandered into the woods, and did
not come back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
persectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor as
it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked,
but he prosessed he knew not what to do; as for slaves
they had enough already ;' and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard gover-
nor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent
blood; for, as to them, the poor creatures had done
mo wrong, invaded none of their property, and they
thought they had no just quarrel with them, to take
away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and
Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen men,,
of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
•who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spa-
niards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their
very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous passions, and yet all of, them men of great cou-
rage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the unsutferable usage of the three Englishmen,
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the
case of the savages, as above: after some consultation,
they
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three men might begone;
l>ut then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the
three savages had no boat'; and that,, if they were left
to rove about theisjand, they would certainly discover
that there were inhabitants in it, and fo they should be
undone that way.
Upon this they Went back again, and there lay the
fellows sast asleep still; fo they refolved to awaken them,
and take them prifoners, and they did fo: the poor
fellows were strangely frighted When they were seized
upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that they
should be murdered and eaten; for, it seems, thole peo-
ple think all the world do as they do, eating men's
fleth; but they were foon made easy as to that, and
away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean to my palace under the
hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work; such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &.c. and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not muck
they had for them to do; and whether it was by neg-
igence in guarding them, or that they thought the sel-
lows conld not mend themselves, I know not, but one
of them ran away-; and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reafon to believe he got home again
foon after in fome other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in
two days time: this thought terrisied them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good -cause in-
deed, that if this sellow got sase home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account that there
were people in the island, as alfo how weak and sew they
were; for this savage, as I observed before, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they lived, nor had he ever seen or
heard the sire of any of their guns, much less had they
ihewn him any other of their-retired places, such as the
voi,. iii d -cave
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two
Englishmen had made, and the like.
The sirst testimony they had, that this sellow had
given intelligence os them was, that about two months
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven, or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side os the island, where they never used to corner
before, and landed about an hour after sun-rise, at a
convenient pfeice, about a mile from the habitation of
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept: as the Spaniard governor said, had they been
al! there, the damage would not have been fo much,
for not a man of them would have escaped; but the
case differed now very much; for two men to sifty were
too much odds: the two men had the happiness to dis-
cover them about a league eff, fo that it was above an
hour before they landed; and as they landed about a
mile from their huts, it was fome time before they could
come at them. Now having great reafon to believe that
they were betrayed, the sirst thing they did, was to bind
the slaves which were left, and cause two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, who, it
seems, proved very saithsul to them, to lead them with
their two wives, and whatever they could carry away
with them, to their retired place in the woods, which I
liave spoken of above, and there to bind the two sellows
hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on
Ihore, and that they bent their course directly that
iway, they opened the sences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for that,
and gave them an account of it all; for they went di-
rectly to the place.
When the two poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three, who came with the women, and who was
at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards, with
all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms,
and
and what ammunition they had, and retreated toward the
place in the wood, where their wives were sent, keeping
at a distance, yet fo that they might see, if possible,
which way the savages took.
They had not gone sar, but that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their enemies
'come on directly to their habitation, and in a moment
more could see all their huts and houshold-stuff flaming
lip together, to their great grief and mortisication; for
they had a very great loss; and to them irretrievable, at
least for fome time. They kept their station for awhile,
till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread them»
selves all over the place, rummaging every way, and
every place they could think of, in search for prey; and
in particular for the people of whom, it plainly appeared,
they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
fome of the wild people might come that way, fo they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile sarther, believing,
as it afterwards happened, that the sarther they strolled,
the sewer would be together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a
tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large, and in
this tree they both took their standing, refolving to see
what might offer.
They had not stood these long, but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; and a little way surther they espied three more
coming after them, and sive more beyond them, all com-
ing the same way ; besides which, they saw 7 or 8 more at
a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game. ,
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep their posture, or fly; but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help came,
they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat in the woods,
and then all would be lost; fo they refolved to stand them
d 2 there
y
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then they-
would get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubt-
ed'not to desend themselves, sire excepted, as long as their
ammunition laded, tho' all the savages that were landed,
which were near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether .
they should fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and fo
take the middle party; by which the two and the five that
followed would be separated; at length they resolved to let
the two first pass by, unless they should spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them. The two firfi savages also
confirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from
tl cm towards another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came forwards directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they resolved
to take, them in a line as they came; and as they resolved
to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three; to which purpose, the man who was to
sire, put three or four bullets into his piece, and having
a sair loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the
tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting
till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so
that he could not tail's. ",
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them, and they both'
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both fire; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop
at the sirst shot, he should'be sure to have a second.-
But the tirst was too good a marksman to miss his aim:
for the savages kt-pt near one another a little behind
in a line; in a word, he fired, and hit two of them di-
rectly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in
the head; the second, which was the run-away Indian,
was shot through the body, and sell, but wa not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in th= shoulder,
perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of
the second; and, being dreadsully frighted, though not
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and
yelling in a hideous manner.
The

The five that were behind, more frighted with tlte
noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at first; for
the woods made the found a thousand times bigger than
it really was; the echoes rattling from one side to ano-
ther, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming and
making, every sort, a several kind of noise, according
to their kind, just as it was when I fired the first gun
that, perhaps, was ever shot oss in that place since it
was an island.N
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing
what <he matter was, came on, unconcerned, till they
came to that place where their companions lay in a
condition miserable enough: and here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the
same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded
man, talking, tfnd, as may be supposed, enquiring of
him how he came to be hurt; and who, 'tis very ratio-
nal to believe, told them that a flash of fire first, and
immediately after that, thunder from their gods, had
killed those two, and wounded him: this, I say, is ra-
tional; for nothing is more certain than that, as they
saw no man near them, fo they had never heard a gun
in all their lives, or fo much as heard of a gun; neither
knew they any thing of killing or wounding at a distance,
with fire and bullets; if they had, one might reasonably
believe, that they would not have stood so unconcerned,
in viewing the sate of their sellows, without some appre-
hension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they consessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the same time had no notion of their dan-
ger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and the
first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly
both together among them; and singling out by agree-
ment which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or
very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frighted
even to death, though not hurt, sell with the rest; so
that our men, seeing them all sall together, thought they
had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made our
two men come boldly out from the tree before they
had charged.their guns again; which was a wrong
D 3 step;
step; and they were under some surprise, when they
caine to the place, and found no lets than four of the
men alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one
not at all; this obliged them to sal! upon them with the
stocks of their mus'quets; and first, they made sure of
the runaway savage, that had been the cause of all the
mischief; and of another that was hurt in his knee, and
put them out of their pain; then the man that was not
hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by
gestures and signs, for his lise; but conid not say one
•word to them that they could understand.
However, they signified to him to sit down at the foot
of a tree thereby; and one of the Englishmen, with a
piece of rope twine, which he had by great chance in bis
pocket, tied his seet sast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him; and with what speed they
could, made after the other two which were gone before
searing they, or any more of them, should find the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,,
and the sew goods they had left ky: they came once irk
sight of the two men, but it was a great distance; how-
ever, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a
73 ATiVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRWSOE.
which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of;
and, being satissied with that, they went back to the tree
where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed,
-was delivered by his comrades; for he was gone, and
the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound
him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to go
away to the place where their wives were, to see if all
-was well there, and to make them easy, who were in
fright enough to be sure; for though the savages were
their own country folks, yet they were most terribly a-
fraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge
they had of them.
When they came thither, they found the savages had
been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
found it; for indeed, it was inaccessible, by the trees
standing
standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were
not; they found, therefore, every thing very sase, only
the women in a terrible fright: while they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to
their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and
old Friday, I mean Friday's sather, were gone in a body
to desend their bower, and the corn and cattle that were
kept there, in case the savages should have roved over to
that tide of the country; but they did not spread so sar?
with the seven Spaniards came one of the savages, who,
as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with them
also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left
bound hand and foot at the tree: for it seems they catne
that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them;
where, however, they were obliged to bind him again,
as they had done the two others, who were left when
the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them, and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for their
own preservation ; however, the Spaniard governor would
not consent to it; but ordered, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there with two Spaniards to guard them and give them
food, which was done, and they were boundj there
hand and foot for that night. _
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to
stay any longer there; but taking five ot the Spaniards
and themselves, with four musquets and a pistol among
them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went' in.
quest of the savages; and first, they came to the tree
where the men lay that bad been killed; but it was
easy to see, that some more of the savages had been there;
for they attempted to carry their dead men away, and
had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it
over : from thence they advanced to the first rising ground,
where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and
where they had the mortification still'to, see some of
the smoke; but neither could they here see any of the
d 4 savages:
savages: they then resolved, though iivith all possible
caution, to go forward towards their ruiind plantation;
. but a little before they came thither, comflig in sight of
'the sea-shore, they saw plainly all the savages embarked
again in their canoes, in order to be gone.
They seemed lorry at first that there was no way to-
come at them, to give them a parting blow: but
upon the whole, were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed
to come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them
with needsul supplies. Their three countrymen, who
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do.
any good, yet, as soon a6 they heard of it (for they,
living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter
till all was over)', came and offered their help and assist--
ance, and did very friendly work for several days, to-
restore their habitations, and make necessaries for them.;,
and thus in a, little time they were set upon, their
legs again.
- Aboat two days after this, they had the sarther satis--
saction of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driv-
ing on shore, and, at some distance from them, with
two drowned men; by which they had reason to
fcelieve^ that they* had met with a storm at sea, and
had overset some of them; for it blew* very hard the
night after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other
hand, enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
well of what they had done, as of what happened to
them.; and to whet them on to another enterprise of
the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them;
for, except what the first man had told them of inhabi-
tants, they could say little to it of their own knowledge ;,
for they never saw one man, and the sellow being killed
that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to con-
firm it to .them.
It was five or six months after this, before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our ,mea.
were in hope* they had not forgot their former .bad
luck*
luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a molt formidable fleer,
of no less than twenty-eight canoes sull of savages armed
with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and
such like engines of war; and they brought such num-
bers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into
the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do; and, in the first
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was
their only sasety before, and would much more be so now,
while the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved, first of all, to take down the huts,
which- were built for the two Englishmen, and drive
away their goats to the old cave; because they supposed
the savages Would go directly thither, as soon as it was
day, to play the old game over again, though they did
not now land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of
goats they had at the old bower, as 1 called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and the
next morning early they posted themselves with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their
coming. As they guested, so it happened; these new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east-end of the island,
came ranging along the shore directly towards the place,
to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our
men could judge. Our army was but small indeed;
but, that which was worse, they had not arms for all
their number neither: The whole account, .it seems,
stood thus: First, as to men:
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen. /.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's sather.
3 Slaves, taken wkh the women, who proved
very saithsul.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.
29 -
P ft ;• To
To arm these they had:
11 Musquets
5 Pillols
3 Fowling-pieces
5 Musquets, or fowling pieces, which were taken by
me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced.
2 Swords
3 Old halberts
29
To their slaves they did not give either imiiquetorsa—
sil, but thev had every one an halbert, or a long staff, like
a quarter-staff, with a great spike of iron sastened into-
each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one
of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could not
be prevailed upon, but they would eome into the sight;
and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had'
taken from the savages, when the first action happened,.-
•which 1 have spoken of, where the Indians fought with
one another, and the women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so of-
ten, commanded the whole; and- William Atkins, who,,
tho* a dreadful sellow for wickedne's, was a most daring
bold sellow, commanded under him. The savages came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst ot?
their sate, had no advantage in their, situation.; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most usesul sellow, with-
fix men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes,.
as an advanced guard* with orders to let the first of them
pass by, and then fire into the middle of them ;. and as
loon as he had fired, to make his retreat, as nimbly as
he con-Id, round a part of the wood, and so come in
behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket
of trees all before them.
When the savages same on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order; and
Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him ;. then,
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
three of his men to sire, having loaded their musquets
4 -with.
-with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they
knew not; but the consternation and surprise was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were frighted, to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and lee their
men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it;
when in the middle of then fright, V\ iiliam Atkins, and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest of them;
and in less than a minute, the first three, being loaded
again, gave them a third volley. L.*-
Had William Atkins and his men retired immediately,
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the reit of the body been at hand, to have poured
in their shot continually, the savages had been effectually
routed; for the terror that was among them came prin-
cipally from this, viz. That they were killed by the Gods
with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that
hurt them; but William Atkins, staying to load again,
discovered the cheat; some of the savages, who were at
a distance, spying them,' came upon them behind; and
tho' Atkins and his men fired at them also two or three
times, and killed above twenty, retiring as sail as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one
of his sellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards oneiSpaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women; this slave was a molt gallant
sellow, and fought most desperately, killing five of them
with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the
armed staves, and an hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded,
and two other men killed, retreated to a riling ground in
the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three vollies
upon them, retreated also, for^heir number was so great,
and they were so desperate, that tho' above fifty of them
were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, searless of danger, and
sliot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed, that
their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
Madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the
D 6 savages
savages, when they came up to them, killed them oveer
again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,,
and heads, with their clubs, and- wooden swords, like
true savages: but, finding our men were gone; they did:
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a
kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and
shouted twice, in token of their victory: after which,
they had the mortification to see several of their wounded
men sall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his Tittle body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had him marched, and charg-
ed them again all together at once; but the Spaniard
replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded:
men sight; let them alone, till morning: all these wound-
ad men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and
'saint with the loss of blood, and so we shall have the
sewer to engage.
The advicewas good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's:
the reason I would go on, while I am warm. Well,,
Seignior Atkins, says the Spaniard, you have behaved*
gallantly, and done your part; we will sight for you,,
if you cannot come on; but I, think it best to stay till:
morning; so they waited.
But: as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found:
the savages in great diforder about their dead and wound-
ed men-, and a great hurry and noise among them where
they lay, they afterwards resolved to sall upon them in
the night-, especially if they could come to give them,
but- one volley before they were discovered: This they
had ai fair opportunity to do; for one of-the two Eng--
lishmen, in whose quarter it was where, the sight began,,
led them round, between the woods and the sea-tide,
westward, "and turning short south, they came & near
where the thickest of them lay, that-beforethey were
seen or- heard,, eight of them fired irhamong them, and
did dreadsul execution upon them;, in half a minute more
eight others fired after them, pouring in fheir.small shot'
in such a quantity,, that abundance were killed and
wounded ;: and all this while they were not able to see
who hurt, them., or which way to fly.
TU-
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expediti-
on, and then divided themselves into 3 bodies and resolved
to fall in among them all together: they had in- each body
8 persons; that is to say 24, whereof were 22,men, and.
the 2 women, who, by the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party,
and fo of the halberts and staves. They would have
had the women keep back; but they find, they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from, among the
trees, and earne up to the teeth of the enemy, shoutin°-
and hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood
all together, but where in the utmost consusion, hearin°-
the noise of our men shouting from-three quarters toge-
ther; they would have fought if they had seen us; and
as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows
were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, tho' not
dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but,
runni/.g up to them, fired among them three ways, and'
then sell in with the butt-ends of their musquets, their
sword's, armed staves, and hatchets ; and laid about them:
so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal screaming
and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.
Our men were tired with the execution ;. and killed*
or mortally wounded, in the two sights, about 180 os
them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
thro' the woods, and over the hills, with all the speed-
that sear and nimble seet could help them- to do; and:
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they got altogether to the sea-side, where they landed,,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not
at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the sea-ward';- so that it was impossible for
them to put off; nay, the storm continuing all night*
when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them,
driven by the surge of the sea so high upon, the shore
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and some os
them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.
Our men, tho' glad of their victory, yet got little reft
that night;, but having refreshed themselves as well as
they
they could, they resolved to march to that part of the;
island where the savages were fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the sight had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past reco-
vering lise—a fight disagreeable enough to generous minds;
for alruly great man, tho' obliged by the law of battle
to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there was no need to give any order in this
casc; for their own savages who were their servants,
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the saivages' army lay, where
there appeared about 100 still; their posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up to-
wards their mouth, and the head put between the hands,
leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musquet-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two musque.ts to-
be fired without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that,
by their countenance, he might know what to expect,
viz. Whether they were still in heart to sight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and-
fo be might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took; for, as soon as the savages heard
the first gun, and law the flash of the second, they
started up upon their seet in the greatest consternations,
imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly towards-
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with.
a kind of an howling noise, which our men did not
understand, and had never heard before; and thus they
ran up the hills into the country.
At first, our men had .much rather the weather had.
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they
did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as-
not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them:
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding hia.wound,
keot always with them, proved the belt counsellor in this
case: his advice was, to take the advantage that of-
sered, and clap in between them and their: boats; and
fo deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were against
it, for sear of making the wretches fly into the woods*
and live there desperate -T and so they mould have them
to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir about their
business, and have their plantation continually rifled, all
their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced
to a lise of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do
with 100 men, than with 100 nations ; that as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be
all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he shewed
them theneeeffity of it so plainly, that they all came into
it; so- they went to work immediately with the boats,
and, getting some dry wood together from a dead tree,
they tried to set some of them on fire; but they were so-
wet that they would scarce burn. However, the fire so
burned the upper part, that it soon, made them unfit for
swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out of
the woods; and, coming as near as they could to our
men, kneeled down and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and.
some other words of their language, which none of the
others understood anything, of; but as they made pitisul!
gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone, aal never come thither again.
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but ef-
sectually to prevent any of thesepeople from ever going,
home again; depending upon, this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colony was undone: so that, letting them
know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one
that the storm had not destroyed before 'r at the sight of
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which, our people heard plain enough; after which they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a.
word, our men did not really know at first what to do
with, them.
Nos
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consi-
tier, that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations,; for though it is true they had
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind
their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor
the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation.
et the bower, and pulled it alt to pieces, and all the
fences and planting about it, trod all the corn under foot,
tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe,.
and did our men an inestimable damage, tho' to them-
selves, not one sarthing's worth of service.
Though our men were able to sight them upon all oc-
casions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble
of foot for our men when they found them single, ib our
men durst not go about single, for sear of being surround-
ed with their numbers: the best was, they had no wea-
pons; for tho' they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edged'
tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the same time our
men were alfo brought to very hard circumstances by
them -r for though their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled; ands
what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew
not; the only resuge they had now, was the stock of
cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and fome little
corn which grew there. The three Englishmen, William.
Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced to two,.
one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him
on the side of his head, just under the temples, fo that he
never spoke more; and it was very remarkable, that this,
was the same barbarous sellow who cut the poor savage'
slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to*
have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their cate to have been worse at this
time than mine was at any time after I sirst discovered'
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; for
flow they had,, as I may fay,- an hundred wolves upon
'" the
"v
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The first thing they concluded, when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if pos-
sible, drive them up to the sarther part of the island,
south-east, that, if any more savages come on shore, they
might not find one another : then, that they would daily
hunt and harraso them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their number, and
if they could at last tame them, and bring them to any
thing, they would give them corn, and teach them how-
to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and fo terrified .
them with their guns, that in a sew days, if any of them
fired a gun at au Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would sall down for sear ; and so dreadsully frighted they
were, that they kept out of sight sarther and sarther, l
till at last our men following them, and every day almost
killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the
woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced them
to the utmost misery for want of food; and many "were
afterwards found dead in, the woods, without any hurt,
but merely starved to death.
Wb*n our men found this, it made their hearts re-
lent, and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my lise: and he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so sar as
to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them,
and see if they might be brought to some conditions
that might be depended upon to save their lives, and
to do us no, spoil.
It was some time before any of them, could be taken;
but, being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner; he was sullen at first, and
would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and victuals given him, and no violence ottered
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
jsith him, and told him how kind the others would be
to the.m all; that they would not only save their lives,
but
but would give them a part of the island to live in, prow
videdthey would give satissaction ; that they should keep-
in their own bounds, and not' come beyond them to in-
jure or prejudice others; and that they should have corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread,
and fome bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk with the rest,
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assuring
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they should
all be destroyed.
The poor wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal
at the sirst offer, and begged to have fome food given
them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two English-
men, well armed, and three Indian slaves, and old Friday,
marched to the place where they were, the three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and fome
lice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the fun, and three
live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of
a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions very
thanksully, and were the most saithsul sellows to their
words that could be thought of; for, except when they
came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out
of their bounds; and there they lived when I came to
the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread,
breed tame goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing
but wives, and they foon would have been a nation r
they were consined to a neck of land, surrounded with
high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea
before them, on the fouth-east comer of the island: they
had land enough, and it was very good and fruitsul, for
they had a piece of land about a mileand a half broad,
and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as-
I made for myself; and gave among them 12 hatchets,'
and three or four knives; and there they lived the molt
subjected innocent creatures that were ever heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a persect tranquillity,
with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them,
which was in about two years; not but that now and
then fome canoes of savages came on shore for their
triumphal
triumphal unnatural seasts; but as they were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I,have given a sull account of all that
happened to them, to my return, at least, that was worth
notice. The Indians, or savages, were wondersully
civilized by them, and they frequently went among
them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters; for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly all
forts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c. as also
chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of
other things, being very ingenious at such work, whoa
they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
because we furnished them with knives,'scissars, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they
could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like basket-work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd;
but was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat,
as against all forts of vermin; and our men were so taken
with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do
the like for them; so that when 1 come to see the two.
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if
they lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
-sober sellow, he had made himself such a tent of bas-
ket-work, as, I believe, was never seen; it was 120 paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the
walls were as close-worked as a basket, in pannels or
stiuares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, stand-
ing
ing about 7 seet high; in the middle was another not
above 22 paces round, but built stronger, being eight
square in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
very strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof of eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure yei», and joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes,
which he had made himself too out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance of ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge of: he made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself char-
coal for his work, aud he formed* out of one of the iron,
crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, sta-
ples and spikes, bolts and hinges. But to return to the
house: after he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work
to firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously with
rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which co-
vered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had been,
tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages made
the basket-work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round
this inner apartment, and long rasters lay from the 32
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about
twenty seet distant; so that there was a space like a walk,
within the outer wicker-wall, and without the inner,
near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wick-
er-work, but much sairer, and divided it into six apart-
ments, for that he had six rooms on a floor, and out
of every one" of these there was a door; first, into the
entry or coming into the main tent, and another door
into the space or walk that was round it; fo that this
walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served
not only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries
which the samily had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumserence, what other
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered: as
loon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
x * you.
PUBLIC UB*Mtf
you had a short passage strait before you to the door of
the inner house; but on either side was a wicker parti-
tion, and a door in it, by which you went, first, into a
large room or store-house, 20 seet wide, and aboi^t 30
feet long, and through that into another not quite so
long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets or
retired rooms to the respective chambers of the inner cir-
cle; and four large warehouses or bams, or what you
please to call them, which went in through one another,
two on either hand of the passage, that kd through the
outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, T believe, was never seen
in the world; nor any house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built; in this great bee-hive lived the three
samilies, that is to say, Will Atkins, and his companion;
the third was killed, but his wise remained with three
children; for she was, it seems, big with child when he
died; and the other two were not at all backward to give
the widow her sull share of every thing, I mean, as to
their corn, milk, grapes, &rc. and when they killed a kid,
or found a turtle on the shore: so that they all lived well
enough, though it was true, that they were not so indus-
trious as the other two, as has been already observed.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as
for religion, I don't know that there was any thing of
that kind .among them; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in mind, that there was a God, by the very
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name:
nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the bet-
ter for having been married to Christians, as we must
call them,; for as they knew very little of God themselves,
so they were utterly incapable of entering into any dis-
course with their wives about a God, or to talk any thing
to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which lean say
the wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak English pretty well; and all the children
they had, which were near twenty in all, were taught
to. speak English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at first spoke it in' a very broken manner,
like
like their mothers. There were none of those children
above six years old when I came thither; for it was not
much above seven years that they had setched these sive
savage ladies over, but they had all been pretty fruitsul,
for they had all children, more or less: I think the
'cook's mate wise was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good fort of well-governed, quiet,
laborious women, modest and decent, helpsul to one ano-
ther, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I
cannot call them husbands, and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
legally married; both which were happily brought about
afterwards by my means, or, at least, by the consequence
of my coming among them.
Having thus given an account of the colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my sive runagade Englishmen, I
must say fomething of the Spaniards, who were the
main body of the samily; and in whose story there are
fome incidents alfo remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances, when they were among the savages; they
told me readily, that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they
were a poor miserable dejected handsul of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so
abandoned themselves to despair, and fo sunk under the
weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but slarving: one of them, a grave and very sensible
man, told me, he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wise men to give up them-
selves to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reafon osFered> as well for present support,
as for suture deliverance; he told me, that grief was
the most senseless insignisicant passion in the world; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
view to things to come, and had no share in any thing
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the
asfliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this, he
repeated a Spanish proverb; which, tho' 1 cannot repeat
in just the same words that he spoke it, yet 1 remember
1 made it into an English proverb of my own, thus:
In
In trouble to be troubled.
Is lo have your trouble doubled* -''
He ran on them in remarks upon all the little improve-
ments I had made in my solitude; my unwearied appli-
cation, as he called it, and how I had made a condition,
which, in its circumstance, was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was,
even now, when they were altogether: he told me, it
was remarkable, that Englishmen had a greater presence
of mind, in their distress, than any people that ever he
met with; that their unhappy nation, and the Portu-
guese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with
misfortunes; for that their first step in danger, after com-
mon efforts are over, was always to despair, lie down
under it and die, without routing their thoughts up to
proper remedies for escape.
1 told him their case (and mihe differed exceedingly;
_ that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries,
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till
they could provide it: that it is true, I had this dis-
advantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the supplies I had pro\identially thrown into my hands,
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards
been in your case, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the ship as you did : nny, says he,
we should never have found means to have gotten a
raft to carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we
have done, said he, if any of us had been- alone! Well,
1 desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they land-
ed: he told me, they unhappily landed at a place
where there were people without provisions; whereas,
had they had the common sense to have put off to lea
again, and gone to another island a little sarther, they
h'ad found provisions, though without people; there
toeing an island that way, as they had been told, where
there
thfcre were provisions, though no people; that is to say»
that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there*
and silled the island with goats and hogs at several times {
where they have bred in such multitudes, and where
turtle and sea-fowls where in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of slesh, though they had
found no bread; whereas here they were only sus-
tained with a sew roots and herbs, which they under-
stood not, and which had no substance in them, and
which the inhabitants' gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn
canibals, and eat men's fiesh, which was the great dain-
ty of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they
strove to civilize the savages they were with, and to
teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of liv-»
ing, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon them,
as unjust, that they, who came thither for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those
that gave them bread; intimating, it seems, that none
should set up for the instructors of others but those
who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they
were driven to; how fometimes they were many days
without any food at all, the island they were upon being'
inhabited by a fort of savages that lived more indolent,
and, for that reafon, were less supplied with the neces-
saries of lise, than they had reafon to believe others were
in the same part of the world; and yet they found that
these savages were less ravenous and voracious, than those
who had better supplies of sood.
Also they added, that they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness, the go-
verning Providence of God directs the events of things in
the work!; which, they said,' appeared in their circum-
stances; for, if pressed by the hardships they were under,
and the .barrenness of the country where they were, they
had searched alter a better place to live in, they had then
been out of the way of the relief that happened to them
by my means.
Then they gave me an account, how the savages,
whom they lived among, expected them to go out with
them

them into their wars: and it was true' that, as they had
fire-arms with them, had they not ha 1 the disaster to lose'
their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable'
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible'
both to friends and enemies; but being without powder
and mot, and yet in a condition, that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their warsj
when they came in the field- of battle, they were in a'
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they'
neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and th:n, indeed,
the three halberts they had, were of use to them, and
they would •often drive a whole little army before theni
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this they were
sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great dan-
ger from their arrows; till at last they found the way to
make themselves large targets of wood, which they co-
vered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew
sot; and these covered them from the arrows of the sa-
vages; that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes
in great danger, and were once five of them knocked
down together with the clubs of the savages, which was;
the time when one of them was taken prisoner; that is to
say, the Spaniard, whom I had relieved : that at first they
thought he had been killed, but when afterwards they
htasd he was taken prisoner, they were under the greatest
'grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.
They told me, that when they were so knocked down,
the rest of their company rescued them, and stood over
them, sighting till they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they
made their way with their halberts and pieces, standing
close together in a line, through a body of above a thou-
sand savages, beating down all that came in their way,
got the victory over their enemies, but to their great
sorrow, because it was the loss of their friend; whom
the other party, finding him alive, carried oft7with some
others, as I gave an account in my former, '• .
. vol. .11. £ they
•They described most- affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at: the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild
men i and, yet how more and more they were surprised
w^th the, account he gavethem of his errand, and that
there was a Christian in a place near, much more one
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute
to.tbeir deliverance. • '•..,•
They, described how they were astonished at the sight
of the relief I sent them, and at the appearance os loaves
of bread, things they had not seen since their coming to
that miserable, place; how often' they crossed it, and
'blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what a reviv-
ing cordial it was ta their spirits to taste it; as alfo of
the other things I had; sept for their supply. And, after
all, they would have told me fomething of the joy they
were,in, at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry ihem
away, to the perfon and place, from whence all these new
comforts came; but they told me, it was impossible to
express it by words; for their excessive joy driving them
to unbecoming extravagancies, they had no way to
describe them, but by telling me, that they bordered
upon luqacy, having no way to give vent to their pas-
si,on, suitable to the sense that was upon them; that, in
fome it worked one way, and in fome another; and that
lbme of them, through a surprise of joy, would burs*
'out into tears; others be half-mad, aud others immedi-
ately saint. This discourse extremely affected me, and
called to my mind Friday's extacy, when he met his
father, and the poor people's extacy, when I took them
up at sea, after their ship was on sire; the mate of the
Clip's joy, when he found himself delivered in the place,
where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when,
after twenty-eight years captivity, I found a good ship
ready to carry me to my own country: all these things
made me more sensible of the relation of these poor men j
and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things,
as 1 found them, 1 must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which I left them.
It was rheir opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled
troubled no more with the savages; or that, if they
-were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were
twice as many as before; so that they had no concerri
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with
the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay
in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some, and
leave others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay,
if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, 1 told them, 1 came to establish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds
for them: that 1 had been at a great charge to* supply
them with all things necessary; as well for their conve-
nience, as their desence; and that I had such parti-.
cular persons'with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employ-
ments 'which they were'bred to, being artificers, to
assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them;
and before 1 delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the first animosities that had been among them,
and could shake hands with bne another, and engage in
a strict friendship, and union of interest, ib that there
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
VVilliam Atkins', with abundance of frankness and
good humour, said, they had met with afflictions enough
to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make
them all friends , that, for his part, he would live artd
die with them; and was so sar from designing any thing
against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they had done
nothing to him but what his own bad humour made
necessary, and what he would have done, and, perhaps',
much worse, in their case; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things
he- had done to them; and was very willing and desi-
rous of living in terms of entire friendship and union
with them; and would do any thing that lay in his
power to convince them of it; and as for going to Eng-
land, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years,
.b8 , The
758787A
100
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at first, dis-
armed and excluded William Atkins, and his two coun-
trymen for their ill conduct, as they had let me know;
and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William Atkins had behaved
himself so bravely in the great fight they had with the
savages, and on several occasions since, and had shewed
himself so saithsul to, and concerned for the general in-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past; and thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them;
and that they had testified their satissaction in him, by
committing the command to him, next to the governor
himself; and as they had an entire confidence in him*
and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged, they
had merited that considence, by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted: and
they most heartily embraced the opcasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never have any interest
separate from dne another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together:
and, indeed, we made a splendid seast: I caused the
Ciip's cook, and his mate to come on thore, and dress
our dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef,
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
"with our punch bowl, and materials to sill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer: things that neither the
Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many years;
and which it may be supposed, they were exceeding
glad of.
The Spaniards added to our seast five whole kids,
which the cook's roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board our ship to the seamen, that
they might seast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
•with their salt meat from on board.
After this seast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that
there might be no dispute about dividing, I shewed them
there was sufficient for them all; and desired, that they
might
mght all take an equal quantity of the goods that were
for wearing; that is to sav, equal when made up. As
sirst, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of
them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard's request, after-
wards made them up fix; these were exceedingly comfort-
able to them, having been what, as I may say, they had,
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
1 allotted the thin English, stuff's, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged sittest for the heat of the season, cool and
loose; and ordered that, whenever they decayed, they
should make more, as they thought fit: the like for
pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satissaction, sat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care I had taken of them, and how well 1 had
surnished them : they told me that I was a sather to them:
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were lest in a desolate place: and they all vo-
luntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place without
my consent.
Then I presented to them the people 1 had brought with
me; particularly the taylor, the smith, and the two car-
penters, all of them most necessary people; but,. above
all, my general artificer, than whom they could not name
any thing that was more needsul to them ; and the taylor,
to shew his concern for them, went to work immediately,
and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt the first
thing he did; and, which was still more, he taught the
women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the nee-
dle, but made them assist to make the shirts for their hus-
bands, and for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I scarce need mention how use-
sul they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy things, and made them clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every-
thing they wanted of that kind. -
But, to let them see how nature made artificers at first,
I carried the carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-
house, as 1 called it; and they both owned, they never
saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before; nor
e 3 any
any thing fo regular, and fo handily built, at least qf
its kind: and one of them, when he saw it, after ma*
ling a good while, turning about to me, I am sure, says
he, that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave 'every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake,
for we had no harrows or ploughs ; and to every separate
place, a pick-axe, a ciow, a broad-axe, and a saw; al-
ways appointing that as often as any were broken, or
worn out, they should be supplied, without grudgingy
out of the general stores that 1 left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chiffels, knives,, scis-
sors, and all forts of tools, and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted; and he must be a fool that
would waste or spoil them, on any account whatfoever t
and, for the use of the smith, 1 left two tons of unwrought
iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to prosusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as 1 used
to do, with a musket upon each sho,ulder, if there was
occasion; and were able to sight 1000 savages, if they
had but fome little advantages of situation; which also*
they could not miss,of, if they had occasion.
1 carried on lhore with me the young rn^an whose
mother was starved to death, and the maid alfo ; she was
a fober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
haved fo inoffensively,, that every one gave her. a good
word: she had, indeed, an unhappy lise with us, there
being no woman in the ship but herself; but she bore it
with patience. After a while, seeing things fo well
ordered, and in fo fine a way of thriving upon my
island, and considering that they had neither business nor
acquaintance in the East Indies, nor reafon for taking fo-
long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both, of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to re-
main on the island, and be entered among my samily, as
they called it.
1 agreed to it readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or.
. .. houses.
houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work, pallisadoed
like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantation ; their tents
were contrived so, that they bad each of them a room
apart ,to lodge in, and a middle tent,v like a great store-
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habi-
tation to the same place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habitation
under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city,
and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as well under, as on the outside of the hill, that-they
lived, tho' persectly concealed, yet sull at large. 'Never
was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I be-
lieve, in any part of the world: for, I verilv believe,
1000 men might have ranged the island a month, arid,
if they had not known there was suchu thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the
trees stood so thick, and so close, and grew so sast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them down
first, could discover the place; except the two narrow
entrances where they went in and out, could be found,
which was not very easy: one of them was just down at
the water's edge, on the side of the creek, and it Was
afterwards above 200 yards to the place; and the other
was up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it; and they had a large wood, thick planted,
also, on the top of the hill, which contained above an
acre, which grew apace, and covered the place from all
discovery there, with only one narrow place between two
trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will. Atkins's, whfire
. there were four samilies of Englishmen, I mean those I
had left there, with their wives and children; three
savages, that were slaves; the widow and children of the
Englishman that was kilied; the young man aud the
maid, and, by the way, we made a wise of her also,
before we went away: there were also the Uvo carpen-
ters and the taylor, who I brought with me for them:
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them,
especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
aud my other man, whom I called Jack of all trades;
z 4 who
who was himself as good almost as twenty men, sor lie
was not only a very ingenious sellow, but a very merry
sellow; and, before I went away, we married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship ;.
whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally
to say something of the French ecclesiastic, that I had
brought with me out of the ship's crew, whom I took,
at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and perhaps,
it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record, of a man, whom, before I
begin, 1 must (to set him out in just colours) represent in
terms very much to his disadvantage, in the account os
Protestants; as first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
Popish Priest; and thirdly, a French Popish Priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due charac-
ter; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and
most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his
charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he did:
What, then, can any one say, against my being very
sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding his
prosession? Though it may be my opinion, perhaps,
as well as the opinion of others who mall read this,
that he was mistaken.
The first hour that I began to converse with him,
after he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies,
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversation:
and he first began with me about religion, in the most
obliging manner imaginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God (and at
that he crossed his breast) saved my lise, but you have
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, aid, by
your obliging civility, have taken me into your samily,
giving me an opportunity of free conversation: Now,
Sir, says he, you see by my habit, what my prosession
is; and I guess by your nation, what your's is: I may
think it is my duty, and, doubtless, it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
fouls that I can to the knowledge of the truth,, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am here under
your permission, and in your samily, I am bound injus-
tice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good
manners,,
manners to be under your government; and therefore,.
I shall not, without, your leave, enter into any debates on
the points of religion, in which we may not agree, sar-
ther than you shall give me leave.
I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; ,that it was true,' we were
such people as they call heretics; but, that he was not
the first Catholic that I had conversed with, without
salling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the ques-
tions to any height in debate; that he should not find
himself the worse used for being of a difserent opinion
from us; and if we did not converse without any dis-
like on either side, upon that score, it would be his
sault, not ours.
He replied, that he thought our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not his
business to cap principles with every man he discoursed
with; and that he rather desired me to converse with,
him as a gentleman, than as a religieux; that if I would
give him leave, at any time, to discourse upon religious
subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then he -did not doubt but I would allow him also to
desend his own opinions, as well as he could; but that,
without my leave, he would not break in upon me with,
any such thing.
He told me sarther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his office, as a priest, as well as a
private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and
the sasety of all that was in her: and though, perhaps,
we would not join with him, and he could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do-
upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and,
as he was of a most obliging gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a man of good
sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a molt diverting account os his lise,
and of the many extraordinary events of it; of many
adventures which had besallen him in the sew years
that he had been abroad in the world, and particu-
larly this was very remarkable, viz. that during the voy-
age he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to
be five times shipped and uhsoipped« and iiever to go
E 5 to
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were as
sirs! designed: that his sirst intent was to have gone to
Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound
thither, at St. Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in
bad weather, the ship received fome dampge, by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obli-
ged to unload her cargo there: that sinding a Portuguese
ship there, bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and
supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there, bound
to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the
Madeiras; but the Master of the Portuguese ship being
but an indifserent mariner, had been out in his reckon-
ing, and they drove to Fial; where, however, he hap-
pened to sind a very good market for his cargo, which
was corn; and therefore refolved not to go to the Ma-
deiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to go away to-
Newfoundland: he had no remedy in the exigence, but
to go with the ship; and had a pretty good voyage
as sar as the Banks, fo they call the place where they
eatch the sish, where meeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
should have an opportunity to complete his sirst design:
but when he came to Quebec, the master of the skip died,
and the ship proceeded no sarther: fo the next voyage he
shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burnt,
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped them
with us for the Fast Indies, as I have already said. Thus
Le had been disappointed in sive voyages, all, as I may
call it, in one voyage, besides what I (hall have occasion
to mention sarther of the same perfon.
But I snail not make digreflions into other men's
stories, which have no relation to my own. I return
to what concerns our pfsair in the island: he came to
me one morning, so: ae lodged among us all the while
we were upon the i'land; and it- happened to be just
when I was going ,.0 visit the Englishmen's colony, at
the sarthest part of the island; I say, he came to me,
and told me, with a v*.-ry grave countenance, that he
had, for two or three days, desired an opportunity of
fome discourse with me, which, he hoped, would not
be displeasing to me, because he thought it might, hi
4 ioae
some measure, correspond with my general design, which.
'was the prosperity of my new colony; and, perhaps,
might put it, at least, more than he yet thought it was,
in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course; and turning a little short, how Sir, said 1, can
it be said, that we are not in the way of God's blessing,
after such visible assistance, and wondersul deliverances,
as we have leen here, and of which I have given you
a large account?
If you had pleased, Sir, said he, (with a world of
modesty, and yet with great readiness) to have heard me,
you would have found no room to have been displeased,
much less to think fo hard of me, that I mould suggest,
that you have not had wondersul assistances and delive-
rances; and, I hope, on your behalf, that you are in the
way of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding good,
and will prosper. But, Sir, said he, though it were
more fo, than is even possible to you, yet there may be
fome among you, that are not equally right in their
actions: and you know, that in the story of Israel, one
Achan, in the camp, removed God's blessing from them,
and turned his hand fo against them, that thirty-six of
them, though not concerned in the crime, where the
objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that
punishment.
I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told
him his inserence was fo just, and the whole design seem-
ed fo sincere, and was really fo religious in its own na-
ture, that I was very forry I had interrupted him; and
begged him to go on: and, in the mean time, because it
seemed, that what we had both to say, might take up
ibme time, I told him, I was going to the Englishman's
plantation, and asked him to go with me, and we might
discourse of it by the way; he told me, iie would more
willingly wait on me thither, because there partly the
thing was acted, which he desired to'fpeak to me about:
fo we walked on, and I pressed him to be free and plain
with me in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a sew propositions, as the foundation of
'what I have to say, that we may not differ in the ge-
/ e d neral
S'
neral principles, tin' we may be of some differing opi-
nions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though
we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and
it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the case
before us, as I shall shew afterwards; yet, there ans
some general principles in which we both agree, viz..
First, that there is a God; and that this God, having
given us some stated general rules for our service and obe-
dience, we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend
him, either by neglecting to do what he has commanded,
or by doing what he has expressly forbidden j and let
our different religions be what they will, this general
principle is readily owned by us all—that the blessing
of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sin-
nin» against his command; and every good Christian
wilfbe affectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care living in a total neglect of God and his
commands. It is not your men being protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me
from being concerned for their fouls, and from endea-
vouring, if it lies before me, that they should live in as
little distance from, and enmity with their Maker as
possible; especially, if you give me leave to meddle so
sar in your circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he a^med at, and told
him, I granted all he said, and thanked him, that he
would so far concern himself for us; and begged he
would explain the particulars, of what he had observed,
that, like Joshua, (to take his own parable), I might put
away the accursed thing from us.
Why then, Sir, says he, I will take the ftberty you
Tgive me; and there are three things, which,, if I- am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon-
your endeavours here, and which L should rejoice, for
your sake, and their own, to see removed. Andy Sir,,
says he, I promise myself, that you will sully agree with
me in them all, as soon as I name them-'; especially,
because I shall convince you, that every one of them,
may, with great ease, aad very much to your satissac-
tion, be remedied.
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities;
but went on: First, Sir, says he, you have here four
Englishmen,.
Englishmen, who have setched women from among the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have
had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws os
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense
of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adultery.
To this, Sir, says he, I know you will object, that there
was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, or of any
prosession, to perform the ceremony; nor any pen and
ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. And I know allb.
Sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you; I mean
of the agreement that he obliged them to make when,
they took these women, viz. that they should chuse themi
out by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by
the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with
the women as wives, but only an agreement among
themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony
(so he called it, being a Roman), consists not only in the
mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man
and wise, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman,
at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the man to abstain from all other women, to engage
in no other contract while these subsist; and on all occa-
sions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them and
their children; and to oblige the women to do the same,,
or like conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their side.
Now, Sir, says he, these men may, when they please,
or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women and marry them whilst these are living. And
here he added, with some warmth, How, Sir, is God
honoured in this unlawsul liberty? And how mall a
blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design,
while these men, who at present are your subjects, under
your abiolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to, live in open adultery?
I consess, I was struck at the thing itself, hut much
vinore with the convincing arguments he supported it
with;
with; for it was certainly true, that though they had nor
clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract on both
sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by any token,
which they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had
been but the bieakin" a stick between them, en^ac-incr
the men to own these women for their wives upon alt
occasions, and never to abandon them or their children,
and the women to the same with their husbands, had been
an effectual lawsul marriage in the light of God; and it
was a great neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest,
by telling him, that all that part was done when I was
not here; and they had lived so msny years with them
now, that if it was an adultery, it was pall remedy; they
could do nothing in it now.
Sir, says he, asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this; that it being done in your absence,
you could not be charged with that part of the crime.
But, I beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you are not
therefore under an obligation to do your uttermost now
to put an end to it: how can you think, but that, let
the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the
suture will lie entirely upon you; because it is certainly
in your power now to put an end to it; and in nobody's
power but your's.
I was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but I
imagined, that, by putting an end to it, he meant that I
should part them, and not suffer them to live together
any longer; and I said to him, I could not do that by
any means, for that it would put the whole island in con-
fusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far mistake
him. No, Sir, says he; 1 do not mean that you lhoulcl
separate them, but legally and effectually marry them
now. And, Sir, as my way of marrying may not be so
easy to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual,
even by your own laws, so your way may be as well be-
fore God, and as valid among men; I mean by -a written
contract, signed by both man and woman, and by al! tne
witnesses present; which all the laws of Europe would
decree to be valid.
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity ot aeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his
, disco urie,
discourse, as to his own party or church: and such a true'
warmth for the preserving people that he had no know-
ledge of, or relation to: I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God, the like of which I had,
indeed, not met with any where. But recollecting what
he had said, of marrying them by a written contract,
which I knew would Hand too, I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his part, very kind: that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them.
And I knew no reason why they should scruple to let
-him marry them all; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as
if they were married by one of our own clergymen.—
What was afrerwards done in this matter, I shall speak
of by itself.
I then pressed him to tell me what was the second com-
plaint which he had to make; acknowledging that I was
very much his debtor for the first, and thanked him
heartily for it, He told me he would use the same free-
dom and plainness in the second, and hoped I would
take it as well: and this was, that, notwithstanding these
English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived
with these women for almost seven years, and -had taught
them to speak English, and even to read it; and that
they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable under-
standing, and capable of instruction; yet they had not
to this hour taught them any thing of the Christian reli-
gion; no, not lo much as to know that there was a God,
or a worship, or in what manner God was to be served %.
or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew
not who, was salse and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account for j
and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very afsectionately and warmly. 1 am per-
suaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage coun-
try,'whence their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters,
and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so sar
as I can see, has taken with them, to teach them the
iaowkdge of the trae God. Now^ir, said he, though I
do
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the sub-
jects of his kingdom, taught to know the general prin-
ciples of the Christian religion ; that they might at least
hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of a Resurrection,
and of a suture state, things which we all believe; they
had, at least, been so much nearer coming into the bofom.
of the true church, than they are now in the public pro-
session of idolatry and devil-worship.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and
embraced him with an excess of passion: How sar, said
I to him, have I been from understanding the most essen-
tial part of a. Christian, viz. to love the interest of the
Christian church, and the good of other men's fouls. I
scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
O Sir, do not say so, replied he; this thing is not your
sault. No! said I, but why did I never lay it to heart
as well as you? It is not too late yet, said he; be not
too forward t > condemn yourself. But what can be done
now? said I; you see I am going away. Will you give
me leave, said he, to talk with these poor men about it?
Yes, with all my heart, said I, and will oblige them to
give heed to what you say too. As to that, said he, we
must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is our
business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them -
and if you will give me leave, and God his blessing, I do-
not doubt but the poor ignorant fouls shall be brought
home into the great circle of Christianity, if not into the
particular saith that we all embrace, and that even while'
we stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not only give
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it. What
followed on this account 1 shall mention also again in its
j>lace.
I now pressed him for the third article in which we
•were to blame. Why really, says he, it is of the same
nature, and I will proceed (asking your leave) with the
same plainness as before: it is about your poor savages
yonder, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects.
it is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be received
r,mong ail Christians, of what church, or pretended
church soever; viz. that Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated by ail possible means, and on all possible
occasions. -
occasions. It is on this principle that our church sends
missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
residence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian saith. Now, Sir, you
have an opportunity here to have six or seven and
thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expence of a man's
whole lise. -—4-—
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word
to say: I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me, let his particular principles
be of what kind soever. As for me, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before;
and, I believe, should not have thought of it; for I
looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom,
had we any work for them to do, we would have\ised
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other part of the world; for our business
was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tisfied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the case: I say I, was
consounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some
disorder: Sir, said he, I shall be very sorry if what
I have said gives you any offence. No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am persectly
consounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any notice of this before, but with reflecting what notice
I am able to take of it now. You know, Sir, said I,
what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East-
Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain
their ship here, the men lying . all this while at victuals
and wages upon the owner's account: it is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve days here; and if I stay
more, I must pay 31. sterling per diem demurrage; nor
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more; and
1 have;
1 have been here thirteen days already; so that I ant
persectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again; in which
case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part of her
voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was
left in here at first; and from which I have been so won-
dersully delivered.
He owned the cafe was very hard upon me as to my
voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether
the blessing of saving seven and thirty souls, was not worth
my venturing all I had in the world for? I was not so
sensible of that as he was; and I returned upon him thus:
Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to be an instru-
ment, in God's hand, to convert seven and thirty hea-
thens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an.
ecclesiallic, and are given over to that work, so that it
seems naturally to sall into the way of your prosession,
how is it then, that you do not rather offer yourself to
undertake it, than press me to do it?
Upon this he saced about, just before me, as he
walked along, and putting me to a sull stop, made me a
Tery low bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir,
says he, for giving me so evident a call to so blefled a
work; and if you think yourself discharged from it,
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,
and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken disappointed voyage as I
have met with, that I have dropt at last into lo glorious
a work.
I discovered a kind of rapture in his sace, while he
spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his sace
glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
'teen selling into fits: in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him;
Jfor I was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity
and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordi-
nary rate of men, not out of his prosession only, but even
of any prosession whatsoever: but aster 1 had considered
it awhile, i asked him seriously if he was in earnest,
and that he would venture on the single consideration
ci- an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in
. aa
an unplanted island, for, perhaps, his lise; and at last
might not know whether he sliould be able to do them
any good or not.
fie turned short upon me, and asked me what I called
a venture: Pray, Sir, said be, what do you think 1 con-
sented to go in your ship to the East Indies for? Nay,
said 1, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he: and do you think,
if I can convert these seven and thirty men to the saith
of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I mould never
be setched oft' the island again? Nay, is it not infinitely
of more worth to save so many souls, than my lise is,
or the lise of twenty more of the lame prosession? Yes,
Sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgm
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though
I was never to set my foot off this island, or see my na-
tive country any more. But since you will honour me,
says he, with putting me into this work (for which I
will pray for you all the days of my lise), 1 have one
humble petition to you, says he, besides. What is that?
said I. Why, says he, it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me to be my interpreter to them, and to assist
me; for, without some help, 1 cannot speak to them, or
they to me.
1 was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many
reasons; he had been the companion of my travels; he
was not only saithsul to me, but sincerely affectionate to
the last degree; and I had resolved to do something con-
siderable for him, if he outlived me, as it was probable he
would: then 1 knew, that as I had bred Friday up to be
a protestant, it would quite consound him, to bring him
to embrace another prosession; and he would never,
while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was
an heretic, and would be damned ;,and this might in the
end ruin the poor sellow's principles, and so turn him
back again to h<s original idolatry.
However, a sudden thought relieved roe in. this
strait, and it was this: I told him I could not lay-
that 1 was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever; though a work, that to him was of more
value
value than his lise, ought to me to be of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday woultV
b/ no means consent to part with me; and then to
force him to it, without his consent, would be a mani-
sest injustice; because I had promised I would never
put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me, that he would neveT leave me, unless I put Lira
away.
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's Father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood, and he should serve him for an interpre-
ter; so he was much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert
them; but Providence gave another and very happy turn
to all this.
I come back now to the first part of his objections.
When we came to the Englishmen, 1 sent Jfor them all
together; and aster some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
which they were sensible of, and very thanksul for; f
began to talk to them of the scandalous lise they led,
and gave them a sull account of the notice the clergy-
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a lise it was, I first asked them
if they were married men or batchelors? They soon ex-
plained their condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men or batchelors. 1 asked them, with what conscience
they could take these women and lie with them, as
they had done, call them their wives, and have so many
children by them, and not to be lawsully married to
them?
They all gave me the answer that I expected; viz.
that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives,
and to keep them, and own them, as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally
legally married as if they had been married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in
the sight of God, and were bound in conscience to
keep them as their wives; but that the laws of men
being otherwise, they might pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor women and children here-
after^ and that their wives, being poor desolate wo-
men, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
help themselves. 1 therefore told them, that unless I
was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did should
be for the women and children, without them; and
that unless they would give some assurances that they
would marry the women, 1 could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wise;
for that it was both scandalous to men, and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them if they
went on thus.
All this passed as I expected; and they told me, espe-
cially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the
rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they had
been horn in their own native country, and would not
leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them
and for their children, as any women could possibly do;
and they would not part with them on any account :—
And Will. Atkins, for his own particular, added, if any
man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and to make him captain of the best man of
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might
not carry his wise and children with him; and if there
was a clergyman in the ship,, he would be married to her
now, with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was
not with me at that moment, but was not sar off:
So, to try him sarther, 1 told him I had a clergyman
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: he said, as for himself, he
•need not consider of it all; for he was very icady to
do
do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he
believed they would be all willing also. I then told
him, that my friend, the minister was a Frenchman,
and could not (peak English; but that I would act the
clerk between them. He never so much as aiked me
whether he was a papist or a protestant, which was in-
deed, what I was afraid of; but I say they never en-
quired about it; so we parted. I went back to my
clergyman, and Will. Atkins went in'to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to
say any thing to them till the business was thoroughly
ripe; and 1 told him what answer.the men had given
tne.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me,
and told me, they had been considering what I had
laid; that they were very glad to hear 1 had a clergy-
man in my company; and they were very wiling to
give me the satissaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased; for they were sar from de-
firing -to part with their wives; and that they meant
nothing but what- was very honest when they chose
them;, so I appointed them to meet me the next morn-
ing; and that in the mean time they should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage-law, and that
it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige
them, that they should not forsake them, whatever might
happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it,
as, indeed, they had reason to be; so they sailed not
to attend all together at my apartment the next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman; and though
he had not on a minister's gown after the manner of
F.ngland, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of
France, yet having a black vest, something like a cas-
sock, with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike
a minister; and as for his language, I was his inter-
preter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the
scruples he made of marrying the women, because they
were not baptized, and prosessed Christians, gave them
an exceeding reverence for his person; and there was no
need
need after that to enquire whether he was a clergyman
or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been car»
ried so sar, as that he woald not have married them at
all; nay, notwithstanding all 1 was able to say to him,
he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily; and
at last resused absolutely to marry them, unless he had
first talked with the men, and the women too: and
though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of
his design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the
present design; that be was very willing to persorm that
part of his sunction, and marry them, as I had desired;
but that before he could do it, he must take the liberty
to talk with them-. He told them, that in the light of
all different men, and in the sense os the laws of society,
they had lived ail this while in an open adultery; and
that it was true, that nothing but the consenting to
marry, or effectually separating them srom one another,
now could put an end to it; but there was a difficulty
in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matri-
mony, which he was not sully satisfied about, viz. that-
of marrying one that "is a prosessed Christian, to a savage,
an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not baptized; and
yet that he did not see that there was time left for it, to
endeavour to persuade the women to be baptized, or to
prosess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted,
heard nothing of, and without which they could not be
baptized.
He told me, he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little know-
ledge of God or his ways, and therefore he could not
expsct that they had laid much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
use their endeavours with their wives, to persuade them
to become Christians, and would as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was
it
it consistent with the principles of the Christian re-
ligion; and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very saithsully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as I could, only fometimes adding fome-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was,
and how I was of his mind; and I always very saith-
sully distinguished between what I said from myself,
and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me it was very true what the gentleman had "said,
that they were but very indifferent Christians them-
selves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. Lord, Sir, says Will. Atkins, how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing
ourselves; and besides, Sir, said he should we go to talk
to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
'twould but make them laugh at us, and ask us what we
believe ourselves? and if we should tell them, we be-
lieve all the things that we speak of to them, such as
of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they would ask us, where we intended to
go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked sellows, as indeed we are? Why, Sir, said Will,
'tis enough to give, them a surseit of religion at sirst
hearing. Folks must have fome religion themselves
before they pretend to teach other people. Will
Atkins, said I to him, though I am afraid what you say
has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your
wise that she is in the wrong? That there is a God,
and a religion better than her own; that her gods are
idols, that they can neither hear nor speak; that there
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he has made; that he rewards the good,
and punishes the bad; that we are to be judged by him
at last for all we do here; you are not fo ignorant, but
even nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and 1 am satissied you know it all to be true, and believe
it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what sace can
I say any thing to my wife of all this, when she will tell
me immediately, it cannot be true?
Not
Not true! said I ; what do you mean by that? Why-
Sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be true that this
God (I shall tell her of) can bejust, or can punish, or
reward, since I am not punished, and sent to the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows 1
have been, even to her, and to every body else, and that
I should be sussered to live, that have been always acting
so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to what
I ought to have done.
Why truly, Atkinsi said 1, 1 am afraid thou speakest
too much truth; and with that I let the clergyman know
what Atkins had said; for he was impatient to know :-—
0! said the priest, tell him there is one thing will make
him the best minister in the world to his wise, and that
is repentance; for none teach repentance like true peni-
tents ; he wants nothing, but to,repent, and then he will
be so much the better qualified to instruct his wise; he
will then be able to tell her, that thee is not only a God,
and that he is the just rewarder of good and evil; but
that he is a merciful being, and, with insinite good-
ness and long-suffering, forbears to punish those that of-
fend; waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death
of a sinner, but rather that he should return and live;
that he often suffers wicked men to go on a long time,
and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri-
bution; that it is a clear evidence of God, and of a
future state, that righteous men receive not their reward,
or wicked men their punishment, till they come into
another world; and this will lead him to teach his wise
the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last judg-
ment; let him but repent for himself, he will he an ex-
cellent preacher of repentance to his wise.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious
all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it; when be ng eager,
and hardly suffering me to make an end: I knew all
this, master, says he, and a great deal more; but 1 han't
the impudence to talk thus to my wise ; when G id, and
By own conscience knows, and my wise w.ll be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have li ed as if
1 had never heard of God, or a suture staie, or any
thing about it, and to talk of my repe.iting, alas! (and
vol. ii, s with
-with that he setched a deep, sigh; and I could see that
tears stood in his eyes) 'tis past all that with me. Patt
it! Atkins, said 1, What dost thou mean by that ? I know
well enough what I mean, Sir, says he; I mean 'tis too
late; and that is too true.
I told my clergyman, word for word, what he said;
the poor zealous priest (I must call him so; for be his
opinion what it will, he had certainly a most singular
afsection for the good of other men's fouls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I fay,
this zealous affectionate man) could not refrain tears also;
but, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him but one
question, Is he easy, that it is too late, or he is troubled,
find wishes it were not so? I put the questi'on sairly to
Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of passion,
How could any man be easy in a condition that cer-
tainly must end in eternal destruction ! that' he was sar
from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed
it would one time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that.' said I. Why, he said,
he believed he fhould, one time or other, cut his own
throat, to put an end to the terror of it.
The clergyman shook his head^ with great concern
in his sace, when I told him all this ; but, turning quick
to me upon it, said, if that be his case, you may assure
him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance;
but pray, says he, explain this to him, That as no man
is saved but by Christ, and the merit of his passion,
procuring divine mercy for him, how can it be too late
for any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is
able to fin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy?
Pray tell him, There may be a time when provoked
mercy will no longer strive, and when God may resuse
to hear, but that 'tis never too late for men to ask mer-
cy; and we that are Christ's servant's are commanded to
preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ,
to all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis rlcver too
late to repent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned off the dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
have iume talk with his wise; so he went out awhile
and
and we walked to the rest. I perceived they were all
stupidly ignorant, as to matters of religion; much as I
was when I went rambling away from my father; and
yet that there were none of them backward to hear what
had been said, and all of them seriously promised that
they would talk with their wives about it, and do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but,
at last, making his head, We that are Christ's servants,-
says he, can go no surther than to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and pro-
mise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to
accept their good' words: but, believe me, Sir, said he,
whatever you may have known of the lise of that man
you call William Atkins, I believe he is the only,sincere
convert among them; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent; I won't despair of the rest; but that man is per-
sectly struck with the sense of his past lise; and I doubt
not, but when he comes to talk of religion to his wise,
he-will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to
teach others is fometimes the best way of teaching our-
selves. I knew a man, added he, who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and profligate, to the last degree, in his lise, made
a thorough reformation in himself, and being to convert .
a Jew; and if that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his wise, my lise for it, he-
talks himself into a thorough convert, makes himself a
penitent, and who knows what may :bllow ?,'
Upon this discourse however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married the other three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wise were not yet come in: after
this, my clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone; and, turning to me, says
he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here and look: 1 dare say we shall sind this poor
man fomewhere or ether, talking seriously with his wise,
and teaching her already fomething of religion. I
be^an to be of the same mind; fo we went out toge-
ther; and 1 carried him a way which none knew bi t
f 2 myself
y
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that
it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, an4
far harder to see in, than to see out; when coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and his tawny-
savage wise, sitting under the shade of a bnsh, very
«ager in discourse; I stopped -short, till my clergyman
came up to me; and then, having shewed him where
they were, we stood and looked'jrery. steadily at them a.
good while. - /' -'...i' *« • J
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up
to the*sun, and to every quarter of the heavens; ,then
down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself,
fhen to her, to the woods, to the trees. Now, says my
clergyman, you see my words are made good; the man
preaches to her; mark him, now he is telling her that
our God has made him, and her, and the heavens, the
earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c. I believe he is,
said I: immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon.
his seet, sall down upon his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we suppose he said something, but we could not
hear him: it was too sar for that: he did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wise, and talks to her again. We perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether she said any
thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor sellow
was upon his knees, 1 could see the tears run plentisully
down my clergyman's cheeks; and I could hardly for-
bear myself; but it was a great affliction to us both,
that we were not near enough to hear any thing that
passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for sear of
disturbing them: so we resolved to see an end of this
piece of still conversation; and it spoke, loud enough
to us, without the hell) of voice; he sat down again, as
I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
her; and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately: another time we saw him take out his
handkerchief, and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again with a kind of transport very unusual: and after
several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump
up again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two,
they
they both kneeled down together, and continued so abotrt
two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out alou.I,
St. Paul, St. Paul! behold he prayeth: I was fraid
Atkins would hear him; therefore I intreated him to
withhold himself a while, that we might see an end of
the scene, which to me, I must consess, was the mot
affecting, and yet the most agreeable, that ever 1 saw in
my lise. Well, he strove with himself, and contained
himself for a while, but was in such raptures of joy to
think that the poor heathen woman was become a chris-
tian, that he was not able to contain himself: he wept
several times; then throwing up his hands and crossing
his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by
way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony
of the success of our endeavours; some he spoke softly,
and 1 could not well hear, others audibly, some in La-
tin, some in French; then two or three times the tears
of joy would interrupt him, that he could not speak
at all. But I begged that he would compose himself,
and let us' more narrowly and sully observe what was
before us, which he did for a time, and the scene was
not ended there yet; for, after the poor man and his
wise were risen again from their knees, we observed he
stood talking Hi 11 eagerly to her; and we observed by her
motion that (he was greatly affected with what he said,
by her frequent lifting up her hand, laying her hand to
her breast, and such other postures as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention; this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away too; lo that we could see no more of them ia
that situation. * 'v
I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and
first, I told him, I was g.ad to see the particulars we
had both been witnesses to; that though 1 was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and
his wise, however ignorant they both might be: and I
hoped such a beginning would have a yet more happy
end: and who knows, said I, but these two may, in
time, by instruction and example, work upon some
of the others? Some of them! said he, turning quick
t 3 upon.
upon me, ay, upon all of them ; depend upon it, if those
two savages (for he has been but little better, as you re-
late it) shoud embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave
till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is na-
turally communicative; and he that is once made a
Christian will never leave a Pagan behind him, if hecan
help it. I owned it was a most Christian principle to
think so, and a testimony of a true zeal, as well as a ge-
nerous heart in him. But, my friend, said I, will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell
how to object; the least thing against that afsectionate con-
cern,: which you shew for the turning the poor people
srom their Paganism to the Christian religion. But how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your
account, out of the pale of the Catholic church ; without
which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteem these but heretics still; and for no other reasons as
effectually lost as the Pagans themselves?
To this he answered with abundance of candour and
Christian charity, thus: Sir, 1 am a Catholic of the
Roman church, and a priest of the order of St. Bene-
nict, and 1 embrace all the principles of the Roman
saith; but yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circum-
stances, and your civilities: 1 say, nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, with-
out some charity; I dare not say, though I know it is
our opinion in general; yet, I dare not say, that yoii
cannot be saved, will by no means limit the mercy of
Christ, so sar as to think that he cannot receive you into
the bosom of his church, in a manner, to us, imper-
ceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know:
and I hope you have the same charity for us. 1 pray
daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever methods he, who is all wise, is pleased to
direct. In the mean time, sure, you will allow it tsl
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish sar betweea
a Prcftstant and a Pagan; between one that calls ori
Jesus Christ, though in a way which 1 do not think is
according to the true saith: and a savage, a barbarian,
that knows no God, no Christ, no redeemer at all:
and if you are not within the pale of the Catholic
church,
church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than
those that know nothing at all of God, or his church:
I rejoice therefore, when 1 see this poor man, who, you
fay, has been a prossigate, and almost a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not sully enlightened; believing that God from
whom every such work proceeds, will senfibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the surther knowledge of the
truth in his own time, and if God shEsll influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage hrg
wise, I can never believe that he shall be cast away him-
self: and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though
they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of
the Catholic church, just at the time when 1 may delire
it; leaving it to the goodness of Christ to persect his
work in his own time, and his own way? Certainly £
would rejoice, if all the savages in America were brought,
like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
were to be all Protestants at. first, rather than they should
continue Pagans and Heathens; firmly believing that he
who had bestowed that sirst light upon them, would sar-
ther illuminate' r/Hem with abeam of his heavenly grace,
and bring them, intp the pale of his church when he
should'see good.'
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
truly pious1 papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
power of hhi'rtaso'ning; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might
be all Catholic christians, whatever church, or particular
prosession we joined to, or joined, in ; that a spirijj of cha-
rity would ftjofl'woilc us all up into right principles; and
}n & word, as he, thought that the like charity would
make tis all Catholics, lo.I told him, Tbeiie'ved, had all
the members of his church the like moderation, they
would soon be all Protestants •* .and .there we left that
part, for we never disputed at'all.
However, \ talked to him another way, and taking
him by the( hand, my friend, said 1, I wish'all the
clergy of the Komah church were blessed with such mo-
deration', aWdan'equal -share of. you/ charity: I arri en-
tirely «*f'yoiftr!6plmi& j bitt 1 must test you,- that if you
*"** s At should
should preach such doctrine, in Spain or Italy, they
would put you into the inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might
do in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be
the better christians for that severity; for I am sure there
is no heresy in too much charity.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wise were gone, our
business there was over; so we went back our own
way; and when we came back, we found them wait-
ing to be called in. Observing this, I asked my clergy-
man if we should discover to him that we had seen him
under the bush, or no ; and it was his opinion we should
rot; but that we should talk to him first, and hear
what he would say to us; so we called him in alone,
nobody being in the place but ourselves; and 1 begun
with him thus:
Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you?
WThat was your sather?
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my
sather was a clergyman.
R. C. What education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well,-Sir; but I
despised all education, instruction, or correction, like a
beast as I was.
R. C. It is true, Solomon fays, he that despiscth re-
proof is brutish.
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered
my sather! for God's sake, Sir, talk no more about that.
Sir! I murdered my poor sather!
Priest. Ha! a murderer !*
* Here the priest started {for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it) and looked pale. It seems
he believed that Will had really killed his own
sather.
R. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so ; Will
Atkins explain yourself; you did not kill your sather,
did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No, Sir; 1 did not cut his throat; but I
cut the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days;
1 broke his heart by the most ungrateful unnatural re-
•.'*-'•-*' turn
turn for the most tender afsectionate treatment that ever
sather gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your sather, to
extort this consession; I pray Cod give you repentance
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other sins; but
I asked you, because I see that though you have not
much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are
in things that are good; that you have known more of
religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the consession
that I made about my sather, conscience does; and,-
whenever we come to look back upon our lives, the tins
against our indulgent parents are certainly the first that
touch us; the wounds they make lie deepest, and the
weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind of all
the fins, we may commit.
R. C. You talk too seelingly and sensible for me, At-
kins; I cannot hear it.
W. A. You bear it, master 1 I dare say you know
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I
may say, every tree in this island is witness to the an-
guish of my soul, for my ingratitude, and base usage of
a good tender sather; a sather much like your's, by
your description: and I murdered my father as well a»-
you, Will Atkins: but think, sor all that, roy repen-
tance is short of your's too* by a great deal.
* I would have said more, if I could have restrained
my passions; but I thought this poor man's repen-
tance was so much fincerer than mine, that I was
going to leave obY the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that,
instead of my going about to teach and instruct him,
the man was made a teacher and instructor to me,
in a most surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly afsected with it; and said to me, Did I not say,
Sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach
to us all? I tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a
true penitent, here will be no need of me; he Will make
j & Christians
christians of all in the island. But, having a little com-*
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.-
But, Will, said I, How comes the sense of this matter
to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very foul; I have been talking
about God and religion to my wise, in order, as you
directed me, to make a christian of her; and she has
preached such a sermon to me, as I mail never forget
while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wise has preached to you,
tout when you were moving religious arguments to her,
conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as it is not to be
jesisted.
R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wise; for I know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a sull account
of it; I am too sull to hold it; and yet have no tongue to
express it; but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can
tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my
lise.
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin
Will? For this has been an extraordinary case, that is
certain; she has preached a sermon indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
W. A. Why, 1 first told her the nature os our laws
about marriage, and what \he reasons were that men
and women were obliged to enter into' such compacts
as it was neither in the power of one or other to break;
that otherwise order and justice could not be maintained,
and men would run from their wives, and abandon their
ehildren, mix consusedly with one another, and neither
samilies be kept entire, or inheritances be settled by a
legal descent.
R. C. You talk like a Civilian, Will. Could you
make her understand what you meant by inheritance and
samilies? They know no such thing among the savages,
but marry any how, without any regard to relation,
consanguinity* or samily, brother and sister, nay, as I'
have
have been told, even the sather and da ighter, and the
son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are minVormed ; and my
wise assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it ;'
perhaps, for any surther relation-, the :.<i;. u t be so
exact as we are; but the tells me they never touch one
another in the near relation you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was
much better than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there beian all our dialogue. I asked
her, if she would be married to me our way? She asked
me, What way that was? I told her marriage was ap-
pointed of God ; and here we had a strange talk together,
indeed, as ever man and wise had, I believe.
N. B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his
wise, as I took it down in writing, just after he
told it me, was as follows:
Wise. Appointed by your God! Why, have you a
God in your country ?-
W. A. Yes, my dear, God is is in every country.
Wise. No; your God in my country: my country
have the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unfit to shewl.you who God
is; God is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth,
the sea, and all that in them is. ,
Wise. No makee de earth; no you God makee de
earth; no make my country*.
* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of^God
not making her country.
Wise. No laugh. Why laugh me? This no ting
to laughs.
-J- He was justly reproved by his wise; for she was
more serious than he at first.
W. A. That's true indeed ; I will not laugh any mores
roy dear.
Wise. Why you say, you God make all'.
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world,
jwd you, and me, and all things; for he is the only
r 6 true
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever is
heaven.
Wise. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked
-wretch; and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
with anything before, but have lived without God in
the world myself.
Wise. What have youde great God in you deeoimtryv
you no, know him? No say O to him.?' No good ting;
for him? That no impost! l)e!
W. A. It is true though for all that: we live as is
there was no God in heaven, or. that he had no power
on earth.
Wise. But why God let you- do so b Why he no
makee you good live?
W. A It is all our own sault.
Wise. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will *
-why he no makee kill when you no serve him? No say
0 to him? No he good mans?
W. A. That is true; he mi«ht strike me dead, and
1 ought to exepect it; for I have been, a wicked wretch,
that is true; but God is mercisul, and does not deal
-with us as we deserve.
Wise. But then, donotyou<tell God tankee for that
tooi
W. A. No, indeed: I have not thanked God- for his
mercy, any more than I have seated God for his
powr.
Wise. Then you God no God; me no think*, believe
lie be such-one, great much power, strong; no makee
kill you, though you makee him much angry.
W. A- What L will my wicked lise hinder you from
b litving \a God b What a dreadful creature am I ! Anil
what a. sad truth, is it that the horrid lives o£ Christians;
hinders the i onversioo of Heathens!
Wise. How me tink you have great much God * up.
there, and yet n^ do well, no do goodiing I Can. he tell i
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to heaven-..
W.A*
W. A. yes, yes, he knows and sees all things: he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wise. What I he no hear you swear, curse, speak,
the great damn?
W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wise. Where be then the muchfc great power
strong?
W. A. He is mercisul: that is all we can say for it;
and this proves him to be the true God: he i»God, and
not man: and therefore we are not consumed*.
* Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with horror,
to think how he could tell his wise so clearly, that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts
of the heart, and all that we do ; and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done-
Wise. Mercisul! what do you call dat?
W. A. He is our father and maker; and he pities
and spares us.
Wise. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked; then he no good himself, or no
great able.
W, A. Yes, yes. my dear; he is infinitely good, and
infinitely great, and able to punish too: and sometimes,
to JOiew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly his anger
to destroy sinners, and make examples: many are cut off-
in their fins.
Wise. But no makee kill you yet: then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee-you kill', fo you make de. bar-
gam with him, you do bats ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry ut other mans?
- _ W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
his goodness: and he would be infinitely just, is he de-
stroyed me, as he has done other men.
Wise. Well, and yet no_ kill, no makee you dead?
What you say to him for that? You no tell him tankec
for all that too?
W.A.I an* an unthanksul, ungratesul dog, that
is true,
Wise.
134 *PY£NXBB.ES Of KOBIXSQN CRUSOft.
Wise. Why he no makee yoa much good better?
You say he makee you.
W. A. He made me as he made all the world; 'tis
I have deformed myself, and abused his good ess, and
have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wise. 1 wish you makee God know me : - I no makee
him angry: I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Wiil Atkins said bis heart sunk within him, to
hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught to
know God: and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could hot say one word to her about God, but what
the reproach of his own carriage would make most
irrational to her belief: nay. that already she could
not believe in God, because he that was so wicked
was not destroyed.
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I courd teach
you to know God, not God to know you; for he knows
you already, and every thought in your heart.
Wise. Why then he know what I say to you now;
he know me wish to know him: how shall me know
who makee me?
W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee: I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him;
and to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor sellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that, he said, he sell down on his kinees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind
with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to
pardon his fins, and accept of his being the un-
worthy instrument of instructing her in the principles
of religion ; after which he sat down by her again;
and their dialogue went on.
J?, B. This was the timewhen we saw him kneel down
and lift up his hands.
Wise.,
Wise. What you put down the knee for? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? What you speak
to? What is that?
W. A. My dear, a bow my knees in token of my sub-
mission to him that made me: I said O to him, as you
call it, and as you say, your old men do to their idol,
Benamuckee; that is, 1 pray to him.
Wise. What you say O to him for?;
W. A. J prayed to him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know him, and be accept-*
td by him.
Wise. Can he do that too?
W. A. Yes, he can; he can do. all things.
Wise. But he no hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him, and promised
to hear us.
Wise. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How hcj
bid you? What you hear him speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak j but he ha3
revealed himself many ways to us.
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand)
that God had revealed himself to us by his word:
and what his word was: but at last he told it her
thus:
W. A. God has spoken to sbme good men in former
days, even from heaven, by plain words: and God has*
inspired good men, by his spirit; and they have -written;
all his laws down in a book.
Wise. Me no understand that: -where is book?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book j
but I hope I shall, one time or other, get it for yoifc
to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection; but with,
inexpressible grief, that he had not a bible.
Wise. -But how you makee me know, that God
teachee them to write that book?
W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God-
Wise. What rule, what way you know?
W.A*
Vf. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
but what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
make us persectly good, as well as persectly happy j
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid alt
that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its con-
sequences.
Wise. That me would understand, that me sain see r
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing, he
teachee all good thin£, forbid all wicked th'iDg, be makee
all thing, be give all thing; be hear me when I say O to.
him, as you go to do just now; be makee me good, is
I wish to be good; he spare me, no makee kill me, whea
I no be good; all this you say he do; yes, he be great
God; me take, think, believe him be great God; me
say O to him too, with you, my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longeT;
- but, raising her up, made her kneel by him; and he
prayed to God aloud so instruct her in the knowledge of
himself, by his spirit; and that by some good providence,,
if possible, she might, some time or other, come to have
a bible, that she might read the word of God, and be
taught by him to know him.
This was the time that we saw him lift b«r »p by the
hand, and saw him knee! down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after thisy
too long to set down here; and particularly she mads
bim promise, that since he consessed his own lise had
been a wicked abominable course of provocation against
God, that he would reform it, and not make God
an»ry any more; lest be should make him. dead, as
fte'ealled it, and then she should be left alone, and never
be taught to know this God better, and lest he should
be miserable, as, he had told her, wicked men should
be after death.
. This was a strange account, and very affecting to u*
both, but particularly the young clergyman: he was,
indeed, wondersully surprised with it; but under th&
greatest affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to.
her: that he could not speak English to make her un-
derjjand him: and as slie stroke but very broken English
he
he could not understand her. However, he turned him-
self to me, and told me, that he believed there must be
more to do with this woman than to marry her: 1 did
not understand him at first, but at length he explained
himself; viz. That she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no, hold Sir, said he,
though I would have her baptized by all means, yet I
must observe, that Will Atkins, her husbands has, in-
deed, brought her in a wondersul manner t6 be willing
to embrace a religious lise, and has given her just ideas
of the being of a God, of his power, justice, and mercy:
yet I desire to know of him, if he has said any thing to
her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners: of
the nature of saith in him, and the redemption by him:
of the holy spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment,
and a suture state.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the
poor sellow sell immediately into tears, and told us, he
had said something to her of all those things, but that
he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own consci-
ence so reproached him with his hoi rid ungodly lise, that
he trembled at the apprehensions, that her knowledge of
him should lessen the attention she should give to those
things, and make her rather contemn religion, than re-
ceive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was
fo disposed to receive due impressions of all thole things,
that if I would but discourse with her, she would make-
it appear to my satissaction, that my labour would not be
lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as in-
terpreter between my religious priest and the woman, I
intreated him to begin with her; but sure such a sermon
was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter ages
of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had all
the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian,
without the errors of a Roman Catholic: and that I took
him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were,
before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty
over the consciences of men.
In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by bini,
not
not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the
first notions of a God, but with joy and saith, with an
afsection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce
to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her
own request she was baptized.
When he was preparing to baptise her, I entreated
him that he would persorm that office with fome caution,
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very
religion which we were instructing the other in. He told
me, that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper
things for the. office, I should see he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a
Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before j
and so he did, for saying only some words over to him-
self in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a
whole dish sull of water upon the woman's head, pro-
nouncing in French very loud, Mary; which was the
name her husband desired me to give her, for I was her
godsather; I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and
of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
know any thing by it, what religion he was of: he gave
the benediction afterwards in Latin; but either Will
Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them; and aster
the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins,
and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him not only
to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but
to support the convictions that were upon him, by a
resolution to reform his lise; told him, it was in vain
to say he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes'-J
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the -instrument of bringing his wise to the know*
ledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
diresul he did not dishonour the grace of Gc *; and that,
if he did, he would see the Heathen a better Christian,
tjian himseif; the savage converted, and - the instrument
cast away. .... >
c- He said a great many good things to them both, ana*
then tecoinmeBded - ttaeœ> in a sew 'Words, to -God's
'- goodness,
goodness, gave them the benediction again, I repeating
every thing to them in English: and thus ended the
ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant agreeable
day to me that ever I passed in my whole lise.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts
hung continually upon the conversation of the 37 savages;
and sain he would have staid upon the island to have un-
dertaken it; but I convinced him, First, that his under-
taking was inpracticable in itself; and 2dly, that per-
haps, I could put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to his satissaction, of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affair of the island 10 a nar-
row compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship,
when the young man, whom I had taken out of the
samished ship's company, came to me, and told me, he
understood I had a clergyman with me; and that I had
caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages,
whom they called wives; that he had a match too, which
he desired might be finished before I went, between
two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be dis-
agreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other christian woman
on the island; so I began to persuade him not to do any
thing of that kind rashly, or because fie found himself
in this solitary circumstance: 1 represented, that he had
some considerable substance in the world, and good friends,
as I understood by himself, and by his maid also; that
the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was
unequal to him, she being 26 or 27 years old; and
he not above 17 or 18; that he might, very probably,
with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness^
and come into his own country again; and that then it
would be a thousand to one but he would repent hi?
choice, and the dislike of that circumstance might be
disadvantageous to both. I was going to say more, but
he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great
deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses, that he
had nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present
circumstances^ being melancholy and disconsolate enoughs
and he was very glad to hear, that I had thoughts of
putting them ih 'a way to see their own country again-
ana
and that nothing should have set him upon staying there,
but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding long
and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the
Teach of all his friends, but he had nothirig to desire of
me, but that 1 would settle him in some little property
in the island where he was, give him a servant or two,
and some sew necessaries, and he would settle himsels
here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever
1 returned to England, I would redeem him, and hoped,
I would not be unmindsul of him when I came to Eng-
land, that he would give me some letters to his friends in
London,-to let them know how good I had been to him,
and what part of the world, and what circumstances I
had left him in; and he promised me, that whenever I
redeemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements
he had made upon it, let the value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because
he told me positively the match was not for himself.
I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived to come
sase to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his
business efsectually, and that he might depend I would
never forget the circumstances 1 lest him in; but still I
was impatient to know who was the person to be married:
upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all Trades
and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match ; for, indeed, I had thought it very suitable, The
character of that man 1 have given already; and as for
the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and
religious young woman; had a very good snare ofsense,
was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very hand-
somely, and to the purpose, always with decency End
good manners, and not backward to speak when any
thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak when
it was not her business; very handy and house-wisely in
any thing that was before her; <m excellent manager,
and fit indeed to have been governess to the whole island;
she knew very well how to behave herself to all kind of
folks she had about her, and to better, if she had found
any there.
The
The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them the same day, and as I was sather at the altar,
as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her a por-
tion, for I appointed her and her husband a handsome
large space of ground for their plantation; and, indeed,
this match and the proposal the young gentleman made
to me, to give him a small property in the island, put me
upon parcelling it out among them, that they might not
quarrel afterwards about their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will At-
kins, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave,
managing sellow, persectly reformed, exceeding pious and
religious, and, as sar as I may be allowed to lpeak post-'
tively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true sincere
penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every one's
satissaction, that they only desired one general writing
under my hand for the whole; which I caused to be
drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the
bounds and situation of every man's plantation, and testi-
fying, that I gave them thereby, severally, a right to
the whole possession and inheritance of the respective
plantations of sarms, with their improvements, to them
and their heirs; reserving all the rest of the island ;rs my
own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after eleven years, if 1 or any one from
me, or in my name, came to demand it, producing an
attested copy of the same writing.
As to government and laws among them, I told
them, I was not capable of giving them better rules
than they were able to give themselves; only made
them promise me to live in love and good neighbour-
hood with one another: and so i prepared, to leave
them. .
One thing I must not omit, and that is: that being
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among then «
selves, and having much business in hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of the
island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; for,
excepting the providing themselves food, which they
had difficulty enough in sometimes, they had no manner
of business or property to manage. 1 proposed there-
fore
fore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them
-with Friday's sather and propose to them to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several samilies as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute slaves, for I would
not admit them to make them slaves by force, by any
means, because they had their liberty given by capitula-
tion, and, as it were articles of surrender, which they
ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheersully along with him; so we allotted them
land and plantations, which three or four accepted qf,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several samilies we had settled; and thus my colony was
in a manner settled as follows :—the Spaniards pofTessed
my original habitation, which was the capital city, and
extended their plantation all along thelide of the brook,
which made the creek that I have so often described, as
sar as my bower, and as they increased their culture, it
went always eastward; the English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a
great addition of land to take in, if they found occa-
sion, so that they need not jostle one another for want
of room.
All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there only
for their usual Customary barbarities, they might come
and go ; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb
them; and no doubt, but they were often ashore, and
went away again; for 1 never heard that the planters
were ever attacked and disturbed any more.'
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to
my friend' the clergyman, that the work of converting
the savages might, perhaps, be set on foot in his
absence to his satissaction; and I told him, that now
I thought it was put in a sair way: for the savages
Deing thus divided among the Christians, if they would
but every one of them do their part with those which
came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect.
4 He
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their part. But how, says he, how shall we obtain that
of them? I told him, we should call them all toge-
ther, and leave it ict charge with them, or go to them
one by one, which we thought best; so we divided k;
he to spen.k to the Spaniards who were all papists, and
I to the English who were all protestants; and we re-
commended it earnestly to them, and make them pro-
mise, that they would never make any distinction of pa-
pist or protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but -teach them the general knowledge cf
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ: and
they likewise promised us, that thev would never have
any difserences or disputes, one with another, about
religis/n.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, (f may call it
so, for such a house, or such a piece of basket-work, I
believe was not standing in the world again!) I say,
when I came thither, I found the young woman I have
mentioned above and Will Atkins's wise were become
intimates, and this prudent, religious young woman,
had persected the work Will Atkins had begun; and
though it was not above four days after what I have
related, yet the new baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her, in all my observation or conversation in the
world.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before
I went to them; that among all the needsul things I
had to .leave with them, 1 had not left a bible: in which
I shewed,myself less considering for them, than my good
friend the widow was for me, when she lent me the
cargo of 1001. from Lisbon, where she packed up three
bibles and a prayer-book. However, the good woman's
charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined,
for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction
of those that made much better use of them than I had
done.
I took one of the bibles in my pocket, and when
I came to William Atkins's tent or house, I found
the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wise, had
teen discoursing of religion together; (for William At-
kins
kins told it me, with a great deal of joy) I asked, if
they were together now? And he said, yes: so I went
into the house, and he with me, and we found them
together very earnest in discourse: O, Sir, says William
Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile to himself,
and aliens to bring home, he never wants a mes-
senger: my wise has got a new instructor: I knew
I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work:
that young woman has been sent hither from heaven:
she is enough to convert a whole island of savages.
The young woman blushed, and rose up to go away,
but I desired her to sit still; I told her she had a good
work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless
her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any book among them, though I did not ask; but I put
my hand in my pocket, rnd pulled out my bible: here,
said I to Atkins, I have brought you an assistant, that,
perhaps, you had not before. The man was so con-
founded, that he was not able to speak for some time;
but recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands,
and turning to his wise, here, my dear, says he, did
not I tell you, our God, though he lives above, could
hear what he said? Here is the book t prayed for,
when you and 1 kneeled down under the bush: now
God has heard us and sent it. When he had said thus,
the man sell into such transports of a passionate joy,
that between the joy of having it, and giving God
thanks for it, the tears ran down his sace like a child
that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and wns like to have
run into a mistake, that none of us were aware of;
for she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her
husband's petition. It is true, that providentially it
was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense:
but I believed it would have been no difficult matter, at
that time, to have persuaded the poor -woman to have
believed, that an express messenger came from heaven,
on purpose to bring that individual book: but it was
too serious a matter, to suffer any delusion to take
place: So. I turned to the young woman, and told
her, we did not desire to impose upon the new con-
vert,
TWt, in her first, and more ignorant understanding of
things; and begged her to explain to her, that God
may be very properly said to answer our petitions, when,
in the course of his providence, such things are, in a
particular manner, brought to pass, as we petitioned for;
but we do not expect returns from heaven, in a mira-
culous and particular manner; and that it is our mercy
it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards effectually; so
that there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here;
and I should have thought it one of the most unjustifiable
frauds in the world, to have had it so; but the surprise
of joy upon Will Atkins, is really not to be expressed;
and there, we may be sure, was no delusion : sure no man
Was ever more thanksul in the world for any thing of
its kind, than he was for this bible; and, I believe,
never any man was glad of a bible from a better prin-
ciple; and though he had been a most profligate creature,
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, surious, and wicked,
to a great degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all
for the well-instructing children; viz. that parents
ihould never give over to teach and instruct, or ever
despair of the success of their endeavours, let the chil-
dren be ever so obstinate, refractory, or, to appearance,
insensible of instruction; for, if ever God in his provi-
dence touches the consciences of such, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early instruction
of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep; but, some time or other, they may
find the benefit of it.
Thus it was with this poor man, however ignorant
he was, or divested of religion and Christian knowledge.
He found he had some to do with now more ignorant
than himself; and that the least part of the instruction
of his good sather, that could now come to his mind,
was of use to him. .
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his
sather used to insist much upon the inexpressible value of
the bible—the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
samilies, and persons; but he never entertained the
least notion of the worth of it till now; wheri, being
VOL. II.' G . tO
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle/or his assistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the
present occasion, though she had one; and so had the
youth on board our ship, among the goods which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so
many things of this young woman, 1 cannot omit telling
one st6ry more of her and myself, which has something
in it very insorming and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young wo-
man was reduced; how her mistress was starved to death
and did die on board that unhappy ship we met at sea;
and how the whole ship's company being reduced to the
last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
maid, were first hardly used as to provisions; and, at
last, tota'ly neglected and starved, that is to say, brought
to the last extremity of hunger.
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extre-
mities they suffered, I asked her if she could describe,
by what she selt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and she
told her tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir,- said she, we had for some days sared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now,
at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, ex-
cept sugar, and a little wine, and a little water. The
first day aster I had received no food at all, I found my-
self, towards evening, first empty and fickish at my sto-
mach, and nearer nigTit, mightily inclined to yawning
and sleepy; 1 laid down on a couch, in the great cabin,
to sleep; and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay
down: after being about three hours awake, it being;
about five o'clock in the morning, 1 found myself empty
and my stomach fickish again, and laid down again;
but- could not sleep at all, being very saint and ill; and
thus I continued' all the second day, with a strange va-
riety, first hunger, then sick again, with Teachings to
vomit; the second night, being obliged to go to bed
again, without any food more than, a draught of sair
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes,
and that the market was mightily stocked with provisions;
that
that I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined
very heartily.
I thought my stomach was sull after this, as it would
have been after, or at, a good dinner; but when I awak-
ed, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myself
in the extremity of samine: the last glass of wine we had
1 drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being no
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise
disagreeable sumes from the stomach into the head; and
1 lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
for some time.
The third day in the morning, after a night of strange
and consused inconstant dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, 1 awaked, ravenous and surious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned, and
conquered it, I say, I question whether, if I had been a
mother, and had a little child with me, its lise would
have been sase or no.
This lasted about three hours, during which time
I was twice raging mad, as any creature in Bedlam, as
my young master told me, and as he can now insorm
you.
In one of these fits of lunacy, or distraction, whether
by the motion of the ship, or some flip of my foot, 1
know not; I sell down, and struck my sace against the
corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay; and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and
the cabin boy bringing me a little bason, I sat down, and
Wed into it a great deal; and as the blood ran from me,
1 came to myself; and in the violence of the flame, or
the sever I was in, abated, and so did the ravenous part
of the hunger.
Then I grew sicks and reached to vomit, but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up: after
I had bled some time, I swooried, and they all believed
I was dead; but I came to myself soon after, and then
had a most dreadsul pain in my stomach, not to be
described, not like the cholic, but a gnawing eager pain
for food; and, towards night, it went off with a kind
of earnest wishing'Or longing for food; something like,
g 2 as
as I suppose, the longing of a woman with child. I'
took another draught of water, with sugar in it, but my
stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again;
then I took a draught of water, without sugar, and that
stayed with me; and laid me down upon the bed, pray-
ing most heartily, that it would please God to take me
away; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slum-
bered awhile; and then waking, thought myself dying,
being light with vapours from an empty stomach; I re-
commended my foul to God, and earnestly wished that
somebody would throw me iuto the sea.
All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought expiring; but bore it with much more patience
than s, and gave the last bit qf bread sbe had to her
child, my young master, who would not have taken
it, but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it
saved his lise.
Towards the morning I slept age.in, and fi-st, when I
awaked, I sell into a violent passion of crying; and
after that, had a second fit of violent hunger, so that I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadsul condition; had
my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am
certain, I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as
much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh
of any creature appointed for food; and once or twice I
was going to bite my own arm. At last, I saw the
bason, in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the
tlay before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste
and such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered nobody
had taken it before., and afraid it should be taken from
me now.
Though after it was down, the thoughts of it silled
me with horror, yet it checked the sit of hunger; and I
drank a draught of sair water, and was composed and
refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth
-day, and thus I held it till towards night, when, within
the compass of three hours, 1 had all these several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another, viz. sick, sleepy,
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous
again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying, then
ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour; and
say strength wasted exceedingly. At night I laid me
down
down, having no comfort, but that in the hope that I
fliould die before morning.
All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now
turned into disease, and I had a terrible cholic and gri-
ping; wind instead of food, having found its way into
the bowels; and in this condition 1 lay till morning,
when I was surprised a little with the cries and lamenta-
tions of my young master, who called out to me, that
his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for 1
had not strength to rise, but found she was not dead,
tho' she was able to give very little signs of lise.
I had then such convulsions in my stomach for want
of fome sustenance, that I cannot describe them, with
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite, that nothing
but the tortures of death can imitate; and this condition
I was in, when I heard the seaman above cry out,
A sail! a sail! and halloo and jump about as if they were
distracted.
I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mis-
tress much less; and my master was fo sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; fo we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that oc-
casioned such a combustion; nor had we any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for two days, they having
told us, they had not a mouthsul of any thing to eat in
the ship; and they told us afterwards they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadsul condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our lives; and how you found us, Sir,
you know as well as I, and better too.
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct ac-
count of starving to death, as I consess, I never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the
youth gave me an account of a good part of it; though.
I mutt own, not fo distinct, and fo seelingly, as his
maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his mother
sed him at the price of her own lise: but the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman
too, the might struggle harder with it; 1 say, the poor
maid might be supposed to seel the extremity fomething
g 3 fooner
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bits something longer than she parted with any
to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here re-
lated, if our ship, or some other, had not so providenti-
ally met them, a sew days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their case stood, would have
served them but a little while, they being 500 leagues
from any land: or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened; but this is by
the way. I return to my disposition of things among the
people.
And first, it is to be observed here, that, for many
reasons, I did not think fit to let them know any thing
of the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of setting
up among them; for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they
would, upon very light disgust, have separated, and gone
away from one another; or perhaps, have turned pirates,
and so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plan-
tation of sober and religious people, as I intended it to
be; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that
I had on board, or the two quarter-deck gun?, that my
nephew took extraordinary, for the same reason; I thought
they had enough to qualify them for a desensive war
against any that should invade them; but I was not to
set them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them
to go abroad to attack others, which in the end, would
only bring ruin and destruction upon themselves and all
their undertakings; I reserved the sloop, therefore, and
the guns, for their service another way, as I shall observe
in its place.
I have now done'with the island: I left them all in
rjr« good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again the Sth day of May, hav-
ing been five and twenty days among them; and, as
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came
to remove them, I promised to send some surther relief
from the Brazils,' if I could possibly find an opportunity;
and particularly, I promised to send them some cattle,
such as"sheep, hogs, and cows; for as to the two cows,
and
151
and calves, which I brought from England, we had been
obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea,
for want of hay to seed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints,
in the Brazils, in about 22 days; meeting nothing re-
markable in our passage, but this; that about.three days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the N. N. E. running, as it were, into a bay
or gulph, on the land side, we were driven something
out of our course; and once or twice our men cried,
land to the westward; but whether it was the continent
or islands, we could not tell by any means.
But the third day, towards evening, ihe sea smooth,
and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very blackj&iot
being able to discover what it was ; but after some time,
our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way,
and looking at them with a perspective, cried out, it was
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an
army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the sellow a fool,
or some such word: Nay, Sir, says he, don't be angry,
for it is an army, and a fleet too; for 1 %j!ieve there are
a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along,
and they are coming towards us too, apace, and full ot
men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my'
nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories
of them in the island, and having never been in those
seas before, that he could not tell what to think- of it,
but said, *two or three times, we shall all be devoured.
I must consess, considering we were becalmed, and the
the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the
worse; however, I bade him not be afraid, tyut bring the
(hip to an'anchor, as soon as we came so near as to know
that we must .engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us; sol gave orders to come to an anchor, and
surl all our sails. As for the savages, 1 told them, they
had nothing to sear from them but fire; and therefore
they should get their boats out, and sasten them, one
close by the head, and the other by the stern, and man
a 4 them
them both well, and wait the issue in that posture J
this.I did, that the men in the boats might be ready,
with meet and buckets, to put out any sire these sa-
vages might endeavour to six upon the outside of the
ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came up with us, but never was such a horrid sight
seen by Christians: my mate was much mistaken in his
calculation of their number, I mean of a thousand canoes;
the most we could make of them when they came up,
being about 12fi; and a great many of them too; for
fome of them had 16 or 17 men in them, fome more,
and, the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which
they had, doubtless, never seen before, nor could they,
at first, as we afterwards understood, know what to make
of us. They came boldly up, however, very near to us,
and seemed to go about to row round us; but we called to
our men in the boats, not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it : for sive or six of their
large canoes came fo near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back; which
they understood very well, and went back; but at their
Tetreat about 500 arrows came on board us from those
boats; and one of our men in the long-boat was veiy
much wounded.
However, I called to them not to sire by any means;
but we handed down fome deal boards into the boat, and
the carpenter presently set up a kind of a sence, like waste
boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if
they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a.
body astern of us, and pretty near, fo near that we could
easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design. 1 easily found they were fome of my old
friends, the same fort of savages that I had been used
to engage with; and in.a little time more they rowed
fomewhat, sarther out to sea, till they came directly
broadside with us, and then rowed down strait upon us,
till they came fo near, that they could hear us speak;
upon
I
upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
sliould shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns
ready; but, being so near as to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant;
which accordingly he did: whether they understood
him of not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost,
or nighest boats to us, turned their canoes from us; and
stooping down, shewed us their naked backsides; just as
if in English, (saving your presence) they had bid us
kiss ———; whether this was a defiance or challenge,
we know not; or whether it was done in mere contempt
or a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday cried
out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily for
him, (poor sellow) they let fly about 300 of their ar-
rows, and to my inexpressible grief killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor sel-
low was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more sell very nigh him; such, unluckily, marksmen
they were.
1 was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the
campanion of all my sorrows and solitude, that I im-
mediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small lhot,
and four with great; and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before to be
sure.
They were not above half a cable's length oft" when
we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well that
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had
reason to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides
to us gave us no great offence; neither did I know for
certain whether that, which would pass for the greatest
contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in return, I had only resolved to have
fired four or five gnns with powder only, which I knew
would fright them susficiently: but when they shot at us
directly with all the sury they were capable of, and
especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I
so entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well
deserved it, I not only had been justified before God and
g 5 man
roan, but would have been very glad, if I could, to haves
overset every canoe there, and drowned every one o
them.
1 can- neither tell how many we killed, or how many
-we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such a fright
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude: there
were 13 or 14 of their canoes split, and overset, in all;
\ and the men all set a swimming; the rest, frighted
out of their wits, scoured away as sast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were split
or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that there were
many of them lost; and our men took up one poor sel-
low swimming for his lise, above an hour after they were
all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many: but, in short, we never knew any
thing how it went with them; for they fled so sast, that
in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above
three or four straggling canoes; nor did we ever see the
-jest any more: for a breeze of wind springing up the
same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so sullen
tha£ he would neither eat or speak; and we all sancied
that he would starve himself to death: but 1 took a way
to cure him: for I made them take him, and turn him
into the long boat, and make him believe they would tofe
him into the sea again, and so leave him where they found
him, if he would not speak; nor would that da, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came away from
him: and then he followed them, for he swam like a
cork, and called to them in his tongue, tho' they knew
not one word of what he said. However, at last, they
took him in again, and then he began to be more tracta-
ble J nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again; but I was the most
disconsolate creature alive, for want of my man Friday,
and would have been very glad to have gone back to the
island, to have taken one of the rest from thence-
for my occasion, but it could not be; so we went on;
/we had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a long
while before we co»ld make him understand any thing;
hut, in time* our mm taught him. some English, and
4 he
he began to be a little tractable: afterwards we enquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing of
what he said; for his speech was fo odd, all gutturals,
and spoken in the throat, in such an hollow, and odd
manner, that we could never form a word from him;
and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well, if they were gagged, as other-
wile; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate; but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with
an open throat; he told us however, fome time after,
when he had taught him to speak a little English,
that they were going, with their kings, to sight a great
battle. When he said kings, we asked him how many
kings? He said, there were sive' nation, (we could not
make him understand the plural s) and that they all
joined to go against two nation. We asked him, What
made them come up to us? He said, To makee te great
wonder look: where it is to be observed, that all those
natives, as alfo those of Africa, when they learn English,
they always add two e's at the end of the words where
we use one, and place the accent upon the last of them,
as makee, takee, and the like; and we could not break
them of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday les ve it
off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor sellow once more, I
must take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all decency and folemnity possi-
ble, by putting him into a cossin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to sire eleven guns
for him: and fo ended the lise of the most gratesul,
saithsul, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever
man had.
We now went away with a sair wind for Brasil, and
in about twelve days time, we made land in the
latitude of sive degrees south of the line, being the
north eastermost land of all that part of America. We
kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore, four days, when
we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
c 6 place
plrce of. my deliverance, from whence came both my
good and evil sate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less busi-
ness than I had; and yet it was with great dissiculty that
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence on
shore: not my partner himself, who was alive, and made
a great sigure among them; not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation in the
island, could obtain me that savour: but my partner,
re nembering that I had given sive hundred moidores to
the paor of the monastry of the Augustines, and three
.hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the mo-
nastry, and obliged the prinr that then was to go to- the
•governor, and beg leave for me presently, with the cap-
tain, and one more, besides eight seamen, to come oa
ihore, and no more; and this upon condition abfolutely
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any perfon away with-
out licence.
They were fo strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme dissiculty that 1 got on shore
three bales of English goods, such as sine broad cloths,
stuffs, and fome linen, which I had bought for a present
to mv partner.
He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though
'(like me) he came from little at sirst; and though he
knew not that I had the, least design of giving him any
thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moidores,
including fome tobacco, and three or four sine medals
in gold. But I was even with him in my present,
which, as I have said, consisted of sine broad cloth,
English stuffs, lace, and sine Hollands. Alfo I deli-
vered him about the value of 1001. sterling, in the
same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set
up the sloop which I had brought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in or-
der to send the refreshments I intended to my planta-
don.
Accordingly he got hands, and sinished the sloop in
a very sew days, for she was already framed, and I cave
the matter of her such instructions as he could not miss
tbe
the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an account fronr
my partner afterwards, i got him foon loaded with the
small cargo I had sent them; and one of out seamen,
that had been on Chore with me there, offered to go with
the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard, to allot him a sussicient quantity of land for
a plantation; and giving him fome clothes, and tools
for his planting work, which, he said, he understood,
having been an old planter in Maryland, and a buccaneer
into the bargain.
I encouraged the sellow by granting all he desired;
and, as an addition, 1 gave him the savage which we had
taken prifoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the
governor Spaniard to give him his share of every thing
he wanted with the rest.
When we came to sit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest sellow, a Brasil
planter of his acquaintance, who had sallen into the dis-
pleasure of the church; I know not what the matter
is with him, says he; but, on my conscience, I think
he is an heretic in his heart; and he has been obliged
to conceal himself for sear of the inquilition; that
he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to the island, and allot them
a plantation,' he would give them a small stock to begin
with; for the oificers of the inquisition had seized all
his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a
little houshold stuff, and two slaves; and, adds he,
though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
sall into their hands, for he will assuredly be burnt alive
if he does.
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wise
and daughters, on board one ship, till the sloop put out
to go to sea; and then (having put all their goods
on board the sloop fome time before) we put them
on board the sloop, after she was got out of the
bay.
Our' seaman was mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was much alike rich
in tools, in. preparations, fora sarm; but nothing to
begin;
158 ativehtor.es of robinson Crusoe.
begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials
for planting lugar canes, with some plants of canes;
•which he, I mean the Poitugal man, understood very
well.
Among-the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this sloop, three milch-
cows, and sive calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone-
horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go; and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but 1 remembered, that the poor
persecuted man had two daughters, and there were but
five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived sase, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were
now, (with this addition) betwixt sixty and seventy
. peopse, besides little children, of which there were a
great many: I found letters at London from them, all
by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brasils by this sloop, of which I shall
take some notice in its place, j
I have now done with m^ island, and all manner of
discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not
cooled by almost forty years misery and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation; not
made cautious by affliction and distress beyond imita-
tion.
1 had no more business to go to the East Indies, than
a man at sull liberty, and having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve
him. Had 1 taken a small vessel from England, and
went directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the planta-
i tion,
tlon, and for my people, took a patent from the govern-
ment here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, 1 might have
obtained; had I carried over cannon and ammunition,
servants, and people to plant, and, taking possession of
the place, fortisied and strengthened it in the name of
England, and increased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had 1 then settled myself there, and sent the
ship back, loaded with good rice, as I might alfo have
done in six months time, and ordered my friends to
have sitted her out again for our supply; had I done
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense; but I was possessed with a wan-
dering spirit, scorned all advantages, pleased myself with
being the patron of those people 1 had placed there,
and doing for them in a kind of haughty majestic way,
like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for them as
if I had been the sather of the whole samily, as well as
of the plantation: but I never fo much as pretended to
plant in the name of any government or nation, or to ac-
knowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects, to
any one nation more than another; nay, 1 never fo much
as gave the place a name; but left it as 1 found it, be-
longing to no man, and the people under no discipline or
government but my own; who, though I had an inslu-
ence over them as sather and benesactor, had no authority
or power to act or command one way or other, sarther
than voluntary consent moved them to comply: yet even
this, had I staid there, would have done well enough;
but as I rambled from them, and came thither no more,
the last letters I had from any of them, were by my part-
ner's means, who afterwards lent another floop to the
place; and who sent me word, though 1 had not the
letter till sive years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay
there; that Will Atkins was dead; that sive of the Spa-
niards were come away; and that though they had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had fome
skirmishes with them y that they begged of him to write
to me, to think of the promise I had made to setch them
away, that they might fee their own country again be-
fore they died.
But
S
But I was gone a wild-goose chace indeed; and they
-who will have any more of me, must be content to
follow me through a new variety of follies, hard-
ships, and wild adventures; wherein the justice of
Providence may be duly observed, and we may see
how easily heaven can gorge us with our own desires-,
make the strongest of our withes to be our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things which
we think it would be our utmost happiness to be al-
lowed in.
Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was able to chuse any parti-
cular station of lise for himself. Man is a short-fighted
creature, sees but a very little way before him; and as
his passions are none of his best friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst counsellors.
I say this, with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth, to wander into the world; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this principle was preserved in me
for my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the
circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give
you historically, and with its utmost variety of particu-
lars. But the iecret ends of Divine Providence, in thus
permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own
desires, are only to be understood of those who can listen
to the voice of Providence, and draw religious conse-
quences from God's justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, had I business, or no business, away I went:
it is no time now to enlarge any surther upon the rea-
son or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to
the history, I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went.
1 shall only add here, that my honest and truly pious
clergyman left me here: a fliip being ready to go to
Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; being still, as
he observed, bound never to finish any voyage he be-
gan: how happy had it been for me, if I had gone with
him!
Bui it was too late now: all things heaven appoints
are best: had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thanksul for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the travels and adventures of Robinson
Crusoe:
Crufoe; fo I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Braflls we made directly away over the At-
lantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable
good voyage, our course generally fouth-east: now and
then a storm, and fome contrary winds. But my dis-
asters at sea were at the end, my suture rubs and cross
events were to besal me on more; that it might appear
the land was as well prepared to be our scourge as the
sea, when heaven, who directs the circumstances of
things, pleases to appoint it t6 be fo.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after
she arrived at the Cape: only being limited to certain
.number of days, for stay, by charter-party, at the several
ports she was to go to; this was none of my business,
neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew the cap-
tain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things be-
tween them as they thought sit.
We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was needsul
to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way to
the coast of Coromandel; we were indeed informed,
that a French man of war of sifty guns, and two large
merchant ships, were gone for the Indies: and, as I
knew we were at war with France, I had fome appre-
hensions of them; but they went their own way, and we
heard no more of them.
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyage*, variations
of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade-
winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as almost all
the histories of long navigation are sull of, and which
make the reading tirefome enough; and are.persectly
unprositable to all that read, except only to thole who
are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our passing
from one to another. We touched sirst at the island of
Madagascar, where, tho'the people are sierce and treache-
rous, and in particular, very well armed with lances and
hows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we
162
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we sared very well with them awhile; they treated os
very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave them,
such as knives, fcissars, &c. they brought us 11 good
sat bullocks, middling in size, but very good in, flesh;
•which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our pre-
sent spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here for some time, after we
had surnished ourselves with provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every nook os the
world wherever I came, was for going on shore as often
as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we
went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about us,
and stood gazing at us, at a distance: as we had traded
freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no dariger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a
mark in the country, not only of truce and friendship,
but, when it is accepted, the other fide set up- three
poles or boughs also, which is a signal that they accept
the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the
truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they come past your three poles
or boughs towards you; so that you are persectly secure
within the three poles; and all the space between your
poles and theirs, is allowed like a market, for free con-
verse, trasfic, and commerce. When you go thither,
you must not carry your weapons with you; and if they
come into that space, they stick up their javelins and
lances, all at the first poles, and come on unarmed; but
if any violence is offered to them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their
weapons, and then truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore,
that a greater number of their people came down than
usual, but were all very friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had;
their women also brought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and
and we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of
trees, and lay on the shore all that night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so
*well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat ly-
ing at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on more; and getting some boughs of trees
to cover us also in the boat, 1 ipread the sail on the bot-
tom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of
the branches of the trees, all night.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our
men make a terrible noile on the more, calling out, for
God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murdered; at the same
time 1 heard the firing of five musquets, which was the
number of the guns they had, and that three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frighted
with guns as the savages were in America, where I had
to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter; but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noil'e, I
caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three sulils we had on board, to land, and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the shore; but our men were
in too much haste, for, being come to the soore,
they plunged into- the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between
three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in
all, and only five of them had susils with them: the rest,
indeed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small
use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with disficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on more, for they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick, that we were sain to barri-
cade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two
or three loose boards, which, to our great satissaction,
we had, by mere accident, or providence rather, in the
boat*
And
And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems>
such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen but
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us: we had, by the light of the moon, a little fight
of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore with
darts and arrows; and, having got ready our fire-arms,.
we gave them a volley; and we could hear by the cries
of some of them, that we had wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore till
break of day, which we suppose was, that they might
see the better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to
•weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, because,we must
needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot:
we made signals of distress to the ship, which, though
she rode a league off, }ret my nephew the captain,
hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture
we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty
well understood us; and weighing anchor with all
speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with the
fiiip, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in
her, to assist us, but we called to them not to come
too near, telling them what condition we were in ; how-
ever, they stood in nearer to us; and one of the men,
taking the end of a tow line in his hand, and keeping
our boat between him and the enemy, so that they
could not persectly see him, swam on board us, and
made the line sast to the boat; upon which we slipt our
little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed
us out of the reach of the arrows, we all the while
lying close behind the barricado we had made.
As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside
among themx loaded with pieces of iron and leaii, small
bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which
made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray:
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in
those
fhose parts, put me upon it; for he said, he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us, after we
had made a truce, if we had not done fomething to pro-
voke them to it; at length it came out, viz. that an
old woman, who had come to sell us fome milk, had
brought it within our poles, with a young woman with
her, who alfo brought him fome roots or herbs; and while
the old woman {whether she was mother to'the young
woman or no, they could not tell) was selling us the
milk, one of our men osfered fome rudeness to the
wench that was with her: at which the old woman
made a great noise. However, the seaman would not
quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight among the trees, it being almost dark: the old
woman went away without her, and, as we suppose,
made an outcry among the people she came from, who,
upon notice, raised this great army upon us in three or
four hours: and it was great odds but we had been a,U
destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was
thrown at him, just at the beginning of the attack, as
he sallied out of the tent we had made: the rest came
osf free, all but the sellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mis-
tress, for we coukl not hear what became of him a
great while: we lay upon the shore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him;
made our boat sail up shore, and down shore, several
leagues, but in vain: fo we were obliged to give him
over: and if he alone had susfered for it, the loss had
been the less.
1 could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing
on shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them: it was the third night after the action,
that I bad a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, aiS.how the game
stood on the Indian side: I was caresui'to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again: but I ought,
indeed, to have been sure, that the men I went with had
been under my command, before I engaged in a thing fo
hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought into it
without any knowledge or desire.
We
We took twenty stout sellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and rfiyself; and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the same place where the
Indians stood drawn up the evening before: I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to
see if they had quitted the field, and if they had left any
marks behind them* or of the mischief we had done
them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or two of
them, perhaps we might get our man again, by way of
exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain commanded
one, and I the other. We neither could hear' nor
see any body stir when we landed; so we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to- the
field of battle. At first we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by and by, our boatswain, that led the
• first party, stumbled and sell over a dead body. This
made them halt there awhile, for knowing by the cir-
cumstances that they were at the place where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
we knew would be in less than an hour; and then
we would e_asily discern the havoc we had made among
them. We told two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had
an arm, and some a leg shot oss; and one had Tits head:
those that were wounded, we supposed they had carried
away.
When we had made, as I thought, a sull discovery
of all we could come at the knowledge os, I was for
going on board again, but the boatswain and his party
often sent me word, that they were resolved to make a
visit to the Indian town, where-these dogs, as they called
them, dwelt; arjd desired me to go along with them:
and if they coiS 5 find them, as they still sancied they
should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a good
booty; and it might be, they might find Thomas Jeffrys
there: that was the man's name we had loft.
Had they sent to afle my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing it
i was
was not a hazard sit for us to run, who had a ship,
and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were resolved
to go, and only asked me and my company to go along
with them, 1 positively refused it, and rose up (for
I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to the
boat; one or two of the men began to importune me
to go, and when I still resused positively, began to
grumble, and say they were not under my command,
and they would go. Come, Jack, feys one of the men, i
will you go with me? J will go for one. Jack laid
he would; and another followed, and then another, and,
in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difficulty too, I persuaded to stay; so the supercargo
and I, with one man, went back to the boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them would run the sate of Thomas
Jeffrys.
They told me, like seamen, they'd warrant it they
would come off again; and they would take care, &c.
So away they went. I entreated them to consider the
ship, and the voyage; that their Jives were not their
own; and that they were entrusted with the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship
might be lost for want of their help; and that they'
could not answer it to God and man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well
have talked to the main-mast of the ship: they were
mad upon their journey; only they gave me good
words, and begged I would not be angry; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but they
would be back again in about an hour at sarthest; for
the Indian town, they said, was not above half a mile off,
though they found it above two miles before they got
to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
attempt was desperate, and such as none but madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their clue,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
v gallantly
gallantly armed, that is true: for they had every man %
susil or musket, a bayonet, and every man a pistol: some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers; and
the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes: besides all
which they had among them .13 hand grenadoes. Bolder
sellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world.
When they went out,-their chief design was plunder,
and they were in mighty hopes of sinding gold there:
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware os,
set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of them
all: When they came to the sew Indian houses, which
they thought had been the town, which were not above
half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment,
'for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and
where the town was, or how big, they knew not: they
consulted, therefore, what to do, and were sometime
before they could resolve: for if they sell upon these,
they must cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but
some of them might escape, it being in the night, though
the moon was up; and if one escaped, he would run
away, andraise all the town, so they should have a whole
army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they
went away, and left those untouched (for the people
were all asleep) they could not tell which way to look for
the town.
However, the last was the best advice: so they re-
solved to leave those houses, and look for the town as
well as they could: they went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree .. this they presently con-
cluded would be a good guide to them; for they said
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them,
or the town behind them; and if they untied her, they
should see which way she went: if she went back, they
had nothing to say to her: but, if she went forward,
they had nothing to do but to follow .her: so they cut
the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and
the cow went on before them: in a word, the cow
led them directly to the town, which, as they re-
ported, consisted of above 200 houses, or huts: and in
some of these, they found several samilies living to-
gether.
', Here
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, as sleep
and a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind>'
could make then!: upon this they called another council,
to consider what they had to do; and in a word they re-
folved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three hoases on sire in three parts of the town: and a*
the men came out, to seize them and bind them if
any resisted, they need not to be asked what to do then;
and fo to search the reft of the houses for plunder; but
refolved to march silently sirst through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they might
venture upon it, or no.
They did fo, and desperately refolved that they would
venture upon them'; but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, that were a little
before the rest, called out aloud, aad told them they had
found Thos. Jeffrys, they all ran up to the place, and fo
it was indeed, for there they found the poor sellow hanged
up naked by one arm, and his throat cut: there was aft
Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen
or seventeen of tne principal Indians, who hadteen con-
cerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of
them wounded with our shot; and our men found they
were awake, and talking one to another ia that house,
but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade fo enraged
them as before, that they swore to one another, they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter; and to work they
went immediately; and yet not fo madly as by the rage
and sury they were in might be expected. Their sirst
care was to get fomething that would foon take sire j
but after a little search, they found that would be to no
purpose, for most of the houses were low, and thatched
with flags or rustles, of which the .country is sull; so
they presently made fome wild sire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little powder in the palms of their hands; and in
a quarter of an hour, they set the town on sire in four
or sive places; and particularly that house where the
Indians were not gone to bed. As foon as the sire began
to blaze, -the poor frighted creatures began to ruth out
to save their lives; but met with their sate in the at-
1 vol. ii. h tempt,
y
tempt, and especially at the door, where they drove them
back, the boatswain himself killing one ot two with his
pole-ax; the house being large, and many in it, he did
pot care to go in, bat called for an hand-grenade, and
threw it among them, which, at first, frighted them;
but when it burst, made such havock among them, that
they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
-part of the house, were killed or hurt with the <jrenado,
except . two or three more, who pressed to the door,
(which the boatswain and two more kept with the bayo-
nets in the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all
who came that way. But there was another apartment
in the house, where the prince or king, or whatsoever
}ie was, and'scveral others, were; and they kept in, till
the house, which was by this time all of a light flame,
sell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt
together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people saster than they could master
them; but the fire began to waken them sast enough,
and our sellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses be-
ing made of light combustible stuff, that they could
hardly bear the street between them; and their business
-was to follow the fire for the surer execution: as sast as
the fire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our peo-
ple were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
Mill calling and hallooing to one, another to remember
Thomas Jeffrys.
W hi!e this was doing, I must consess I was very un-
easy, and especially, when [ saw the flames of the town,
which, it being night, seemed to be just by me.
Aly nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men
too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was, or what danger I was in; espe-
cially hearing the guns too :. for by this time they began
•to use their fire-arms^ A tfrfcusand thoughts oppressed his
mind concerning me and the supercargo, what should
become os us; and at last though he could ill spare any
more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might
be
ativentur.es OP ROBINSOS CRUSOE. 17*
fce in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen men and
himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat, with no more than two men, for one had been,
left to keep the boat; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise continued, and the
flame increased: [ consess it was next to an impossibility
for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing what had happened, or their concern for the
sasety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he
would go and help his men, let what would come. I
argued with him, as I did before with the men, the sase-
ty of the ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest
of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him 1 would
•go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at a
distance learn what was like to be the event, and come
back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk
to the reft*before; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had left but ten men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help: he
had rather he said loie the ship, the voyage, and his
lise, and all; and so away went he.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now than I
was to persuade them not to go before; so, in short, the
captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and
setch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-
boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after
us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of 6'5 men, whereof two
wereioit in the sirst quarrel which brought this mischief
on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we selt
little of the ground we trod on; and being guided by
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were
surprising to us before, the" cries'os the poor people
were now quite of another nature, and silled us with
horror. I must consess 1 never was at the sacking of
a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I have
. a 2 heard
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, jn Ireland,
and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of
Count Tiliy sacking of the city of Magdeburg, and cut-
ting the throats of 22,000 of both sexes; but I never had
an idea, of the thing itself before; nor is it possible to
describe it, or the, horror which was upon our minds
at hearing it.
However we went on, and at length, came to the
town, though there was no-entering the streets of it
for the fire. The firll object we met with, was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the
house was consumed; and just before it, plain now to
be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and three
women killed; and as we thought, one or two more
lay in tlw: heap among the fire. In short, these were
such instances of rage altogether barbarous, and of a
sury something beyond what was human, that we thought
it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or if
they were the authors of it, we thought that every one
of them ought to be put to the worst of deaths: but
this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on, so that we were
'in the utmost consusion. We advanced a little way sar-
ther; and beheld, to our astonishment, three women na-
ied, crying in a most dreadsul manner, and flying as if
they had, indeed, had wings, and after them, sixteen or
seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and consterna-
tion, with three of our English butchers {tor 1 call
them no better) in the rear; who, when they could not
overtake, them, fired in among them, and one that was
killed by t,heir shot sell down in our sight; when the
rest law us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we
would murder them, as well as those that pursued them,
they set up a most dreadsul shriek, especially the women,
and two of them sell down as if already dead with the
fright.
My very foul shrunk within me, and my blood ran
chill in my veins when I saw this; and I believe, had
the three English sailors that pursued them come on, I
had made our men kill them all. However, we took
Ibme ways to let the poor flying cieatures know that
we
i
we would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted upr
made piteous lamentations to us- to save them, which we
let them know we would do v whereupon they kept all
together in a huddle, close behind us, for protection. I
left my men drawn up together, and charged them to-
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of out peo-
ple, and see what devil it was poffissed them, and what
they intended to do; and, in a word, to command them
off; . assuring them, that if they stayed till daylight,.
they would have a hundred thousand men about 'their
ears: I say I left them, and went among those flying
people, taking only two of our men with me ; and there
Was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among them; some of
them had their seet terribly burnt with trampling and
running through the fire; others their hands burnt, one
of the women had sallen down in the fire, and was almost
burnt to death before she could get out again; two or
three of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from,
our men pursuing, and another was shot through the
body, and died while I was there.
I would sain have learned what the occasion of all
this was, but I could not understand one word they said:
though by signs 1 perceived that some of them knevv
not what was the occasion-themselves. I was so terri-
fied in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
could not stay there, but went back to my own men -
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to -
follow me, when ip the very moment came four of our
men, with the boatswain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre;
when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could
halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them
hear; so (hat they knew who we were, and came up to
us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo
like a shout of triumph, for having, as he thought,
more help come; and without bearing to hear me, cap-
tain, says he, noble captain, 1 am glad you are come;
we have not half done }fet; villains! hell-hound dogs!
I will
H 3
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upoit
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we
will root out the verv name of them from the earth ; and
thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would,
not give us- leave to speak a word.
At last, raisin^ my voice that I might silence him.
a little, Barbarous dog! said I, what are you doing r
1 won't ha</e one creature touched more, upon pain of
death. I charge you, upon your lise, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute.
Why Sir, says he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what
we have done, come hither; and with that he shewed
me the poor sellow hanging upon a tree with his throat
cut.
I consess 1 was urged then myself, and at another
time should have been forward enough: but I thought
they had carried their rage too sar, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, ' Cursed be
their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was
cruel.' But I had now a new talk upon my hands; for
when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as 1 had
done, 1 had as much to do to restrain them, as I should
have had with the others; nay, my nephew himself
sell in with them, and told me, in their hearing, that
he was only concerned for sear of the men being over-
powered; for, as to the people, he thought not one of
them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves
with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought,
to be used like murderers; upon these words, away
ran eight of my men with the boatswain and his crew,
to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it quite
out of my power to restrain them, came aw.ay pensive
and sad, for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that sell
in o their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me byt'the super-
cargo and two men, and with these L-walked back to
the boats. It was a very great pkte of folly in me, I
consess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, asit
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run
over
over the country, there stood about forty men armed
with lances and bows at the little place where the twelve,, ,
or thirteen houses stood mentioned before; but by acci-
dent I misled the place, and came directly to the sea-
fide; and by that time I got to the sea-side it was bro:ul
day; immediately I took the pinace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might
Jiappen.
I observed that about the time I came to the boat-
side, the sire was pretty well out, and the noii'e abated;
but in about half an hour after I got on board; I heard
a volley of our men's sire-arms, and saw a great smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men tailing
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at the sew
houses on the way; of whom they killed 16 or 17, and
set all those houses on sire, but did not meddle with the
women or children.
By that time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnace, our men began to appear; they came drop- \.
ping in, fome and fome; not in two bodies, and in form,
as they went out, but all in heaps, straggling here and
there in such a manner, that a small force of relblute men
might have cut them all osf.
But the dread of them was upon the whole country;:
the people were amazed, and surprised, and fo frighted,
that I believe, an hundred os them would have fled at
the sight of but sive of our men. Nor in all this terrible
action was there a man who made any considerable de-
sence; they were fo surprised between the terror of the
sire, and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that,
they knew not which way to turn themselves ; for if they
fled one way, they were met by one party; if back again,.
by another; fo that the) were every where knocked down.
Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt, except
one who strained his foot, and another had one of his.
hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,,
indeed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him in,
particular; as well for his acting fo out.of his duty, as,
commander of the ship, and having she charge of the!
'voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cool-..
ing, the rage of his men, in fo bloody and cruel an en-
iji 4 . terpril'e;
terprise; my nephew answered me very respectsully j
but told me that when he saw the body of the poor sea-
man, whom they had murdered in such- a cruel and bar-
barous manner, be was not master os himself, neither
could he govern his passion; he owned, he should not
have done fo, as he was commander of the ship: but, as
he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear
it.. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject:
to me at all: and they knew it well enough: fo they
took no.notice of my dislike. .,
The next day we set siiil: fo we never heard any
more of it. Our men differed in the account of the
number they killed: fome said one thing, fome another j
but, according to the best of their accounts put all to-
gether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 people,
women, and children, and left not a house Handing in
the town,' ,
As for the poor fellow Thomas Jeffrys, as he was
quite dead, for his throat was fo cut that his head was.
half off, it would do him no service to bring him away:
fo they left him where they found him, only took him
down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
However just as our men thought this action to be, I
was against them in it: and I always, after that time,,
told them God would blast the vqyage: for I looked up-
on the blood they siled that night to be murder in them:
for though it is true that they killed Thomas Jeffrys, yet;
It was as true that Jeffiys was the aggressor, had broken
the truce, and had violated pr debauched a young woman
of theirs, who came to our camp innocently, and on the
faith of their capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said, it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that
the war was begun the night before by the natives them-
selves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men
without any just provocation: fo that, as we were in a
capacity to fight them, we might alfo be in a capacity,
to do ourselves justice upon them in an extsadrdinary
manner: that though the poor man had taken liberty
with a wench, he ought not to have been murdered, and
that in such a villanpus manner :. and that they, did no*.
thing'-
thing but what was just, and that the laws of God al-
lowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to
have warned us against going on shore among heathens:
and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind
wise, -but at their own experience; and their experience
seems to be always of most use to them, when it is dear-
est bought.
We were now bound to the gulph of Persia, and from-
thence to the coast of Cororhandel, only to touch at
Surat; but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the
bay of Bengal, where, if be missed of the business out-
ward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home. :. ,
The first disaster that besel us was in the Gulph of
Persia, where five of our men-, venturing on shore on the
Arabian side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the
Arabs, and either all killed or carried away into slavery;
the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them,
and had but just time to get off their boat; I began to
upbraid them with the just retribution of heaven in this
cafe; but the boatswain very warmly told roe,, he
thought i went sarther in my censures than I could shew
any warrant for in scripture, and reser-red to the thir-
teenth of St. Luke, ver.. 4. where our Saviour intimates,,
that those men, on whom the Tower of Siloam sell,,
were not sinners above all the Galileans; but that which,
indeed, put me to silence in this case, was, that none of
these five men,. who were now lost, were of the number
of those who went On shore to the massacre of Mada-
gascar (so I always called it, thouglrour men could not
bear the word massacre with any patience); and, indeed,
this last circumstance, as 1 have said, put me to silence
for the present, v
But nay frequent preaching to them on this subject'
had worse consequences than I expected; and the boat-
swain, who had been the head of the attempt, came up
boldly to me one time, and told me, he found that
I continually brought that affair upon the stage; that
, I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
men very ill on that account, and himself in p r,icu-
lar: that as I was but a passenger, and had no com-
H & mand
mand in the ship, or conceni in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I
might have some ill design in my head, and, perhaps,
call them to an account tor it, when they came to Eng-
land; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to concern myself farther
-with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the
ship; for he did not think it was sase to sail with me
among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told him, that I did consess I had all along op-
posed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely about it, though not more upon him
than any of the rest; that as to my having no command
in the ship, that was true, nor did I- exercise any aiir
thority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly_ concerned us all; as to- -what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his
business; I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
in that claim 1 conceived I had a right to speak, even
sarther than I had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or any one else; and began to be a little
warm with him: he made, but little reply to me at
that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and, being
-willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myielf; and
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when,
one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for
they had- orders not to carry me on board. Any one
may guess, what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes-
sage; and 1 asked the man, who bade him deliver that
errant to me 2. He told me the cockswain. J said no
more to the sellow, but,bade him let them know he had
delivered his message, and that1 had given him no an-
swer to it.
I immediately went, and found out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
saw, viz. that there would certainly be a mutiny in the
snip; and.iatreated him to go immediately on board the
Jhip.
ftip in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on-
board : the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and
in a -word, all the inserior officers, as soon as 1 was
gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and
deiired to peak with the captain; and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue (for the sellow talked
very well), and repeating all he had said to me,, told
the captain in a sew words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any vio-
lence with me; which, if I had not gone on shore,,
they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought- fit to tell him, that as
they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under- his-
command, they would persorm it saithsully: but if 1-
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit
it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no sarther with.
him: and at that word A L~, he turned his sace about
towards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them; at whjch all the seamen, being
got together,, they cried-out. One an.1 ALL! One and
ALL!
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised^,
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he -would consider of thematter;, but that he could do
nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it; he used
some arguments with them, to shew. them the unreason-
ableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in..
vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his
sace, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
enfage to them not to .suffer me to come on board the
ship.
This was an hard article upon him, who-knew his
obligation to me, and did not know how. 1 might take
it; so he began to talk, cavalierly to them v told them,
that I was a contiderable owner of the ship* and.
that in justice he could not put me out of my own.
house; that this was next door to serving me as the
samous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
the ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhabited:
h 6' iiiand
island, and ran away with the strip: that let th^m go*
into what ship they, would, if ever they came to Eng-
land again, it would cost them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not put me out of it: and that
he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleas-
ed. However,, he would go on shore, and talk with
xae there ;, and invited the boatswain to go with him,
.and perhaps they might accommodate the: matter, with,
me.
But they all rejected the proposal; and said, they
would have nothing to do with me no more* neither
on board, nor on more; and if I came on board, they
-would go on shore. Well said the captain, if you are
all of this mind let me go on shore, and talk with him;
so away, he came to me with this account, a little after
the message had been brought to me from. the. cock-
swain.
1 wasvery glad to see my nephew, I-- must consess;
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
confine him by violence, set sail, and run away with the
ship; and then I had been ftript naked in a remote
country x and nothing to help myself: in short, I had
been in.a, worse case than when. I was all. alone in the
island.
But they, had not come to that length, it seems, to my
great satissaction; and when my nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and
shook hands, that they would one and all leave the ship,,
if, I. was suffered to come on board, I told-him, he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore:
I only desired he would take care and send me ail my
necessary things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sura
of money,, and I would find mv way to England as well
as 1 could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
there was no way to help it, but to comply with it.
So in short, he went on board the ship again, and satis-
fied the men, that his uncle had yielded to their im-
portunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ship. So the matter wasu over in a very sew
4t hours;:
Bours; the men returned to their duty, and I begun toi
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of *the worlds
as I tbink I may call it, for I was oear three thousand,
leagues, by sea, sarther off' from England, than I was
at my island;: only, it is true. I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo and Scan-
deroon; from thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France: and this, put together, might be, at
Jeaft, a sull diameter of the globe; but, if it were to be
measured* 1 suppose it would appear to be a great deal
more.
I had'another way before me, which was to wait for
some English ships, which were coming to Bengals fronv
Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on.
board them for England: but as I camexhither without
any concern with the English East India Company, so it
would be difficult to go from hence without their licence,
unless with great savour of the captains of,the ships, or
of the company's sactors; and tx> both L was an utter
stranger. -.
Here I had the particular pleasurei speaking by con-
trarieties^ to see the ship set sail without me; a treat-
ment, 1 think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except .from pirates, running away with a
ship, and setting those that would not agree with their
villany ob shore; indeed this was the next door to it*,
both ways r however, my nephew left me two ser-
vants, or rather, one companion and one servant ;.
the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to;
go with me, and the other was his own servant. 1
took me also a good lodging in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lodged,, some
French,, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here 1 was handsomely enough entertained; and.
that I might not belaid to run rashly upon any thing, I
ftaid here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself; I had some English,
goods with me, of value, and a. considerable sum of
money,
money, my nephew surnHhing me with a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I. had-
occasion, that I might not be straitened, whatever might
happen.
I quickly disposed of mv goods, and to advantage:
too; and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things, was the
moil proper for me, in my circumstances, because E
mi°bt always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to Kngknd; but none salling to my mind, the
English merchant, who lodged with me, and with whom
I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me
one morning: Countryman, says he, I have a project to-
communicate to you, which, as it suits with my
thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with your's also,
when°you shall haVe thoroughly considered it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I by
my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from
our own country; but it is in a country where, by us
who understand trade and business, a great deal of money-
is to be got: if you will put a thousand pounds to my
thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first we
can get to our minds; you shall be captain, f will be-
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China; for
what should we stand still for? The whole world is in*
motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures of
God, heavenly, bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent,
why should we be idle? There are no drones, says he,
living in the world but men: why should we be of that
number? ,
I liked this proposal very well, and the more, because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, andi
info friendly a manner; I will not say that I might*
by my loose and unhinged'circumstances, bethe fitter to^
embrace a proposal for trade, and, indeed, for any thing-
else, or otherwise trade was none of my element: how-
ever, I might, perhaps, say,, with some truth, that if
trade was not my element, rambling was; and no pro-
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never,
seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.-
It was, however, sometime before we could get a
ship to our mind; and when we got a vessel, it was
not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the
sailors which we should pick there ;- after some time we
got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men;
with these, we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it
would be but very little diversion to any body to give
a long account of the places we we»t to, and the people
who inhabit there; thoie things I leave to others, ,and
leave the reader to those journals and travels of English-
men, many of which, 1 find, are published, and more
promised every day: it is enough for me to tell you.,
that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, first; and from thence to Siam, where we ex^
changed some of our wares for opium, and for some
arrack; the first, a commodity which bears agreat price
among the Chinese^ and which, at that time, was very
much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and
returned to Bengal;. and I was very well satisfied with
my adventure I observe that our people in England
often admire how the officers, which the company send
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there
get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes
come home worth sixty, seventy,, and an hundred thou~
sand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much
sarther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
then be no wonder; and much less will it be so, when
we consider, that all those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant
demand for the growth of all other countries, that there is
a certain vent for the return, as well as a market abroad
for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so
, uch money by the first adventure, and such an insight
into.
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years younger, 1 mould have been tempted to have staid
here, and sought no sarther for making my fortune: but
what was all this to a man on the wrong side of three-
score, that was rich enough, and came abroad more in
obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world,.than a
covetous desire of getting in it? And; indeed,! think,
it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire;
for it was so: when I was at home, I was restless to go
abroad, and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at
home. I say, what was this gain to me? I was rich
enough already, nor had I any uneasy desires about
getting more money; and therefore the profits of the
voyage to me were things of no great force, to me for
the prompting me forward to sarther undertakings:
hence I* thought, that by this voyage I had made no
progress at all; because I was come back, as I', might
call it, to the place from whence I came, as to an home;
whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satisfied with seeing, was still more desirous
©f wandering and seeing. I was come into a part of the
world which I never was in before, and that part in par-
ticular which I had heard much of; and was resolved to-
see as much of it as I could; and then I thought 1 might
say, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow traveller and I had different notions;
1 do not name this to insist upon my own, for I acknow-
ledge his was most just, and the most suited to the end of
a merchant's lise, who, when he is abroad upon adven-
tures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is Jike to get the most money by :.
My new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,,
and would have been content to have gone like a carrier's
horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward,
provided he could, as he caHed it, find his account in
it: on the other hand, mine, old as I was, was the no-
tion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a
thing twice over.
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience
oni me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled
resolution imaginable, which way to go: in the inter-
val of these consultations, my friend, who. was always-
, upon
upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
to me, viz. among the spice-islands, and to bring home
a load of cloves frorn the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the
islands belong partly to Spaniards; though we went not
fo sar,but to fome other, where they have not the whole
power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last,,
nothing else offering, and sinding that really stirring
about and trading, the prosit being fo great, and, as I
may say, certain, had more pleasure in it, and more sa-
tissaction to the mind, than sitting still; which, to me
elpecially, was the unhappiest part of my lise, I refolved
on this voyage too, which we made very successsully,
touching at Bornea, and several islands, whose names I
do not remember, and came' home in about sive months.
We fold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and fome
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried then*
away for the Gulph; and making, near sive of one, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at
me: Well now, laid he, with a fort of an agreeable in-t
suit upon my indolent temper, is not this better than
walking about heTe, like a man of nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and igno-
rance of the Pagans? Why truly, said I, my friend, I
think it is, and 1 begin to be a convert to the principles
of merchandizing; but 1 must tell you, said I, by the
way, you da not know what I am doing; for if once I
conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old
as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the world till
I tire you; for I (hall pursue it fo eagerly, 1 shull never
let you lie still.
But to be short with my speculations; a little while
after this there came in a Dutch thip from Batavia; sh,e
was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about
two hundred tons burthen: the men, as they pretended,,
having been fo sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as
if having got money enough, or being willing, for other
Mafons, to go sot Europe, he gave public notice, that,
he
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my
new partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to buy
it: sol went home to him, and told him of it ;. he con-
siders awhile, for he was no rash man neither: but, mu-
sing some time, he replied, She is a little too big; but,
however, we will have her. Accordingly we bought
the shio; and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and t ok posseffion. When we had done so, we resolved
to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with
•those we had, for the pursuing our business: but an a
sudden, they having not received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we asterwards learnt, not one of
them was to be found. We enquired much about them,
and at length were told, that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city ot* the Mogul's residence;
and from thence were to travel to Sui at, and so by sea to
the Gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled mea good while, as
that I missed the opportunity of going with them; for
such a ramble, I thought, and in such company as would
both have guarded me,' and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design; and 1 should both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too i but I
was much better satisfied a sew days after, when I came
to know what fort of sellows they were; for, in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked
on the shore by 'some of the Malaccans, who had,
killed the captain and three of his men; and that after
the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did;
and had brought her in at the bay of -Bengal, leaving.
the mate and five men. more on shore, of whom we shall
bear sarther.
Well, .let them come by the ship how, they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we did
not, I consess, examine into things so exactly as
we ought, for we never enquired anything os the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
- have saultered in their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps, contradicted themselves; or,, one
who-
how or other, we should have seen reason to have susr
pccted them; but the man shewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Cloftershoven, or some such,
name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called him-
self by that name; and we would not contradict him;
and being withall a little too unwary, or at least, having
no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our
bargain.
However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch; and we now resolved for a
second voyage to the south-east, for cloves, &c. that is
to say, among the Phillippine and Malacca isles; and
in short, not to sill this part of my story with trifles, when
-what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first
to last, six years in this country, tracing from port to
port, backward and forward, and with very good success;
and was now the last year with my partner, going in
the ship above-mentioned on a voyage to China; but
designing first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the streights of Ma-
lacca, and among the islands, were no sooner got clear of
those difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port;
and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia;
for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thomson,
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself, '1 his river lies on the north-fide of the
great bay orgulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on shore for re-
freshment, there conies to me one day an Englishman%
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an Eng-
lish East India ship, which rode in the same river, up at,
or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him hither
,we knew not, but he comes up to me, arid speaking
English: Sir, says he, you are a stranger tome and I to
you, but I have something to tell you that very nearly
concerns you.
1 looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
at first I had. known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, and not yourself, what moves you.
to.
to tell it me? I am moved, says he, by the imminent
danger you are in, and, for aught I see, you have .no
knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said I,
but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I
propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can
find it out. But, Sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, find
it, or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship
on shore to-morrow, when you hear what' I have to say
to you: Do you know, Sir, said he, the town of Cam-
bodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river; and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this
side, and three Dutch? Well, said I, and what is that
to me ?• Why, Sir, says he, is it for a man that is upon
such adventures as you are, to come into port, and not
examine first what ships there are there, and wherheT he is
able to deal with them? I suppose you do not think you
are a match for them. I was amused very much at his dis-
course, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned soort upon him, and said,
Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine
what reason I have to be afraid of any of the company's
iships, or Dutch sliips; 1 am no interloper; what can
they have to say to me?
fie looked like a man- half angry, half pleased?
ind, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, Sir, says he, if
rou think yourself secure, you must take your chance;
am sosry yo«r sate should blind you against good
advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked
by five long-boats sust of men ; i and, perhaps, if
you are taken, you. will be banged for a pirate, and
the particulars examined into afterwards: I thought,.
Sir, added he, 1 should have met with a better reception
than this, for doing you a piece of service of such im-
portance. 1 can never be ungratesul,, said I, for any
service, or to any man that offers me any kindness;.
but it is past my comprehension, said I, what they should
have such a design upon me for ~ However, since
you say there is no time to be lost, and that there
is some vilknous design in hand against me, Ir
will go on board this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we cart
swiitt
swim without stopping: But, Sir, said 1, (hall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give
me no surther light into it?
I can tell you but part of the story, Sir, says he; but
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and, I believe, I
-could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it: but the short of the story is this, the
first part of which, 1 suppose, you know well enough,
viz. That you were with this ship at Sumatra; that
there your captain was murdered by the Malaccans,
with three of his men; and that you, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the
story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure
you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you
know merchant's ships shew but little law to pirates, if
they get them in their power.
Now you speak plain English, said 1, and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, but lam sure we'came honestly
and sairly by the ship, yet, seeing such work is a
doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly,
1 will be upon my guard. Nay, Sir, says he, do not
talk of being upon your guard; the best desence is to
foe out of the danger; if you have any legard to your
lise, and the lives of all your men, put out to- sea,
-without sail at high-water; and as you have a whole tide
before you, you will be gone too sar out before they
•can come down; for they - will come away at high-
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them by the difference of the
tide, not reckoning the length of the way. Besides,
-as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not
venture to follow you sar out to sea, especially if it
blows.
Well, said I, you have been very kind in this: What
shall I do for you, to make you amends? Sir, says he,
you may not be so willing to make me amends, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the truth of it; I
-will make an offer to you: 1 have nineteen months pay
due to me on board the ship ', which I came out
of England in; and the Dutchman, that is with me, has
seven
seven months pay due to him; if you will make good
our pay to us, we will go along with you: if you sind
nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we
do convince you that we have saved your lise, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the
rest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As foon as I came
to the ship side, my partner, who was on board, came
out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great
deal of joy, O ho! O ho! we have stopped the leak!
we have stopped the leak! Say you fo! said I, thank
God 1 but weigh the anchor then immediately: Weigh!
says he; what do you mean by that? What is the mat-
ter? says he. Ask no questions, said I, but all hands to
work and weigh, without losing a minute. He was
surprised; but, however, he called the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and
though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land-breeze
blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story at large; and we
called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as
it took us up a great deal of time, fo before we had done,
a seamen comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased:
Chased! said I, by whom and by what? By sive sloops,
or boats, said the sellow, sull of men. Very well, said
1; then it is apparent there is fomething in it. In the
next place, I ordered all our men to be called up, and
told them, that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them if they
would stand by us, and by one another? The men an-
swered, cheersully, that one and all, they would live aad
die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way he
thought best for us to manage a sight with him; for,
resist them 1 refolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them
off with our great shot, as long as we could, and
then to sire at them with our small arms, to keep ihem
from boarding us; but when neither of these would do
any longer, we would retire to our close quarters; per-'
haps they had not materials to break openour bulk-heads,
or get in upon us.
The
The gunner had in the mean time, orders to bring two
guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear
the deck, and load them with masques-bullets, and small
pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand ; and thus
we made ready for sight: but all this while kept out to
sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at a dis-
tance, being five large long-boats following us, with all
the sail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses, we could
see, were English, had out-sailed the rest, were near two
leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably;
so that we found they would come up with us: upon
which we fired a gun without a shot, to intimate that
they should bring to: and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley: but they kept crowding after us,
till they came within shot; upon this we took in our
white flag, they having made no answer to it, hung out
the reg flag, and fired at them with shot: Notwithstand-
ing this, they came on till they were near enough to call
to them with a speaking trumpet, which we had on
board: so we called them, and bade them keep off at
their peril. -
It was all one, they crouded after us, and endeavoured
to come under our stern, so to board us on our quarter:
upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and
depended upon the strength that followed them, 1 ordered
to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broad-
side, when immediately we fired five guns at them: one
of them had been levelled so true as to carry away the
stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to
the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay-
by, and had enough of it; but, seeing the foremost boat
still crowd on aster us, we made ready to fire at her in
particular.
While this was doing, one of three boats that .was
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we
could afterwards see her take out the men; we called
again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her business with us;
T)ut had no answer; only she crowded dole under our
i ', stern.
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous
sellow, run out his two chace guns, and sired at her;
but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, wa-
ved their caps, and came on; but the gunner, getting
, quickly ready again, sired among them a second time;
one shot of which, though it misled the boat itself, yet
sell in among the men, and we could easily see, had
done a great deal of mischief among them; but we,
taking no notice of that, weared the ship asjain, and
brought our quarter to bear upon them; and siring three
guns more, we found the boat was split almost to pieces;
in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her stern, was
shot quite away; fo they handed their sail immediately,
and were in great diforder; but, to complete their mis-
fortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again;
where he hit them we could not tell, but we found
- the boat was sinking, and fome of the men already in
the water: upon this I immediately manned out our
pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with or-
ders to pick up fome of the men, if they could, and save
them from drowning, and immediately to come on board
with them; because we.saw the rest of the boats be-
gan to come up. 'Our men in the pinnace, followed
their orders, and took up three men; one of which was
just drowning, and it was a good while before we
could recover him. As foon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood sarther
out to sea; and we found, that when the other three
boats came up to the sirst two, they gave over their
chace.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I
lenew not the reafon of it, yet seemed to be much greater
than I apprehended; i took care that we would change
our course, and not let an)' one imagine whither we were
going; fo we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the
course of all European ships, Ivhether they were bc;und
to China, or any where else, within the commerce of the
European nations.
When we were now at sea, we began to consult
with the two seamen, and enquire sirst, what the
meaning of all this should be? The Dutchman let us
into
>
Into the secret of it at once; telling us, That the sel-
low that fold us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got
into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while, till at length, he, in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which sailing near the shore, in its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part of the shore where the boat- was,
but made shift in the night, to take In the water sarther
osf, and swimming a great while, at last the ship's boat
took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two
of the seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an ac-
count, that the sellow who had run away with the ship,
fold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an Eng-
lish ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to be salse, yet, as-my partner said,
very well, if we had sallen into their hands, and they had
such a prepossession against .us'before hand, it had been
in ^ain for us to have desertWjiiOurselves, or to hope for
any good quarters at their--solids, especially considering
that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would
have dictated, and ungoverned passion have executed:'
and therefore it was his opinion, we should go directly
back to Bengal, from whence we came without putting
in at any port whatever; because there we could give an
account of ourselves, and could prove where we were
when the ship put in, whom we bought her of, and the
like: and which was more than all the rest, if we were
put to the necessity of bringing it before the proper judges,
we should besure to have fomejustice.; and not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards.
*ol. ii. , . . I . .-. ;!' -Iw-as
s
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but aster A
little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it was
a verr great hazard for us to attempt returning to Ben-
gal, for that we were on the wrong side of the straights
of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given, we should,
he sure to be way-laid on every side, as well by the
Dutch of Batavia, as the English elsewhere; that if we
should be taken, as it were, running away, we should
even condemn ourselves, and there would want no more
evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's
opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast osTonquin, and so on to China; and
from thence pursuing the first design, as to trade, find
some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back
in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could
get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N. N. E.
keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual course to
the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
first, the winds, when we came to that distance from the
shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blowing al-
most trade, as we call it, from the east, and E. N. E.
so that we were a long white upon our voyage; and we
-were but ill provided wiftf^ctuals for so long a run;
and, which was still worse,*.—.is was some danger, that
those EnglMh and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us,
whereof some were bound that way, might be got in be-
fore us; and if not, some other ship, bound to China,
might have insormation of us from them, and pursue us
with the same vigour.
I must consess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
myself, including the late escape from the long boats,
to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever
I was in through all my past lise; for, whatever ill cir-
cumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a thief
before; nor had I ever done any thing that merited the
name of dishonest, or fraudulent, much less thievish. - I
had chiefly been mine own enemy; or, as I may rightly
say,
fay, I had been nobody's enemy but my own. But
bow I was embarrassed in the worst condition imagina-
ble; for though I was persectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear. And if I had
been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt of the
worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among the peo-
ple I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it, I knew not; or What port or place
we should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned at first, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several ports of
that coast, told me, he WouM put in on the coast o
Cochinchina, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao^ a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European sami-
lies resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we Tesolved to go-; and -accordingly*
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very-
much streightened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coast very early in the morning-; and -upon reflec-
tion upon the past circumstances we were in, and the
danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a
small river, which, however, had depth enough of wa-
ter for vrs, and to see if we could, either over land, ot
by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were
in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see
any European ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet, the
next morning, there came into the bay two Dutch ships,
and a third without any colours spread out, but which
we believed to be a Dutchman, -passed by at about two
leagues distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon we went by two English ships, steering
the same course; and thus we thought, we saw ourselves
beset with enemies, both one way and the other. The
place we were in wa»*wild and barbarous, the people
thieves, even by occupation or prosession; and though
it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and ex-
cept getting a sew provisions, cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty
i» that
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them seve-
ral ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east to the point of land which
opens to the great bay of Tonquin; and it was in
this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a word, we were surrounded with ene-
mies. The people we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no
correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only
in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it
may be particularly seen, that they are, as 1 said, the
most barbarous of any of the inhabitants; viz. that
among other customs they have this one, that if any
-vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; that
is to say, staves; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol-
lowing:.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak
at sea-, and that we could not find it out; and however
it happened, that as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of Siam;
yet, as we did not find the ship so persectly tight and
sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were in this
place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things
we had on board, which were not many, and to wash,
and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to find out where
the leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened <ihe ship, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom: for, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay
ter dry aground, neither could we find out a proper
place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a sight, came wondering down to the shore to look
at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a
manner, and heeling towards the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom, with stages,
and
and with their boats on the ofs side, they presently con-
cluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so very sast
on the ground.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats, having
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the
ship, and if they had found us there, to have carried us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we knew not who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at work, on the
outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seasaring man knows
how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; but, being willing to be sure, we took
this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition, to those
that were at work to desend themselves with, if there
should be occasion: and it was no more than need:
for, in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck ;.
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or
to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when-
we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they all belonged to them: and away they came di-
rectly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of
battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be
frighted; for we lay but in an ill posture to sight,
and cried out to us to know what they should do. I
immediately called to the men who worked upon the
stages to flip them down, and get up the side into the
ship: and bade those in the boat to row. round and
come on board; and those sew of us who were on
board, worked with all the strength and hands we had',
to bring the ship to rights: but, however, neither the
men upon the stage, nor those in the boats, could do
i 3r . aa
as they were ordered, before the Cochinchinese were upon,
them: and, with two of their boats boarded our long-
boat, and began to (ay hold of the men as their prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout strong sellow, who having a musquet in his hand,
never ofsered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like
a fool, as I thought. But he understood his business bet-
ter than 1 could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragged him by main force out of their own boat in-
to ours; where, taking him by the two ears, he beat his
head so against the boat's gunnel, that the sellow died in-
stantly in his hands; and in the mean time, a Dutchman,
who stood next, took up the musquet, and with the but-
end of it, so laid about them, that he knocked down five
ot them, who attempted to enter the boat; but this was
little towards refiiiing thirty or forty men, who searless,
because ignorant of their danger, began to throw them-
ielves into the long-boat, where we had but five men to
desend it; but one accident gave our men a complete
victory, which deserved our laughter rather than any
thing else; and that was this:
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of
the fliip, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulk-
ed her, to stop the leaks, had got two kettles, just let
down into the boat; one silled with boiling pitch, and
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stufs as
the shipwrights used for that work; and the man that
attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand,
•with which he supplied the men that were at work with
-that hot stufs; two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this sellow stood, being in the fore-
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladlesul of
the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half-naked, that they roared out like two bulls,
and enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done, Jack,
give them some more of it; when stepping forward
himself, he takes one of their mops, and dipping it in
the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentisully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats,
there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with
it-
t99
it in a most frightsul pitisul manner, and made such ans
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise,
and, indeed, nothing like it; for it was worth observing,
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out,
yet every nation have a particular way of exclamation,
and make noises as different from one another as their
speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures made
a better name than howling, nor a name more proper
to the tone of it; for I never heard any thing more,
like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said,
I heard howl in the forest oa the frontiers of Lan*
guedoc.'
1 was never pleased with a victory better in my lise j
not only as it was a persect surprise to me, and that our
danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory
without any bloodshed, except of that man the sellow-
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much,
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage
wretches, even though it was in my own desence, know-
ing, they came on errands which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness in.
nature: yet I thought it was a sad lise, when we must be.
always obliged to lie killing our sellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and indeed, 1 think so still; and 1 would,
even now, suffer a great deal, rather than 1 would take
away the lise even of the worst person injuring me. I
believe also, all considering people, who knew the value
of lise, would be'of my opinion, if they entered seriously
into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story: all the while this was do-
ing, my partner and I, who managed the reft of the men
on board, had with great dexterity, brought the ship
almost to rights; and having gotten the guns into
their places again, the gunner called to me, to bid out
boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not
offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work with-
out him; but bid him heat another pitch kettle; which
our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the
enemy wa-s so terrified with what they met with in their
first attack, that they would not come on again; and
i 4 some
some of them, that were sarthest off seeing the ship swim,
as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their
mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it not as
they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry sight;
and having gotten some rice, and some roots and bread,
-with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two days
before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go for-
ward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but
•we should be surrounded the next day with rogues enough,
perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for
-us.
We, therefore, got all our things on board the same
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail. In
the mean time, lying at an anchor some distance from the
ihore, we were not so much concerned, being now in a
fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any
enemy had presented. The next day, having finished our
.work within board, and finding our ship was persectly-
healed of all her leaks, we set sail; we would have gone
into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to insorm our-
Jclttes of what was to be known concerning the Dutch
ships that had been there; but we durst not stand in there,
:hecause we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed,
-hut a little before; so we kept on N. E. towards the isle
of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch
or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English mer-
chant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine maa
of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as
jf we would go to the Manillas or the Phillippine islands,
and this we did, that we might not sall into the way of
any o: the European ships; and then we steered north
again, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 20min. by
which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
Courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very sairly and punctually with us in
all their agreements and bargains; which is what we did
not find among other people, and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by
a Dutch missionary pis protestants, and is a testimony of
'' what
what I have often observed, viz. that the christian religion
always civilizes the people, and reforms their manners,
where it is received, whether it works saving essects up-
on them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast os
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond'
all the ports of China, where our European ships usually
come: being resolved, if possible, not to sall into any
of their hands, especially in this country, where, as our
circumstances were, we could not sail os being entirely
ruined; nay, so great was my sear in particular, as to
my being taken by them, that I believe firmly I would
much rather have chosen to have sallen into the hands of
the Spanish inquisition:
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees-, we re-
solved to put into the first trading port we should come
at: and standing in for the more, a boat came off two
leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer
his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board: upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in,.
and sent it back.
I thought it wasnow so much in. our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulph of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the Gulph of Nan«-
quin very well; but, smiling, asked us what we would
do there.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
&c. and so would return by the same course we earner
He told us our best port-had been to have put in-at Ma-
cao, where we could not tail of a market for our opium
to our satissadtion, and might, for our money, have pur-
chased all sorts of China goods, as cheap as we could at
Nanquin.
Not being able to put tire old man out of his talk, of
which he was very Opiniated, or conceited,. I told him^.
we were gentlemen, as well as merchants, and that we
bad a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the
I 5 famous
samous court of the monarch of China. Why then,
says the old man, you should go to Ningpo, where, by
the river that runs into the sea there, you may go up
within five leagues of the great canal. This canal is a
navigable made stream, which goes through the heart of
all that vast empire of China*, crosses all the rivers, passes
some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates,
and goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near
270 leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now: the great question is, If you can carry us
up to the city of Nanquin, from'whence we can travel
to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so very
well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up that-
way just before. This gave me a little shock; a Dutch
Ihip was now our terror, and we had much rather have
met the devil, at least if he had not come in too fright-
sul a sigure: we depended upon it, that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition
to sight them; all the ships they trade with in those parts
being -of great burden, and of much greater force than
we were.
The old man found me a little consused, and under
some concern, when he named a Dutch ship; and said
to me, Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war with your
nation. No, said I, that's true; but I know not what
liberties men may take, when they are out of the reach
of the laws of the country. Why, said he, you are no
pirates, what need you sear? 1 hey will not meddle
with peaceable merchants, sure.
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up in-
to my sace at that word, it was hindered by some stop in
the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it; for it put
me into the greatest disorder and consusion imaginable,
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that the
old man easily perceived it.
Sir, said he, I find you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way
you think sit; and depend upon it, I'll do you all the
service I can. Why, Seignior, said I, it is true, I am
a little unsettled ia my resolution at this time, whither
to
tt? o.o in particular; and I am fomething more so, for
what you said about pirates: I hope there are no pirates
in these seas, we are but in an ill condition to meet with
them: for you see we have but small force, and but very
weakly manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be concerned; I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these sifteen
years, except one, which was seen, as I hear, in the bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured-
she is gone to the fouthward: nor was she a ship of any
great force, or sit for the work; she was not built for a.
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew
that were on board, after the captain and fome of his;
men had been murdered by the-Malaccans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.
What! said I, seeming to know nothing of the mat--
ter, Did they murder the captain? No, said he, I do
not understand that they murdered him :. but, as they af-
terwards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed
they betrayed himinto the hands of the Malaccans, who •
did murder him: and, perhaps, they procured them to-
do it. Why then,- said I, they deserve death, as much
as if they had done it themselves; Nay, said the old'
man, they do deserve it: and they will certainly have it;
if they light upon any English or Dutch ship: for they
have all agreed together, that, if.they meet that rogue,.
they will give him no quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of.'
these seas; how can they meet with him then? Why
that is true, said he, they do say fo: but he was, as I
tell you, in the bay of Siam in the river Cambodia, and'.
was discovered there by fome Dutchmen who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they rua<
away with her; and fome English and Dutch traders be-
ing in the river, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay said he, if ^he foremost boats had been well second-
ed by the rest, they had certainly taken him :. but he,-
sinduK* only two boats within reach of him, tacked about;
and sired at these two, and disabled them before the other
came up; and then standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and fo he got away. But they
have all fo exact-a, description of the ship that they
\. rj I will'
will be sure to know him; and wbereever they sind
him, they have vowed to give no quarter to either the
captain or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the
yard-arm.
What! said T, will they execute them right or wrong,
hang them sirst, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
said the old pilot, there is no need to make a formal bu-
siness of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them
back to back, and set them a diving; it is no more than
they rightly deserve.
I knew 1 had my old man sast aboard, and that he
could do me no harm; fo that I turned short upon him:
Well, now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very reafon
why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country,
where the English or Dutch ships come: for be it known
to you, Seignior, those captains of the English and Dutch
ships are a parcel of rash, proud, infolent sellows, that
neither know what belongs to justice, or how to behave
themselves, as the laws of God and nature direct; but
being proud of their ossices, and not understanding their
power, they would act the murderers to punish robbers;
would take upon them to insult men salsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due enquiry, and per-
haps I may live to call fome of them to an account for
it, where they may be taught how justice is to be exe-
cuted; and that no man ought to be treated as a criminal
till fome evidence may behad of the crime, and that he
is the man.
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
had attacked: and gave him a full account of the skir-
mish we had with their hoats, and how foolishly and
coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story
of our buying the lhip, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reafons I had to believe that this story
of killing the master by the Malaccans was not true; as
alfo the running away with the ship; but that it was all
a siction of their own, to suggest that the men were turn-
ed pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was fo,
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and
oblige us to resist them; adding, that they would have
the
the blood of those men, who were killed there, in out
just desence,* to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us,
we were very much in the right to go away to the north ;.
and that if he might advise us, it should be to sell the ship
in China, which we might very well -do, and buy or
build another in the country: and said he, tho' you will
not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough
to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, ot
any where else. -
I told him I would take his advice, when I came to
any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back
again; and that he would procure me people both to buy
one, and sell the other.
Well, but, Seignior, says I, as you say they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if 1 follow your measures,
be instrumental to bring some honest innocent men into
a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship they will prove the guilt,
upon the men, by proving this was the ship: and so
innocent men may probably be overpowered and mur-
dered. Why, said the old man, I'll find out a way to
prevent that also: for as 1 know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been lo much in the
wrong; that though the people who were on board at
first might run away with the ship, yet it was not true
that they had turned pirates: and that in particular those
were not the men that first went off with the ship, but
innocently bought her for their trade :. and I am per-
suaded they will so sar believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come. Well, said I, and
will you deliver one message to them from me? Yes,
1 will, says he, if you will give it under your hand, in
writing, that I may be able to prove it came from you,
and not out of my own head. 1 answered, that I would
Teadily give it him under my hand. So I took a pen,
and ink; and paper, "and wrote at large the story of
assaulting
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c. the pretended'
reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it; and con-
cluded to the commanders that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I lived tosee them there,,
they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my
country were not grown out of use before I arrived there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked
me several times if I would stand to it. I answered, I
would stand to it as long as I had any thing left in the-
world, being sensible that I mould, one time or other,_
find an opportunity to put it home to them. But we
had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this letter;:
for he never went back again. While those things were-
paffing between us, by way of discourse, we went for-
ward directly for Nanquin, and, in about thirteen days-
sail, came to anchor at the south west point of the
great gulph of Nanquin: where, by the way, I came by
accident to understand, that the two Dutch ships were-
gone that length before me, and that I should certainly
sall into their hands. I oonsulted my partner again in*
this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as1 was,,
and would very gladly have be,en sase on shore almost,
any where. However, 1 was not in such perplexity,
neither, but I aflted the old pilot if there was no
creek or harbour, which I might put into, and pursue
my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no.
danger of the enemy? He told me, if I would sail to
the southward about two and forty leagues, there was a
little port called Quinchang, where the sathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao,, on their progress to
teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, aud where-
bo European ships ever put in; and, if 1 thought proper
to put in there, I might consider what sarther course to
take when I was on shore. He consessed, he said,, its
was not a place for merchants, except, that at some
certain times they had a kind of a sair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chi--
nese merchandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of
the port, as he called it, 1 may, perhaps, spell wrong j
3 for
for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this,,
together with the names of many other places set down
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water,.'
on an accident which I shall relate m its order: but this
1 remember, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we
correspond with, eall it by a different name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as
above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this
place, we weighed the next day, having only gone twice
on shore, where we were to get fresh water; on both
which occasions the peopleofthe country were very civil,
to us, and brought us abundance of things to fell to us;
I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls; but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary)
not till five days; but it was very much to our satissac-
tion; and I was joysul, and, I may say, thanksul, when
I set my foot ssise on shore; resolving, and my partner
too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and ef-
sects any other way, though not every way to our satis-
saction, we would never set one foot on board that un-
happy vessel again; and indeed, I mull acknowledge,
that of all the circumstances of lise, that ever I had any.
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely mi-
serable as that of being in constant sear. Well does the
scripture say, * The sear of man brings a snare;' it is a
lise of death: and the mind is so entirely suppressed by it,,
that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits fink, and
all the vigour of nature, which usually supports men un-
der other afflictions, and is present to them in the greatest
exigencies, sails them here.
Nor did it sail of its usual operations upon the sancy,
by heightening every danger; representing the English
and Dutch captains to be men incapable ot hearing rea-
son, or distinguishing between honest men and rogues;
or between a story calculated for our own turn, made out
of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine
account of our whole voyage, progress, and design; for
we might many ways have convinced any reasonable
creature that we were not pirates: the goods we had on
board, the course we steered, our frankly shewing our-
selves'
selves, and entering into such and such ports; ever*
our very manner, the force we had, the number of meny
the sew arms, little ammunition, and short provisions;
all these would have served to convince any man that
we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods we
had on board, would make It appear the ship had
been at Bengal: the Dutchman, who, it was said, had
the names of all the men that were in the ship, might
easily see that we were a mixture of English, Por-
tuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board;
fhese, and many other particular circumstances, might
have made it evident to the understanding of any com-
mander, whose hands we might sall into, that we were
no pirates.
But sear, that blind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the imagination at work, to
form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps, might
never happen: we sirst supposed, as, indeed, every body
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were fo en-
raged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our
beating off their boats, and escaping, that they would
not give themselves leave to enquire whether we were
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we caH
it, without giving us any room for a desence. We re-
flected that there was really fo much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce enquire after any
more; as, sirst, that the ship was- certainly the same^
and that fome of the seamen among them knew herj
and hid been on board her; and secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that they
were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats,
and fled; fo; that we made no doubt but they were as
fully satissied of our being privates, as we were satissied
of the contrary; and 1 often said, I knew not but I.
should have been apt to have taken the little circum-
stances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my
ease was theirs; and have made no scruple 'of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or, perhaps,
considering, what they might have to osier in their
defence.
But
But let that be how it will, those were our appre-
hensions; and both my partner and I too scarce slept a
night without dreaming of halters and yard-arms, that
is to say gibbets; of sighting, and being taken; of
killing, and being killed; and one night I was in
such a sury in my dreain, sancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my double fist against the side of
the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my
hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the rleih; so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, but I was once afraid I mould have loft two of
my fingers.
Another apprehension I had, was of the cruel usage
we should meet with from them, if we sell into their
hands; then the story of Amboyna came into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
did our countrymen there; and make some of our men,
by extremity of torture, consess those crimes they never
-were guilty of; own themselves, and all of us, to be
pirates; and so they would put us to death, with a
formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo;
which was worth four or five thousand pounds, put all
together.
These things tormented me, and my partner too, night
and day; nor did we consider that the captains of ships
have no authority to act thus; and if we had surrendered
prisoners to them, they could not answer the destroying
us, or torturing us, but would be accountable for it when
they came into their own country. This, I say, gave
me no satissaction; for, if they will act thus with us,
-what advantage would it be to us that they would be
called to an account for it; or if we were first to be mur-
dered, what satissaction would it be to us to have them
punished when they came home?
- I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I
now had upon the past variety of my .particular circum-
stances; how hard 1 thought it was, that I, who had
spent forty years in a lise of continued difficulties, and
was, at lasi, come, as it were, at the port or haven which
all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty, should be
A'voluu^
a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own unhappy choice ,
and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my
youth, mould now come to be hanged in my old age,
and in so remote a place, for a crimfc I was not in the
leall inclined to, much less guilty of; and in a place and
circumstance where innocence was not like to be any
protection at all to me.
After these thoughts, something of religion would
come in; and I would be considering that this seemed?
to me to be a disposition of immediate Providence; and
I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such; that
although I was innocent as to men, I was sar from be--
ing innocent as to my maker; and I ought to look on,
and examine what other crimes in my lise were most,
obvious to me, and from which Providence might just-
ly inslict this punishment as a retribution; and that I
ought to submit to this, just as I'would to a shipwreck*
if it had pleased God to have brought .such a disaster up--,
on me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its
place; and then I would be talking myself up to vi-
gorous resolution, that I would npt be taken to be
barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold blood; that it was much better to have sallen into
the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters, and
who, I was sure, would seast upon me, when they had
taken me, than by those, who would, perhaps, glut their
Tage upon me, by inhuman tortures and barbarities ;.
that, in the case of the savages, 1 always resolved to die
sighting, to the last gasp; and why should I not do so
now, seeing it was much more dreadsul, to me at least,
to think of salling into these men's hands, than, ever it
was to think of being eaten by men? for the savages,
give them their due—would not eat a man till he was
dead , and killed him first, as we do a bullock; but
that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of
death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure
to put myself into a kind of sever, with the agitations
of a supposed sight; my blood would boil, and my eyes
sparkle, as if 1 was engaged; and I always resolved
that I would take no quarter at their hands: but even
at last,, if 1 could resist no longer, I would blow up the
ship.
sliip, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of.
But how-much the greater weight the anxieties and
perplexities of thole things were to our thoughts while
we were at sea, by so much the greater was our satis-
saction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my part-
ner told me, he dreamed, that he had a very heavy
load upon' his back, which he was to cany up an hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it:
but the Portuguese pilot came, and took it off his back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain. And truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a load taken off their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
1 said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for
our goods, which, by the way, was much the same:
it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to
it, all built with canes, and pallisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilsering thieves, of which it seems
tiiere were not a sew in the country. However, the
magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we had
a soldier with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who
stood centinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint
office, and a little piece of money, about the value of
threepence per day, so that our goods were kept very-
sase.
The sair or mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time; however, we found that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two japanners, I
mean, ihips from Japan, with goods which they had
bought in China, and were not gone away, having Ja-
panese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us,
was to bring us acquainted with three mistionary Romisli
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time converting the people to Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor'work of it; and made
them but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was not our business. One of these was a French-
man,
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
man, whom they called Father Simon; he was a jolly
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation,
not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did*
one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Geno-
ese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his man-
ner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, where-
ever they had opportunity. We often eat and drank
with thole men; and though I must consess, the conver-
sion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so
sar from the true conversion required, to bring heathen
people to the saith of Christ, that it seems to amount to
little more than letting them know the name of Christ-,
say some prayers to tde Virgin Mary and her son, in av
tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like; yet it must be consessed, that these
religious, whom we call Missionaries, have a firm belies
that these people should be saved, and that they are the
instrument of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not only the satigue of the voyage, and hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with
the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work;
and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever
opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of
their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and
who have no proipect of the least temporal advantage to
themselves.
But to return to my story: This French priest, Father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief
of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the
Chinese Emperor, and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met together, but
he was inviting me to go that journey with him, telling
me, how he would shew me all the glorious things of
that mighty empire ; and, among the reft, the greatest city
in the world —a city, laid he, that your London and
our Paris put together cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I consess, i$ very great, . and
infinitely:
wfinitelr sull of people: but, as I looked on those
things with difserent eyes from other men, so 1 shall
give my opinion of them in a sew words, when I come,
in the course of my travels, to speak more particularly of
them.
But first, i come to my friar or missionary: Dining
with him one day, and being very merry together, I
shewed some little inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great
many persuasions to consent Why, Father Simon, says
my partner, why should you desire our company so
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure.
O! says he, you may, perhaps, be good catholics in
time; my business here is to convert heathens, and who
knows but I may convert you too? Very well, Father,
said I, so you will preach to us all the way. I won't be
troublesome to you, said he; our religion does not divest
us of good manners; besides, said he, we are here like
countrymen, and so we are, compared to the place we
are in; and if you are hugunots, and 1 a Catholic, we
may be all Christians; at least, said he, we are asl gen-
tlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy
to one another. 1 liked that part of his discourse very
-well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the Brasils; But this Father Simon
did not come up to his character by a great deal; for
though Father Simon had no appearance of a criminal
levity in him neither, yet he had not that sund of Chris-
tian zeal, strict piety, and sincere affection to religion,
that my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said
so much.
B«t to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but'we had something
else before us at that time; for we had, all this while,
our ship and our merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtsul what we should do, for we
were now in a place of very little business; and once I
was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam; and
the city of Nanquin s But Providence seemed nOw more
visibly, as 1 thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and I was encouraged from this very time to
think,
think, I should, one way or other, get out of this entati*
gled circumstance, and be brought home to my own.
country again, though I had hot the least view of the
manner; and when I began sometimes to think Of it,
could not imagine by what method it Was to be done.
Providence, I say, began here to Clear up our way a
little; and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
began to enquire what goods we hid; 'and, in the first
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good
price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head,
that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
slirunk up his shoulders at it, when at first proposed
to him; but in a sew days after, he came to me, with
one of the missionary priests for his interpreter,, and
told me, he had a proposal to make to me, and that was
this: He had bought a great quantity of goods of us
•when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him)
of buying the {hip; and that therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the ship; but if I would let
the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he would
hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send them
From thence to the Phillippine islands with another
loading, which he Would pay the freight of, before
they went from Japan; and that, at their return, he
Would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal*
and so eager did my head run upon rambling, that I
Could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of
going with him, and so to sail from the Phillippine islands
iiway to the South Seas; and accordingly 1 asked the
Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Phillippine islands, and discharge us therei He said, no,
he could not do that; for then he could not have the
return of his cargo; but he Would discharge Us in Japan,
he said, at the ship's return. Well, stili I was for talcing
him at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner i
Wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who
are
area salse, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of
the Spaniards at the Philippines; more salse, more
cruel, more treacherous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclu-
sion: the first thing we had to do, was to consult
•with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japah; and, while
I was doing this, the young man whom, as I said, my
liephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to mt and told me, that he thought that
voyage promised very sair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would give
him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased
to order him: that if ever he came to England, and I
was there, and alive, he would render me a saithsul ac*
count of his success, and it should be as much mine as I
pleased.
I was really loth to part with him; but, considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable,,
and that he was a young sellow as likely to do well iri
it as any I knew, 1 inclined to let him go } but first I
told him I would consult my partner, and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed about
it; and my partner made a most generous offer 5
he told me, you know it has been an unlucky ship, and
-we both resolve not to go to sea in it again; if your
steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage*
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let hirst
make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
one half of the prosits of the ship's freight to us, the
other shall be his own.
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my
young man, made him such an offer, 1 could do no
less than offer him the same; and all the ship's com-
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the ship to him in property, and took a writing from
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at Japan,
and got him a license to come on shore, which the
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines,
loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo
of their own, who, trafficking with the Spaniards,
brought back European goods again, and a great quan-
tity of cloves and other spice; and there he was not only
paid his freight very well, and at a very good price, but
b-ing not willing to sell the ship then, the merchant sur-
nished him with goods on his own account: that, for
some money, and some spices of his own, which he
brought with him, he went back to the Manillas, to the
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here,
having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got
his ship made a free ship; and the governor of Manilla
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and gave him a licence to land there, and
travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe, with all his men.
He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, somehow or other, td go to Jamaica with all his
treasure; and about'eight years after came to England,
exceeding rich; of which 1 shall take notice in its
place: in the mean time I return to our particular
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship, and ship's company,
it came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pence we should give to the two men that gave us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river
of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a con-
siderable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too, for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the
ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the
design that was formed against us, but to go to sea with'
-us as pirates; and one of them consessed afterwards,
that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing, brought him to do it. However, the ser-
vice they did us was not the less; and therefore, as I
lad promised, to be grateful to them, I first ordered the
money
money to be paid to them, which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; that is to say, the
Englishmen nineteen months' pay, and to the Dutch-
men seven; and, over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well; then I made the Englishman gun-
ner of the ship, the gunner being bow being made second
mate and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
sellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country ajt Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my money,
what could -I think of myself now, when I was gotten
about a thousand leagues sarther off from home,
and persectly destitute of all manner of prospect of
return! .'
All we had for it was this; that in about four months*
time there was to be another sair at that place where
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manusactures of the country, and withal
might possibly.find some Chinese junks or vessels from
Nanquin, that would be to be fold, afid would carry
us and our goods whither we pleased. This 1 liked very
well, and resolved to wait: besides, ss our particular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch
ships came thither, perhaps we might have an oppor-
tunity to load our goods, and get passage to some
other place in India, nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here:
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three journies
into the country first. We went ten days' journey
to see the city of Nanquin-, a city well worth see-
ing indeed; they say it has a million of people in
it; which, however, I do not believe; it is regularly
built; the streets are all exactly strait, and cross one an-
other in direct lines, which gives the figure ot it great
advantage.
But when I came- to compare the miserable people of
these countries with ours, their sabrics, their man-
ner of living, their government, their religion, their
vol. ii. - * wealth
wealth, and their glory (as fome call it) I must con-
fess, I do not fo much as think it worth naming, or
worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after
me to read.
It is ver)' observable, that we wonder at the gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the go-
vernment, the manufactures, the commerce, and the con-
duct ot' these people, not that they are to be wondered
at, or indeed, in the least to be regarded, but because,
having sirst a notion of the barbarity of those coun-
tries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevail
there, we do not expect to sind any such things fo sar
off.
Otherwise, -what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe? V. bat their trade to
the universal commerce of England, Holland, France,
and Spain? What their cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich surniture, and an in-
sinite variety? What are their ports,, supplied with a
few junks and barks, to our navigation, our mer-
chants' fleets, our large and powersul navies? Our
city of London has more trade than all their mighty
empire. One English, or Dutch, or French man of
war of 80 gur.s, would sight with and destroy all
the shipping of China. But the greatness of their
wealth, their trade, the power of their government,
and strength of their arms, are surprising to us because,
as 1 have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of
pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect
such things among them; and this, indeed, is the ad-
vantage with which all their greatness and power is re-
presented to us; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all;
for, as I have said of their ships, fo it may be said of
their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
though they were to bring two millions of men into
the sield together, would be able to do nothing but ruin
the country i.nd starve themselves. If they were to
besiege a strong town in Flanders, or to sicht a disci-
plined army, one line of German cuirassiers, or of
French cavalry, would overthrow all the horse of China;
a million ot their foot could not It and before one em-
battled body of our insantry, posted fo as not to be sur-
rounded,
219
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in
iramber; nay, I do not boast if I say, that 30,000
German or English foot, and 10.000 French horse,
would sairly beat all the forces of China. And so os
our fortified towns, and the art of our engineer?, in
assaulting and desending towns; there is not a fortilied
town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries and attacks of an European army; anl at
the same time, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starved: no, not in ten years' iiege. They have fiie-
arms, it is true, but they are aukward, clumsy, and
uncertain in going off'; they have powder, but it is of
no strength; they have neither dii'cipline in the field,
exercise in their arms, skill to attack, or temper to re-
treat; and therefore I must consess it seemed strange to
me when I came home, and heard our people say such
sine things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew hat
they were a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant
sordid slaves, subjected to a government qualified only
to rule fitch a people; and, in a word, for I am now
hunched quite belide my design, I say, in a word, were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
were not the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a crowd of slaves as they are, the ciar of
Muscovy might, with, much ease, drive them .all out of
their country, and conquer them in one campaign;
and had the czar, who I since hear is a growing prince,
and begins to appear formidable in the World, sallen
tins wav, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
which attemp; none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him, he might, by this time, have
been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the
King of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their gran-
deur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry
is impersect and impotent, compared to the fame things
in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning,
their skill in the sciences; they have globes and spheres,
and a fmatch of the knowledge of the mathematics,
but when you come to enquire into their knowledge,
k. 2 how
how short-sighted are the -wisest of their students?
they know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies, and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when the
fun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they sall a clattering
with all the drufns and kettles in the country, to fright
the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of
bees.
As this is the only excursion of this kind, which I
have marie, in all the account which 1 have given of my
travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of coun-
tries and people: it is none of my business, or any part
of my design; but giving an account of my own ad-
ventures, through a lise of infinite wanderings, and
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, sew hare
heard the like osj: I shall say nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them will make
necessary. I was now, as near as 1 can compute, -in
the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty de-
grees north of the line, for we were returned" from
Nanquin: I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin,
-which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon impor-
tuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going
away being set, and the other missionary, .who was to
go with him, being arrived from Macoa, it was necessary
that we should resolve either to go or not to go;
so I reserred him to my partner, and lest it wholly to
his choice, who, at length, resolved it in the affirma-
tive; and we prepared for our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, as to finding the way; for
we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of v;ceroy, or principal magistrate
in the province where they reside, and who take great
state upon them, travelling with great attendance, and
with great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, because all (he
countries they pass through are obliged to surnish
provisions for them and all their attendants. That
which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
-with
with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses,
from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had atter
the market price of the country, and the mandarin's
steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it
duly from us, so that our travelling in the retinue of
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty savour in him', but was,
indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other people travelling in the same
manner besides up, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, 1 say,
was a great advantage to him, for his country surnished
all the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money
for them. . •
We were five and twenty days travelling to Ptkin,
through a country infinitely pupulous, but miserably
cultivated; the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though t'hey boast so much of
the industry of the people; I say, miserable, and so
it is, if we, who understand how to live, were to
endure it, or to compare it with our own, but not so
to these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride
of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which
I call their mil'erjr. 1 must needs think that the naked
savages of America live much more happy, because, as
they have nothing, so they desire nothing: wriereas,
these are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere
beggars and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible,
and is chiefly shewed in their clothes and buildings, and in
the keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which
is to the last degree ridiculous, their contempt of all the
World but themlelves.
I must consess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary
than here; and yet, the roads here are well paved, and-
Well kept, and very convenient for traveliers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to see such an
haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their samed
a 3 ingenuity
ingenuity is no more. My friend, Father Simon, and I,
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of those people: for example, coming by
the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called
him, about ten leagues off' from the city of Nanquin, we
had, sirst of all, the honour to ride with the matter of
the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
persect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and
poverty.
The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a
scaramouch, or merry-andrew; being a dirty callico,
with all the tawdry trappings of a fool's coat, such as
hanging-sleeves, taffety, and cuts and slashes almost on
every side; it covered a rich tafsety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testisied that his honour must needs
be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling crea-
ture, such as-in England might sell for about thirty or
sorty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature alons;; he had a whip in
his hand, and he belaboured the beast as sast about the
head as his slaves did about the tail: and thus he
rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we
were- told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this sigure of a gentleman rode away before
us; and as we stopped at a village about an hour to re-
fresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door,
eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand,
that the more we looked on him, the better he would be
pleased.
He sat under a tree, fomething like the palmettotree,
which esfectually shaded him over the head, and on the
fouth side; but under the tree alfo was placed a large
iimbrella, which made that part look well enough;
he sat loll.ng back in a great elbow chair, be-
ing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being
brought him by two women slaves, he had two more
jwhose office, I think, sew gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, via. one sed the 'squire with a
spoon,
spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
scraped off what he let sall upon his worship's b'ard,
and taffety vest, with the other ; while the great sat brute
thought it below him to employ his own hands in any
of those samiliar offices which kings and monarchs
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy lingers
of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thusiil-
managed, must be to a man of common Cense; and,
leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our look-
ing at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we
really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey; onlv bather Simon had the curioiity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had
to teed on, in all his state; which, he said, he had the
honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dole
that Sn ringliih hound would scarce have eaten, if it had
been offered him, viz. a mess of boiled riqe, with a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with green
pepper, and another plant which they have there, some-
thing like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and
tasting like mustard; all this was put together, and a
small lump or piece of lean mutton boded in it; and this
was his worship's repast, four or five servants more atr
tending at a distance. If he sed them meaner than he
was sed himself, the spice excepted, they must sare very
coarsely indeed.
As tor our mandarin, with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a king; surrounded always with hii
gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with such
pomp, that 1 saw little of him but at a distance; but this
I observed, that ,there was not a horse in his retinue, but
that our carrier's pack-hories in Engiund seem to me
to look much better; but they were so covered with
equipage, mantles, trappings, and such like trumpery,
that you cannot see whether they are sat or lean. In a
-word, we coufd scarce see any thing but their seet and
their heads.
I was now light hearted, and all my trouble and
perplexity that I had given an account of being over,
1 had no anxious thoughts about me; which made this
K 4 journey
journey much the pleasanter to me; nor had I any ill
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
small river, my horse sell, and made me free of the coun-
. try, as they call it 3 that, is to say, threw me in; the
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over; I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set
down the names of several people and places which 1 had
occasion to remember, anil which not taking due care of,
the leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be
Tead, to my great loss, as to the names of some places
which I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with.
me but the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese Pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we gave him his passage, that is to fay, bore his charges
for his company; ants to use him as an interpreter, for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke
good French,, and a little English; and, indeed, this oki
man was a most usesul implement to us evrry where;
for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing, Ah, hiignior inglese, said he, 1 have
something to tell you will make your heart glad. My
heart glad! said I; what can that be? I do'nt know
any thing in this country can either give me joy or
grief, to any great degree. Yes, yes, said the old. man,
in broken English, make you glad, me sorrow ; sorry, he
would have said. This made me more inquisitive.
Why, said, 1i will it make you sorry? Because, said he,
you have brought me here twenty-five days journey, and
will leave me to go back alone; and whieh way shall I
set to my port afterwards, without a ship, without a
orse, without pecune? So he called money; being
his broken Latin, of which had abundance to make us
merry with.
Jn short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and they
were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to.
Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he was sure
we would take the opportunity to go with: them, arid
leave
leave him behind to go back all alone. 1 consess, f
was surprised with this news: a secret joy spread itsel
over my whole soul, which I cannot describe, and never-
selt before or since; and I had no power, for a goodl
while, to speak a word to the old man: but at last :t
turned to him: How do you know this? laid 1: are
you sure it is true? Yes, said he ; I met this morning, in
the street,' an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
or one you call a Grecian, who is among them; he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin,
where 1 formerly knew him, but has altered his mind,
and is now resolved to go back with the caravan to
Moscow, and so down the river of Wohra to Astracan.
Well, Seignior, said I, do not be uneasy about being:
left to go back alone: if this be a method for my re-
turn to England, it shall be your sault if you go back to
Macao at all. We then went to consulting together
what was to be done, and aslsed my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would suit
with his afsairs? He told me he would do just as I would,
for he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal and
left his efsects in such good hands, that as wo made a
good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks,
wrought or raw, such as might be worth the carriage,
he would be content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his-
charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased; nor,
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
part neither, if we had not rewarded him surther; for
the service he had done us was really worth all that
and more: for he had. not only been a pilot to us at
sea, but he had been also like a broker for us on
shore: and his procuring tor us the .1i pan merchant was
some hundred of pounds in our pockets. So we con-
sulted together about it: and, being willing to gratify
him, which was, indeed, but doing him justice, and very
willing also to have him with us belideS, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him a quantity of coined gold-, which, as 1 cora-
- x.',$*. :},.- ,'i. -., -- a •; putc
pute it, came to about 1 75 pounds sterling between us,
and to bear his charges, both for himself and horse, ex-
cept only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
to let him know what we had resolved; I told him, he
had complained of our being like to let him go back
alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he
should not go back at all: that as we had resolved to
go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he
should go with us, and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and said it was a long
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither,
nor to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
him, we believed it was so, and therefore we had re-
solved to do something for him, that should let him see
how sensible we were of the service he had done us;
and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I
told him what we had-resolved to give him here, which
he might lay out as we would do our own; and that as
for his charges, if he would go with us, we would
, set him sase ashore, (lise and casualties excepted\
either in Muscovy, oy in England, which he would,
at our own charge, except only the carriage of his
goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us, he would go with us over the whole world;
and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the jour-
: ney. However, as it was with us, so it was with
the other merchants, they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was four
• months and some odd days before all things were got
together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
set out from Pekin; my partner and the old pilot, had
gone express back to the port where we had first put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there-;
and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on
his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought
ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two hundred
-pieces of other.'very fine'silks, of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had «ll these brought to Pekin
against
against my partner's return: besides this, we bought
a very large quantity of raw ,silk, and some other
goods: our cargo amounting in these goods only,
"to about, three thousand five hundred pounds ster-
ling, which, together with tea, and some fine cal-
licoes, and three camel loads of nutmegs and cloves,
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-fix camels and horses in our
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as lean,
remember, made between three and four hundred horses i
and camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty men,
very well armed, and provided for all events. i*or, as
the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by t he
Arabs, so are these by the Tartars: but they are not al-
together so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous
when they prevail.
The company consisted of peopte of several nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly; for there were about sixty of
them who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians, and to our parti-
cular satissaction five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were five in number, called all the gentle-
men and merchants; that is to say, all the passengers,
except the servants, to a great council, as they termed
it. At this great council, every one deposited a certain
quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expence of buying forage on the way, where it was not
otherwise to be had. aral for satisfying the guides, getting
horses, and the like. And here they constituted the
journey, as they call it, viz. They named captains and
officers to draw us all up, and give the command in case
of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command.
Nor was this forming us into order any more than what
-we found needful upon the way, as shall be observed in
its place.
K 6 The
The road all on this side of the 'country is very po-
pulous, and is sull of potters, and earth-makers, that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China
-ware; and, as I was going, along, our Portuguese pi-
lot', who had always something or other to say to make
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me, he would
shew the greatest rarity in all the country; and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-hu--
moured things I had said of it, that 1 had seen one thing
-which was not-to be seen in all the world beside. I was*
very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
me, it wasa gentleman's house, all built with China ware.
Well, said I, are not the materials of their building
the product of their own: country? and so it is all China,
ware, is it not? No, no, says be, I mean, it is a house
all made of China ware, such as you call so in England:
or, as it is called in our country, porcelain. Well, said
I, such a thing may be: How big is it? Can we carry
it in a box upon a, camel? If we can, we will buy it.
Upon a camel! said the old pilot, holding up both his
hands, why there is a samily of thirty people lives in it!
1 was then curious, indeed, to see it: and when 1 came-
to it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house,,
or a house built, as we call it in,England,.with lath and
plaster, butall the plastering was really China ware, that
is to say, it' was plastered with the earth that makes China.,
ware.
The outside,, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, persectly white, and paint-
ed with blue figures, as the large China, ware in England
is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to the
inside, all, the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined
up with hardened and painted tiles, like the lijtle square
tiles we call gally-tiks in England,, all made of the
finest China, and the figures exceeding fine indeed,,
with extraordinary variety of colouis, mixed with gold,,
many tiles,making but one sigure, but joined so aitifi-';
cially with mortar, being made of the sameearth, that
it was very hard to see where the tiles met.-' :The
floors of the rooms were of the same composition,
and as hard as the earthen, floors we have in use in.
-4.- several:
ffiveral part9 of England, especially Lincolnshire, Not-
tinghamshire, Leicestershire,. &c. as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller
rooms, like closets, which were all asit were paved with,
the same tile; the cielings, and in a word, all the plaif-
tering-work in the whole house, were of the sameearth ;-.
and after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the same,
but of a deep shining black.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and lite—
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the jour-
ney, 1 could have staid some days, to see and examine
the particulars of it. They told me there were fountains
and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the bottom and
fides with, the same, aud fine statues set up in* rows on
the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and
burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so theyr
may be allowed to excel in it; but I- am very sure they,
excel in their account* of it; for they told me such
incredible things of their persormance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate,.'as know-
ing it could not be true.. One told me, in particular,
•of a workman that made a ship, with all its tacklet,
and masts, and sails, in earthen ware, big enough to
carry fifty men. If be had told me he launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was,. 1 knew the whole
story, which was, in shOrt, asking pardon for the word,
that the sellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to
it.
This odd sight kepti me two hours behind the caravan,,
for which the leader, of it for the day fined me about
the value of three shillings, and told me, if it had.4
been three days' journey without the wall, as it was
three days, within, he must have fined me four times as
much, and made me ask pardon the next council
day; so I promised to be more orderly;, for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all-
together were absolutely necessary_ for our common,
sasety.
In two days more we passed the great China-wall;,
fliade fdr. a fortification against the Tartars s and a very.
great
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, o*,
indeed, climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us, its length is near a thou-
sand English miles, but that the country is five hun-
dred in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds,
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes;
'tis about four sathom high, and as many thick in some
places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without tres-
passing on our orders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I say, I stood still an hour to look at
it on e\rry fide, near, and sar off, I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been extolling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
tars, which he happened not to understand rs I meant
it, and so took it for a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed; O Seignior Inglese, said he, you speak in co-
lours. In colours! said I: what do you mean by that?
Why you speak what looks white this way, and blrvck
that way; gay one way, and dull another way; you
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell
me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartars; or it will keep out none but Tartars: I un-
derstand you, Seignior Inglese, 1 understand you, said
he, iokin"'; but Seignior Chinese understand you his own
way. ...
Well, said I, Seignior, do yoju think it would stand
out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery; or our engineers, with 'two companies of.
miners? Would they not batter it down in ten days, that
ah army might enter in battalia, or blow it up into
the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign
of it left? Ay, ay, said he, I know that. The Chinese
wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him
leave to tell him a sew days after, for we were then al-
most out of their country, and he was to leave us in a
little time afterwaads; but when he knew what I had
said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard
no

M QBUfS 0W CM I rS fJ>M
6Æ//,,? Mr ?rr<7?~1%'-»«* #'«//.
no more of his fine story of the Chinese power and great
ness while he staid.
After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall,
something like the Picts' wall, so samous in Northumber-
land, and built by the Romans, we began to find the
country thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined
to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to
the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in
great armies, and therefore are not to be resilled by the
naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began to sind the necessity of keeping to-
gether in a caravan, as we travelled; for we saw several
troops of Tartars roving about; but when I came to
see them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese
empire could be conquered by such contemptible sellows;
for they are a mere herd or croud of wild sellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, ormanner
of sight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught
nothing, and are fit for nothing; and this we found
the first day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country; our leader for the day
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as
they call it: and what was- this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the crea-
tures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I
saw of their kind; only they will not tun a great way,
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chace;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a flock,
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
In pursuit of this odd fort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very loud,
but with a barbarous found that I had never heard before;
and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all sup-
posed this was to call their friends about them; and so
it was; for in less than half a quarter of an hour a troop
of
forty or sifty more appeared at about a mile distance
but our work was over sirst, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Museow happened to
be amongst us: and as foon as he heard the horn, be
told us, in short, that we had nothing to 'do, but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and,
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were refolved;
we told him, We were ready to follow him: fo he rode
directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like a.
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shewing the sace
of any order at all; but as foon as they saw us advance,
they let fly their arrows: which, however, missed us
very happily; it seems they mistook not their aim, but
their distance: for their arrows all sell a little short of us,
but with fo tnje an aim, that had we been about 20
yards nearer, we must, have had several men wounded, if
not killed.
Immediately we halted: and though it was at a great
distance, we sired, and sent them leaden bullets for
wooden arrows, following our shot sull gallop, refolving
to fall in among them sword in hand: for fo our bold
Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,. but a
merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery.
on this occasion, and yet with such a cool courage
too, that I never- saw any. man in action sitter for
command.
As loon as we came.up to them, we sired our pistols
in their saces, and then drew; but they fled in the
greatest consusion imaginable: the only stand any of.
them made was on our light, where three of them'
Hood, and,. by signs, called the rest to come back to-
them; having a kind of scymitar in their bands, and their,
bows hanging at their back.
Our brave commander, without asking any body to-
follow him, 'gallopped up close to them, and with his.
susil knocked one of them osf his horse, killed the second
with his pistol, and the third ran away r and thus-
ended our sight: but we had this misfortune attending:
it, viz. that all our mutton that- we had in chace got
away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but,. as for
the Tartars, there were about sive of them killed: how
many wre wounded,, we knew not > but this we knew,
that
that the other party was fo frighted with the noise of our
guns, that they tied, and never made any attempt upon
as.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not fo bold as afterwards: but
in about sive days we entered a vast great wild desert,
which held us three days and nights march; and we
were obliged to carry our water with us in great leather
bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard they
do in the deserts of Arabia.
I asked our guides, whose dominion this was in f
.and they told me, this was a kind of border that
might be called, No Man's Land; being part of the
Great Karakathy, 6r Grand Tartary; but, that how-
ever, it was reckoned to China; that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves;
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the
whole march, though we were gone over fome muck
largerr
In passing this wilderness, which I consess, was at the
sirst view very frightsul to me, we saw two or three times-
little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon
their own asfairs, and to have no design upon us; and
fo, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing
to say to us, we had nothing to say to them.; we let
them go.
Once, however, a party of them came fo near as to
stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider what
they should do, viz. to attack us, or not attack us, we
knew not; but when we were passed at fome distance
by them, we made a rear-guaid of forty men, and
stood ready for them, letting the caravan pais half
a mile, or thereabouts, before us; after a while they
marched ofs', only we found they assaulted us with sive
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a horse,
fo that it disabled him; and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in great need of a good sarrier; we sup-
pose they might ihoot more arrows, which might sall
short of us; but we saw no more arrows or Tartars at
that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being;
not fo. good as at sirst, though still in. the dominions of
tht
I • -
234 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the Emperor of China; but lay, for the most part, in
villages, some of which were fortified, because of the
incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of
these towns (it was about two clays and an half's jour-
ney before we were come to the City of Nauru)-,
I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty
to be fold all the way upon that road, ami of horses
also, such as they are, because so many caravans corn*
ing that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to, to get me a camel, would have gone
and setched it for me, but I, like a fool, must be offi-
cious, and go myself along with him. The place was
about two miles out of the village, where it seems,
they kept the camels and horses seeding under a
guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being desirous, forsooth, of a little vari-
ety. When we came to this place, it was a low marshy
ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it; like a park with
a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors. Having
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, 1 came
away; and the Chinese man, that went with me, led
the camel, ,when on a sudden came up five Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the sellow, and took
the camel from him, while the other three stepped
up to me, and my old pilot; seeing us, as it were,
unarmed, for I had no weapon about me hut my sword,
which could but ill desend me against three horse-
men. The first that came up, stopped short upon my
drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards): but
a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the
head, which 1 never selt till afterwards, and won-
dered, when I came to myself, what was the mat-
ter with me, and where I was, for he laid me fiat on
the ground; but my never-sailing old pilot, the Portu-
guese (so Providence urilooked tor directs deliverances
from dangers, which to us are unsoreseen), had a pistol
in his pocket, which I knew nothing ot, nor the Tartars
neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have
attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there
is no danger.
The
The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart step-
ped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold
of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by main
force a little towards him with the other, he shot him in-
to the head, and laid him dead on the spot; he then im-
mediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again) for it was
all done as it were in a moment) made a blow at him
with a scymitar, which he always wore; but, miffing
the man, cut his horse into the side of his head, cut one
of his ears off by the root, and a great slice down the
side os his sace. The poor beast, enraged with the wounds,
was no more to be governed by his rider, though the fel-
low sat well enough too; but away he flew, and carried
him quite out of the pilot's reach, and at fome distance
rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and
sell upon him.
1n this interval the poor Chinese came in, who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon; however, seeing
the Tartar down, and his horse sallen upon him, he runs
to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-savoured weapon he
had by his stde, fomething like a poll^ax, but not a pole-
ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to
knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old
man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and, seeing
he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to sight him,
as he apprehended, but stood stock-still, the old man
stood still too and salls to work with his tackle to charge
his pistol again; but as foon as the Tartar saw the
pistol, whether he supposed it to be the same or
another, I know not; but away he scoured, and left
my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a com-
plete victory.
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought,
when I sirst began to awake, that 1 had been in a tweet
steep; but as I said above, I wondered where I was,
how I came upon the ground, and what was the mat-
ter; in a word, a sew minutes after, as sense returned,
I selt pain, though I did not know where; I clapped
my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then
1 selt my head ache; and then, in another moment, me-
mory
mory returned, and every thing was present to me
again.
Ijumped up upon my seet instantly, and got hold of
my sword, but no enemies in view. 1 found a Tartar
lie dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him;.
and, looking sarther, I saw my champion and deliverer,,
who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming
back with his hanger in his hand; the old man, see-
,ing me on my seet, tame running to me, and embraced'
me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that
I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would see
how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
sail a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any
great inconvenience from the blow other than the place
which was hurt, and which was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory;
for we lost a camas, and gained a horse; but that which
was remarkable, when we eame back to the village,
the man demanded to be paid for the camel: I disputed
it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chi-
nese Judge of,the place; that is to say, in English,
-we went before a justice of the peace. Give him his
due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality r and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked
the Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was? I am no servant, said he, but
went with the stranger. At whose request? said the
justice. At the stranger's request, said he. Why then,
said the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his ser-
vant, to wit as delivered to him, and he must pay for
it.
I consess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word-
to say: but admiring to see such^ust reasoning upon the
consequence, and so accurate stating the case, 1 paid wib-
lingly for the camel, and sent for another: but yqu may
observe, 1 sent for it: I did not go to setch it myself any-
more: I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire: they call it fortisied, and so it is, as fortifications
go there i for this I wilL venture to affirm, that all the
Tar.t>rs
Tartars in Karakathy, which I believe, are some mil-
lions, could not batter down the walls with their bows
and arrows; but to call it strong if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it
laugh at you.
We wanted, as I have silid, about two days'journey
of this city,- when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road, to tell all travellers and caravans to
halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for that an
-unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
had appeared' in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers: however, it was
caresully done of the governor, and we were very glad
to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly two days
after, we had 200 soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city
of Naum, and with those we advanced boldly: the three
hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the
two hundred in our rear, and our men, on each fide of
our camels with our baggage, and the whole caravan
in the center; in this order, and weli prepared for battse,
we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thou-
sand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the
next day, when they did appear, it was quite another
thing.
Jt was early in the morning, when marching from a
little well-lituated town, called Changu, we had a river
to pass, where we w*re obliged to serry; and had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the
time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear
there.
About three hours after, when we were entered upon
a desert of about 15 or 16 miles over, behold, by a cloud
of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand; and
they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the
spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked
so big the day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them; which is a certain lign
in a soldier, that he is just ready to run away. My
old
238
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me, .he
called out, Seignior Inglese, said he, those sellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tar-
tars come on, they will never stand it. I am of your
mind, said I; but what course must be done? Done,
said he, let fifty of our men advance, and flank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will sight like
brave sellows in brave company; but without it they
will every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up
to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right
wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of
reserve; for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
dred men to make another body to themselves, and to
guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
lend an hundred men to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
, ten. thousand we thought was the least. A party of them
came on first, and viewed our posture, traversing the
ground in the front of our line; and as we found them
within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them asa-lvo on each wing with
their shot, which was done; but they went off, and I
suppose went back to give an account of the reception
they were like to meet with j and, indeed, that salute
clogged their stomachs; for they immediately-halted,
stood awhile to consider of it, rnd, wheeling ofs to the
left, they gave over the design, and said no "more to us
for that time, which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with
such a number.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or
Naunm; we thanked the governor for his care for us,
and collected to the value of 100 crowns, or thereabouts,
-which we gave to the soldiers lent to guard us: and here
we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there
-were nine hundred soldiers kept here: but the reason
ot it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay
.nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandoned that part of the country'(which lies from
the city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate
and
nnd unsit for use ;- and more especially, being so very-
remote, and so, difficult to send troops hither for irs
desence; for we had yet above two thousand miles to
Muscovy, properly so called.
After this we passed several great river's, and two dread-
ful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing
-over, and which, as I said, was to be called No Van's
Land; and on the 13th of April, we came to frontiers of.
the Muscovite dominions. 1 think the first city, or town,
or fortress, whatever it might be called, that belonged
to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the
west fide of the river Argun.
, 1 could not but discover an infinite satissaction, that I
-was now arrived in, as I called it a christian country;
ot, at least, in a country governed by christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just de-
serve the name of christians; yet such they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done,
and who had aiay power of reflection; I say, it would
occur to him to reflect, what a blessing it is to be
brought into the world where the name of God, and of
a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored, and
mot where the people, given up by heaven to strong
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves
to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, hor- .
rible shaped animals, and statues, or images of mon-
sters. Not a town or city we passed through but had
their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and igno-
rant people worshipping even the works os' their own
hands.
Now we came where, at least, a sace of the christian
-worship appeared, where the knee was bowed to Je-
liis • and whether ignorantly or not, yet the christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God was
called upon, and adored; and it made the very recesses
of my loul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scutch
merchant I mentis nsd above, with my first acknowledg-
ment of this; and, taking him by the hand, 1 said to
him, blessed be God, we are once again come among
christians. He smiled, and answered, do not rejoice too
soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd fort of
Chris-
christians; 'and but for the name of it, you may see
very little of the substance for some months sarther of our
journey.
Well, said I, but still 'tis better than paganism, and
-worshipping of devils. Why, I'll- tell you, said he;
except the Russian soldiers in garrisons; and a sew of the
inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of
this country, for above a thousand miles sarther, is inha-
bited by the worst, and most ignorant of Pagans; and
so indeed we found it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid
earth, if I understand any thing of the sursace of the
globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea, east-
ward; we ha-d at least two thousand to the bottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; and almost three thousand
miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the Bri-
tish and French channels; we had sull five thousand mile*
to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the frozen sea, north; nay, if some
people may be believed, there might be no lea north-
east till, we came round the pole, and consequently into
the north-west, and so had a continent of land into
America, no mortal knows where; though I could
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake
too.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good
-while before we came to any considerable town, we
had nothing to observe there but this; first, that all the
rivers run to the east. As I understood by the charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
plain that all those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural
course of it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese
ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choaked up with bulrushes of a monstrous
growth, viz. three seet about, and twenty or thirty
seet high, I mull be allowed to say, I believe nothing of;
but as its navigation is of no use, because there is
no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it
belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle; so nobody that
ever I heard of, has been curious enough either to
4*1
go down to the month of it in boats, or come up from
the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river, running due east, in the latitude of 60 degrees, car-
ries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and sinds an
oceanto empty itself in that latitude; fo we are sure of
sea^here.
Someleagues to the north of this river there arc several
considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the
Yamour runs east; and these are all found to join their
waters with the great river Tartarus, named fo from the
northernmost nations of the Mogul Tartars, who-, the
Chinese say, were the sirst Tartars in the world ; and who,
as our geographers alledge, are the Gog and Magog men-
tioned in sacred story.
The rivers running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident, that
the northern ocean bounds the land alfo on that
side; fo that it does not seem rational in the least to
think, that the land can extend itself to join with Ame-
rica on that side,. or that there is not a communication
between the northern and the eastern ocean; but of
this I shall say no more; it was my observation at that
time, and therefore I take notice of it in this place. We
now advanced from the river Arguna, by easy and mo-
derate journies, and were very visibly obliged to the
care the czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities
and towns built in as many places as are possible to
to place them, where his foldiers keep garrifon, fome-
thing like the stationary foldiers placed by the Romans
in the remotest corners of their empire, fome of which I
had read were particularly placed in Britain for the secu-
rity of commerce, and for the lodging of travellers; and
thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these
towns and stations the garrifon and governor were
Russians, and prosessed mere Pagans, sacrisicing to idols,
and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the
host of heaven: and not only fo, but were, of all the hea-
thens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barba-
rous, except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as
our savages of America did.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite domi-
vol. ii, .L nioiis
nions and a city of Tartars and Ruffians together, cal-
led Neitzinfkay; in which space is a continued desert ot
"forest, which cost up twenty days to trave over it. In
a village, near the last of thole places, I had the curi-
osity to go and fee their way of lhir.g; which is most
brutish aud insusserable , they had, I suppose, a great
.sacrifice that day ; for their stootiout, upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightsul as the devil;
at least as any thing we can think of to represent the
devil can be made; it had an head certainly not so much
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears
as big as goat's horns, tmd as bi<.h; eyes as big as a
crown piece; a r.ose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill -;
it was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you can
suppose; its upper garment was of sheep skins, with the
wool outward ; a great taitar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it: it was about eight seet
-high, yet had no seet or legs, or any other proportion.
of parts
This scarecrow was set up at the out-side of the vil-
lage; -and when I came near to it, there were lixteen
or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all'flat on the
ground, rpund this formidable block of shapeless wood;
1 saw no motion among them airy more than if they
had been logs of wood like their idol. At first 1 really
thought they had been so; but when 1 came a little
- nearer, they started up upon their seet, and raised an
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased at
our disturbing them. A little way off from this mon-
ster, and at the dooT of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers-
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, 1 found they had long knives in their hands,
and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep
kilied, and one young bullock, or steer. These, it
ieeniS, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol;
and these three men priests belonged to it; and the l'e-
2'12 • ADVENTURES OT ROBINSON CRTJSOX.
-Verfteen prostrated wretches were the people who brought
the' offering, and were making their prayers to that
*stock.
I consess I was more moved at their stupid'ty, and
this brutish worship of an hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my lise; to see God's moll glorious
•and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
-works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with saculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his Maker, and be honoured by him;
J say, to lee it sunk and degenerated to a decree lo
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightsul no*
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed tip by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
'•contrivance, adorned onlv with clouts and rags; and
that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought
up in hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, en-
vying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surseiting,
•sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
ihock nature it self.
But what signified all the astonishment and reflection
of my thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my
eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage; andr
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
"will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
•its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by
•one of the horn?; and one of our men that was with
me took hold of the sheep skin that covered it, and pul-
led at it, when, behold a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three
hundred people came about my ears, so that I was
.glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and ,
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
again.
Our caravan rested three nights at this 'town, which.
"was about four miles oft', in order to provide some
-horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing been lamed arid jaded with the badness of the way,
l 2 and
and our long march over the last desert; so we had
some leisure here to put ray design in execution. I
-communicated my project to the Scots merchant of
Moscow, of whose courage I had a sufficient testimony,
as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had since thought, that human nature
could be so degenerate.. I told him, I w.?.s resolved, if
I could get but four or five men, well armed, to go with
me, to go and destroy that vile abominable idol: to
let them see that it had no power to help itself, and
•consequently could not be an object of worship, or to be
prayed to, much less help them that ofsered sacrifices
4oit,
Helaugned at me: said he, Your real may be good;
out what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
said I, to vindicate the honour of God, which is in-
sulted by this devil-worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the honour of God? said he, while the people
-will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them too, and tell them so; and
then they will fight you too, I will assure you; for
_they are desperate sellows, and that especially in de-
sence of their idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons in writing,
in their own language? Writing! said he, why there
is not, in five nations of them, one man that knows any-
thing of a letter, or how to read a word in any lan-
guage, or in their own. Wretched ignorance! said I
to him; however, I have a great mind to do it; perhaps
nature may draw inserences from it to them, to let them
see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things.
Look you, Sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so
-warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected, by force, to the czar of Muscovy's do-
minions; and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinfltay, and
.complain, and demand satissaction: and if he cannot
give them satissaction, it is ten to one but they revolt; and
at will occasion a new war with all the 1 artars in the
country.
This,
This,. I consess, put new thoughts into my head for
a while; bat I harped upon the lame string still; and?
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Towards the evening the Scots- merchant met
me by accident in our walk about the town, and de-
sired to speak with me: I believe, said he,. 1 have
put you off your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since -T for 1 abhor the idol and idolatry,
as much as you can do. Truly, said I, you have
put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you
have not put it all out of my thoughts; and, I believe, I
shall doit still before I quit this place, though I-were
to be delivered up to them for satissaction. No, no,
said he: God forbid they should deliver you up to such
a crew of monsters! they shall not do that neither ;-
that would be murdering you indeed.. Why, said I,
how would they use me? Use you ! said he; I'll tell,
you how they ierved a poor Ruffian who affronted them
in their worship just as you did, and whom they took
prifoner ; after they had lamed him with an arrow,, that
he could net run away, they took him and stripped him
stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol mon-
ger, and stood all round him, and shot as many ar-
rows into him as would stick over his-whole body., . and'
then they burnt him and all the arrows sticking in'
him, as a sacrisice to the idol. And was this the same
idol ? said I. Yes, said he, the very same. Well, said
I, I will tell you a story : fo I related the story of our men
at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the vil-
lage there, and killed, man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, 1 added, that 1 thought we ought
to do Ib to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story; but when.
I talked of doing fo to that village, said he, you mistake
very much; it was not this village, it was almost a hun-
dred miles from this place; but it was the same idol,
for they carry him about in procestion all over the
country. Well, said I, then that idol ought to be
punished for it; and it shall, said I, if I live this night
out.
l 3 In
r
In a word, sinding me rfsblute, he liked the design,
and told me 1 should not go alone, but he would go
with me; but he would go sirst, and bring a stout
fellow. one of his countrymen, to go alfo with us; and
one, said he, as samous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these. In
a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he called Captain Richardfon; and I gave him a sull .ic-
crunt of what 1 had seen, and alfo of what 1 intended;
and he told me readily, he would go with me, if it cost
him his lise. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He
said, he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all
occasions, for my desence, but that this was an adven-
ture quite out of his way: fo, I say, we refolved upon
our woik, only we three, and my man-servant, and to put
it in execution that night about midnight, with all the
secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being to
set forward in the morning, we supposed she governor
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his power; the Scots merchant, as
steady in his refolution to enterprize it, as bold in exe-
cuting, brought me a Tartar's.robe or gown of sheep-
skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had
provided the same for himself and his countryman, that
the people, if they saw us, should not be able to determine
who we were.
All the sirst night we spent .in mixing up fome combus-
tible matter with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such other
materials as we could get; and, having a good quantity
of.tar in a little pot, about an hour after night we set
out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night,
and found that the people had not the least jealousy of
danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet
the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol
stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest, only
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, whe;e.
j
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butchers;
we saw a light, and, going up close to the door, we
heard people talking, as if there were five or fix of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild fire
to the idol, these men would come out immediately,
and run up to the place to rescue it from the Ac-
struction that we intended for it •_ and what to do with
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it
away, and setting fire to it at a distance ;_ but when.
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second.
Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the. create res that were there on. the head
when they came out; but 1 could not join with that; 1
was against killing, them, if if was possible to be avoided.
Well, then, said the Scots merchant, 1 will tell you what
we 'will do; we will try to take them prisoners, tie their
fian s, and make, them sland and see their idol de-
stroyed.
Asit happened', we had twine or'packthread enough
about us, which we used to tie our fire-works together
with; so we reiolved to attack these people first, and
with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did,
we knocked at the door, when one of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him and led him to
the idol, where we <r»22ed him, that he mi^ht not make
a noise;, tied hisseet also together, and left him on the
ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that,
another would come out to see what the .matter was,; •
but we waited so long that the third man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked again
gently, and immediately out came two more, and v/je
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some diltance from one another; when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the door, and
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant
went in after them, and taking out a compolition we
l 4 , had
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set fire
to it, and threw it in among them; by that time the
other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the two
men already bound, and tied together also by the arm*
l!c-d them away to the idol, and left them there, to see
if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to
us."
When the surze we had thrown in had filled the hut
with so' much smoke that they were almost suffocated',
we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we
found there were but four people left, who, it seems,, were
two men and two women, and, as we supposed, had
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to sit
trembling and* stupid, and not able to speak neither, for
the smoke.
In- a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
other, a«d all without any noise. I should have said,,
we brought them out of the house, or- hut, first; for,
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more
than they were. When we had done this, we carried
them, altogether to the idol;, when we came there we
sell to work with- him; and first we daubed him alt
over, and his robes also, with tar, and such, other
stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with' brim-
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and' mouth
full of gun-powder; then we wrapped up a. great
piece of wild fire in his bonnet;. and- then- sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him,
we looked about to see if we could find any thing else
to help to burn him: -when my Scotsman remem-
bered, that ty the tent or hut where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes
1 do not remember: away he and the other Scotsman
san, and setched their arms sull of that. When we had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them,
having untied their seet, and ungagged their, mouths,
and made them stand up, and set them just before
their monstrous idol, and then, set fire, tp the
whole.
We-
We staid by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it, and, in a word, till we saw,,
it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then'
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be foon
quite consumed; fo we began to think of going away;
but the Scotchman said: No, we must not go; for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the
sire, and burn- themselves with the idol ;. fo we refolved
to stay till the forage was burnt down too,.and then we
came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among' our sellow tra-
vellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;-
nor could any man suggest that we had been any-
where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed,
to be, to sit themselves for the satigues of that day's-
journey.
But it did not end fo; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage, but of an hundred more, for, aught 1 know, to»
the town gates, and, in a most outrageous manner, de-
manded satissaction of the Russian governor, for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their great Cham—
Chi-Thaungu; such an hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped: the people of Nert—
zinskay were at sirst in a great consternation: for, they
said, the Tartars were no less than 30,000, and;
that in a sew days more, they would be 100,000;
strong.
The Ruffian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there
had not a foul of his garrifon been abroad: that iti
could not be from any there: and if they would lett
him know who it was, they should be exemplariljr
punished;. They returned, naughtily,.. That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who.
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to .
offer violence to his image, but fome Christian • mil-
creaat; fo they called them, it seems;,and they there-
x. 5 '. 'sore
fore denounced war against him, and all the Ruffians*,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or'to have any cause of war alledged to be given
by him, the Czar having straightly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave
them, still all the good words he could; at 1 ail he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morciig, aud, perhaps, it was some of them.who had
done them this injury; and that, if they would be satis--
fied with that, he would send after them, to enquire into.
it« This seemed to appease them a little; and accord-
ingly the governor sent aster us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimating withal,.that is
any in our. caravan had done it, they should make their
escape;, but that, whether they had done it or no, we
should make all the haste forward that was possible; and
that in the mean time, he would, keep them in play as
long ashe could;
This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
any thing of the matter; aad, as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as-
asked us the question; however, the captain of the
caravan, for the time, took the hint that the governor
gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and two
nights without any considerable stop, and then we lajr,
. at a village called Plothus: nor. did we make any
long Hop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena,
another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where
we expected we should be sase: but it is to be
observed, that here we began, for two or„ three days
march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of which
1 shall say more,in its place; and which if we had
now. been upon it, it is more than probable, we ha 1
been- all destroyed. It was the second day's march
from Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at:
a great diltance, some of our people began to be sen-
sible we were pursued; we had entered the desert, and
had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, when.
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
• other'
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling weft.
We observed they went \vay west, as we did; but
had supposed we mould have taken that-side of the lake,
whereaV we very happily took the south side; and in
two days more we Caw them not, tor they, believing
we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to
the river Udda; this is a very great riser when it passes
sarther north; but when we came to it, we found it nar-
row and formidabse: ,
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us,
towards the dust? of the evening. We hadr..to our great
satissaction, haft pitched upon a place for our camp
which was very convenient for the night: for as we
were upon a. desert, though but at the beginning of
if that was above five hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge a', and, indeed, expected none but
the city Jaraw n , which we had yet two da. > march,
to- the desert, however, had some sew woods in it oa
this side and. little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow, streight between two
small but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
oamp for-that night, ejecting to be attacked in the
DigNobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued-
for- but as it was usual for the Mogul'I artars to go-
about in troops in .that desert, so the caravans always-
fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to-
be oursued. ,, . , „
But we had this night,, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay between
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our
front - so that we could not be turrounded or attacked
any way, but ia.our front or rear; we took care alio to
make our front as strong as we. could, by placing our
nacks with our camels and horses, all ma line on the
inside'of the river, and we-selled sema tree* in out
tear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished our situa-
tion: they, did not come on us like ^eves^we
expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand5
*he men to be delivered to them, that had abused their
priests, and burnt their god Cham-Chi-Thaungu, that
they might burn them with fire; and, upon this, they
said, they would go away, and do us no sarther harm,
otherwise they would burnt us all with fire. Our men
looked very blank at this message, and began-to stare
at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in their
saces, but, nobody was the word,, nobody did it. The-
leader- of the caravan sent word, he was well assured
it was not done by any of our camp; that we were
peaceable merchants travelling on.our business; that we
had done no harm to them, or to any one else; and
therefore they must look sarther for their enemies, who
had injured them, for we were not the people; so desired:
them not to disturb us; for if they did, we should desend,
ourselves.
- They, were sar from being satisfied with this for an-.
answer*. and a great crowd of them came down in the
morning by break of day, to our camp; but seeing us
in such an advantageous situation, they durst come no
sarther than the brook in our front, where they stood,,
and shewed us such a number, as,, indeed, terrified us-
-very much; for those- that spoke least of them spoke
•of ten. thousaad. Here they stood, and looked at us a
while, and then setting up a great- howl, they let fly
a cloud of arrows among us ; - but we were well enough-
fortified for that, for we were sheltered under our bag--
gage ;. and I. do not remember that one man of us was-
hurt,.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to>
our right, and expected thenv on the rear, when, a cun-
ning sellow, a.Cossack as they call them, of Jarawena,.
in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of
the caravan* said to him, I will send all these people
away to Sibeilka; this was a city four or five days-
journey,..at least,.to the south, and rather behind us.
So he takes: his bow and arrows; and, getting on
horseback, he ridea-away from our rear directly, as-
it were, back to Nertzinskay; after this, he takes a
great circuit- about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had beea seat express to tell them
a.long;
a long story, that the people who had burnt their Cham--
Ghi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them ; that is to say, Christians;
and that they were resolved to burn, thegod Seal Isarg,.
belonging to the. Tongueses.
As this sellow, was a mere Tartar, and persectly spoke
their language,, he counterseited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they drove, in.a most vio-
lent hurry, to Sibeilka, which it seems, was five days''
journey to the south, and in less *han three hours they
were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any
more of them, or ever knew whether they went to that
other place called Sibeilka, or no.
So we passed sasely, on to the City of Jarawena,,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites;: and there we
rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly satigued
•with the laii day's, march,, and with want-of rest in the
night.
From this city, we had a frightsul desert, which held
us three and twenty days' march. We surnished.ourselves
with some tents here, For the better accommodating our-
selves in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro-
cured sixteen carriagesor waggons, of the country, for
carrying our water and provisions;, and these carriages
were our desence every night round our little camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able to
hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after-
this long journey;. for, in this desert, we saw neither
house nor tree, nor scarce a bush ; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the sable-hunters, as they call them; these are
all Tartars of Mogul. Tartary, of which this country,
is a part;-and they frequently attack small caravans:,
but we saw no numbers of them together. 1 was curi-
ous to see the sable skins they catched :. but I could never
speak with any of them; for they durst not come near
us, neither durst we straggle from our company to n-o.
near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a coun-
try pretty well inhabited ; that is to say, we found towns
and castles settled by the Ciar of. Muscovy, with garri-
4. l sons.
risons of stationary soldiers to protect the caravans, anct
desend the country against the Tartars, who would
otherwise make it tfery dangerous travelling; and his
Czari:h majesty has given such strict orders son the well
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are
any '1 artars heard of in the country, detachments of the
garrison are always sent to see travellers :a.e from station
to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the txots
merchant who was acquainted with him, ofsered us a
guard of hfty men, if we thought there was any danger,
to the next station.
I thought long before this, that, as we came nearer
to Europe, we should find the country better peopled,,
and the people more civilised; but I found myself mis-
taken in both, for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses-
to pass throigh; where we saw the same tokens of pa-
ganism and barbarity, or worse than before; only as;
they were c ni]Uered by the Muscovites, and entirely
reduced, they were not so .dangerous; but for the rude--
ness of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in.
the world ever went beyond them. They are clothed 'all
'in the skins of beasts,.and their houses are built of the
same. You know not a man fr-om a woman, neither
by the nuggednels of 'their countenances nor their clothes;:
and in the winter, when the ground, is covered with-
snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults,,
which have cavities or caves going from one to another.
If the Tartars had their I ham-Chi-Thaungu for a*
whose village or country, these had idols in every hut,
and every cave; besides, they worship the stars, the fun,,
the water, the show, and, in a word, every thing that-
they do not understand, and they understand but very-
little; so that almost evey element, every, uncommon,
thing, sets them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to describe peopl • than countries,
any sarther than my own story comes to be concerned in
therii. 1 met with nothing peculiar to myself in all this
country, which, I reckon was, from the desert which
I.spoke of last, at least, four hundred miles, half of it
being:
Being,another desert, which took us up twelve days' se--
vere travelling, without house, tree, or buft; but were
obliged again to carry our own provisions, as we:l water
[ as bread. After we were out of this desert, and had tra-
veiled two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city
or station, on the great-river Janezay. This river, they
told us, parted Europe from Asia, though our map-
makers, as 1 am told, do not agree to it; however, it is
certainly the eastern boundary of the antient Siberia,
which now makes a province only of the vast Muscovite
empire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire
of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still
prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the
country between the riverOby, and the river Jarezajv
is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the
remotest of the 'Tartars, nay, as any nation, for aught-1
know, in Alia, or America. 1 also sound, which 1 ob-
served, to the Muscovite governors, whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the pagans are not mucri.
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for beinf under
the Muscovite government; which they acknowledged
was true enough, but, they said, it was none of their
business; that if the Czar expected to convert- his Sibe-
rian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done-
by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and
they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not-so much the concern of their monarchy
to make the people Christians; as it-was to make them,
subjects.
from this river, to the great river Oby, we crossed a.
wild uncultivated country; I cannot say rtis a barbarous
foil; 'tis only barren of people and good management;
otherwise it- is in itself a most pleasant; fruitsul, and
agreeable country. What- inhabitants we found ip it
are all pagans, except such as are sent amon" them,
from Russia; for this is the country 1 mean on both
sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals,
that are not put to death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to impossible they, should ever come
-awajr..
Il have
I have nothing material to say of ray. particular
afsairs, till I came to Tobolski, the capital .os Siberia,.
•where I continued lbme time on the following occa-
sion.
We had been now almost seven months on our journey,,
and winter began to come on apace: whereupon my
partner and I called a council about our particular affairs,,
in which we found it proper, considering that we were
bound for England, and not for Moscow, to consider-
how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of fledgesand
rein-deer, to carry us over the snow in the winter-time:
and, indeed, they have such things, as it would be in-
credible to relate the particulars of, by which means the
Ruffians travel more in the winter than they can in sum-
mer ; because in these fledges they are able to run night
and day: the snow being frozen, is one universal cover-
ing to nature,, by which the hills, the vales, the rivers,,
the lakes, are all smooth, and hard as a stone; and they
run upon the sursace, without any regard to what is.
underneath.
But I had no octafion to push at a winter journey of
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route two ways: either I must go on as the ca-
ravan went, till I came to Jariflaw, and then go off west,
for Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so-either by.
sea or land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell my
China cargo to good advantage, or I must leave the cara-
van at a little town on the Dwina, from whence 1 had
but six days by water to Arch-Angel, and from thence
might be lure of snipping, either to England, Holland,,
or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these journies in the winter would
have been preposterous; for as to Dantzick, the Baltic
-would be frozen up, and I could not- get passage::
and to go by land in those countries, was sar less sase
than among the Mogul Tartars: likewise to Arch-Angels
in October all the ships would'be gone from thence,, and.
even the merchants, who dwell there in summer,, retire
south so Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone :.:
fo that 1 should have nothing but extremity of cold to
encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie
there
there in an empty town all the winter; fo that, upon the
whole, I thought it much my better way to let the cara-
van go, and to make provision to winter where I was,
viz. atToboHki, in Siberia, in the latitude of sixty de-
grees, where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold
winter with, viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country
afforded, a warm, house, with suel enough, and excellent
company; of all which I will give a sull account in its
place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved island, where I never selt cold, except when I
had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any
sire but" without doors, and my necessity, in dress-
ing my. food, &c. Now 1 made me three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them to hang down
to the seet, and butt-on close to the wrists, and all
these lined with, furs, to make them. sufficiently
warm..
ADVENTURES OS ROBINSON CRUSOE. ;5'
like our way in England, of making sires in every
room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the sire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a surnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up one
way, the door to come at the sire went in. another,
and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but
no sire seen; like as they heat the bagnios- in Eng-
land.
By thi* means we had always the same climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved ;. and how
cold foever it was without, it was always warm, within ;.
and yet we saw no sire,. nor was ever, incommoded with
any smoke.
The most wondersul thing, of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with, good company here, in a country
lb barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of Eu-
rope, near the frozen ocean, and within but a. very-sew
degrees of Nova Zembla.
But
jT
But this being the country where the slate criminals os
Muscovy, ns I observed before, are all banished; this
city was sull of noblemen, princes, gentsemen, colonels,
and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry', soldiery,
and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the famous
Prince Galil ken, or GalofFkcn, and his son, the old
General Koboslisky, and several other persons of not?,
and some lac'ies.
By mean of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless,
I parted with here, 1 made an acquaintance with several
of these gentlemen, and some of them of the first rank;
and from these, in the long winter-nights in which I:
staid here, i received several agreeable visits. It was
talking one night with a certain prince, one of the ba*
nished ministers of Hate belon^ins to the Czar of Mut-
covy, that my talk of my particular case began.
Me had been telling me abundance of sine things, of
the greatness, the magnificence, and dominions, and the
absolute power of the emperors osthe Ruffians. I inter-
rupted him, and told him, 1 was a greater and more
powersul prince than, ever the Czar of Muscovy was,
though my dominionswere not so large, or my people
so many.
The Ruffian Grandee looked a little surprised, and
fixing his eyes steadily upon me, b?gan to wonder what
1 meant.
1 told Kim his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, 1 told him, I had the absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects:
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not one
person disaffected to my government or to my person, in:
all my dominions.
He shook his head at that, and said, There indeed,. I
outdid the Czar of Muscovy.
I told him, that.all the lands in my kingdom were my
own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants,
but tenants at will; that they would all sight for
me to the last drop.; and that never tyrant, for
such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so uni-
versally beloved, and yet so horribly seared, by his
subjects.
Metr
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for a while, I opened the case, and told them
the story at large of my living in the island, and how
I managed both myself and the people there that were
under me, just as 1 have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially
the prince, who told me with a iigh, that the true
greatness of lise was to be master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a state of lise as
mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found
more selicity in the retirement he seemed to be banish-
ed to there, than ever he found in the highest autho-
rity he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar: that
the height of human wisdom, was to bring our tem-
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm,
within, under the weight of the greatest storm with-
out. When he came first hither he said, he used to
tear the hair from his.head, and the clothes from his
back, as others had done before him; but a lit tie
time and conlideration had made him look into him-
selfi as well as round himself, to things without:
that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal lise, and
how little this world was concerned in its true seli-
city, was persectly capable of making a selicity for
itself, sully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own
best ends and desires, with but very little aliiltance
from the world; that air to breathe in, food to sul-
tain lise, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exer-
cise, in order to health, compleated, in his opinion, all
that the world could do fof us: and though the great-
nels, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had
enjoyed his shar.e of, had much in them that was agreer
able to us, yet he observed,, that all those things chiefly
gratified the coarsest of our astedtions: such as our
ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our viir
nity, and our sensuality; all which were^ indeed,, the
mere product of the worst part of man, were in themr
selves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all man-
ner of crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those virtues that constituted, ui
560
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
wise men, or of those graces which distingnithed us as-
Chritlians: that being now deprived of all the sancied
felicity, which he enjoyed in the sull exercise of all those
vices, he said, he was at leisure to- look upon the dark
side of them, where he found all manner of deformity %.
and was now convinced, that virtue only makes a man-
truly wile, rich, and great, and preserves him- in the way
to a superior happiness in a suture state; and in. this,
he said, they were more happy in their banishment than,
all their enemies were, who had the sull postession of aft
the wealth and power that they (the banished) had left
behind them.
Nor,_ Sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politi-
cally, by the necessity of my circumstances, which fome
call miserable; but if I know any thing of myself, I
would not go back, no, not thp' my master, the Czar„
should call me, and offer to reinstate me in. all my former
grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than I
believe my foul, when it shalt be delivered from this pri-
fon of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious state
beyond lise, would come back to the goaL of flesh and-
blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven, to deal in.
the dirt and grime of human affairs.
„ He spake this with fo much warmth in. his temper, so.
much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which were
apparent in his countenance, that it was evident it was-
the true sense of his foul; and, indeed,.there was no room,
to doubt his sincerity..
I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a mo*
aarch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, but that I though he was not a. monarch only,
but a great conqueror;, for that he that has got a,
victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the
abfolute dominion over himself, and whose reafon
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater, than he
that conquers a city. But,, my Lord, laid I, shall h
take the liberty to ask you a question.? With all my
heart, said he. If the door of your liberty was opened,,
said 1, would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself
from, this exile 2
Hold,.
Hold, said he, your question is subtle, and requires
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere an-
swer; and I'll give it you from the bottom of my
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would
move me to deliver myself from the state of banish-
ment, except these two: First, the enjoyment of my
relations; and secondly, A little warmer climate; but
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of th«
court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister
of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that
is to say, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me
to all he banished me from: 1 protest, if I know
myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace of
Moscow,
But, my Lord, said I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore, but you may be absent too from some of the con-
veniencies of lise; your estate, perhaps, confiscated,
and your effects plundered: and the supplies left you
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
lise.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a Lord,
or a Prince, &c. So, indeed, 1 am; but you are now
to consider me only as a man, a human creature, not
at all distinguished from another: and so I can suffer no
-want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dis-
tempers. However, to put the question out of dispute;
you see our manner; we are in this place five persons of
rank; we live persectly retired, as suited to a state of
banishment; we have something rescued from the ibip-
•wreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere
necessity of hunting for our food, but the poor tolcliers
•who are here, without that helj>, live in as much plenty
as we. They go into the woods, and catch sables and
.fixes; the labour of a month will maintain them a year;
and as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard
to get sufficient to ourselves; lb that objection is .out of
•dcore.
•I have
I have no room to give a sull account of the rnoft
'agreeable conversation I had with this truly great
man; ami in all which he shewed, that his mind was
ib inspired with a superior knowledge of things, fo sup-
ported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the
same to the last, as will appear in the story I am going
'to tell.
1 had been here eight months, and a dark dreadsul
winter I thought it to be; the cold was fo intense,
that I could not fo much as look abroad without be-
ing wrapt in surs, and a mask of sur before my sace,
or rather a hood, with only an hole for breath, and
two for sight. The little day-light we had, was, as
we reckoned, for three months, not above sive hours a
day, and six at most; only that the snow lying on the
ground continually, and the weather clear, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather
starved) underground; and, as for our servants (for
we hired servants here to look after our horses and
selves), we had every now and then their singers and
i toes to thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify
and sall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being dole, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
class all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer,
dried and .cured in the seafon; good bread enough, but
baked as biscuits; dried sish of several forts, and fome
flesh of mutton, and of ouffaloes, which is pretty good
beef. All the store of provision for the winter are laid
'up in'the summer, and well cured; our drink was water
mixed with aqua vitae, instead of brandy; and, for a
treat, mead instead of wine; which, however, they
have excellent good. Thehunters, whoventured abroad
all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh venifon,
very sat and good: and fometimes bears slesh, but we
did not much care for the last. We had a good stock
of tea, with which we treated our friends as above; and
in a word, we lived very chearsulfy and well, all things
considered.
Tt was now March, and the days grown consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerabse; so
other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them
•over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Arch- .,
Angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no
motion, knowing very well, that the lhips from the
south do n')t set out for that part of the world till
May or June: and that if 1 was there at the beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any ships would be
ready to go away; and therefore, 1 say, I made no
haste to be gone, as others did? in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay, all the' travellers, go away
'before me. It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscow for trade, viz. to carry fur?, and buy neces-
saries with them, which they bring back to surnish
their shqpp; also others went on the same errand to
Arch-Ange'l; Tiut then they also, being to come back
-again above eight hundred miles, went out all before
me.
In short, about the latter end of May, I began to make
•all ready to pack up; and as s was doing this, it oc-
curred to me, that seeing all these people were banished
-by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when they
came there, were at liberty to go whither they would;
•why did they not then go away to any part of
the world wherever they thought sit? and I began
to examine what should hinder them from making such
an attempt.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that
subject with the person I have mentioned, who an-,
-swered me thus: Consider, first, Sir, said he, the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especially, said he, the generality of the people
who are banished hither. We are surrounded, laid he,
•with stronger tilings than bars and bolts; on the north.
side is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed,
and boat never swam; neither, if we had both, could
we know whither tosgo with them. Everv cth:r way,
aid he, we have above a thousand miles to .pass through,
he Czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly
impassable, exc pt by the roads made by the govern-
r ment,
8si4
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOfr.
tnent, and through the towns garrifoned by his troops;
fo that we could neither pass undiscovered by the road,
or subsist any other way; fo that is in vain to attempt
it.
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
were in prifon, every jot as secure, as if they had been
locked up in the castle of Moscow: however, it came
into my thoughts, that I might certainly be made an
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per«
fon, and that it was very easy for rrie to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Arch-Angel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the
desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-Angel,
where I could immediately secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off sase along
with me; and as to his subsistence, and other particu-
lars, that should be my care, till he should better supply
himself.
He heard me very attentvely, and looked earnestly
on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
very sace, that what I said put his spirits into an exceed-
ing serment; his colour frequently- changed, his eyes
looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might be
even perceived in his countenance; nor could he im-
mediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it were,
expected what he would say to it; and after he had
paused a little, he embraced me, and said, how unhappy
are we! unguided creatures as we are, that even our
greatest acts of friendship are made snares to us, and we
are made'tempters of one another! My dear friend, said
he, your offer is fo sincere, has such kindness in it, is fo
disinterested in itself, and is fo calculated for my advan-
tage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world,
if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge the
obligation 1 have upon me to you for it: But did you
believe 1 was sincere in what I have fo often said to you
of my contempt of the world? Did you believe I spoke
my very foul to you, -and that I had really maintained
that degree of selicity here, that had placed me above
-all
1 that the world could give me, or do for me? Did
yen believe I was sincere, when I told you I would not
go back, if I was recalled even to be all that once I was
in the court, and with the savour of the Cfcar, my mas-
ter? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest
man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite r
Here he stopped, as if he would -hear what I would say;
hut, indeed, I soon after perceived, that he stopped be-
rause his spirits were in motion; his heart was sull of
struggles, aud he could not go on. I was, I consess,
astonished at the thing, as well as at the man, and I
used some arguments with him to urge him to set himself
free: that he ought to look upon this as a door, opened
hy Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by Pro-
vidence, who has the care and good disposition of all
-events, to do himself good, and to render himself usesul
in the world. v.
He had by this time recovered himself: Howdoydi*
know, Sir, said he, warmly, but that instead of a sum-
mons from heaven, it may be a seint of another in-
strument, representing, m all the alluring colours, to
me, the shew of selicity as a deliverance, which may in,
itself be my feare, and tend directly to my ruin? Hfire
I am free from the temptation of returning to my former
miserable greatness; there 1 am not sure, but that
all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury>
which 1 know remain in my nature, may revive and
take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and
then the happy prisoner* whom you see now master
of his soul's liberty-, shall he the miserable slave of his
'own senies, in the sull of all personal liberty. Dear
Sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement* banished
from the crimes of lise, tattier than purchase a shew of
freedom at the expence of the liberty of my reason, and
-et the expetoce of the suture happiness which now I
have in my view, but shall then, I sear, quickly lose sight
cf; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have passions
and affections as likely to possess and overthrow me as
•finy man: O be not my friend and my tempter both
together! ,
VO-L* H. W If
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed admired what
I saw; the struggle in his foul was so great, that though
the weather was extremely -cold, it put him into a most
violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give vent to his
mind; so I said a word or two, that I would leave him
to consider of it, and wait on him again ; and then 1 with-
drew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, 1 heard somebody at or near
the door of the room, and 1 was going to open the door;
but he had opened it, and come in: My dear friend,
said he, you had almost'overset me, but 1 am recovered:
<lo not take it ill that I do not close with your offer; I
assure you, it is not for want of a fense of the kindness
ef it in you; and I come to make the most sincere ac-
knowledgment of it to you; but, I hope, I have got the
Tictory over myself.
My Lord, said 1, I hope you are sully satissied, that
you did not resill the call of heaven. Sir, said he, if
it had been from heaven, the same power would have
influenced me to accept it; but I hope, and am sully
satisfied, that it is from heaven that I decline it; and
I have an infinite satissaction in the parting, that you.
fliall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-
session to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
should always acknowledge it; and with that he offered
me a ver3'fine present of sables, too much, indeed, for.
me to accept from a man. in his circumstances; and I
would have avoided them, but he would not ,be
resused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his Lordship,
with a small present of tea, two pieces of China, da-
mask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did
not all weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts; but
were sar short of the value of his sables, which, in-
deed, when 1 came to England, I found worth near two
kundred pounds, He accepted the tea, and one piece
4 of
of the damaflc, and one of the pieces of gold, which had
a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I
found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any
more; and sent word by my servant, that be desired to
speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew what had-
passed between us, and hoped I would not move him any
more in that atFair; but that, since I'made such a gene-
rous osser to him, he asked me, if I had kindness enough
to oiler the same to another person tha.t he would name
to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. 1 told
hi,m, that I could not say 1 inclined to do. much for any
one but himself, for whom 1 had a particular value, and
ihould have been glad to have been the instrument of his
deliverance; however, if he would please to name the
person to me, I would give him m.y answer, and hoped
he would not be displeased with me, if he was with my
answer. He told me, it was only his son, who, though
I had not seen, yet was in the lame condition with him-
self, and above two hundied miles from him, on the
other side the Oby ;. but that, if I consented, he would
send for him.
1 made no hesitation, but told him I would do it: I
made some ceremony in letting him understand, that it
was wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, I would shew, my respect to him, by my
concern for his son! but these things are too tedious to
repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, and
in about twenty days he came back with the messenger,
bringing six or seven horses loaded with very rich surs,
and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great
value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young Lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his sather pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there the
manner of our travelling, and every thing proper for the
journey.' / •' ,_ . I .
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermines, and', such other surs that ate
very rich; 1 say, 1 hadbo^h^'t^teqa jn that city for
exchange for some of the goods brought from China; in
particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which 1 fold
the greatest part here; and the rest afterwards at Arch-
angel, for a much better price than I could have done at
London; and my partner, who wcs sensible of the profit,
and whose business more particularly than mine, was mer-
chandize, was mightily pleased with our stay, on account
of the traffic we made here
It was in the beginning of June, when J left this re-
mote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the
-world; and, indeed, it is to far outvof the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked5
of. We were now come to a very small caravan, be-
ing only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all os
them pafled for mine, though my new guest was pro-
prietor of eleven of them. It was most natural also, that
- I sliould take more servants with me than I had before,
and the young Lord pasted for my steward; what great
man I passed for myself I know not, neither did it con-
cern me to enquire. We had here the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met wkh in all the
journey, indeed, I call it the worst, because the way
was very deep in some places, and very uneven irt.
others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
fear, and that they sever came on this side the river
Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it
otherwise.
My young Lord had with him a saithsul Muscovite
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
fectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
by private toads, that we avoided coming into tha-
principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as
Tumen, Soloy-Kamoskoy, and several others; because
'the Muscovite garrisons which arejeept there are very
curious and strict in their observations upon travellers,
ami searching lest any of the baoished persons of note
should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but
by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so
cur whole journey was a desert, and we w.eie obliged/
to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have
had good. acwmiDAdatipa. in the cities on the rway:
thi*
this the young Lord was so sensible of, that he would
not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several citk's
on the way; but lay abroad himself, with his servant,
in the woods, and met u* alWays at the appointed
places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the riveT
Kama, which, in those parts, is the boundary between.
Europe and Asia; and the sirst city on' the European fuse
was called Soloy-Kamoskoy, which is as much as to say,
the great city on thtr river Kama ;. and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their
manners, their habit, their religion, and their Business;
but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to
pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred- miles
Iong in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it; so, till' we came past that
horrible place, we found*- very little disference between'
that country and the Mogul Tartary; the people mostly
Pagans, and little better than the savages of America;
their houses and towns sull of idols, and their way
of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities as
aBovc, and the villages near them;' where they are
Christians, ast'hey call themselves of the Greek church;
but even these have their religion mingled with
so many reliques of superstition, that it is scarce to'
be known in some places for mere sorcery and witch-
craft.
In pasting this forest, I thought, indeed, we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped,
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murdered'by a troop of thieves; of- what country
they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi,.
a kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of
the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were
the sable hunters of Siberia, Fam yet at a less to kuow;
but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrowsl,
and were at first about five and forty in number; they
came so near to us, as within about two musquet shot;
and, asking no questions, they surrounded us with their
; horse, and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at
length they placed themselves just in our way; upon
•which we drew up in a little line before our camels
M 3 being
being not above sixteen men in all; and being drawn'
up thus, we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant,
who attended his Lord, to see who they were; his
master was the more willing to let him go, because he
was not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian
troop sent out after hiiru The man came up near them.'
with a flag of fruoe, and called to them; but though-
Be spoke several of their languages, or dialects of lan-
guages rather, he could not understand a word they
find; however, after some signs to him not to come
nearer to them at his peril;. so he said he understood
them to mean, ofsering to stoat at him if he advanced;
the sellow came back no wiser than he went, only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some
Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hords; and-
that there must be more of them on the great, desert, fho*
he never heard that ever any of them were seen so sar
north before.
This was small' comfort- to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left handi at about a quarter
of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of trees,
which, ttood close together, and very near the road ;• I
immediately resolved we would advance to those trees,,
and fortify ourselves, as well as we could there; for, -
first, I considered that the trees would in. a great mea-
sure cover us from-their arrows; and, in the next place,,
they could not come to charge us in a body: it was,
indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it • andi
•who had this excellency attending him, namely, that he
-was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage
us in cases of the most danger. We advanced imme-
diately with what speed we oould, and gained that little
-wood, the Tartars or thieves, for we knew not what to
call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting to
Binder us. When we oame thither, we found, to our
great satissaction, that it was a swampy springy piece
of ground, an<!, on the other side, a very great spring
of water-, which, ranning out in a bttle. rill or
brook, was, a little sarther, joined by another- of the
like bigness: and was, in short, the head or source os
a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska;
the trees which grew about this spring, were not in aH
. above
apove two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty,
thick; fo that as foon as we got in, we saw ourselves per-
fectly sase from the enemy, unless they alighted and
attacked us on foot. .,
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with-
indesatigable application-, cut down great arms of the
trees, and laid, them hanging:, not cut quite osf", from
one tree to-another; so that he made, a continued sence
almost round us. ..
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
feme hours, without perceiving they made any offer to-'
stir; when about two hours before night, they cams
down directly upon us; and, though, we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by fome more
of the same, fo that they were near fourscore horse,.
thereof, however, we sancied' fome were women.—.
They came on. till they were within. half a shot of our
little wood, when. we sired one musquet without ball,,
and called to-them in the Ruffian tonguej. to know what
they wanted, and bid them, keep off; but, as- if they
knew nothing of what we said,, they came on- with a.
double sury directly up to the wood side, not imagining
we were fo barricadoed that they could not break hi •
our old pilot was our captain, as well as- he had been
our engineer; and desired of us,, not to sire upon them-
till they came within pistol'shot, thatwe-might be sura
to kill; and that when we did sire we should be sure-
to take good aim. We bade hina. give the word of
command; wbieh he delayed fo long, that they were,
fome of them, within two pikes length,of us when we
sired.
We aimed fo true (or Providencedirected our shot' so
sure) that we killed-fourteen of them at the sirst volley.,
and'wounded severalothersy as alfo si-veral of th-ir horses;
for We-had all of us loaded our pieces witfa;tw< or three
bullets a piece at least.
They were terribly, surprised with our sire, and retreated i
immediately about l'GO-rods from us; in which time we
loaded our pieces again, and, seeing them keep that
distance, we sallied out, and caught four or sive of
their horsea,, whose riders, we supposed, were killed;
and,.
and, coming Up to the dead, we could easily perceive
they-Vere Tartars, bat knew not from what count ry,-
or how they came to make an- excursion such an un*
usual length.
About an hour aster, tTtey made a motion to attack us
again, and rode round our Tittle wood, to see where else
they mi^ht break in ; but finding us always ready to sace
them, they went off again, and- weresolved not to stir
from the place for that night.
We slept a little, you -rrray be sure ; but spent the most
part os the n:ght in strengthening our situation, and bar-
licadoing the entrances into the wood; and, keeping ar
strict watch, we waited for day-light, and, when it came,
it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the
enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the
reception they had met with, were now increased to*
no less than thTee hundred, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp they had pithed, was upon the/
open plain, at about three quarters 0' a mile from us-
We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery; and now,.
I consess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The losses tny effects did not lie so near me (though-
they were very considerable) as the thoughts of salling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of-
my journey, after so many difficulties and hazards as
r had gone through; and even in fight of our port,
where we expected sasety.and deliverance. As for my
partner, lie was . raging; he declared, that to lose-
his goods would be his ruin; and he would rather-
die than be starved; and he was for fighting to the last
drop.
-The young Lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed it-
self, was for sighting to the last also; and my pilot was-
of the opinion- we were able to resist them all, in the
situation we then were in; and thus we spent the day
in debates of what we should do; but, towards evening,
we found that the number of our enemies still encreascd:
perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for prey,
the first had sent out scouts to call for help, and to
acquaint them of their booty; and we did not know but/
by the morning they might still be a gieater number;
ib
fo I began to enquire of those people we had brought
from Tobolski, if there was no other, or more private
ways, by which we might avoid them in the night, and
perhaps either retreat to fome town, or get help to guard
us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young Lord, told
ns, if we designed to avoid them, and not sight, he would
engage to carry us off in the night to a way that went
north towards the river Petraz, by which be made no
doubt but we might get away, and the Tartars never the
wiser; but he said, his Lord had told him he would not
return, he would rather chuse to sight. I told' him, he
mistook his Lord; for that he was too wise a man to love
sighting for the sake of it; that I knew his Lord was
brave enough by what he had shewed already; bat .that
his Lord knew better, than to desire to have seventeen or
eighteen men sight sive hundred', unless an unavoidable
necessity forced them to it; and that if-he thought it pos-
sible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to
do but to attempt it. He answered, if his. Lord gave
him. such order, he would lose his lise if he did not per-
form it. We foon brought his Lord to give that order,
though, privately, and we immediately prepared for the
putting it in practice.
And sirst, as foon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a sire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared fo as to make it burn all night, that the Tar-
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as foon as
it was dark, that is to say, fo as we could see the stars,
(for our guide would not stir before) having all our
horses and camels ready loaden, we followed our new
guide, who, I foon found, steerad himself by the pole,
or north liar, all the country being level for a long
way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite »dark atl night,
but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was-
rather lighter than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock
next morning we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we:
found a Russian village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we
rested,, and heard nothing of the Cahnuck Tartars that
day..
day. . About two hours before night we set out again,
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hastily as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river, called Kirtxa, and came to a goad
large town inhabited by Ruffians, and very populous,
called Ozemys; there we heard, that several troops or
hords of Calmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but
that we were now completely out of danger of them,
•which was to our great satissaction, you may be sure.
Ileie we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and, hav-
ing need enough of rest, we staid five days; and my
partner and 1 agreed to give the honest Siberian, wrho
brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles for his con-
ducting us.
In five days more we came to -Veuffima, upon the
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our travels by
land, that river being navigable in seven days passage to
Archangel':'from hence we came to Lawrenskoy, where
the river joins, the third of July: and we provided our-
selves with two luggage-boats, and a barge, for our con-
venience: we embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe
at Archangel the eighteenth, having been a year, five
months, and three days, on the journey, including our
stay of eight months and odd days at loholflri.
We were- obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than
any of the English ships: when, after some consideration,
that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a
market for our goods as London, we al! took freight with
him: and having put our goods on board, it was most
natural for me to put my steward on board to take care of
them: by which means my young Lord had a sufficient
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore
again, in all the time we staid there; and this he did,
that he might not be seen, in the city, where some of the
Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and dis-
covered, him.
'Wesailed from Archangel the twentieth of August, the
same year; and, after ho extraordinary bad voyage,, ar-
rived in the Elbe, the 13th of September : here my partner.
and
and 1 found a very good sale for our goods, as well those
of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the
produce of our efsects, my share amounted to 34751. 17s.
3d. notwithstanding so many losses we had sustained, and
charges we had been at: only remembering that I had
included, in this, about 6001. worth of diamonds, which
I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young Lord took his leave of us, and went
up the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where
he resolved to seek protection, and where he could corre-
spond with those of his sather's friends who were left alive
He did not part without all the testimonies he could give
of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his sense
of my kindness to the prince his sather.
To conclude, having staid near four months in Ham-
hurgh, 1 came from thence, over land to the Hague,
•where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London,
-the 10th of January, 1705, having been gone from Eng-
land ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I am
preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived
72 years a lise of insinite variety, and learned sufficiently
to know the value of retirement, and ib* blessing of
*nding our days in peace.
FINIS.
lAVt, MIN*»TA-P»IJ», tUllWAJWHn*
Just published,
PERSIAN TALES,
Two Vols. elegant Plates, Price Ss. bound.
FAIRY TALES.
Tvto Vols. elegant Plates, Price 6s. bound*
PALACE of ENCHANTMENT,
Price 3s. bound.
PLEASING COMPANION,
Price 3s. bound.
BOYLE'S VOYAGES,
Pric: ss. 6l. bound.
ENGLISH HERMIT,
Price 2s. 6d. hound*'
BS=&
-.
JHH O UvJO
r
\y I w \* »,'
r
N'cv ^
( \ (<^ < \
3^ i
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CANE, M1WERVA-PRESS, LEADENHALL-STREET.
PUBLIC LIBRARY
X8TQR. LENOX AND
TlU>tt» FOUNDATIONS
R
/

- i/'/VrM//.i n/rtfr/t?*/ //•//// ///-! ,;/"////r
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON ;CRUSOE,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
—**—*^———-—---—
BY ,
DANIEL DEFOE.
fim^mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
a netp ŒWtion,
KnrkM with elegant Plates descriptive of the Subject.
^ „. . */ -
VOL. II.'. ***. V -.'
£_,--,-'a»,j e
LONDON: \/:\'j':''.
PRINTED AT THE
Sginnt)a.lE)tt&,
FOR LANE AND NEWMAN,
LEADENH ALL-STREET.
1805.
'r-
j PUBLIC LIBRARY
758787 A
ASTOR, LENOX AND ,
T1L.DEN FOUNDATIONS]
H 1635 I-
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
BOBINSON CRUSOE.
THt
THAT homely pfOverB, used on so many occasions
in England, viz. That what is bred jn the bone
tvill not go out of the flesh, was never more verified than
in the story of my life.—Any one would think, that
ifter thirty-sive years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which sew men, if ever any, went
through before; and after near-seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the sulness of all things; grown old, and
when, if ever it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle lise, and to know which
was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
say, after all this, any one would have thought that the
native propensity to rambling, which 1 gave an account
of in my first setting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be sully evaporated, or at least condensed,
and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing lite
and fortune any more.
Nay, sarther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no fortune to
make—1 had nothing to leek.—If 1 had gained ten thou-
A 3 laud
sand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that I had was visibly increasing; for having no great
samily, 1 could not spend the income of what I had,
unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great samily, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli-
nation to, so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit
still, and sully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase
daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical dis-
stemper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in
my head continually.—I dreamed of it all night, and
my imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost
in all my thoughts, and my sancy worked so steadily
and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep;
in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind.—It
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it
made my conversation tiresome; for 1 could talk of no-
thing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to imper-
tinence; and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that
all the stir people make in the world about ghosts and
apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagination,
and the powersul operation of sancy in their minds;
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like: that people's pouring affec-
tionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
sancying, upon lome extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them,
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing, and they really know nothing of the matter.
For my part, 1 know not to this hour, whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spectres,
or walking of people alter they are dead, or whether
there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind,
more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and
. -wandering sancies.—But this I know, that my imagina-
tion
tion worked me up to such a height, and brought me into
such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
1 actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at
my old castle behind the trees; I saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's sather, aud the reprobate sailors, whom I lest
upon the island. Nay, I sancied I talked with them,
and looked at them fo steadily, tho' I was broad awake,
as the perfons just before me; and this I did till I often
frightened myself with the images my sancy represented
to me.—One time, in my sleep, I had the villainy of
the three pirate sailors fo lively related to me by the
sirst Spaniard and Friday's sather, that it was serprising j
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they let sire to the provisions
they had laid up, on purpose to distress and staive them;
things that I had never heard of, and yet they were all
of them true in sact; and it was fo warm in,my ima-
gination, and fo realized to me, that to the hour I
saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or
would be true; alfo how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them, all three
to be hanged.—What there was really in all this shall
be seen in its place;' for however 1 came to form such,
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits
injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of it true.
I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and
specisically true; but the general part was fo true, the
base and villanous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been fo much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
of the fact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them\ severely, fo if I had hanged them all, I had been
much in the right, and should have been justisied both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: in this kind of temper
I had lived fome years; I had no enjoyment of my
lise, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion, but
what had fomething or other of this in it; fo that my
wise, who taw my mind fo wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powersul impulse of Providence upon me,
a 4 • which
t
which had determined me to go thither again; and that
she found nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged to a wise and children. —She told me, that it was
true, she could not think of parting with me; but as she
was.afTured, that if <he was dead, it would be the first
thing 1 would do; so, as it seemed to her, that the thing
was determined above, she would not be the only ob-
struction; for, if I thought fit, and resolved to go-
Here she found me very intent upon her words, and that
1 looked very.earnestly at her; so that it a little difor-
dered her, and £-.; tropped. I asked her why she did not
Z° 1Z, and say out what she was going to say. But I per-
ceived her heart was too sull, and some tears stood in
her eves.—Speak out, my dear, says I, are you willing
I shoiild go? No, says she, very affectionately, I am sar
from willing; but if you are resolved to go, &ys she,
rather than I will be the only hindrance, 1 will- go with
you; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,
said she again, weeping, I will not leave you; for if it be
of heaven, you mult do it, there is no reusing it—and
if heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also make
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that
I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wise, brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider what
1 was doinf — I corrected my wandering sancy, and be-
gan to argue with myself sedately, what business I had,
aster three score yei'.rs, and after such a lise of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy
a manner, I say, what business had 1 to rush into new-
hazards, and put myself upon adventures, fit only for
youth and poverty to run into.
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage-
ments—that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
then great with child of another; and that I had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what 1 had gained, than of scek-
inn-to increase it; that as to what my wise had said, of
its^ being an impulse from heaven, and that it should
be my duty to go, I had no notion of that; so after
many
many of these cogitations, I. struggled with the power
of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as 1 believe
people may always do in like cases, if they will, and, in
a word, I conquered it : composed myself with such argu-
ments as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present
condition surnished me plentisully with; and particular-
ly, as the molt effectual method, I resolved to divert my-
self with other things, and to engage in some business
that might efsectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; for I found the thing returned upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of moment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little sarm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I- sound was capable of great improvement, and that it
-was many ways suited to my inclination,Avliioh I delight-
ed in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving;
and particularly, being an inland county, I was removed
from converting among (hips, failors, and things relating
to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my sarm, settled my sa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon,
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriousljr to work,
became in one half year a mere country gentleman:
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting,
&c. and 1 lived, as I thought, the most agreeable lise
that nature was capable of directing, or that a man,
always bred to misfortunes, was capable of being re-
treated to.
1 sarmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay,
•was limited by no articles; I could pull up, or cut
down, as 1 pleased; what I planted was for myself,
and what 1 improved was for my samily; and having
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the leail discomfort in any part os my lise, as to this
world. Now 1 thought, indeed, that 1 enjoyed that
middle- state of lise which my father so earnestly re-
commended to me; a kind of heavenly lise, something
like what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a
country lise.
a 5 free
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this selicity, one blow frpm
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only-
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse inso
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, tfeing
born in my very blood, foon recovered its hold of me,
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible force upon me; fo that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow was
the loss of my wise.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my
wise, to give a character of her particular Virtues, and
make roy court to the sex by the flattery of a suneral
sermon. She wr.s, in a sew words, the stay of all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises; the engine,
that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass
I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project
that fluttered in my head, as above; and did more to
guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a
sather's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own
reafoning powers could do. 1 was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being moved by her intreaties, and to
the last degree defolate and dislocated in the world by
the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked aukwardly
round me: I was as much a stranger in it, in my
thoughts, as 1 was in the Bralils, when I sirst went on
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist-
ance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world busy
Tound me, one part labouring for bread, and the other
squandering it in vile excesses, or empty pleasures,
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still
tied from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur-
seited of their vice, and heaped-up work for forrow
and repentance: and the men of labour spend their
strength in daily strugglings for bread, to maintain the
vital strength they laboured with; fo living in a daily
dr-
11
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live; as if daily bread were the only end of a
wearisome life, and a wearisome lise the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the lise I lived in my king-
dom, the island, where I sufsered no more corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause I had no more use for them: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce
the savor to be looked upon in 20 years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search surther than human
enjoyments for a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end of lise,
superior to all these things, which was either to be pos-
sessed, or at least hoped for on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run before the wind:
my thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign
adventures, and all the pleasing innocent amusements
of my sarm, and my garden, my cattle, and my samily,
which before entirely possessed me, where nothing to me,
had no relish, and where like music to one that has no
ear, or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved
to leave off housekeeping, let my sarm, and return to
London; and in a sew months aster I did sb.
When 1 came to London, 1 was still as uneasy as be*
fore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person,
of whom it may be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing matter to the rest
of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing, which of all circumstances of lise was the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an
active lise; and 1 would Often say to myself, a state of
idleness is the very dregs of lise; and indeed I thought I
was much more suitably employed, when I was 26 days
making a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I had
a 6 brought
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of
a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa,
being the first he bad made; he came to me, and told
me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East-
Indies and to China, as privatetraders: and now, uncle,
lays he, if you will go to sea with me, 1 will engage to
land, you upon your old habitation in the island, for we
are to touch at the Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a suture
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of things,
which we form in our minds, persectly Reserved, and not
communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and 1 knew nothing
of what he had in-his thoughts to say; when that very
morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
consusion of thought, and revolving every part of my
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that 1 would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-
captain, and so, if it was rational and practicable, {
would so and see the island again, and see what Was be-
come of my people there. I had pleased myself also with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession,
•nd. I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in
comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither, in his way to the East-Indies.
• . I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at
him, What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky er-
rands? My nephew startled, as if he had been'frighted
at first; but perceiving I was not much displeased with
the proposal, he recovered himself; 1 hope it may not be
an unlucky proposal, fir, says he; I dare say you would
be pleased to see your new colony there, where you onefe
Teigned with more selicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.
In a word the scheme hit so exactly with my tem-
per, that is to say, with the prepossession I was under,
and of which. I have said so much, that I told him in
few. wokIs, if. he; agreed with the merchants, I woitfd
<> go
go with him,: but I told him, I would not promise to go
any sarther than my own island. Why, Sir, says he, you
do not want to be left there again, I hesbe? Why, said I,
can you not take me up again in 3rour return? He told
me it would not be possible to do fo,; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his wav,
and might be three or four: Besides, Sir, if I should mis-
carry, said he, and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of fome
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island, and sinished, sit to go to sea-in a sew
days.
I was not long refolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew, joined in fo esfectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wise being dead, I had nobody that concerned
themselves fo much for me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend the wi-
dow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard
of a lon<r voyage; and, above all, my young children:
but it was all to no purpose, I had an irresistible desire
to CTo the voyage; and I told her, 1 thought there was
fomethin"' fo uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind for the voyage, that it would be a kind of
resitting Providence, if I should attempt to stay at home;
after which the ceased her expostulations, and joined
with me, not only in making provision for my voyage,
but alfo in settling my family-asfairs in my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that I was persectly easy and
satissied they would have justice done them, whatever
might befal me; and for their education, I left it
wholly to my widow, with a sussicient maintenance to
herself for her care; all which she richly deserved: for
no
/
no mother could have taken more care in their educa-
tion, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came
home, 1 also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning
of January, 1694-5, and 1, with my man Friday, went
on board in the Downs the flth, having, besides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which, if I did not find in good condition, 1 resolved to
leave so.
First, I carrried with me some servants, whom I'
purposed to place there, as inhabitants, or at least, to
set on work there upon my own account while I staid,
andeither to leave them there, or carry them forward',
as they should appear willing, particularly I carried twa
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious sellow,
-who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general me-
chanic, for he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a
good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we call him.
our jack of all trades.
With these 1 carried a taylor, who.had offered himself
to go passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but
afterwards contented to slay on our new plantation, and-
proved a most necessary handy sellow as could be desired,
in many other businesses besides that of his trade; for as
I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ-
ments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not
kept an account of particulars, consisting of a sufficient
quantity os linen, and some thin English stuffs for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there, and enough
of them, as by my calculation might comfortably supply
them for seven years; if 1 remember right, the materials
which I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats,
shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could
want for wearing, amounted to above 2001. including
some beds, bedding, and houshold stuff, particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c.
besides near 1001. more'in iron-work, nails, tools of
every
every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and
susils, besides fome pistols, a considerable quantity of
shot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what
time, and what extremities, I was .providing for, I car-
ried an hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, and
cutlasses, and the iron part of fome pikes and halberts,
fo that, in stort, we had a large magazine of all forts
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two smalt
quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his stip, to
leave behind, if there was occasion, that when they
came there, we might build a fort, and man it against
all forts of enemies; and indeed at sirst I thought there
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island, as stall be
seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had
been used to meet with, and therefore stall have the less
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet fome odd accidents, cross-winds, and bad weather
happened, on this sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz. my sirst voyage to Guinea,
in which I might be laid to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst designed, begnn to think the same ill
sate still attended me; and that I was born to be never
contented with my own store, and yet to be always un-
fortunate at sea.
Contrary winds sirst put us to the northward, and
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay windbound two-and-thirty days ; but we had this
satissaction with the disaster, that provisions were here
exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; ib th;.t while
we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather
added to them; here alfo I'took several hogs, and two
cows with their calves, which 1 refolved, if 1 had a good
passage, to put astore in my island, but we found occasion
to dispose otherwise of them.
We
'-
We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and had
a very sair gale of wind, for some days; as I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came info
the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and
heard a gun fired: and while he was telling; us of it, a
boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another.
This made us all run out upon the quarter deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a sew minutes we
saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that
there could be no land that way in which the fire
shewed itself, no, not for 500 leagues, for it appeared
at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be some
ship on fi^e at sea; and ashy our hearing the noise
of guns just before, we concluded it could not be sar
off', we stood directly towards it, and were presently sa-
tisfied we should discover it, because the sarther we sailed
the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light
fora while: in about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being sair for us, though not much of it, and the weather
cleaving up a little, we could plainly discern, that it was
a great ship on fire in the middse of the sea. I was
moss, sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the perlons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, in what condition
I was in when taken up by.the Portuguese captain; and
how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to the ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them; upon this I im-
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one
soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them, that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat;
for though we could see the flame in the ship, yet they,
it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, onl}r- driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and imme-
diately,
diately sunk! This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting
sight; for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded,
must be either all destroyed, in the ship, or be in the ut-
most distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
-which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not
see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanthoras for, and kept
firing guns all the night long, letting them know by
this, that there was a ship not sar off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
• theship's boats, by the help of our perspective-glasses,
and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, aiid deep in the water; we perceived they
rowed, the -wind being against them; that they saw our
fliip, and did the utmost to rrake us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. Jn a little more than half an hour we
i came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women and children;
for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-
stiip of 300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in
the river of Canada. The master gave us a long ac-
count of the distress of his ship, how the fire began in the
steerage by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the
first fire had gotten into some part of the ship, so disficult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the cieling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the (kill and -all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large;
being their long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a
small skifs, which was of no great service to them,
other than to get some fresh water and provisions rnto
her
her, after they had secured themselves from the sire.
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats, at that distance from any land; only,
as they said well, that they were escaped from the sire,
and had a pQflibility that fome ship might happen to
be at sea, and might take .them in. They had sails,
oars, and a compass, and were preparing to make the
best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing
pretty sair, for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it
so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about 12 days, in which, if they had no bad weather,
and no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he
might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take fome sish to sustain them till they might go
on (hore. But there were fo many chances against
them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and
founder them, rains and cold to benumb and periQi
theif limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them, that it must have been next to miraculous if they
had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being
hopeless,, and ready to despair, the captain, with tears
in his eye's told me, they were on a sudden surprised with
the joy os hearing a gun sire, and after that four more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at sirst
seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I designed it should,
'viz. that there-was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they! took
down their masts and sails, the found coming from
the windward, they refolved to lie by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they sired
three musquets, one a considerable while after another;
but*ihese, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as 1 have said, I caused to
be sired all the rest of the night; this set them to
work with their oars to keep their boat's a-head, at
least that we might the fooner come up with them:
18 ADVENTURES OF ROBtNSON CRUSOE.
and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they sound we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures,
the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these
poor delivered people run into, to express the joy ot' their
fouls at so unexpected a deliverance; grief and sear are
easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and a very lew moti-
ons of the head and hands, making up the sum of its vari-
ety: but an excels of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagancies in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the
greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving add down-
right lunatic; some ran. about the ship stamping- whh
their seet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, several singing, some laughing, more crying,
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word, others sick
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to saint, and
a sew were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thanksul afterwards; but the passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it; they were thrown intoecstacies and a kind of frenay,
and so there were but a very sew who were composed
and serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
from the particular circumstances of the nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whose temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations. 1
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen before came up to it: the ec-
stacies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he
found his sather in the boat, came the nearest to it; and
the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
1 delivered from the two villains that set them on more
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that 1 saw in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is sarther observable, that these extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the va-
riety would -appear in a short succession of moments,
in'
in one and the same person. A man that we sa* this
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and consounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like
an antick, and the next moment tearing his hair, or
pulling his cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under
his seet like a madman; a sew minutes after that, we
should have him all in tears, then sick, then swooning;
and had not immediate help been had, would, in a sew
moments more, have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest
part of them; and, if 1 remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let above thirty of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot on board our (hip, and
saw himself sase, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance; not the least sign of lise could be perceived
in him ; 'our surgeon immediately applied* proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ihip
that believed he was not dead; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having first chased and' rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something
freely; in three minutes after the man opened his eves,
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke;
grew better, and, in a little time, quite well; after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
sectly well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself.
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had sainted, and told him, the
priest was gone stark mad. It teems he had began to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind,
and this put him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits
•whirled about saster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and severish, and the man was
as fit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon
him
him, and he waked next morning persectly composed
and well.
The younger priest behaved himself with great com-
mand of hrs passion, and was really an example-of a
serious well-governed mind; at his first coming on boaid
the sbip, he threw himself flat on his sace, prostrating
himself in thanksulness for his deliverance, in whxh 1
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really think-
ing he had been in a swoon; but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks
also.
1 was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only
left him, but kept others from interrupting him also;
he continued in that posture about three minutes, or
a little more, after 1 left him; then came to me, as he
said he would, and, with a great deal of ieriousness.
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, given him, and to many miserable
creatures their lives. 1 told him 1 had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: but I added,
that it was nothing but what reason and humanity' dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he
to give thanks to God, who had blessed* us so sar as to
make us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his
creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his
countrj'-folks, laboured to compose them, persuaded,
intreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did tils utmost
to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with some he had success, though others were, for a
time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whose hands it may sall,
in the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies of
their passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what will not the extravagancies of anger, rage, and
a provoked mind, carry us to? And indeed, here I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding strict watch over our
passions
passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satis-
saction, as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravaganices
among our new guests for the first day; but when they
had been refreshed, lodgings provided for them as well
as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most of them did, being satigued arid frightened, they
Were quite another fort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments
for the kindness shewn them was wanting; theFrenchl
'tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that way.
The captain, and one of the priests, came to me the
next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my ne-
phew, the commander, began to consult with us what
Ihould be done with them; and first they told us, that, as
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little,
enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the
-flames; and if we would accept it, they were ordered to
-make an ofser of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our wajr, where, if possible, they
might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards;
but I over-ruled him in that part, for 1 knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all I had for ray deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brasils, as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases, a much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was
our duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them, but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
but that we took them up to serve them not to plunder
them;
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on shore, and leave them;
that this would be fh-st to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drawing, and
then abandon them to starving; and therefore 1 would
Hot let the least thing be taken from them; as to setting
them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceed-
ing great difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East Indies, and though we were driven out of our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
-was directed by heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilsully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was,
to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West Indies, and get them
passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they -could not but be very thanksul for it; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; they then entreated me, that, teeing 1 was driven
so sar to the westward before I met with them, I would
at least keep on the same courle to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ship or sloop that they-might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part; and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole company to the
East Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity to
the poor people,*but would be ruining our whole voy-
age by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unsoreseen acci-
dent made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no
one could fay we were to blame; for the laws of God
and Nature would have forbid, that we should resuse
ta take up two boats sull of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing as well re-
specting
'->.
"X
specting ourselves, as the poor ptople, obliged us to see
them on shore somewhere or other, for their deliver-
ance ; so I consented that we would carry them to New-
foundland, if wind and weather would permit ; and, if
not, that I would carry them to Martinico in the West
Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good, and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France ; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been
so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no passengers for sear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea' there
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to
France, if they could get provision to victual themselves
with; when, 1 say, all the French went on shore, I
mould remember, that the young priest 1 spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the,
coast of Coromandel; I readily agreed to that, for I
wondersully liked the man, and had very good reason,
<is vvill appear afterwards; also four of the seamen
'entered themselves in our ship, awl proved very usesul
sc-llows.
From hence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about 20 days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity to work
upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes NY
and the 19th day of March, lb'94-5, when we. espied
a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon perceived
it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us; but
could not at first know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
top-mast, fore-mast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fires
sires a gun as a signal of distress; the weather was pretty
good, wind at N. X. W. a fresh gale, and we foon came
to spes.™ with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
Barbadoes, but had been blown cut of the road at Bar-
badoes, a sew days before she was ready to sail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate
were both gone on shore; fo that besides the terror of the
storm, they were but in an indisFtrent case for good
artists to bring the ship home: they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge, to the westward,
and in which they lost their masts, as above; they told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the fouth-east,, by a
strong gale of wind at N. N. W. the same that blew
now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a
main-course, and a kind os square-sail upon a jury fore-
mast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand nway for the
Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the satigues
they had undergone: their bread and slelh was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had had
none for eleven days: the only relief they had was,
their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; fome
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured, and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board
the evening before the hurricane began: and having no
provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe,
vol. ii. B I had
I ha<], perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity
liad not led me, the weather being sair, and the wind
abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, who,
rpon this occcasion commanded the ship, had been on
hoard our ship: and he told me indeed, that they had
three passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a
deplorable condition; nay, says he, I believe they are
'dead, for 1 have heard nothing of them for above two
days; and 1 was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for 1 had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relief we could spare; and indeed I had fo sar over-ruled
things with my nephew, that I would have victualled
them, though we-luid g^ne away to Virginia, or any
part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves;
but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were
afraid oseating too mulsh, even of that little we gave them;
the mate or commander bi ought six men with him in his
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were fo weak, they could hardly lit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
fliare and share alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before
him immediately, and he had not eaten three mouthsuls
before he began to be tick, and out of order: fo he stopped
awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up fomething with
fome broth, which he said 'would be to him both food
and physic; and after he had taken it, he grew better:
in the mean time, I forgot not the men; I ordered
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather
devoured than eat it ;• they were fo exceeding hungry,
that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no com-
mand of themselves; and two of them eat with fo much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very moving
'to me, and brought to mind what I had a terrible pros-
pect of at my iirst coming on shore in my island, where
I had not the least mouthsul of food, or any hopes of
'procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension 1 had
of
of being made the food of other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
tondition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story- he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin (viz.) the mother, her
fon, and the maid servant, whom he had heard nothing
of for 'wo or three days; and whom he seemed to con-
sess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being fo great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all; and that therefore they
must be perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
floor or desk of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men to refresh them, fo I also
forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the mip, and with
my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or sive pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men's
taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little
at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and see what condition the poor passen-
gers -were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them, and
give them what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with fome of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satissied with this; but, as I said above,
haviisg a great mind to see the scene of misery, which I
knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, 1 took the
captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult
o get the victuals out of the boiler before it was ready:
but my mate observed his order, and kept a good
guard at the cook-room door; and the man he
B Z placed
placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them ofs by force: however, he caused
some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave them every one one, to stay their stom-
achs, and told them it was for their own sasety that
he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and officers with me, and with
good words, and some threats also of giving them no
more, i believe thev would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and tore the meat out of the surnace;
for words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however we pacified them, and sed them gradu-
ally and cautiously for the first time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last filled their bellies, and the
men did well enough.
Rut the misery of the poop passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and sar beyond the rest; for as, first,
the ship's company had lo little for themselves, it was
but too true, that they had at first kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had no
food at all, and for several days before very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was
a woman of good sense, and good breeding, had spared
all (he could get so affectionately for her son, that at last
she entirely sunk under it; and when the mate of our
ihip went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her
back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
-were lathed sast, and her head sunk in between her shoul-
ders, like a corpse, though not quite so dead. My mate
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and with
a spoon put some broth into her mouth; she opened her
lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet
she understood what he said, and made signs to him, in-
timating, that it was too late for her; but pointing to
her child, as if she would have said, they should take
care of him.
However the mate, who was exceedingly moved with
the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her
mouth ; and, as he said, got two or three spoonsuls down,
though
though I question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most
assectionate mother's lise, was not lb sar gone; yet he lay
in a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him; he had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him some time aster but two or
three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was very lick, and
brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that
had sallen down with an apoplexy, and struggled for
lise; her limbs were destorted, one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped it
so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go; her
other arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both to-
gether, set sast against the frame of the cabin-table; in
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when
our surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge
and experience, and with great application recovered her
as to lise, he had her upon his hands as to her senses, for
she was little less than distracted for a considerable time
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
fired to consider, that visits at sea are not like a jour-
ney into the country, where sometimes people stay a
week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts; how-
ever, as their captain begged of us to help him to set up
b 3 a main-
a main-top-mast, and a kind of top-mast to his jury-^
fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or
four days, and then having given him sive barrels of beef
and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of
peas, flour, and what other things we could spare; and
taking three casks of sugar and fome rum, and fome
pieces of eight of them for satissaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
dejected with the loss of his mother, and as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months before at Bar-
badoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out ot the ship; for he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed fo they had, that
is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no jus-
tice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how sar we were going, and how
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put
him perhaps in as bad circumstances almost as we
found them in; that is to say, starving in the world.
He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among:
that the captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing of my nephew) had saved his lise, and
he was sure would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thank-
sul for it, let us carry them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case fo affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could
not be removed, or come at; and as the youth had a
bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a
writing, obliging him to go, as foon as he came to Bris-
tol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the
Jouth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which
wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
, deceased
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol; but
was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in fo disabled
a condition, and fo sar from any land, that I am of opi-
nion, the sirst storm she met with afterwards, she might
founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage
in her hold, when 1 met with her.
I was now in the latitude of I;) deg. 32 min. and had
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at
sirst the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-
body with the little incidents of winds, weather, cur-
rents, &c. on the rest of our voyage; but shortening
my story for the lake of what is to follow, shall observe
that-* came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th
of April, 16M5. It was with no small dissiculty that I
found the place: for as 1 came to it, and went from it
before, on the fouth and east side of the island, as com-
ing from the Brazils, fo now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor
any land mark, 1 did not know it when I saw it, Ot
know whether 1 saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque
but none for my purpose; only this I learned by my
coasting the shore, that 1 was under one great mistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw,
from the island I lived in, was really no continent, but
a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from
one to the other side of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other Barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited fomething nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, i visited several of the islands to no purpose;
fome 1 found were inhabited, and fome were not. On
one of them I found fome Spaniards, and thought they
had lived-there; but, speaking with them, found they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch fome pearl-muscles
is they could; but they belonged to the isle de Trini-
dad, which lay surther «orth, in the latitude of 10 and
11 degrees.
b 4 Thus
Thus coasting from one island to an other, fometimes
with the ship, fometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore
kept her with their very good will, at length I came sair
on the fouth-tide of my island, and I prelently knew the
very countenance of the place; fo I brought the ship
sase to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where
was my old habitation.
As foon as 1 saw the place, I called for Friday and
asked him, if he knew where he was? tie looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried; O yes, O
there, O yes, O there, pointing to our old habitation, and
sell a dancing and capering like a mad sellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim aihore to the place.
Well, Friday, said I, do you think we shall sind any
body here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
your sather? The sellow stood mute as a stock a good
while j but when I named his sather, the poor affectionate
creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his sace very plentisully. What is the matter Fri-
day, said I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him
more, no ever more see again. Why fo, said I Friday?
How do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he
long ago die! long ago he much old man! Well, well
said 1, briday, you don't know : but shall we see any one
else then: the sellow,*it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
though we lay half a league off, he cries out, Me see ! me
see! yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and
there! I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass; which was, 1 suppose, because I could
not hit the place; for the sellow was right, as I found
upon enquiry the next day, and there were sive or six
men altogether stood to look at the ship, not knowing'
what to think of us.
As foon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused
the English ancient to be spread, and sired three guns,
to give them notice we were friends; and about half
a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoke rise •
from the side of the creek; Ib 1 immediately ordered
a boat
a boat out, taking Friday with- me; and, hanging out a
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore;
taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the
manner of it, and every particular, both of my myself
and those that I left there, and who was on that account
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about
sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any new
guest there which we did not know of; but we ha.i no
need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the first
man I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, and whom I knew by his sace persectly well;
as to his habit, I shall describe it, afterwards. I ordered
nobody to go on shore at first but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate crea-
ture had spied his sather at a distance, a good way offof
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and
if they had not let him go on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on more, but
he flew away to his sather, like an arrow out of a bow.
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the
firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this
poor sellow's joy, when he came to his sather; how he
embraced him, kissed him, stroked his sace, took him
up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down
by him; then stood and looked at him, as any one
would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour
together; then lay down upon the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kifled them, and then got up again, and*
stared at him; one would have thought the sellow
bewitched; but it would have made a dog laugh to see?
how the next day his paffion ran out another way : in the
morning he walked along the shore, to and again, with
his sather several hours, always leading him by the hand,
as if he had been a lady; and every now and then would
come to setch something or other for him to the boat,
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, or some-
thing or other that was good In the afternoon his fro-
lics run another way, for then he would set the old
man down upou the ground, and dance about him, and
B 5 made
made a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all the
-while he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of
-what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In
short, if the same silial afsection was to be found in chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts of the world, one
would be tempted to say, there hardly would have been
any need of the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It
-would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first
Spaniard, whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he
whose lise I saved; he came towards the boat, attended
by one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did
not only not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no
notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him:
Seignior, said I, in Portuguese, do you not know me? At
which he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to
the nAn that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and
saying something in Spanish that I did not persectly hear,
came forward, and embraced me, telling me he was inex-
cusable, not to know that sace again that he had once
seen, as of an angel from heaven, lent to save his lise. He
laid abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred
Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning to
the person that attended him, bade him go and call out
his comrades. He then asked me, if I would walk to
my old habitation, where he would give me possession os
niyown house again, aud where 1 should see there had
.been but mean improvements; so I walked along with
him; but alas! 1 could no more find the place again,
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so
many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so thick
and close to one another, in ten years time .they were'
grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways, as they them-
selves only who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these, fortifica-
tions? He told me, 1 would say there was need enough
of it, when they had given an account how they had
passed their time since their arriving in the island, espe-
cially after they had the misfortune to sind, that I was
.s
gone: he told me he could not have but fome satisfac-
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
in a good ship, and to my satissaction; and that he had
oftentimes a strong persuasion, that one time or other he
should see me a^ain: but nothing that ever betel him
in his lise, he said, was fo surprising and afflicting to him
at sirst, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found I was not theTe.
As to the three Barbarians (fo he called them) that
were left behind, and of whom he said he had a lone
story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
much better among the savages, only that their number
was fo small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and
with that he crofll'd himself upon the breast. But, Sir,
says he, 1 hope you will not be displeased, when 1 shall
tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our
own preservation, to disarm them, and making them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers. 1 answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when 1 left them there; and no-
thing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not come back, that 1 might have put thenvin
possession of every thing sirst, and left the other in a state
of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very sar from
sinding any sault with it; for 1 knew they were a parcel
of refractory ungovernable villains, and were sit for any
manner of mischief.
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, ' and with him eleven men more: in the
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what na-
tion they were off}' but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, Sir, are fome of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you; and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which
they all came up one by one, not as if they had beea
sailors, and ordinary sellows, and 1 the like, but really,
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I
a monarch, or a great conqueror: their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous,- and yet
£ 6 mixed
mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very well
became them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind:
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the former part of my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given,
that 1 cannot but commit them, with great delight, to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in
the first person, which will put me to the expence of
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's,
and I told him's, and the like; but I shall collect the
sacts historically, as near as 1 can gather them out of my
memory from what they related to me, and from what I
met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I left
the island, and which the persons were in, of whom I
am to speak. At first it is necessary to repeat, that I had
sent away Friday's sather and the Spaniard, the two
whose lives 1 had rescued from the savages; I say, I
had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as I
, then thought it, to setch over the Spaniard's companions,
whom he had left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he had been in: and in order
to succour them for the present, and that, if possible
we might together find some way for our deliverance
afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance
of, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance,
any more than I had twenty years before; much less had
I any foreknowledge of what after happened, 1 mean of
an t-nglish ship coming on shore there to setch them off,
and it could not but be a very great surprise to them,
when they came back, not only to find that I was gone,
but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of
all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise
have been their own.
The
The first thing, however, which I enquired into,
that I might begin where I left off, was of their owa
part: and I desired he would give me a particular ac-
count of his voyage back to his countrymen with the
boat, when I sent him to setch them over. He told
me there was little variety in that part; for nothing re-
markable happened to them on the way, they having
jvery calm weather, and a smooth sea; for his coun-
trymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him: (it seems he was the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain -of the vessel they
had been shipwrecked in, having been dead some time).
They were, he*said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was sallen into the hands of
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he
told them the story of the deliverance, and in what
manner he was surnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them: and their astonishment, they
said, was something like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the
story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but when
he shewed them their arms, the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey
or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes or periagua's on pre-
tence of going out a fishing, or for pleasure.
In these they came.away the next morning; it seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither cloths, or provisions, or any
thing in the world, but what they had on them, and a
sew roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get off from the island; leaving three of the most
impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with, to
the poor Spaniard's great grief and disappointment,
you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when
the Spaniards came on shore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long
paper of directions, which I had left with them, con-
taining the particular methods which! took for managing
every part of my lise there; the way how I baked my
bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn;
how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
every thing I did; all this being written down, they
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English
well enough; nor did they resuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for thev agreed very well
for some time, they gave them an eo^al admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
method, and Friday's sather together, managed all their
affairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing
but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this,
would the others but have let them alone; which, how-
ever, they could not find in, their hearts to' do long:
hut, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would not let others eat neither: the
-differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and
Tuch as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed, to com-
mon sense; and though it is true, the first relation of it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the i.ccusers, yet, when I came to examine the sellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, £
must supply a desect in my former relation; and this
•was, that 1 forgot to set down among the rest, that,
just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there
hap-
happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was ,
afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force,
and making two of the most refractory sellows prison-
ers, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former diforders, and let sall some ugly danger-
ous words the second time, he threatened to carry them
in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the -ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other men in the ship; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; .upon which it was desired, that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had done for the time past, should
be paidoned. So I went, and after passing rhy honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so,
when I caused the two men, who were in irons, to be
released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night, the wind also salling calm: next morning we
found, that our two men who had been laid in irons
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wea-
pons, (what powder or shot they had, we knew not)
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet
hauled up, and runaway with her to their companions
in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and. away they
•went to seek the rogues; but they could neither find
them nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
•was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their plantations, burnt all their houshold-stuff
and surniture, and- left them to shift without it; but
4 having
having no order lie let all alone, left every thing as
they found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, carne
on board without them.
These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that after they had been two or three days together,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they for a good while be persuaded
to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come. ,
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business
began to go forward; the Spaniards would have per-
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their
two countrymen again, that, as they said, they mi^ht
be all one samily; but they would not hear of it: so
the two poor sellows lived by themselves, and finding
nothing but industry and application would make them
live comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines aud stores in; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and
especially some of the peas which I had left fhem, they
dug and planted, and inclosed, after the pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well; their first
crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was
but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and find them with bread and other eatables;
and one of the sellows, being the cook's mate of the
ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations as the rice, and the milk, and
such little flesh as they got, surnished him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them
they
they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first; and
aiked them to come and sit down, and see what fine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they demanded : and one of them merrily told them,
if they were ground-landlords, he hoped, if they built
tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant
them a long lease, and bid them go setch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, damning and raging,
told them, they should see they were not in a jest; and
going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and clasps it to the outside of their hut, and very
sairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt
down in a sew minutes, if one of the two had not run to
the sellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with
his seet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended
his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their musquets; and the man that
was first struck at with the pole, knocked the sellow
down, who began the quarrel, with the stock of their
musquet, and that before the other two could come to
help him; and then seeing the Test come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them, bade them stand off.
The other had fire-arms with them too; but one of
the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they offered to
move hand or foot, they .were aU dead men; and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him re-
solute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sufficiently
with the blow; however, they were much in the
wrong,
wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them
an account how the rogues had treated them; for the
three villains studied nothing bat revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to croud this part with an,account of the les-
ser part of their rogueries, such as treading down their
corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat, which
the poor men had got to breed up tame for their' store;
and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this
manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time
they had a sair opportunity. In order to this they re-
solved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my
old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together at that time, intending to have a sair
'battle, and the Spaniards mould stand by to see sair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, *had seen one of the two
Englithmen, whom, for distinction, I call the honest men,
a,nd he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of
the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn, that they had laboured so hard
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kidSj which was all they had provided for their
sustenance; and'that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove
the three Englithmen, though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and sifted them, how they could be so cruel, they
being harmless inoffensive sellows, and that they were
putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour,
and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring
things to such persection as they had.
Our
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What
had they to do there? That they came on shore without
leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the
island; it was none of their ground. Why, says the
Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they must not
starve. The Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn
tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'd, they should
not plant nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, Seignior, says the Spaniard? Another of the
brutes returned, do! d—n them, they should be servants,
and work for them! But how can you expect that of
them? They are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants. The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the Governor had given
it to them, and no man had any thing to do there but
themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that he
would go and burn all their new huts; they should
build none upon their land.
Why, Seignor, says the Spaniard, by the same rule,
we must be your servants too. Ay, says the bold dog,
and fo you shall too, before we have done with you,
mixing two or three G—d d—mine's in the proper in-
tervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, come
Jack, let us go and have the other brush with them:
we will demolish their castle, I will Warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions.
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered fome
infolent things among themselves of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity osfered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not ib persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know;
but it seemed they wandered about the country, part of
the night; and then lying down in the place which I
used to call rriy bower, they were weary, and overslept
them-
themselves. The case was this: they had refolved to
stay till midnight, and fo take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, in-
tending to set sire to the huts while they were in them
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out; and as malice seldom sleeps very found, it
was very strange they would not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had alfo a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much sairer one than that
of burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, before
the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither and found the men gone,
Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest man, called out
to his comrades, ha, JackJ here's the nest! but d—n
them, the birds are flown 1 They mused awhile to think
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad
fo foon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it; and with that they shook
hands, and swore to one another that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As foon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they sell to work with the poor
men's habitation; they did. not set sire indeed to any
thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and pul-
led them fo limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
they stood; they tore all their little collected household-
stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a
manner, that the poor men found, afterwards, fome of
their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up the
inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered every thing
as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them
out, and had refolved to sight them wherever they had been,
though they were but two to three: fo that, had they
met, there certainly would have been bloodshed among
them; for they were all very flout, refolute sellows to
give them their due.
But providence took more care to keep them asunder
than

- 7/f./
-robiisoi^r amsoe s
'//./,
l .
han they themselves could do to meet; for as they
had dodged one another, when the three were gone
hither, the two were here; ancl afterwards, when the
vo went back to sind them, the three were come to the
old habitation again: we shall^fee their different con-
duct presently. When the three c%me back, like surious
eatures, flushed with the rage which the work they .
Ivd been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to
tne of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
oys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
ead, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his sace,
fays he to him—And you Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the same sauce, if you do not mend your manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his sist, knock-
ed him down, as an ox is selled with a pole-as, at which
one of the rogues, infolent as the sirst, sired his pistol at
the Spaniard immediately; he missed his body indeed,
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt
than he really was, and that put him into fome heat,
for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but now re-
folving to go through with his work, he stooped and
took the sellow's musquet whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the man who had iired at
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave,
came out, and calling him not to shoot, they stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and giving the
•Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards considering the seud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that
it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from one another, told them they would do them
no harm; and if they would live oeaceably they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do
mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reason
than to a6t reason; but being resused their arms, they
•went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
ing what they would do, though they had no fire-arms:
but the ipaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them; and if they sell into' their hands
alive, they would certainly be hanged. However this
-was sar from cooling them; but away they went, swear-
ing and raging like suries of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion-and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for having been
at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and de-
stroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough: they could scarce have room to
tell the tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange enough to find, that three
men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed them, made light of their threat-
enings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out. v
But the Spanirds interposed here too, and told them,
that they were already disarmed; they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms,
and perhaps kill them; but, said the grave Spaniard,
who was their Governor, we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for, as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a sull satissaction .for yqu; and
upon
upon this condition we hope you will promise to use no
violence with them, other than in your desence.
The two Englishmen yielded to this very aukwardly,
and vyith great reluctance; hut the Spaniards protested
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not fo many
of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity
we should not be all good friends. At length they did
consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,' living for
fome days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about sive days after the three .vagrants, tired
with wandering;, and almost starved with hunger, having
chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while, came back
to the grove; and sinding my Spaniard, who, as 1 have
said, was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the side of the creek, they came up in a very
submiflive humble manner, and begged to be received
aj.ain into the samily. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted fo unnaturally by
their countrymen, and fo very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them, and dis-
course about it, and they should know in half an hour.
It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it;
for it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged he would send them out fome bread
in the mean time; which he did, and sent them at the
same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a broiled
parrot; which they ate very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a hng debate had about them, their two country-
men charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned
before, and therefore could not deny now; upon ihe
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not'
to hurt the three, while they were naked and unarmed,
fo they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows two huts, one to be of the lame dimensions,
and the other larger than they were before; also to sence
their ground again, where they had pulled up the sences,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state
as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of
the trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovere'd.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these
three sellows could never be persuaded to work; I mean
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased: however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and gave them liberty
to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesome as before; but, however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which en-
dangered the sasety of them all; they were obliged to
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preserva-
tion of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose lise I
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
night, and could by no means get any steep: he was
persectly well in body, as he told me /the story, only
found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men
lighting, and killing one another, but was broad awake,
and could not by any means get any fleep; in short,
he lay a great while; but growing more and more
uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay, being so many
of them, upon goatskins, laid thick upon such couches
and pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks
fliocks and ship-beds, as 1 did, who was but one; so
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but
to get up on their seet, and perhaps put.on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could see little or nothing; and besides, the tree*
which I had planted, as in my former account is de-
scribed, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his
fight, so that he could only look up, and lee that it was
a clear star-light night-; and, hearing no noise-, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to any
thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them waked,
and, calling, asked who it was that was up? The go-
vernor told him how it had been with him. Say you
so? says the other Spaniard J such things are not to be
flighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working, says he, near us; and presently he asked him,
Where are the Englishmen? The are all in their huts,
says he, sase enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. Well, says the Spaniards there is something in it,
lam persuaded from my own experience; 1 am satisfied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive in-
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world:; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we know how to make use of it.
Come, says he, let us go out and look abroad; and if
we find nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of
the justice of my proposing it.
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
oil), where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up by the latter, and then pulling it
UP after them, to go up a second stage to the top, hut
v°l. ii, c were
were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they'%c-re surprised with seeing a light,
as of a fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one,-or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages land*
•ing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
•them making the least discovery of their being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any necessity
-they came to know it, they selt it so efsectually, that
they who got away were fcarce able to give any account
of it, for we disappeared as soon asi possible, nor did
ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one else,
except it were the three savages in our last encounter,
who jumped into the boat, of whom I mentioned,
that 1 was afraid they should go home, and bring more
lielp.
Whether it was in consequence of the escape of those
men, that so great a number cam:: now together; or
-whether they came ignprantly and by accident on their
-usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
-understand; but whatever it was, it had been their
business either to have concealed themselves, and not
have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen, that there Were any inhabitants in the place;
fout to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not a
man of them should have escaped, which could only-
have been by getting in between them and their
iboats; but this presence of mind was wanting to them,
-which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great
-while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this sight, ran back imme-
diately, and raised their sellows, giving them an account
of the imminent danger they were all in; and they again
,as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close within where they were, but
.that they must all runout to lee how things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well, enough,
and they had opportunity enough for some hours to
view them by the light of three fires they had made
at some distance from one another; what they were
doing
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many; nnd>
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore ki several places.
The Spaniards were in no srhall'consternation at this
'light; and, as they found that the sellows ran^straggling
all over the shore, they made no -doubt but, first or last,
some of them would chop in'ur)bn their habitation, or
-upon some other place, where'they could see the takehs
of inhabitants; and:'they were in great perplexity also
for sear of their'flock Of goats, which would have be^n
little less than starving them, if chey should have been
destroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon, was to
dispatch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need
were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one
body, and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved,
if there had been an hundred of'them, to have attacked
them; but that could not be obtained, for, they were
'some of them two miles off from the other, and,
as it appeared afterwards, were of two different
nations.
After having mused a gtfeat while on the'course they
'should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
;presentcircumstances,they resolved at last, while it was
dark, to send the old savage (Friday's sather) out as a
:ipy, to learn, if possible, something -concerning them,
as what they'came for, and.what they intended to
'do, and the like: the old rhan readily undertook it,
and, stripping himself quite naked, as most of the
-savages were,nway he went. After he had been gone
an hour-dr two, he brings word, that he had been
among them undiscovered, that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war
with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country, and ,that both sides having hail several
prisoners taken in the sight, they were b" mere chance
'landed in the same island, for the devouring their pri-
soners, and making merry: bat their coming so by
chance to the same place, had spoiled all their mirth:
c 2 that
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were
so near, that he believed they would sight again, as soon
as day-light began to appear; but he did not perceive
that they had no notion of any body's being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of
telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were
engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather used all the arguments he could to per-
suade our people to lie dole, and not be seen: he told
them their sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pie-
Tail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
-was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they
must run out and see the battle: however, they used
some caution, viz. they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling,, but went sarther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might se-
curely see them ma-nage the fight, and, as they thought,
not to he seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did
fee them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive that
some of them were men of great bravery, of invincible
spirits, and of great policy in guiding the fight.
The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
could guels which party would be beaten; but then
that party which was nearest our people's habitation,
began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
some of them .began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, left any of those that fled
should run into the grove, besere their dwelling, for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved, that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever
came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall, and kill them ; so that, if possible, not one should
return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
them
them down with the stock of the musket, not by shoot-
ing them, for sear of railing an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three of the routed
army fled for lise, and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter: the
scout they kept to look abroad, gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satis-
faction, viz. That the conquerors had not pursued them,
or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the
Spaniard Governor, a man of humanity, would not suf-
fer them to kill -he three sugitives ; but, sending out three-
men by the top of the hill, ordered them to go jround,,
and come in behind them, surprise and take the^m' pri-
foners, which was done; the residue of the conquered'
people fled to their canoes, and gor off to sea; the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a body together, ga-e two great
screaming lhouts, whici they supposed were by way of
triumph, and fo the sight ended; and the same day,
about three o'clock in the afternoon, they alfo marched
to their canoes, and thus the Spaniards had their island
again- free to themselves, their fright was over, and they
few no savages in several years afterwards.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and, viewing the iield of battle, they found
about two-and-thirty dead men upon the spot; fome
were killed with great long arrows, several of which
were found sticking in their bodies; but most of
them were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen;
or seventeen of which they found in the sield of battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows; these
swords were great unweildy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them; most of those men that
were killed with them, had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains-
knocked out, and several of their arms and legs broken;
so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible rage and*
sury; they found not one wounded man that was-not-
stone dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they
have quitekilled them, or they carry all the wounded'
men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
c 3 This
/
This- deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
while: the sight had silled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, especi-
ally upon supposing that, fome time or other they should
sall into the hands of those creatures; who- would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food as we
kill our cattle. And they prosesied to me, that the
thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had,
fomething in it fo horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs,.made them sick when they thought of it, and
silled their minds with unusual terror, that they were, not,
themselves for fome weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even,the three English brutes.I
have been speaking of; and for a great while after-they
were very tractable, and went about the common busi-
ness of the whole fociety well enough; planted, fowed,
reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country;
but fome time after this, they sell all into such simple
measures again, as brought them into a great deal of
trouble..
They had taken three prifoners, as I had observed;
and these three being lusty stout young sellows, they made
them servants, and taught them to work for them, and,
as slaves they did well enp.ugh; but they did not take-
their measures with thern as I did by my man Friday,
viz to begin with them, upon the principle of having
saved their lives, and then instructed them in the rational
principles of lise,, much less of religion, civilizing and
reducing them by kind usage, and asfectionate arguings;
but as they gave them. their, food every day, ib they
gave them their work too, and kept:them sully employed
in drudgery enough; but they sailed in this by it, that
they never,had thim to assist them and sight.for them, as,
J had my, man. Friday, who was as true to me as the very,
flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the samily part; being all now good
friends (for common danger, as 1 said above, had ef-
fectually reconciled them,) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came
under their consideration was, whether seeing the
sayages particularly haunted.that, side of the island,
ana\
incT that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way ofliving, and manisestly to'
fheir advantage, they should not rather remove their ha-
feitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
sasety, and especially for the security of their cattle and'
corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived, that
they mould not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear from,
their governor again, meaning me: and if I should send
any one tu seek them, I would be sure to direct them on:
that tide, where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and
,we were >;one, and lo our supply would go away too. -
But as to their corn and caule, they agreed to remove
them into the vatley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was
land enough; howeve, upon second thoughts, they al-
tered one part of that resolution to, and resolved only
to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part of
their corn there; and so if one part was destroyed, the
other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they
used, which it was very well they did, viz. That they
never trusted these three savages, which they had taken
prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there;
much less of the cave there, which they kept in case of
necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also
the two barrels of powder, which 1 had left them at my
coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had caresully co-
vered it first with a wall or fortification, and then with
a ' grove of trees; so, seeing their sasety consisted en-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
sully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal
the place yet more effectually than before: to this ptir-
posen as*l had planted trees, (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) for softie good
distance before the entrance into my apartment, they
went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest of
that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set,
c 4 quite
quite down to the side of the creek, where, as I said, I
landed my floats, and even in the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabouts ;• these stakes also, being of a wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller than
those which 1 had planted, and placed them so very thick
/ and close, that when they had been three or four years
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any'conside-
rable way into the plantation; as for that part which I
had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh; and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a pali-
sado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate' it, but with a little army, to cut i
all down; f r a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all ;• for they did the same by all the
ground to the right hand, and to- the left, and round
even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not fo
much as for themselves to come out, butby the ladder
placed up to the side of the hill, and then listed up,
and placed again from the first stage up to th« top;
-which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing But
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come at
them.
This was excellently well contrived'; nor was it less
than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the
authority of Providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction of Providence to set it to work; and, would
we listen caresully to the voice of it, I am sully per-
suaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now by our. own negligence subjected to.
But this by the way.' ,
I return to the story :- they lived two years after this
in persect retirement, and had no more visits from the
savages; they had indeed, an alarm given them one
morning, which put them in a great consternation;
6>r, some of the Spaniards being out early one morning,
on the west, side, or rather end of the island, which, by
the,;
the way, was that end where I never went, for sear of
Being discovered, they were surprised with seeing above
twenty canoesof Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night, to make obsrvation ;, but they had the good luck
to be mistaken; for wherever the savages went, they did
not land at that time in the island, but pursued some otb.ee-
design.
And now they had another broil with tHe three Eng-
lishmen; one of which, a most turbulent sellow, being in
a rage.at one of the three slaves,-which 1 mentioned they
had taken, because the sellow had not done something,
right which he bid him do, and seemed a little untrac-
table in his shewing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and seir upon ther
poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him-
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give
the sellow a barbarous Gut with: the hatchet, which he
aimed at his head, but struck into hisshoulder, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arm off', ran.
to him, and intreating him not to murder the poor man,,
elapt in between him and the savage, to prevent the:
mischief.
The sellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him.as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were work-
ing in the field about the corn-land) knocked the brute
down: Another of the Englishmen, running at the
same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
man, and a third Englishman sell upon them. They
had none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he
made at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both.,
This fray set the whole samily in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prison-
ers*.' The next question was, what should be done with,
c 5 them t
them? They had been so often'mutinous, and were so
surious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew
not what course to take with them; for they were mis-
chievous to trfe last degree, and valued not what hurt they
did any man; so that, in. short, it was not sase to live
-with them. %
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in so many
"Words, that if they had been hisl-own countrymen, he
would havehanged.them all; for all laws, and all govern- .
ors, were.to preserve society; and those who were dan-
gerous to society, ought to be expelled out of it; but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
kindness .of an, Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, .and said, ,
they desired it. might not be left to them; for, says he, _
I am sure we ought.to sentence them to the gallows; and
-with that gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the
three, had proposed to have all the five'Englishmen join
-together, and murder all the Spaniards,- when they were_
in their sleep.
When the Spanish Governor, heard this, he calls to.
Will Atkins: How, Seignior Atkins, says he, will you i
murder us all ? • What have you to say to that? That --
hardened villain was so sar from denying it, that he said
it was true^and, G—*>>-d:d—mnhim^ they would do it still
before they had done with them.' Well, but Seignior
Atkins, said the Spaniard, What have we. done to you, „
that you would kill us? And what would you get by
killing us? And what must we do to prevent. your .
killing us1?- Must we kill you, or will you kill us!-'
Why will.you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior -
Atkins? says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling. ,-
Seignior Atkins, was in such a rage at the Spaniard's .
making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three
men,, and withal had- no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have, attempted to have-killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider se-
riously what was to be done. The two Englishmen and .
the,.Spaniard, wha.sa,Yed the poor savage, were of the
opjaion,
- • -' - )
opinion, That they should hang one of the three for an
example to the rest; and that particularly it should be
he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his
hatchet, and indeed there was some reafon to belive he-'
had done it-, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received,. that it was
thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he--
had murdered half of them; nay, he said, if he had
been killed himself by an Englishmen, and had time left
to speak, it should be, that they should pardon him.
This was fo positively inlisted on by the governor Spa-
niard that there was no gainsaying it; and, • as-mercisul
councils are-most apt to prevail where.they are fo ear-
nestly pressed,, fo they all Game into it; but .then it was
to be considered, what should bedone.tokeep them from
the mischief they designed ; -for all' agreed, governor and
all, that means-were to be osed for preserving the fo--
ciety from danger. After a long debate it was agreed,
soft, That-"they should be disarmed, and not permitted •
to have either gun, or powder, or snot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be tamed out of the fociety, and
left to live where they would, and how they could, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards
orEnglish, flwuld converse with them, speak with them,
or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the reft dwelt; ami that if they offered to com-
mit any diforder, fo as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any
of the corn,-planting, buildings, sences, or cattle belong-
ing to the fociety, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them-wherever they could sind them.
The governor, a man of great humanity,- musing up-
on the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn- •
kg to the two honest Englishmen, said, Hold; you must
reflect, that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, and they must not starve;' we must
therefore allow them provisions. So he caused to be
added, that they should have a proportion of corn given
them, to last them eight months, and for seed to fow, by
which time they might be supposed to raise fome o£ their
c 6 own
^
own; that they should have six milch-goats, four IteV-
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present sub-
sistence, as for a store; and that' they should have tools
given them for their work in the field; such as, six
liatchets, an axe, a saw; and the like :• But they should
have none of their tools, or. provisions, unless they would
swear solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any os
the Spaniards with them, or of their sellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned*
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
iullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away,
or to stay; but, as there was no remedy, they went-pre-«
tending to go and chute a place where they should set-
tle themselves, to plant and live by themselves ;. and
some provision were given, but no weapons..
About four or five days after, they came again sor,
some victuals, and gave the governor an account were
they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out-
an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient
place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in.
my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to surround
the island.
Here they bulk themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner-likemy first habitation,,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides of it; so that by
planting others, it would be very, easily covered- from
the sight* unless narrowly searched for; they ^desired-
some dry goat-ftins, for beds and covering, which were .
given them; and upon their giving their words, that
they would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their
plantations) they gave them hatchets, and what, other
jtools they could spare; some pease, barley, and rice,,
for sowing, andi in a word,.any thing they, wanted,,
but'arms and ammunition..
They lived in this separate condition about six months, .
and had got"m their first harvest, though the quantity,
-was but small, the parcel- of land they, had planted be-
ing but little; for indeed, having all their plantation to
sorm, they had a great deal of work upon their hands ;.,
•*»d when they.came to make boards and pots, and such.,
things,
tilings, they were quite out of their clement, and could,
make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they, could not keep-
their grain dry, and it was in great' danger of spoiling ;.
and this humbled them'much, so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did %.
and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn, and
other things from the rain; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments in it.
About three quartersof a year after this separation,,
a new frolic took these rogues, which, together with,
the former villany they had committed, brought.mis-
chief enough upon them,, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony; the three new associatesi
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious lise they,
led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the Continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them, do the laborious part of the
work for them.
The project was not so preposterous,, if th»y had gone
no surther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing;
but had either mischief in.the design, or mischief in the
event; and; if I'may give my opinion, they seemed to.
be under-a blast from heaven; for, if we will not allow
a visible curie to pursue visible crimes, how shallwe re--
concile the events of things with divine justice? It was
certainly an apparent vengeance of their crime of mu--
tiny and piracy, that brought them to the state they
were in.; and, as they shewed net the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding,
3 poor Have, because he did not, or perhaps could not,,
•understand to do what- he was directed; and to wound
him in, such a manner, as no question, made him a.
cripple all his lise; and in. a place where no surgeon.
or medicine could be had for his cure: and, what was,
siill -worse; the murderous intent; or, to do justice to.
the.
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure
it was, as was afterwards the formed rietign they all
laid,', to- murder the Spaniards in cool- blood, aid lh-
their'sleep.
But r leave observing, and return to the story: .The-
jhree sellows came down to the Spaniards one morning
and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to
speak with them: the Spaniards very readily beard
what they had to say, which was this: that they were
tired of living in the manner they did; that they were
not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted;
and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to
take one of the canoes which they came over in, and-
give them arms and ammunition, proportioned for their'
desence, they would go over to the main, and seek their
fortune, and so deliver them from the trouble of sup-
plying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,,
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them, they had
suffered such hardships upon, that • very spot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that'
they would be starved or murdered; and badethem,
consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be -starved .
if they staid here, for they could not work; and would
not work: and they could but' be starved abroad;. and
that if they were murdered, there wasan end of them, .
they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, .
in short, insisted importunately upon their demand, de-
claring that they would go, whether they would give
them any arms or no.
The.Spaniards told them, with'great kindness, that,
if they wer« resolved to go, they should not go like naked
men, and be in,no condition to desend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare their, fire-arms, .having
not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have
two musquets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, apd given <
ib.ero.as much goat's .flesh as they could eat while it was
sweets
sweet, and a great bastcet-sull of dried grapes, a pot-sulF:
of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they bold-
lyset out in a canoe so*-a voyage over the sea, where it
was at least forty milesbroad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried 15 or 20 men; and therefore was ra-
ther too big for them to manage; but as they had a sair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough: they had made a mast of a long; pole, and a.
sail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed,
orlaced together; and away they .went merrily enough;
the Spaniards - called after them,. Bon-Veajo; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and
the two honest -Englishmen, who remained behind, how
quiet and comfortably they lived, now-those three tur-
bulent sellows were gone; as for their ever coming again
that was the remotest thing from their thoughts that
could be imagined; when behold, after 22 days ab- •
fence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his
planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards .
him at a distance, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, aaif he was bewitched, .
and became frighted and amazed to the governor Spa-
niard, and tells them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell
who i-the Spaniard pausing a while, says to him, how
do you mean, you cannot tell who i They are savages
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishman, they are men .
in clothes, with arms: Nay then, .says the Spaniard,
why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they,
must .be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon.,
earth, but will do us good rather than harroj
.While they were debating thus, came the three Eng--
Hshmen, and,' standing without the wood, which was .
new planted, hallooed to them; they presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased*
But now the admiration was turned upon another ques-
tion, viz. What could be the matter, and what made:
them come back again.
It was not long before they brought the men in; and
enquiring wheieihey had been, and what they had been.
doing;?
doing? They gavethem a sull account of their voyage,,
in a sew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows,
to sight them, they durst not go on. shore, but sailed on
'to the northward 6 or 7 hours, till they came to a great,
opening, by which they perceived that the land they
saw from our island was not the main, but an illand;
that-entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand north, and several more west ;.
and, being resolved to land somewhere,., they put over
to one of the islands which lay west* and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots, and
some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the.
women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to eat, and.
-brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued, here four days, and enquired, as-
well as they could of them by signs, what nations werat;
this way, and that way.; and were told of several fierce
and terrible people, that lived almost every, way; who,
as they made known by signs to them, used to eat men ;.
but as for themselves, they said that they never eat men
or women, except only such asthey took in the wars;.
and then they owned, that they made a great seast, and
eat their prisoners. .
The Englishmen enquired, when they had a seast of
that kind; and they told them, two moons ago, pointings
to the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their
great king had 200 prisoners now, which he had taken,
in his war; and they, were seeding them to make themv
sat for the next seast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous to see those prisoners ;. but the others mistaking,
them, thought they were desirous to have some of
them, to carry away for their own eating. So they
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun,
and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at sun rising, they would bring some for
them ; and accordingly, the next morning, they brought
down five women, and eleven men; and gave them
to the EngUshmeB, to carry with, them on their.
wyagej.
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did
not know what to do ; to resuse the prisoners, would have
been the highest afsront to the savage gentry Jhat offered
them; and what to do with them they knew not; how-
ever, upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them;
and in return, they gave the savagesthat brought them,
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knise, and lix or
seven of their bullets, which, though they did not under-
stand they seemed extremely pleased with ; and then, ty-
ing the poor creatures hands behind them, they (the
people) dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon
as they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited the
donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respects and
thanks that could well pass between people, where on
one side, they understood not one word they could say,
they put off with their boat, and came back towards
the first island, where, when they arrived, they set eight
of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of
them for their occasion.
In their voyages they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prisoners, but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they could
•say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was
looked upon as going about to murder them; they first
of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed
at that, especially the women, as if they had just selt the
lenise at their throats; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the sama
thing; then they concluded it was for sear they should
fink in flesh, and so not be sat enough to kill: if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was
settest and. fittest takill first;, nay, after they had brought
than
them quite over, =&d&egan to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make ar
dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderershad given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard,
asked them, where their new samily was. And being:
told that they had brought them on shore,.and put them.-
into one of their huts, and were come to beg some vic-
tuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the oti;*r two
Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony resolved-
to go all down to the place, and see them, ;;nd did so,,
and Friday'? sather with rhem.
W hen they came into the hut, there they sat all bound f=
for when they had brought tbetn on shore, they bound-
tkeir hands, that they might not take the boat and'
make their escape; there, 1 say, they sat, all of them-
stark-naked; first, there were three men,, lusty comely
sellows, well shaped, strait and sair limb*, about 30 or
35 years of age, and 5 women, whereof two might be
from 30 t^,40, two more not above 24 or 25, and the
fifth a tall comely maiden, about 16 or 17 •• the.women
were well-savoured agreeable-persons, both in shape and
seatures, only tawny; and'two of them, had they been-
persect white, would have passed for handsome women,
even in London itself, having very pleasant agreeable
countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, especially
when they came afterwards to be cloatbed,. and dressed
as they called it, tho' that dress wasvery indifferent, it
must be consessed: of which hereafter.
The sight you may be sure was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men of- the best behaviour, of the most calm,
sedate tempers, and persectigood humour, that ever I
met with; and in particular,, of the most modesty, as
will presently appear: I say, the sightlwas very uncouth,
to see three naked men, and five naked women, all toge-
ther bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
that human.nature could be supposed to be, viz. to he*
expecting every moment to. be dragged out, and have
their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like-
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The fust thing they did was to cause the old Indian*
Friday !*>
Friday's sather, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their speech:
as soon as the old man.eame in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them, neither could any of
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could,
make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, thatthe men into whose hands they
were sallen were Christians, that they abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would'
not be killed; as soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a jpy, and by such aukward and several
ways, as is hard to describe;, for it seems they were o£.
several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bidV Mb
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to be
servants, and to wot k for the men who had brought-
them away, to lave their lives? At which they all sell-
a dancing; and presently one sell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carty on their,
shoulders,, to intimate that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women,
among them would presently be attended with some
ioconveniency, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, alked the three men, what they intended to
do with these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants, or as women. One of the.
Englithmen answered very boldly, and readily, that they,
would use them as both. To which the governor said,.
I am not going to restrain you from it;, you are your
own masters as to that; but this 1 think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you,, and I desire
it of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these women, as a
woman, or wife, he shall take but one; and that having;
taken one, none else should touch her; for though wo
cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable, that
while you stay here, the woman any of you take,
should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
ihould be his wise; I mean, says he, while he continues
here; and that none else should have any thing to do>.
with her. All this appeared so just^ that every one
agreed to it without any difficulty Thsu,
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, if they de-
signed to take any of them? But every one answered,
no: fome of them said they had wives in Spain, and'
the others did not like women that were Mt Christians:
and altogether declared, that they would not touch one
of them; which was an instance of such virtue, as I
have not met with in all my travels: on the other hand,
to be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a
wise;' that is to foy, a temporary wise; and fo they set
up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's
sather lived in my oki habitation, which they had en-
larged exceedingly within; the three servants, which,
they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived
with them, and thele carried on the main part of the
colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found ne-
cessity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how sive such re-
fractory ill-matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two of them should not pitch upon
the same woman, especially seeing two or three of them,
were, without comparifon, more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent
quarrelling among themselves; for they set the sive wo-
men by themselves in one of their huts, and they went
all into the other hut, and drew lots among them who
should chuse sirst.
He that drew to chuse sirst went away by himself to-
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that
he that chose sirst, took her that was reckoned the home-
liest, and the oldest of the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it:
but the sellow considered better than any of them, that:
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and she proved'
the best wise in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in. a row
thus, and fetched out one'by one, the terrors of their
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed, that they were now going to be devoured : ac--
COj:dingly» when the English tailor came in and fetched-
... . out
•out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
and hung about her, and took their leave of her with
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they setched the old man,
Friday's sather, who instantly let them know, that the
sive men who had setched them out one by one, had
•chosen them for their wives.
W hen they had done this, and the fright the women
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a sew
hours they had built them every one a new hut or tent
for their lodging apart: for thole they had already, were
crouded with their tools, houshold-stuffand provisions;
Thethree wicked ones had pitched sarthest off', and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north-shore of
the island, fo that they continued separate as before; and
thus my island peopled in three placrs, and, as I might
say, three towns were began to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it
often happens in the world (what the wile ends os God's
providences are in such a disposition of things, 1 cannot
fay), the two honest sellows had the two worst wives:
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit for nothing, ancl neither seemed born
to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever,
diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that the two
sirst were ill wives as to their temper or humour; for all
the sive were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected
creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning
is, they were not alike capable, or ingenious, or indus-
trious, or alike cleanly neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace of a slothsul, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management of the several
little colonies, the two men had fo sar outgone the
three, that there was no comparifon: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they
wanted; and the reafon was, because, according to my
rule,
rule, nature dictated, and that it was to no purpose to
sow more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the sences, and indeed
every thing else, was easy to be seen as first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation quite demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shewn
in its place, yet they 'had restored all again, and every
thing was flourishing and thriving about them; they had
grapes planted in Order, and managed like a vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen any thing of that
kind; and by their good ordering their vines, their
grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thickest part
of the woods, "where, though there was not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief
which followed happened-, they secured their wives and
children, so as they-could never be found: they having
toy sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood,
which, as I said, grew so easily, made a grove impassa-
ble, except in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outside part; and then went in by ways o€
their own leaving.
As to the three teprobates, as I ju-ftly«all them, tho*
they were much civilized by their new settlement, com-
pared to what they were before, and were not so quar=.
relsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of
the certain companions of a prossigate mind, never left
them, and that was their idleness; it is true, they plants.
ed corn, and made sences; but Solomon's Words were
lie er better verrified than in them; • 1 went by the
vineyard of the slothsul, and it was overgrown with
thorn ;' for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in tome places for weeds; the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten
in, and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a
dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable door after
the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony -
•colony of the other two, there was the very sace of in-
dustry and success upon all they did; there was not a
-weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their
hedges: and they, on the other hand, verrisied Solomon's
words in another place: • The diligent hand maketh.
itch ;' for every thing grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they had more tame cat-
tle than the others, more utensils and necessaries within
doors, and yet m-re pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
•cleanly within doors: and, having learned the English
way of dressing and^cooking from one of the other Eng-
lishmen, who, as 1 s id, was a cook's mate on board
the ship, they drefled their hnsbind's victuals very nice-
ly; whereas the other could not he brought to under-
stand it; but then the hustmnd, who, as I said, had been
cook's mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands
of the three wives, ithey Voitered aHout, setched turtles'
eggs> and caught sisli and birds: in a word, any thing
but labour; and they sared accordingly, she diligent
lived well and'comfortably, and the slothsul lived hard
and beggarly-; and fo I believe, generally speaking, it is
all over the world.
But now I come to a scene, different from all that had
happened before, either to them or roe, and the origin of
the story was this;:
Early one morning there came on shore sive or fix
•canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please; and there is no^room to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; bur
that part was no* fo samiliar to the Spaniards, and to
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about
it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
'experience, that the.r only business was to lie concealed,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the lkvages,
they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to do but to give no-
tice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to Ihew themselves; only placing a scout in a
4 proper
proper place, to give notice when the boats went off to
sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole co-
lony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying
sast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed, they had
either been so gorged with their inhuman seast, that like
beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when the
others went, or they wandered into the woods, and did
not come back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
persectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor as
it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked,
but he prosessed he knew not what to do; as for slaves
they had enough already ;' and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard gover-
nor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent
blood; for, as to them, the poor creatures had done
mo wrong, invaded none of their property, and they
thought they had no just quarrel with them, to take
away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let all the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and
Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen men,,
of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
•who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spa-
niards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their
very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous passions, and yet all of, them men of great cou-
rage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
bearing the unsutferable usage of the three Englishmen,
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the
case of the savages, as above: after some consultation,
they
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three men might begone;
l>ut then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the
three savages had no boat'; and that,, if they were left
to rove about theisjand, they would certainly discover
that there were inhabitants in it, and fo they should be
undone that way.
Upon this they Went back again, and there lay the
fellows sast asleep still; fo they refolved to awaken them,
and take them prifoners, and they did fo: the poor
fellows were strangely frighted When they were seized
upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that they
should be murdered and eaten; for, it seems, thole peo-
ple think all the world do as they do, eating men's
fleth; but they were foon made easy as to that, and
away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean to my palace under the
hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work; such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &.c. and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not muck
they had for them to do; and whether it was by neg-
igence in guarding them, or that they thought the sel-
lows conld not mend themselves, I know not, but one
of them ran away-; and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reafon to believe he got home again
foon after in fome other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in
two days time: this thought terrisied them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good -cause in-
deed, that if this sellow got sase home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give them an account that there
were people in the island, as alfo how weak and sew they
were; for this savage, as I observed before, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they lived, nor had he ever seen or
heard the sire of any of their guns, much less had they
ihewn him any other of their-retired places, such as the
voi,. iii d -cave
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two
Englishmen had made, and the like.
The sirst testimony they had, that this sellow had
given intelligence os them was, that about two months
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven, or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side os the island, where they never used to corner
before, and landed about an hour after sun-rise, at a
convenient pfeice, about a mile from the habitation of
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept: as the Spaniard governor said, had they been
al! there, the damage would not have been fo much,
for not a man of them would have escaped; but the
case differed now very much; for two men to sifty were
too much odds: the two men had the happiness to dis-
cover them about a league eff, fo that it was above an
hour before they landed; and as they landed about a
mile from their huts, it was fome time before they could
come at them. Now having great reafon to believe that
they were betrayed, the sirst thing they did, was to bind
the slaves which were left, and cause two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, who, it
seems, proved very saithsul to them, to lead them with
their two wives, and whatever they could carry away
with them, to their retired place in the woods, which I
liave spoken of above, and there to bind the two sellows
hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on
Ihore, and that they bent their course directly that
iway, they opened the sences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for that,
and gave them an account of it all; for they went di-
rectly to the place.
When the two poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three, who came with the women, and who was
at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards, with
all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms,
and
and what ammunition they had, and retreated toward the
place in the wood, where their wives were sent, keeping
at a distance, yet fo that they might see, if possible,
which way the savages took.
They had not gone sar, but that, from a rising
ground, they could see the little army of their enemies
'come on directly to their habitation, and in a moment
more could see all their huts and houshold-stuff flaming
lip together, to their great grief and mortisication; for
they had a very great loss; and to them irretrievable, at
least for fome time. They kept their station for awhile,
till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread them»
selves all over the place, rummaging every way, and
every place they could think of, in search for prey; and
in particular for the people of whom, it plainly appeared,
they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
fome of the wild people might come that way, fo they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile sarther, believing,
as it afterwards happened, that the sarther they strolled,
the sewer would be together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a
tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large, and in
this tree they both took their standing, refolving to see
what might offer.
They had not stood these long, but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; and a little way surther they espied three more
coming after them, and sive more beyond them, all com-
ing the same way ; besides which, they saw 7 or 8 more at
a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game. ,
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep their posture, or fly; but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help came,
they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat in the woods,
and then all would be lost; fo they refolved to stand them
d 2 there
y
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then they-
would get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubt-
ed'not to desend themselves, sire excepted, as long as their
ammunition laded, tho' all the savages that were landed,
which were near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether .
they should fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and fo
take the middle party; by which the two and the five that
followed would be separated; at length they resolved to let
the two first pass by, unless they should spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them. The two firfi savages also
confirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from
tl cm towards another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came forwards directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they resolved
to take, them in a line as they came; and as they resolved
to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three; to which purpose, the man who was to
sire, put three or four bullets into his piece, and having
a sair loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the
tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting
till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so
that he could not tail's. ",
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them, and they both'
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both fire; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop
at the sirst shot, he should'be sure to have a second.-
But the tirst was too good a marksman to miss his aim:
for the savages kt-pt near one another a little behind
in a line; in a word, he fired, and hit two of them di-
rectly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in
the head; the second, which was the run-away Indian,
was shot through the body, and sell, but wa not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in th= shoulder,
perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of
the second; and, being dreadsully frighted, though not
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and
yelling in a hideous manner.
The

The five that were behind, more frighted with tlte
noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at first; for
the woods made the found a thousand times bigger than
it really was; the echoes rattling from one side to ano-
ther, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming and
making, every sort, a several kind of noise, according
to their kind, just as it was when I fired the first gun
that, perhaps, was ever shot oss in that place since it
was an island.N
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing
what <he matter was, came on, unconcerned, till they
came to that place where their companions lay in a
condition miserable enough: and here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the
same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded
man, talking, tfnd, as may be supposed, enquiring of
him how he came to be hurt; and who, 'tis very ratio-
nal to believe, told them that a flash of fire first, and
immediately after that, thunder from their gods, had
killed those two, and wounded him: this, I say, is ra-
tional; for nothing is more certain than that, as they
saw no man near them, fo they had never heard a gun
in all their lives, or fo much as heard of a gun; neither
knew they any thing of killing or wounding at a distance,
with fire and bullets; if they had, one might reasonably
believe, that they would not have stood so unconcerned,
in viewing the sate of their sellows, without some appre-
hension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they consessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the same time had no notion of their dan-
ger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and the
first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly
both together among them; and singling out by agree-
ment which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or
very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frighted
even to death, though not hurt, sell with the rest; so
that our men, seeing them all sall together, thought they
had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made our
two men come boldly out from the tree before they
had charged.their guns again; which was a wrong
D 3 step;
step; and they were under some surprise, when they
caine to the place, and found no lets than four of the
men alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one
not at all; this obliged them to sal! upon them with the
stocks of their mus'quets; and first, they made sure of
the runaway savage, that had been the cause of all the
mischief; and of another that was hurt in his knee, and
put them out of their pain; then the man that was not
hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by
gestures and signs, for his lise; but conid not say one
•word to them that they could understand.
However, they signified to him to sit down at the foot
of a tree thereby; and one of the Englishmen, with a
piece of rope twine, which he had by great chance in bis
pocket, tied his seet sast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him; and with what speed they
could, made after the other two which were gone before
searing they, or any more of them, should find the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,,
and the sew goods they had left ky: they came once irk
sight of the two men, but it was a great distance; how-
ever, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a
73 ATiVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRWSOE.
which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of;
and, being satissied with that, they went back to the tree
where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed,
-was delivered by his comrades; for he was gone, and
the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound
him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to go
away to the place where their wives were, to see if all
-was well there, and to make them easy, who were in
fright enough to be sure; for though the savages were
their own country folks, yet they were most terribly a-
fraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge
they had of them.
When they came thither, they found the savages had
been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
found it; for indeed, it was inaccessible, by the trees
standing
standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were
not; they found, therefore, every thing very sase, only
the women in a terrible fright: while they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to
their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and
old Friday, I mean Friday's sather, were gone in a body
to desend their bower, and the corn and cattle that were
kept there, in case the savages should have roved over to
that tide of the country; but they did not spread so sar?
with the seven Spaniards came one of the savages, who,
as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with them
also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left
bound hand and foot at the tree: for it seems they catne
that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them;
where, however, they were obliged to bind him again,
as they had done the two others, who were left when
the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them, and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for their
own preservation ; however, the Spaniard governor would
not consent to it; but ordered, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there with two Spaniards to guard them and give them
food, which was done, and they were boundj there
hand and foot for that night. _
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to
stay any longer there; but taking five ot the Spaniards
and themselves, with four musquets and a pistol among
them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went' in.
quest of the savages; and first, they came to the tree
where the men lay that bad been killed; but it was
easy to see, that some more of the savages had been there;
for they attempted to carry their dead men away, and
had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it
over : from thence they advanced to the first rising ground,
where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and
where they had the mortification still'to, see some of
the smoke; but neither could they here see any of the
d 4 savages:
savages: they then resolved, though iivith all possible
caution, to go forward towards their ruiind plantation;
. but a little before they came thither, comflig in sight of
'the sea-shore, they saw plainly all the savages embarked
again in their canoes, in order to be gone.
They seemed lorry at first that there was no way to-
come at them, to give them a parting blow: but
upon the whole, were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed
to come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them
with needsul supplies. Their three countrymen, who
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do.
any good, yet, as soon a6 they heard of it (for they,
living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter
till all was over)', came and offered their help and assist--
ance, and did very friendly work for several days, to-
restore their habitations, and make necessaries for them.;,
and thus in a, little time they were set upon, their
legs again.
- Aboat two days after this, they had the sarther satis--
saction of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driv-
ing on shore, and, at some distance from them, with
two drowned men; by which they had reason to
fcelieve^ that they* had met with a storm at sea, and
had overset some of them; for it blew* very hard the
night after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other
hand, enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
well of what they had done, as of what happened to
them.; and to whet them on to another enterprise of
the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them;
for, except what the first man had told them of inhabi-
tants, they could say little to it of their own knowledge ;,
for they never saw one man, and the sellow being killed
that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to con-
firm it to .them.
It was five or six months after this, before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our ,mea.
were in hope* they had not forgot their former .bad
luck*
luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a molt formidable fleer,
of no less than twenty-eight canoes sull of savages armed
with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and
such like engines of war; and they brought such num-
bers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into
the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do; and, in the first
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was
their only sasety before, and would much more be so now,
while the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved, first of all, to take down the huts,
which- were built for the two Englishmen, and drive
away their goats to the old cave; because they supposed
the savages Would go directly thither, as soon as it was
day, to play the old game over again, though they did
not now land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of
goats they had at the old bower, as 1 called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and the
next morning early they posted themselves with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their
coming. As they guested, so it happened; these new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east-end of the island,
came ranging along the shore directly towards the place,
to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our
men could judge. Our army was but small indeed;
but, that which was worse, they had not arms for all
their number neither: The whole account, .it seems,
stood thus: First, as to men:
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen. /.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's sather.
3 Slaves, taken wkh the women, who proved
very saithsul.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.
29 -
P ft ;• To
To arm these they had:
11 Musquets
5 Pillols
3 Fowling-pieces
5 Musquets, or fowling pieces, which were taken by
me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced.
2 Swords
3 Old halberts
29
To their slaves they did not give either imiiquetorsa—
sil, but thev had every one an halbert, or a long staff, like
a quarter-staff, with a great spike of iron sastened into-
each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one
of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could not
be prevailed upon, but they would eome into the sight;
and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had'
taken from the savages, when the first action happened,.-
•which 1 have spoken of, where the Indians fought with
one another, and the women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so of-
ten, commanded the whole; and- William Atkins, who,,
tho* a dreadful sellow for wickedne's, was a most daring
bold sellow, commanded under him. The savages came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst ot?
their sate, had no advantage in their, situation.; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most usesul sellow, with-
fix men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes,.
as an advanced guard* with orders to let the first of them
pass by, and then fire into the middle of them ;. and as
loon as he had fired, to make his retreat, as nimbly as
he con-Id, round a part of the wood, and so come in
behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket
of trees all before them.
When the savages same on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order; and
Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him ;. then,
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
three of his men to sire, having loaded their musquets
4 -with.
-with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they
knew not; but the consternation and surprise was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were frighted, to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and lee their
men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it;
when in the middle of then fright, V\ iiliam Atkins, and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest of them;
and in less than a minute, the first three, being loaded
again, gave them a third volley. L.*-
Had William Atkins and his men retired immediately,
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the reit of the body been at hand, to have poured
in their shot continually, the savages had been effectually
routed; for the terror that was among them came prin-
cipally from this, viz. That they were killed by the Gods
with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that
hurt them; but William Atkins, staying to load again,
discovered the cheat; some of the savages, who were at
a distance, spying them,' came upon them behind; and
tho' Atkins and his men fired at them also two or three
times, and killed above twenty, retiring as sail as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one
of his sellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards oneiSpaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women; this slave was a molt gallant
sellow, and fought most desperately, killing five of them
with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the
armed staves, and an hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded,
and two other men killed, retreated to a riling ground in
the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three vollies
upon them, retreated also, for^heir number was so great,
and they were so desperate, that tho' above fifty of them
were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, searless of danger, and
sliot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed, that
their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
Madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the
D 6 savages
savages, when they came up to them, killed them oveer
again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,,
and heads, with their clubs, and- wooden swords, like
true savages: but, finding our men were gone; they did:
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a
kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and
shouted twice, in token of their victory: after which,
they had the mortification to see several of their wounded
men sall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his Tittle body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had him marched, and charg-
ed them again all together at once; but the Spaniard
replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded:
men sight; let them alone, till morning: all these wound-
ad men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and
'saint with the loss of blood, and so we shall have the
sewer to engage.
The advicewas good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's:
the reason I would go on, while I am warm. Well,,
Seignior Atkins, says the Spaniard, you have behaved*
gallantly, and done your part; we will sight for you,,
if you cannot come on; but I, think it best to stay till:
morning; so they waited.
But: as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found:
the savages in great diforder about their dead and wound-
ed men-, and a great hurry and noise among them where
they lay, they afterwards resolved to sall upon them in
the night-, especially if they could come to give them,
but- one volley before they were discovered: This they
had ai fair opportunity to do; for one of-the two Eng--
lishmen, in whose quarter it was where, the sight began,,
led them round, between the woods and the sea-tide,
westward, "and turning short south, they came & near
where the thickest of them lay, that-beforethey were
seen or- heard,, eight of them fired irhamong them, and
did dreadsul execution upon them;, in half a minute more
eight others fired after them, pouring in fheir.small shot'
in such a quantity,, that abundance were killed and
wounded ;: and all this while they were not able to see
who hurt, them., or which way to fly.
TU-
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expediti-
on, and then divided themselves into 3 bodies and resolved
to fall in among them all together: they had in- each body
8 persons; that is to say 24, whereof were 22,men, and.
the 2 women, who, by the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party,
and fo of the halberts and staves. They would have
had the women keep back; but they find, they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from, among the
trees, and earne up to the teeth of the enemy, shoutin°-
and hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood
all together, but where in the utmost consusion, hearin°-
the noise of our men shouting from-three quarters toge-
ther; they would have fought if they had seen us; and
as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows
were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, tho' not
dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but,
runni/.g up to them, fired among them three ways, and'
then sell in with the butt-ends of their musquets, their
sword's, armed staves, and hatchets ; and laid about them:
so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal screaming
and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.
Our men were tired with the execution ;. and killed*
or mortally wounded, in the two sights, about 180 os
them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
thro' the woods, and over the hills, with all the speed-
that sear and nimble seet could help them- to do; and:
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they got altogether to the sea-side, where they landed,,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not
at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the sea-ward';- so that it was impossible for
them to put off; nay, the storm continuing all night*
when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them,
driven by the surge of the sea so high upon, the shore
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and some os
them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.
Our men, tho' glad of their victory, yet got little reft
that night;, but having refreshed themselves as well as
they
they could, they resolved to march to that part of the;
island where the savages were fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the sight had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past reco-
vering lise—a fight disagreeable enough to generous minds;
for alruly great man, tho' obliged by the law of battle
to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there was no need to give any order in this
casc; for their own savages who were their servants,
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the saivages' army lay, where
there appeared about 100 still; their posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up to-
wards their mouth, and the head put between the hands,
leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musquet-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two musque.ts to-
be fired without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that,
by their countenance, he might know what to expect,
viz. Whether they were still in heart to sight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and-
fo be might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took; for, as soon as the savages heard
the first gun, and law the flash of the second, they
started up upon their seet in the greatest consternations,
imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly towards-
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with.
a kind of an howling noise, which our men did not
understand, and had never heard before; and thus they
ran up the hills into the country.
At first, our men had .much rather the weather had.
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they
did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as-
not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them:
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding hia.wound,
keot always with them, proved the belt counsellor in this
case: his advice was, to take the advantage that of-
sered, and clap in between them and their: boats; and
fo deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were against
it, for sear of making the wretches fly into the woods*
and live there desperate -T and so they mould have them
to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir about their
business, and have their plantation continually rifled, all
their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced
to a lise of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do
with 100 men, than with 100 nations ; that as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be
all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he shewed
them theneeeffity of it so plainly, that they all came into
it; so- they went to work immediately with the boats,
and, getting some dry wood together from a dead tree,
they tried to set some of them on fire; but they were so-
wet that they would scarce burn. However, the fire so
burned the upper part, that it soon, made them unfit for
swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out of
the woods; and, coming as near as they could to our
men, kneeled down and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and.
some other words of their language, which none of the
others understood anything, of; but as they made pitisul!
gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone, aal never come thither again.
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but ef-
sectually to prevent any of thesepeople from ever going,
home again; depending upon, this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colony was undone: so that, letting them
know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one
that the storm had not destroyed before 'r at the sight of
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which, our people heard plain enough; after which they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a.
word, our men did not really know at first what to do
with, them.
Nos
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consi-
tier, that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations,; for though it is true they had
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind
their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor
the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation.
et the bower, and pulled it alt to pieces, and all the
fences and planting about it, trod all the corn under foot,
tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe,.
and did our men an inestimable damage, tho' to them-
selves, not one sarthing's worth of service.
Though our men were able to sight them upon all oc-
casions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble
of foot for our men when they found them single, ib our
men durst not go about single, for sear of being surround-
ed with their numbers: the best was, they had no wea-
pons; for tho' they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edged'
tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the same time our
men were alfo brought to very hard circumstances by
them -r for though their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled; ands
what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew
not; the only resuge they had now, was the stock of
cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and fome little
corn which grew there. The three Englishmen, William.
Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced to two,.
one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him
on the side of his head, just under the temples, fo that he
never spoke more; and it was very remarkable, that this,
was the same barbarous sellow who cut the poor savage'
slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to*
have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their cate to have been worse at this
time than mine was at any time after I sirst discovered'
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; for
flow they had,, as I may fay,- an hundred wolves upon
'" the
"v
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The first thing they concluded, when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if pos-
sible, drive them up to the sarther part of the island,
south-east, that, if any more savages come on shore, they
might not find one another : then, that they would daily
hunt and harraso them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their number, and
if they could at last tame them, and bring them to any
thing, they would give them corn, and teach them how-
to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and fo terrified .
them with their guns, that in a sew days, if any of them
fired a gun at au Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would sall down for sear ; and so dreadsully frighted they
were, that they kept out of sight sarther and sarther, l
till at last our men following them, and every day almost
killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the
woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced them
to the utmost misery for want of food; and many "were
afterwards found dead in, the woods, without any hurt,
but merely starved to death.
Wb*n our men found this, it made their hearts re-
lent, and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my lise: and he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so sar as
to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them,
and see if they might be brought to some conditions
that might be depended upon to save their lives, and
to do us no, spoil.
It was some time before any of them, could be taken;
but, being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner; he was sullen at first, and
would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and victuals given him, and no violence ottered
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
jsith him, and told him how kind the others would be
to the.m all; that they would not only save their lives,
but
but would give them a part of the island to live in, prow
videdthey would give satissaction ; that they should keep-
in their own bounds, and not' come beyond them to in-
jure or prejudice others; and that they should have corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread,
and fome bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk with the rest,
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assuring
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they should
all be destroyed.
The poor wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal
at the sirst offer, and begged to have fome food given
them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two English-
men, well armed, and three Indian slaves, and old Friday,
marched to the place where they were, the three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and fome
lice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the fun, and three
live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of
a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions very
thanksully, and were the most saithsul sellows to their
words that could be thought of; for, except when they
came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out
of their bounds; and there they lived when I came to
the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread,
breed tame goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing
but wives, and they foon would have been a nation r
they were consined to a neck of land, surrounded with
high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea
before them, on the fouth-east comer of the island: they
had land enough, and it was very good and fruitsul, for
they had a piece of land about a mileand a half broad,
and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as-
I made for myself; and gave among them 12 hatchets,'
and three or four knives; and there they lived the molt
subjected innocent creatures that were ever heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a persect tranquillity,
with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them,
which was in about two years; not but that now and
then fome canoes of savages came on shore for their
triumphal
triumphal unnatural seasts; but as they were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I,have given a sull account of all that
happened to them, to my return, at least, that was worth
notice. The Indians, or savages, were wondersully
civilized by them, and they frequently went among
them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters; for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly all
forts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c. as also
chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of
other things, being very ingenious at such work, whoa
they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
because we furnished them with knives,'scissars, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they
could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like basket-work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd;
but was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat,
as against all forts of vermin; and our men were so taken
with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do
the like for them; so that when 1 come to see the two.
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if
they lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
-sober sellow, he had made himself such a tent of bas-
ket-work, as, I believe, was never seen; it was 120 paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the
walls were as close-worked as a basket, in pannels or
stiuares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, stand-
ing
ing about 7 seet high; in the middle was another not
above 22 paces round, but built stronger, being eight
square in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
very strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof of eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure yei», and joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes,
which he had made himself too out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance of ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge of: he made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself char-
coal for his work, aud he formed* out of one of the iron,
crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, sta-
ples and spikes, bolts and hinges. But to return to the
house: after he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work
to firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously with
rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which co-
vered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had been,
tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages made
the basket-work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round
this inner apartment, and long rasters lay from the 32
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about
twenty seet distant; so that there was a space like a walk,
within the outer wicker-wall, and without the inner,
near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wick-
er-work, but much sairer, and divided it into six apart-
ments, for that he had six rooms on a floor, and out
of every one" of these there was a door; first, into the
entry or coming into the main tent, and another door
into the space or walk that was round it; fo that this
walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served
not only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries
which the samily had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumserence, what other
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered: as
loon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
x * you.
you had a short passage strait before you to the door of
the inner house; but on either side was a wicker parti-
tion, and a door in it, by which you went, first, into a
large room or store-house, 20 seet wide, and aboi^t 30
feet long, and through that into another not quite so
long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets or
retired rooms to the respective chambers of the inner cir-
cle; and four large warehouses or bams, or what you
please to call them, which went in through one another,
two on either hand of the passage, that kd through the
outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, T believe, was never seen
in the world; nor any house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built; in this great bee-hive lived the three
samilies, that is to say, Will Atkins, and his companion;
the third was killed, but his wise remained with three
children; for she was, it seems, big with child when he
died; and the other two were not at all backward to give
the widow her sull share of every thing, I mean, as to
their corn, milk, grapes, &rc. and when they killed a kid,
or found a turtle on the shore: so that they all lived well
enough, though it was true, that they were not so indus-
trious as the other two, as has been already observed.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as
for religion, I don't know that there was any thing of
that kind .among them; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in mind, that there was a God, by the very
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name:
nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the bet-
ter for having been married to Christians, as we must
call them,; for as they knew very little of God themselves,
so they were utterly incapable of entering into any dis-
course with their wives about a God, or to talk any thing
to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which lean say
the wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak English pretty well; and all the children
they had, which were near twenty in all, were taught
to. speak English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at first spoke it in' a very broken manner,
like
like their mothers. There were none of those children
above six years old when I came thither; for it was not
much above seven years that they had setched these sive
savage ladies over, but they had all been pretty fruitsul,
for they had all children, more or less: I think the
'cook's mate wise was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good fort of well-governed, quiet,
laborious women, modest and decent, helpsul to one ano-
ther, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I
cannot call them husbands, and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
legally married; both which were happily brought about
afterwards by my means, or, at least, by the consequence
of my coming among them.
Having thus given an account of the colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my sive runagade Englishmen, I
must say fomething of the Spaniards, who were the
main body of the samily; and in whose story there are
fome incidents alfo remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances, when they were among the savages; they
told me readily, that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they
were a poor miserable dejected handsul of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so
abandoned themselves to despair, and fo sunk under the
weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but slarving: one of them, a grave and very sensible
man, told me, he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wise men to give up them-
selves to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reafon osFered> as well for present support,
as for suture deliverance; he told me, that grief was
the most senseless insignisicant passion in the world; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
view to things to come, and had no share in any thing
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the
asfliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this, he
repeated a Spanish proverb; which, tho' 1 cannot repeat
in just the same words that he spoke it, yet 1 remember
1 made it into an English proverb of my own, thus:
In
In trouble to be troubled.
Is lo have your trouble doubled* -''
He ran on them in remarks upon all the little improve-
ments I had made in my solitude; my unwearied appli-
cation, as he called it, and how I had made a condition,
which, in its circumstance, was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was,
even now, when they were altogether: he told me, it
was remarkable, that Englishmen had a greater presence
of mind, in their distress, than any people that ever he
met with; that their unhappy nation, and the Portu-
guese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with
misfortunes; for that their first step in danger, after com-
mon efforts are over, was always to despair, lie down
under it and die, without routing their thoughts up to
proper remedies for escape.
1 told him their case (and mihe differed exceedingly;
_ that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries,
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till
they could provide it: that it is true, I had this dis-
advantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the supplies I had pro\identially thrown into my hands,
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards
been in your case, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the ship as you did : nny, says he,
we should never have found means to have gotten a
raft to carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we
have done, said he, if any of us had been- alone! Well,
1 desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they land-
ed: he told me, they unhappily landed at a place
where there were people without provisions; whereas,
had they had the common sense to have put off to lea
again, and gone to another island a little sarther, they
h'ad found provisions, though without people; there
toeing an island that way, as they had been told, where
there
thfcre were provisions, though no people; that is to say»
that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there*
and silled the island with goats and hogs at several times {
where they have bred in such multitudes, and where
turtle and sea-fowls where in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of slesh, though they had
found no bread; whereas here they were only sus-
tained with a sew roots and herbs, which they under-
stood not, and which had no substance in them, and
which the inhabitants' gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn
canibals, and eat men's fiesh, which was the great dain-
ty of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they
strove to civilize the savages they were with, and to
teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of liv-»
ing, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon them,
as unjust, that they, who came thither for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those
that gave them bread; intimating, it seems, that none
should set up for the instructors of others but those
who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they
were driven to; how fometimes they were many days
without any food at all, the island they were upon being'
inhabited by a fort of savages that lived more indolent,
and, for that reafon, were less supplied with the neces-
saries of lise, than they had reafon to believe others were
in the same part of the world; and yet they found that
these savages were less ravenous and voracious, than those
who had better supplies of sood.
Also they added, that they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness, the go-
verning Providence of God directs the events of things in
the work!; which, they said,' appeared in their circum-
stances; for, if pressed by the hardships they were under,
and the .barrenness of the country where they were, they
had searched alter a better place to live in, they had then
been out of the way of the relief that happened to them
by my means.
Then they gave me an account, how the savages,
whom they lived among, expected them to go out with
them

them into their wars: and it was true' that, as they had
fire-arms with them, had they not ha 1 the disaster to lose'
their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable'
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible'
both to friends and enemies; but being without powder
and mot, and yet in a condition, that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their warsj
when they came in the field- of battle, they were in a'
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they'
neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and th:n, indeed,
the three halberts they had, were of use to them, and
they would •often drive a whole little army before theni
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this they were
sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great dan-
ger from their arrows; till at last they found the way to
make themselves large targets of wood, which they co-
vered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew
sot; and these covered them from the arrows of the sa-
vages; that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes
in great danger, and were once five of them knocked
down together with the clubs of the savages, which was;
the time when one of them was taken prisoner; that is to
say, the Spaniard, whom I had relieved : that at first they
thought he had been killed, but when afterwards they
htasd he was taken prisoner, they were under the greatest
'grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.
They told me, that when they were so knocked down,
the rest of their company rescued them, and stood over
them, sighting till they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they
made their way with their halberts and pieces, standing
close together in a line, through a body of above a thou-
sand savages, beating down all that came in their way,
got the victory over their enemies, but to their great
sorrow, because it was the loss of their friend; whom
the other party, finding him alive, carried oft7with some
others, as I gave an account in my former, '• .
. vol. .11. £ they
•They described most- affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at: the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild
men i and, yet how more and more they were surprised
w^th the, account he gavethem of his errand, and that
there was a Christian in a place near, much more one
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute
to.tbeir deliverance. • '•..,•
They, described how they were astonished at the sight
of the relief I sent them, and at the appearance os loaves
of bread, things they had not seen since their coming to
that miserable, place; how often' they crossed it, and
'blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what a reviv-
ing cordial it was ta their spirits to taste it; as alfo of
the other things I had; sept for their supply. And, after
all, they would have told me fomething of the joy they
were,in, at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry ihem
away, to the perfon and place, from whence all these new
comforts came; but they told me, it was impossible to
express it by words; for their excessive joy driving them
to unbecoming extravagancies, they had no way to
describe them, but by telling me, that they bordered
upon luqacy, having no way to give vent to their pas-
si,on, suitable to the sense that was upon them; that, in
fome it worked one way, and in fome another; and that
lbme of them, through a surprise of joy, would burs*
'out into tears; others be half-mad, aud others immedi-
ately saint. This discourse extremely affected me, and
called to my mind Friday's extacy, when he met his
father, and the poor people's extacy, when I took them
up at sea, after their ship was on sire; the mate of the
Clip's joy, when he found himself delivered in the place,
where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when,
after twenty-eight years captivity, I found a good ship
ready to carry me to my own country: all these things
made me more sensible of the relation of these poor men j
and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things,
as 1 found them, 1 must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which I left them.
It was rheir opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled
troubled no more with the savages; or that, if they
-were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were
twice as many as before; so that they had no concerri
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with
the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay
in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some, and
leave others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay,
if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, 1 told them, 1 came to establish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds
for them: that 1 had been at a great charge to* supply
them with all things necessary; as well for their conve-
nience, as their desence; and that I had such parti-.
cular persons'with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employ-
ments 'which they were'bred to, being artificers, to
assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them;
and before 1 delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the first animosities that had been among them,
and could shake hands with bne another, and engage in
a strict friendship, and union of interest, ib that there
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
VVilliam Atkins', with abundance of frankness and
good humour, said, they had met with afflictions enough
to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make
them all friends , that, for his part, he would live artd
die with them; and was so sar from designing any thing
against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they had done
nothing to him but what his own bad humour made
necessary, and what he would have done, and, perhaps',
much worse, in their case; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things
he- had done to them; and was very willing and desi-
rous of living in terms of entire friendship and union
with them; and would do any thing that lay in his
power to convince them of it; and as for going to Eng-
land, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years,
.b8 , The
758787A
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at first, dis-
armed and excluded William Atkins, and his two coun-
trymen for their ill conduct, as they had let me know;
and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William Atkins had behaved
himself so bravely in the great fight they had with the
savages, and on several occasions since, and had shewed
himself so saithsul to, and concerned for the general in-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past; and thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them;
and that they had testified their satissaction in him, by
committing the command to him, next to the governor
himself; and as they had an entire confidence in him*
and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged, they
had merited that considence, by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted: and
they most heartily embraced the opcasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never have any interest
separate from dne another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together:
and, indeed, we made a splendid seast: I caused the
Ciip's cook, and his mate to come on thore, and dress
our dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef,
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
"with our punch bowl, and materials to sill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer: things that neither the
Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many years;
and which it may be supposed, they were exceeding
glad of.
The Spaniards added to our seast five whole kids,
which the cook's roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board our ship to the seamen, that
they might seast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
•with their salt meat from on board.
After this seast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that
there might be no dispute about dividing, I shewed them
there was sufficient for them all; and desired, that they
might
mght all take an equal quantity of the goods that were
for wearing; that is to sav, equal when made up. As
sirst, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of
them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard's request, after-
wards made them up fix; these were exceedingly comfort-
able to them, having been what, as I may say, they had,
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
1 allotted the thin English, stuff's, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged sittest for the heat of the season, cool and
loose; and ordered that, whenever they decayed, they
should make more, as they thought fit: the like for
pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satissaction, sat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care I had taken of them, and how well 1 had
surnished them : they told me that I was a sather to them:
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were lest in a desolate place: and they all vo-
luntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place without
my consent.
Then I presented to them the people 1 had brought with
me; particularly the taylor, the smith, and the two car-
penters, all of them most necessary people; but,. above
all, my general artificer, than whom they could not name
any thing that was more needsul to them ; and the taylor,
to shew his concern for them, went to work immediately,
and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt the first
thing he did; and, which was still more, he taught the
women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the nee-
dle, but made them assist to make the shirts for their hus-
bands, and for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I scarce need mention how use-
sul they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy things, and made them clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every-
thing they wanted of that kind. -
But, to let them see how nature made artificers at first,
I carried the carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-
house, as 1 called it; and they both owned, they never
saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before; nor
e 3 any
any thing fo regular, and fo handily built, at least qf
its kind: and one of them, when he saw it, after ma*
ling a good while, turning about to me, I am sure, says
he, that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave 'every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake,
for we had no harrows or ploughs ; and to every separate
place, a pick-axe, a ciow, a broad-axe, and a saw; al-
ways appointing that as often as any were broken, or
worn out, they should be supplied, without grudgingy
out of the general stores that 1 left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chiffels, knives,, scis-
sors, and all forts of tools, and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted; and he must be a fool that
would waste or spoil them, on any account whatfoever t
and, for the use of the smith, 1 left two tons of unwrought
iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to prosusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as 1 used
to do, with a musket upon each sho,ulder, if there was
occasion; and were able to sight 1000 savages, if they
had but fome little advantages of situation; which also*
they could not miss,of, if they had occasion.
1 carried on lhore with me the young rn^an whose
mother was starved to death, and the maid alfo ; she was
a fober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
haved fo inoffensively,, that every one gave her. a good
word: she had, indeed, an unhappy lise with us, there
being no woman in the ship but herself; but she bore it
with patience. After a while, seeing things fo well
ordered, and in fo fine a way of thriving upon my
island, and considering that they had neither business nor
acquaintance in the East Indies, nor reafon for taking fo-
long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both, of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to re-
main on the island, and be entered among my samily, as
they called it.
1 agreed to it readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or.
. .. houses.
houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work, pallisadoed
like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantation ; their tents
were contrived so, that they bad each of them a room
apart ,to lodge in, and a middle tent,v like a great store-
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habi-
tation to the same place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habitation
under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city,
and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as well under, as on the outside of the hill, that-they
lived, tho' persectly concealed, yet sull at large. 'Never
was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I be-
lieve, in any part of the world: for, I verilv believe,
1000 men might have ranged the island a month, arid,
if they had not known there was suchu thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the
trees stood so thick, and so close, and grew so sast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them down
first, could discover the place; except the two narrow
entrances where they went in and out, could be found,
which was not very easy: one of them was just down at
the water's edge, on the side of the creek, and it Was
afterwards above 200 yards to the place; and the other
was up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it; and they had a large wood, thick planted,
also, on the top of the hill, which contained above an
acre, which grew apace, and covered the place from all
discovery there, with only one narrow place between two
trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will. Atkins's, whfire
. there were four samilies of Englishmen, I mean those I
had left there, with their wives and children; three
savages, that were slaves; the widow and children of the
Englishman that was kilied; the young man aud the
maid, and, by the way, we made a wise of her also,
before we went away: there were also the Uvo carpen-
ters and the taylor, who I brought with me for them:
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them,
especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
aud my other man, whom I called Jack of all trades;
z 4 who
who was himself as good almost as twenty men, sor lie
was not only a very ingenious sellow, but a very merry
sellow; and, before I went away, we married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship ;.
whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally
to say something of the French ecclesiastic, that I had
brought with me out of the ship's crew, whom I took,
at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and perhaps,
it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record, of a man, whom, before I
begin, 1 must (to set him out in just colours) represent in
terms very much to his disadvantage, in the account os
Protestants; as first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
Popish Priest; and thirdly, a French Popish Priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due charac-
ter; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and
most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his
charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he did:
What, then, can any one say, against my being very
sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding his
prosession? Though it may be my opinion, perhaps,
as well as the opinion of others who mall read this,
that he was mistaken.
The first hour that I began to converse with him,
after he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies,
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversation:
and he first began with me about religion, in the most
obliging manner imaginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God (and at
that he crossed his breast) saved my lise, but you have
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, aid, by
your obliging civility, have taken me into your samily,
giving me an opportunity of free conversation: Now,
Sir, says he, you see by my habit, what my prosession
is; and I guess by your nation, what your's is: I may
think it is my duty, and, doubtless, it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
fouls that I can to the knowledge of the truth,, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am here under
your permission, and in your samily, I am bound injus-
tice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good
manners,,
manners to be under your government; and therefore,.
I shall not, without, your leave, enter into any debates on
the points of religion, in which we may not agree, sar-
ther than you shall give me leave.
I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; ,that it was true,' we were
such people as they call heretics; but, that he was not
the first Catholic that I had conversed with, without
salling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the ques-
tions to any height in debate; that he should not find
himself the worse used for being of a difserent opinion
from us; and if we did not converse without any dis-
like on either side, upon that score, it would be his
sault, not ours.
He replied, that he thought our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not his
business to cap principles with every man he discoursed
with; and that he rather desired me to converse with,
him as a gentleman, than as a religieux; that if I would
give him leave, at any time, to discourse upon religious
subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then he -did not doubt but I would allow him also to
desend his own opinions, as well as he could; but that,
without my leave, he would not break in upon me with,
any such thing.
He told me sarther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his office, as a priest, as well as a
private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and
the sasety of all that was in her: and though, perhaps,
we would not join with him, and he could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do-
upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and,
as he was of a most obliging gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a man of good
sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a molt diverting account os his lise,
and of the many extraordinary events of it; of many
adventures which had besallen him in the sew years
that he had been abroad in the world, and particu-
larly this was very remarkable, viz. that during the voy-
age he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to
be five times shipped and uhsoipped« and iiever to go
E 5 to
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were as
sirs! designed: that his sirst intent was to have gone to
Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound
thither, at St. Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in
bad weather, the ship received fome dampge, by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obli-
ged to unload her cargo there: that sinding a Portuguese
ship there, bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and
supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there, bound
to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the
Madeiras; but the Master of the Portuguese ship being
but an indifserent mariner, had been out in his reckon-
ing, and they drove to Fial; where, however, he hap-
pened to sind a very good market for his cargo, which
was corn; and therefore refolved not to go to the Ma-
deiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to go away to-
Newfoundland: he had no remedy in the exigence, but
to go with the ship; and had a pretty good voyage
as sar as the Banks, fo they call the place where they
eatch the sish, where meeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
should have an opportunity to complete his sirst design:
but when he came to Quebec, the master of the skip died,
and the ship proceeded no sarther: fo the next voyage he
shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burnt,
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped them
with us for the Fast Indies, as I have already said. Thus
Le had been disappointed in sive voyages, all, as I may
call it, in one voyage, besides what I (hall have occasion
to mention sarther of the same perfon.
But I snail not make digreflions into other men's
stories, which have no relation to my own. I return
to what concerns our pfsair in the island: he came to
me one morning, so: ae lodged among us all the while
we were upon the i'land; and it- happened to be just
when I was going ,.0 visit the Englishmen's colony, at
the sarthest part of the island; I say, he came to me,
and told me, with a v*.-ry grave countenance, that he
had, for two or three days, desired an opportunity of
fome discourse with me, which, he hoped, would not
be displeasing to me, because he thought it might, hi
4 ioae
some measure, correspond with my general design, which.
'was the prosperity of my new colony; and, perhaps,
might put it, at least, more than he yet thought it was,
in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course; and turning a little short, how Sir, said 1, can
it be said, that we are not in the way of God's blessing,
after such visible assistance, and wondersul deliverances,
as we have leen here, and of which I have given you
a large account?
If you had pleased, Sir, said he, (with a world of
modesty, and yet with great readiness) to have heard me,
you would have found no room to have been displeased,
much less to think fo hard of me, that I mould suggest,
that you have not had wondersul assistances and delive-
rances; and, I hope, on your behalf, that you are in the
way of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding good,
and will prosper. But, Sir, said he, though it were
more fo, than is even possible to you, yet there may be
fome among you, that are not equally right in their
actions: and you know, that in the story of Israel, one
Achan, in the camp, removed God's blessing from them,
and turned his hand fo against them, that thirty-six of
them, though not concerned in the crime, where the
objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that
punishment.
I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told
him his inserence was fo just, and the whole design seem-
ed fo sincere, and was really fo religious in its own na-
ture, that I was very forry I had interrupted him; and
begged him to go on: and, in the mean time, because it
seemed, that what we had both to say, might take up
ibme time, I told him, I was going to the Englishman's
plantation, and asked him to go with me, and we might
discourse of it by the way; he told me, iie would more
willingly wait on me thither, because there partly the
thing was acted, which he desired to'fpeak to me about:
fo we walked on, and I pressed him to be free and plain
with me in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a sew propositions, as the foundation of
'what I have to say, that we may not differ in the ge-
/ e d neral
S'
neral principles, tin' we may be of some differing opi-
nions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though
we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and
it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the case
before us, as I shall shew afterwards; yet, there ans
some general principles in which we both agree, viz..
First, that there is a God; and that this God, having
given us some stated general rules for our service and obe-
dience, we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend
him, either by neglecting to do what he has commanded,
or by doing what he has expressly forbidden j and let
our different religions be what they will, this general
principle is readily owned by us all—that the blessing
of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sin-
nin» against his command; and every good Christian
wilfbe affectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care living in a total neglect of God and his
commands. It is not your men being protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me
from being concerned for their fouls, and from endea-
vouring, if it lies before me, that they should live in as
little distance from, and enmity with their Maker as
possible; especially, if you give me leave to meddle so
sar in your circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he a^med at, and told
him, I granted all he said, and thanked him, that he
would so far concern himself for us; and begged he
would explain the particulars, of what he had observed,
that, like Joshua, (to take his own parable), I might put
away the accursed thing from us.
Why then, Sir, says he, I will take the ftberty you
Tgive me; and there are three things, which,, if I- am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon-
your endeavours here, and which L should rejoice, for
your sake, and their own, to see removed. Andy Sir,,
says he, I promise myself, that you will sully agree with
me in them all, as soon as I name them-'; especially,
because I shall convince you, that every one of them,
may, with great ease, aad very much to your satissac-
tion, be remedied.
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities;
but went on: First, Sir, says he, you have here four
Englishmen,.
Englishmen, who have setched women from among the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have
had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws os
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense
of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adultery.
To this, Sir, says he, I know you will object, that there
was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, or of any
prosession, to perform the ceremony; nor any pen and
ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. And I know allb.
Sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you; I mean
of the agreement that he obliged them to make when,
they took these women, viz. that they should chuse themi
out by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by
the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with
the women as wives, but only an agreement among
themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony
(so he called it, being a Roman), consists not only in the
mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man
and wise, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman,
at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the man to abstain from all other women, to engage
in no other contract while these subsist; and on all occa-
sions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them and
their children; and to oblige the women to do the same,,
or like conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their side.
Now, Sir, says he, these men may, when they please,
or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women and marry them whilst these are living. And
here he added, with some warmth, How, Sir, is God
honoured in this unlawsul liberty? And how mall a
blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design,
while these men, who at present are your subjects, under
your abiolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to, live in open adultery?
I consess, I was struck at the thing itself, hut much
vinore with the convincing arguments he supported it
with;
with; for it was certainly true, that though they had nor
clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract on both
sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by any token,
which they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had
been but the bieakin" a stick between them, en^ac-incr
the men to own these women for their wives upon alt
occasions, and never to abandon them or their children,
and the women to the same with their husbands, had been
an effectual lawsul marriage in the light of God; and it
was a great neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest,
by telling him, that all that part was done when I was
not here; and they had lived so msny years with them
now, that if it was an adultery, it was pall remedy; they
could do nothing in it now.
Sir, says he, asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this; that it being done in your absence,
you could not be charged with that part of the crime.
But, I beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you are not
therefore under an obligation to do your uttermost now
to put an end to it: how can you think, but that, let
the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the
suture will lie entirely upon you; because it is certainly
in your power now to put an end to it; and in nobody's
power but your's.
I was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but I
imagined, that, by putting an end to it, he meant that I
should part them, and not suffer them to live together
any longer; and I said to him, I could not do that by
any means, for that it would put the whole island in con-
fusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far mistake
him. No, Sir, says he; 1 do not mean that you lhoulcl
separate them, but legally and effectually marry them
now. And, Sir, as my way of marrying may not be so
easy to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual,
even by your own laws, so your way may be as well be-
fore God, and as valid among men; I mean by -a written
contract, signed by both man and woman, and by al! tne
witnesses present; which all the laws of Europe would
decree to be valid.
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity ot aeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his
, disco urie,
discourse, as to his own party or church: and such a true'
warmth for the preserving people that he had no know-
ledge of, or relation to: I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God, the like of which I had,
indeed, not met with any where. But recollecting what
he had said, of marrying them by a written contract,
which I knew would Hand too, I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his part, very kind: that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them.
And I knew no reason why they should scruple to let
-him marry them all; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as
if they were married by one of our own clergymen.—
What was afrerwards done in this matter, I shall speak
of by itself.
I then pressed him to tell me what was the second com-
plaint which he had to make; acknowledging that I was
very much his debtor for the first, and thanked him
heartily for it, He told me he would use the same free-
dom and plainness in the second, and hoped I would
take it as well: and this was, that, notwithstanding these
English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived
with these women for almost seven years, and -had taught
them to speak English, and even to read it; and that
they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable under-
standing, and capable of instruction; yet they had not
to this hour taught them any thing of the Christian reli-
gion; no, not lo much as to know that there was a God,
or a worship, or in what manner God was to be served %.
or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew
not who, was salse and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account for j
and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very afsectionately and warmly. 1 am per-
suaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage coun-
try,'whence their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters,
and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so sar
as I can see, has taken with them, to teach them the
iaowkdge of the trae God. Now^ir, said he, though I
do
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the sub-
jects of his kingdom, taught to know the general prin-
ciples of the Christian religion ; that they might at least
hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of a Resurrection,
and of a suture state, things which we all believe; they
had, at least, been so much nearer coming into the bofom.
of the true church, than they are now in the public pro-
session of idolatry and devil-worship.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and
embraced him with an excess of passion: How sar, said
I to him, have I been from understanding the most essen-
tial part of a. Christian, viz. to love the interest of the
Christian church, and the good of other men's fouls. I
scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
O Sir, do not say so, replied he; this thing is not your
sault. No! said I, but why did I never lay it to heart
as well as you? It is not too late yet, said he; be not
too forward t > condemn yourself. But what can be done
now? said I; you see I am going away. Will you give
me leave, said he, to talk with these poor men about it?
Yes, with all my heart, said I, and will oblige them to
give heed to what you say too. As to that, said he, we
must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is our
business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them -
and if you will give me leave, and God his blessing, I do-
not doubt but the poor ignorant fouls shall be brought
home into the great circle of Christianity, if not into the
particular saith that we all embrace, and that even while'
we stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not only give
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it. What
followed on this account 1 shall mention also again in its
j>lace.
I now pressed him for the third article in which we
•were to blame. Why really, says he, it is of the same
nature, and I will proceed (asking your leave) with the
same plainness as before: it is about your poor savages
yonder, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects.
it is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be received
r,mong ail Christians, of what church, or pretended
church soever; viz. that Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated by ail possible means, and on all possible
occasions. -
occasions. It is on this principle that our church sends
missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
residence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian saith. Now, Sir, you
have an opportunity here to have six or seven and
thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expence of a man's
whole lise. -—4-—
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word
to say: I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me, let his particular principles
be of what kind soever. As for me, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before;
and, I believe, should not have thought of it; for I
looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom,
had we any work for them to do, we would have\ised
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other part of the world; for our business
was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tisfied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the case: I say I, was
consounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some
disorder: Sir, said he, I shall be very sorry if what
I have said gives you any offence. No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am persectly
consounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any notice of this before, but with reflecting what notice
I am able to take of it now. You know, Sir, said I,
what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East-
Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain
their ship here, the men lying . all this while at victuals
and wages upon the owner's account: it is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve days here; and if I stay
more, I must pay 31. sterling per diem demurrage; nor
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more; and
1 have;
1 have been here thirteen days already; so that I ant
persectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again; in which
case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part of her
voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was
left in here at first; and from which I have been so won-
dersully delivered.
He owned the cafe was very hard upon me as to my
voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether
the blessing of saving seven and thirty souls, was not worth
my venturing all I had in the world for? I was not so
sensible of that as he was; and I returned upon him thus:
Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to be an instru-
ment, in God's hand, to convert seven and thirty hea-
thens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an.
ecclesiallic, and are given over to that work, so that it
seems naturally to sall into the way of your prosession,
how is it then, that you do not rather offer yourself to
undertake it, than press me to do it?
Upon this he saced about, just before me, as he
walked along, and putting me to a sull stop, made me a
Tery low bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir,
says he, for giving me so evident a call to so blefled a
work; and if you think yourself discharged from it,
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,
and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken disappointed voyage as I
have met with, that I have dropt at last into lo glorious
a work.
I discovered a kind of rapture in his sace, while he
spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his sace
glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
'teen selling into fits: in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him;
Jfor I was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity
and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordi-
nary rate of men, not out of his prosession only, but even
of any prosession whatsoever: but aster 1 had considered
it awhile, i asked him seriously if he was in earnest,
and that he would venture on the single consideration
ci- an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in
. aa
an unplanted island, for, perhaps, his lise; and at last
might not know whether he sliould be able to do them
any good or not.
fie turned short upon me, and asked me what I called
a venture: Pray, Sir, said be, what do you think 1 con-
sented to go in your ship to the East Indies for? Nay,
said 1, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he: and do you think,
if I can convert these seven and thirty men to the saith
of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I mould never
be setched oft' the island again? Nay, is it not infinitely
of more worth to save so many souls, than my lise is,
or the lise of twenty more of the lame prosession? Yes,
Sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgm
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though
I was never to set my foot off this island, or see my na-
tive country any more. But since you will honour me,
says he, with putting me into this work (for which I
will pray for you all the days of my lise), 1 have one
humble petition to you, says he, besides. What is that?
said I. Why, says he, it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me to be my interpreter to them, and to assist
me; for, without some help, 1 cannot speak to them, or
they to me.
1 was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many
reasons; he had been the companion of my travels; he
was not only saithsul to me, but sincerely affectionate to
the last degree; and I had resolved to do something con-
siderable for him, if he outlived me, as it was probable he
would: then 1 knew, that as I had bred Friday up to be
a protestant, it would quite consound him, to bring him
to embrace another prosession; and he would never,
while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was
an heretic, and would be damned ;,and this might in the
end ruin the poor sellow's principles, and so turn him
back again to h<s original idolatry.
However, a sudden thought relieved roe in. this
strait, and it was this: I told him I could not lay-
that 1 was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever; though a work, that to him was of more
value
value than his lise, ought to me to be of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday woultV
b/ no means consent to part with me; and then to
force him to it, without his consent, would be a mani-
sest injustice; because I had promised I would never
put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me, that he would neveT leave me, unless I put Lira
away.
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's Father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood, and he should serve him for an interpre-
ter; so he was much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert
them; but Providence gave another and very happy turn
to all this.
I come back now to the first part of his objections.
When we came to the Englishmen, 1 sent Jfor them all
together; and aster some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
which they were sensible of, and very thanksul for; f
began to talk to them of the scandalous lise they led,
and gave them a sull account of the notice the clergy-
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a lise it was, I first asked them
if they were married men or batchelors? They soon ex-
plained their condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men or batchelors. 1 asked them, with what conscience
they could take these women and lie with them, as
they had done, call them their wives, and have so many
children by them, and not to be lawsully married to
them?
They all gave me the answer that I expected; viz.
that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives,
and to keep them, and own them, as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally
legally married as if they had been married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in
the sight of God, and were bound in conscience to
keep them as their wives; but that the laws of men
being otherwise, they might pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor women and children here-
after^ and that their wives, being poor desolate wo-
men, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
help themselves. 1 therefore told them, that unless I
was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did should
be for the women and children, without them; and
that unless they would give some assurances that they
would marry the women, 1 could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wise;
for that it was both scandalous to men, and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them if they
went on thus.
All this passed as I expected; and they told me, espe-
cially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the
rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they had
been horn in their own native country, and would not
leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them
and for their children, as any women could possibly do;
and they would not part with them on any account :—
And Will. Atkins, for his own particular, added, if any
man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and to make him captain of the best man of
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might
not carry his wise and children with him; and if there
was a clergyman in the ship,, he would be married to her
now, with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was
not with me at that moment, but was not sar off:
So, to try him sarther, 1 told him I had a clergyman
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: he said, as for himself, he
•need not consider of it all; for he was very icady to
do
do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he
believed they would be all willing also. I then told
him, that my friend, the minister was a Frenchman,
and could not (peak English; but that I would act the
clerk between them. He never so much as aiked me
whether he was a papist or a protestant, which was in-
deed, what I was afraid of; but I say they never en-
quired about it; so we parted. I went back to my
clergyman, and Will. Atkins went in'to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to
say any thing to them till the business was thoroughly
ripe; and 1 told him what answer.the men had given
tne.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me,
and told me, they had been considering what I had
laid; that they were very glad to hear 1 had a clergy-
man in my company; and they were very wiling to
give me the satissaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased; for they were sar from de-
firing -to part with their wives; and that they meant
nothing but what- was very honest when they chose
them;, so I appointed them to meet me the next morn-
ing; and that in the mean time they should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage-law, and that
it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige
them, that they should not forsake them, whatever might
happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it,
as, indeed, they had reason to be; so they sailed not
to attend all together at my apartment the next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman; and though
he had not on a minister's gown after the manner of
F.ngland, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of
France, yet having a black vest, something like a cas-
sock, with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike
a minister; and as for his language, I was his inter-
preter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the
scruples he made of marrying the women, because they
were not baptized, and prosessed Christians, gave them
an exceeding reverence for his person; and there was no
need
need after that to enquire whether he was a clergyman
or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been car»
ried so sar, as that he woald not have married them at
all; nay, notwithstanding all 1 was able to say to him,
he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily; and
at last resused absolutely to marry them, unless he had
first talked with the men, and the women too: and
though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of
his design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the
present design; that be was very willing to persorm that
part of his sunction, and marry them, as I had desired;
but that before he could do it, he must take the liberty
to talk with them-. He told them, that in the light of
all different men, and in the sense os the laws of society,
they had lived ail this while in an open adultery; and
that it was true, that nothing but the consenting to
marry, or effectually separating them srom one another,
now could put an end to it; but there was a difficulty
in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matri-
mony, which he was not sully satisfied about, viz. that-
of marrying one that "is a prosessed Christian, to a savage,
an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not baptized; and
yet that he did not see that there was time left for it, to
endeavour to persuade the women to be baptized, or to
prosess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted,
heard nothing of, and without which they could not be
baptized.
He told me, he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little know-
ledge of God or his ways, and therefore he could not
expsct that they had laid much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
use their endeavours with their wives, to persuade them
to become Christians, and would as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was
it
it consistent with the principles of the Christian re-
ligion; and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very saithsully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as I could, only fometimes adding fome-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was,
and how I was of his mind; and I always very saith-
sully distinguished between what I said from myself,
and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me it was very true what the gentleman had "said,
that they were but very indifferent Christians them-
selves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. Lord, Sir, says Will. Atkins, how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing
ourselves; and besides, Sir, said he should we go to talk
to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
'twould but make them laugh at us, and ask us what we
believe ourselves? and if we should tell them, we be-
lieve all the things that we speak of to them, such as
of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they would ask us, where we intended to
go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked sellows, as indeed we are? Why, Sir, said Will,
'tis enough to give, them a surseit of religion at sirst
hearing. Folks must have fome religion themselves
before they pretend to teach other people. Will
Atkins, said I to him, though I am afraid what you say
has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your
wise that she is in the wrong? That there is a God,
and a religion better than her own; that her gods are
idols, that they can neither hear nor speak; that there
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he has made; that he rewards the good,
and punishes the bad; that we are to be judged by him
at last for all we do here; you are not fo ignorant, but
even nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and 1 am satissied you know it all to be true, and believe
it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what sace can
I say any thing to my wife of all this, when she will tell
me immediately, it cannot be true?
Not
Not true! said I ; what do you mean by that? Why-
Sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be true that this
God (I shall tell her of) can bejust, or can punish, or
reward, since I am not punished, and sent to the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows 1
have been, even to her, and to every body else, and that
I should be sussered to live, that have been always acting
so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to what
I ought to have done.
Why truly, Atkinsi said 1, 1 am afraid thou speakest
too much truth; and with that I let the clergyman know
what Atkins had said; for he was impatient to know :-—
0! said the priest, tell him there is one thing will make
him the best minister in the world to his wise, and that
is repentance; for none teach repentance like true peni-
tents ; he wants nothing, but to,repent, and then he will
be so much the better qualified to instruct his wise; he
will then be able to tell her, that thee is not only a God,
and that he is the just rewarder of good and evil; but
that he is a merciful being, and, with insinite good-
ness and long-suffering, forbears to punish those that of-
fend; waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death
of a sinner, but rather that he should return and live;
that he often suffers wicked men to go on a long time,
and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri-
bution; that it is a clear evidence of God, and of a
future state, that righteous men receive not their reward,
or wicked men their punishment, till they come into
another world; and this will lead him to teach his wise
the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last judg-
ment; let him but repent for himself, he will he an ex-
cellent preacher of repentance to his wise.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious
all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it; when be ng eager,
and hardly suffering me to make an end: I knew all
this, master, says he, and a great deal more; but 1 han't
the impudence to talk thus to my wise ; when G id, and
By own conscience knows, and my wise w.ll be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have li ed as if
1 had never heard of God, or a suture staie, or any
thing about it, and to talk of my repe.iting, alas! (and
vol. ii, s with
-with that he setched a deep, sigh; and I could see that
tears stood in his eyes) 'tis past all that with me. Patt
it! Atkins, said 1, What dost thou mean by that ? I know
well enough what I mean, Sir, says he; I mean 'tis too
late; and that is too true.
I told my clergyman, word for word, what he said;
the poor zealous priest (I must call him so; for be his
opinion what it will, he had certainly a most singular
afsection for the good of other men's fouls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I fay,
this zealous affectionate man) could not refrain tears also;
but, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him but one
question, Is he easy, that it is too late, or he is troubled,
find wishes it were not so? I put the questi'on sairly to
Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of passion,
How could any man be easy in a condition that cer-
tainly must end in eternal destruction ! that' he was sar
from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed
it would one time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that.' said I. Why, he said,
he believed he fhould, one time or other, cut his own
throat, to put an end to the terror of it.
The clergyman shook his head^ with great concern
in his sace, when I told him all this ; but, turning quick
to me upon it, said, if that be his case, you may assure
him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance;
but pray, says he, explain this to him, That as no man
is saved but by Christ, and the merit of his passion,
procuring divine mercy for him, how can it be too late
for any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is
able to fin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy?
Pray tell him, There may be a time when provoked
mercy will no longer strive, and when God may resuse
to hear, but that 'tis never too late for men to ask mer-
cy; and we that are Christ's servant's are commanded to
preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ,
to all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis rlcver too
late to repent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned off the dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
have iume talk with his wise; so he went out awhile
and
and we walked to the rest. I perceived they were all
stupidly ignorant, as to matters of religion; much as I
was when I went rambling away from my father; and
yet that there were none of them backward to hear what
had been said, and all of them seriously promised that
they would talk with their wives about it, and do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but,
at last, making his head, We that are Christ's servants,-
says he, can go no surther than to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and pro-
mise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to
accept their good' words: but, believe me, Sir, said he,
whatever you may have known of the lise of that man
you call William Atkins, I believe he is the only,sincere
convert among them; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent; I won't despair of the rest; but that man is per-
sectly struck with the sense of his past lise; and I doubt
not, but when he comes to talk of religion to his wise,
he-will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to
teach others is fometimes the best way of teaching our-
selves. I knew a man, added he, who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and profligate, to the last degree, in his lise, made
a thorough reformation in himself, and being to convert .
a Jew; and if that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his wise, my lise for it, he-
talks himself into a thorough convert, makes himself a
penitent, and who knows what may :bllow ?,'
Upon this discourse however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married the other three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wise were not yet come in: after
this, my clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone; and, turning to me, says
he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here and look: 1 dare say we shall sind this poor
man fomewhere or ether, talking seriously with his wise,
and teaching her already fomething of religion. I
be^an to be of the same mind; fo we went out toge-
ther; and 1 carried him a way which none knew bi t
f 2 myself
y
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that
it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, an4
far harder to see in, than to see out; when coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and his tawny-
savage wise, sitting under the shade of a bnsh, very
«ager in discourse; I stopped -short, till my clergyman
came up to me; and then, having shewed him where
they were, we stood and looked'jrery. steadily at them a.
good while. - /' -'...i' *« • J
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up
to the*sun, and to every quarter of the heavens; ,then
down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself,
fhen to her, to the woods, to the trees. Now, says my
clergyman, you see my words are made good; the man
preaches to her; mark him, now he is telling her that
our God has made him, and her, and the heavens, the
earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c. I believe he is,
said I: immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon.
his seet, sall down upon his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we suppose he said something, but we could not
hear him: it was too sar for that: he did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wise, and talks to her again. We perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether she said any
thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor sellow
was upon his knees, 1 could see the tears run plentisully
down my clergyman's cheeks; and I could hardly for-
bear myself; but it was a great affliction to us both,
that we were not near enough to hear any thing that
passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for sear of
disturbing them: so we resolved to see an end of this
piece of still conversation; and it spoke, loud enough
to us, without the hell) of voice; he sat down again, as
I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
her; and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately: another time we saw him take out his
handkerchief, and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again with a kind of transport very unusual: and after
several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump
up again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two,
they
they both kneeled down together, and continued so abotrt
two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out alou.I,
St. Paul, St. Paul! behold he prayeth: I was fraid
Atkins would hear him; therefore I intreated him to
withhold himself a while, that we might see an end of
the scene, which to me, I must consess, was the mot
affecting, and yet the most agreeable, that ever 1 saw in
my lise. Well, he strove with himself, and contained
himself for a while, but was in such raptures of joy to
think that the poor heathen woman was become a chris-
tian, that he was not able to contain himself: he wept
several times; then throwing up his hands and crossing
his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by
way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony
of the success of our endeavours; some he spoke softly,
and 1 could not well hear, others audibly, some in La-
tin, some in French; then two or three times the tears
of joy would interrupt him, that he could not speak
at all. But I begged that he would compose himself,
and let us' more narrowly and sully observe what was
before us, which he did for a time, and the scene was
not ended there yet; for, after the poor man and his
wise were risen again from their knees, we observed he
stood talking Hi 11 eagerly to her; and we observed by her
motion that (he was greatly affected with what he said,
by her frequent lifting up her hand, laying her hand to
her breast, and such other postures as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention; this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away too; lo that we could see no more of them ia
that situation. * 'v
I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and
first, I told him, I was g.ad to see the particulars we
had both been witnesses to; that though 1 was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and
his wise, however ignorant they both might be: and I
hoped such a beginning would have a yet more happy
end: and who knows, said I, but these two may, in
time, by instruction and example, work upon some
of the others? Some of them! said he, turning quick
t 3 upon.
upon me, ay, upon all of them ; depend upon it, if those
two savages (for he has been but little better, as you re-
late it) shoud embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave
till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is na-
turally communicative; and he that is once made a
Christian will never leave a Pagan behind him, if hecan
help it. I owned it was a most Christian principle to
think so, and a testimony of a true zeal, as well as a ge-
nerous heart in him. But, my friend, said I, will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell
how to object; the least thing against that afsectionate con-
cern,: which you shew for the turning the poor people
srom their Paganism to the Christian religion. But how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your
account, out of the pale of the Catholic church ; without
which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteem these but heretics still; and for no other reasons as
effectually lost as the Pagans themselves?
To this he answered with abundance of candour and
Christian charity, thus: Sir, 1 am a Catholic of the
Roman church, and a priest of the order of St. Bene-
nict, and 1 embrace all the principles of the Roman
saith; but yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circum-
stances, and your civilities: 1 say, nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, with-
out some charity; I dare not say, though I know it is
our opinion in general; yet, I dare not say, that yoii
cannot be saved, will by no means limit the mercy of
Christ, so sar as to think that he cannot receive you into
the bosom of his church, in a manner, to us, imper-
ceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know:
and I hope you have the same charity for us. 1 pray
daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever methods he, who is all wise, is pleased to
direct. In the mean time, sure, you will allow it tsl
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish sar betweea
a Prcftstant and a Pagan; between one that calls ori
Jesus Christ, though in a way which 1 do not think is
according to the true saith: and a savage, a barbarian,
that knows no God, no Christ, no redeemer at all:
and if you are not within the pale of the Catholic
church,
church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than
those that know nothing at all of God, or his church:
I rejoice therefore, when 1 see this poor man, who, you
fay, has been a prossigate, and almost a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not sully enlightened; believing that God from
whom every such work proceeds, will senfibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the surther knowledge of the
truth in his own time, and if God shEsll influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage hrg
wise, I can never believe that he shall be cast away him-
self: and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though
they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of
the Catholic church, just at the time when 1 may delire
it; leaving it to the goodness of Christ to persect his
work in his own time, and his own way? Certainly £
would rejoice, if all the savages in America were brought,
like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
were to be all Protestants at. first, rather than they should
continue Pagans and Heathens; firmly believing that he
who had bestowed that sirst light upon them, would sar-
ther illuminate' r/Hem with abeam of his heavenly grace,
and bring them, intp the pale of his church when he
should'see good.'
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
truly pious1 papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
power of hhi'rtaso'ning; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might
be all Catholic christians, whatever church, or particular
prosession we joined to, or joined, in ; that a spirijj of cha-
rity would ftjofl'woilc us all up into right principles; and
}n & word, as he, thought that the like charity would
make tis all Catholics, lo.I told him, Tbeiie'ved, had all
the members of his church the like moderation, they
would soon be all Protestants •* .and .there we left that
part, for we never disputed at'all.
However, \ talked to him another way, and taking
him by the( hand, my friend, said 1, I wish'all the
clergy of the Komah church were blessed with such mo-
deration', aWdan'equal -share of. you/ charity: I arri en-
tirely «*f'yoiftr!6plmi& j bitt 1 must test you,- that if you
*"** s At should
should preach such doctrine, in Spain or Italy, they
would put you into the inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might
do in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be
the better christians for that severity; for I am sure there
is no heresy in too much charity.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wise were gone, our
business there was over; so we went back our own
way; and when we came back, we found them wait-
ing to be called in. Observing this, I asked my clergy-
man if we should discover to him that we had seen him
under the bush, or no ; and it was his opinion we should
rot; but that we should talk to him first, and hear
what he would say to us; so we called him in alone,
nobody being in the place but ourselves; and 1 begun
with him thus:
Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you?
WThat was your sather?
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my
sather was a clergyman.
R. C. What education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well,-Sir; but I
despised all education, instruction, or correction, like a
beast as I was.
R. C. It is true, Solomon fays, he that despiscth re-
proof is brutish.
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered
my sather! for God's sake, Sir, talk no more about that.
Sir! I murdered my poor sather!
Priest. Ha! a murderer !*
* Here the priest started {for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it) and looked pale. It seems
he believed that Will had really killed his own
sather.
R. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so ; Will
Atkins explain yourself; you did not kill your sather,
did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No, Sir; 1 did not cut his throat; but I
cut the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days;
1 broke his heart by the most ungrateful unnatural re-
•.'*-'•-*' turn
turn for the most tender afsectionate treatment that ever
sather gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your sather, to
extort this consession; I pray Cod give you repentance
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other sins; but
I asked you, because I see that though you have not
much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are
in things that are good; that you have known more of
religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the consession
that I made about my sather, conscience does; and,-
whenever we come to look back upon our lives, the tins
against our indulgent parents are certainly the first that
touch us; the wounds they make lie deepest, and the
weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind of all
the fins, we may commit.
R. C. You talk too seelingly and sensible for me, At-
kins; I cannot hear it.
W. A. You bear it, master 1 I dare say you know
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I
may say, every tree in this island is witness to the an-
guish of my soul, for my ingratitude, and base usage of
a good tender sather; a sather much like your's, by
your description: and I murdered my father as well a»-
you, Will Atkins: but think, sor all that, roy repen-
tance is short of your's too* by a great deal.
* I would have said more, if I could have restrained
my passions; but I thought this poor man's repen-
tance was so much fincerer than mine, that I was
going to leave obY the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that,
instead of my going about to teach and instruct him,
the man was made a teacher and instructor to me,
in a most surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly afsected with it; and said to me, Did I not say,
Sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach
to us all? I tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a
true penitent, here will be no need of me; he Will make
j & Christians
christians of all in the island. But, having a little com-*
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.-
But, Will, said I, How comes the sense of this matter
to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very foul; I have been talking
about God and religion to my wise, in order, as you
directed me, to make a christian of her; and she has
preached such a sermon to me, as I mail never forget
while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wise has preached to you,
tout when you were moving religious arguments to her,
conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as it is not to be
jesisted.
R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wise; for I know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a sull account
of it; I am too sull to hold it; and yet have no tongue to
express it; but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can
tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my
lise.
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin
Will? For this has been an extraordinary case, that is
certain; she has preached a sermon indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
W. A. Why, 1 first told her the nature os our laws
about marriage, and what \he reasons were that men
and women were obliged to enter into' such compacts
as it was neither in the power of one or other to break;
that otherwise order and justice could not be maintained,
and men would run from their wives, and abandon their
ehildren, mix consusedly with one another, and neither
samilies be kept entire, or inheritances be settled by a
legal descent.
R. C. You talk like a Civilian, Will. Could you
make her understand what you meant by inheritance and
samilies? They know no such thing among the savages,
but marry any how, without any regard to relation,
consanguinity* or samily, brother and sister, nay, as I'
have
have been told, even the sather and da ighter, and the
son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are minVormed ; and my
wise assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it ;'
perhaps, for any surther relation-, the :.<i;. u t be so
exact as we are; but the tells me they never touch one
another in the near relation you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was
much better than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there beian all our dialogue. I asked
her, if she would be married to me our way? She asked
me, What way that was? I told her marriage was ap-
pointed of God ; and here we had a strange talk together,
indeed, as ever man and wise had, I believe.
N. B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his
wise, as I took it down in writing, just after he
told it me, was as follows:
Wise. Appointed by your God! Why, have you a
God in your country ?-
W. A. Yes, my dear, God is is in every country.
Wise. No; your God in my country: my country
have the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unfit to shewl.you who God
is; God is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth,
the sea, and all that in them is. ,
Wise. No makee de earth; no you God makee de
earth; no make my country*.
* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of^God
not making her country.
Wise. No laugh. Why laugh me? This no ting
to laughs.
-J- He was justly reproved by his wise; for she was
more serious than he at first.
W. A. That's true indeed ; I will not laugh any mores
roy dear.
Wise. Why you say, you God make all'.
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world,
jwd you, and me, and all things; for he is the only
r 6 true
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever is
heaven.
Wise. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked
-wretch; and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
with anything before, but have lived without God in
the world myself.
Wise. What have youde great God in you deeoimtryv
you no, know him? No say O to him.?' No good ting;
for him? That no impost! l)e!
W. A. It is true though for all that: we live as is
there was no God in heaven, or. that he had no power
on earth.
Wise. But why God let you- do so b Why he no
makee you good live?
W. A It is all our own sault.
Wise. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will *
-why he no makee kill when you no serve him? No say
0 to him? No he good mans?
W. A. That is true; he mi«ht strike me dead, and
1 ought to exepect it; for I have been, a wicked wretch,
that is true; but God is mercisul, and does not deal
-with us as we deserve.
Wise. But then, donotyou<tell God tankee for that
tooi
W. A. No, indeed: I have not thanked God- for his
mercy, any more than I have seated God for his
powr.
Wise. Then you God no God; me no think*, believe
lie be such-one, great much power, strong; no makee
kill you, though you makee him much angry.
W. A- What L will my wicked lise hinder you from
b litving \a God b What a dreadful creature am I ! Anil
what a. sad truth, is it that the horrid lives o£ Christians;
hinders the i onversioo of Heathens!
Wise. How me tink you have great much God * up.
there, and yet n^ do well, no do goodiing I Can. he tell i
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to heaven-..
W.A*
W. A. yes, yes, he knows and sees all things: he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wise. What I he no hear you swear, curse, speak,
the great damn?
W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wise. Where be then the muchfc great power
strong?
W. A. He is mercisul: that is all we can say for it;
and this proves him to be the true God: he i»God, and
not man: and therefore we are not consumed*.
* Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with horror,
to think how he could tell his wise so clearly, that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts
of the heart, and all that we do ; and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done-
Wise. Mercisul! what do you call dat?
W. A. He is our father and maker; and he pities
and spares us.
Wise. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked; then he no good himself, or no
great able.
W, A. Yes, yes. my dear; he is infinitely good, and
infinitely great, and able to punish too: and sometimes,
to JOiew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly his anger
to destroy sinners, and make examples: many are cut off-
in their fins.
Wise. But no makee kill you yet: then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee-you kill', fo you make de. bar-
gam with him, you do bats ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry ut other mans?
- _ W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
his goodness: and he would be infinitely just, is he de-
stroyed me, as he has done other men.
Wise. Well, and yet no_ kill, no makee you dead?
What you say to him for that? You no tell him tankec
for all that too?
W.A.I an* an unthanksul, ungratesul dog, that
is true,
Wise.
Wise. Why he no makee yoa much good better?
You say he makee you.
W. A. He made me as he made all the world; 'tis
I have deformed myself, and abused his good ess, and
have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wise. 1 wish you makee God know me : - I no makee
him angry: I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Wiil Atkins said bis heart sunk within him, to
hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught to
know God: and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could hot say one word to her about God, but what
the reproach of his own carriage would make most
irrational to her belief: nay. that already she could
not believe in God, because he that was so wicked
was not destroyed.
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I courd teach
you to know God, not God to know you; for he knows
you already, and every thought in your heart.
Wise. Why then he know what I say to you now;
he know me wish to know him: how shall me know
who makee me?
W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee: I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him;
and to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor sellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that, he said, he sell down on his kinees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind
with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to
pardon his fins, and accept of his being the un-
worthy instrument of instructing her in the principles
of religion ; after which he sat down by her again;
and their dialogue went on.
J?, B. This was the timewhen we saw him kneel down
and lift up his hands.
Wise.,
Wise. What you put down the knee for? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? What you speak
to? What is that?
W. A. My dear, a bow my knees in token of my sub-
mission to him that made me: I said O to him, as you
call it, and as you say, your old men do to their idol,
Benamuckee; that is, 1 pray to him.
Wise. What you say O to him for?;
W. A. J prayed to him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know him, and be accept-*
td by him.
Wise. Can he do that too?
W. A. Yes, he can; he can do. all things.
Wise. But he no hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him, and promised
to hear us.
Wise. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How hcj
bid you? What you hear him speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak j but he ha3
revealed himself many ways to us.
Here he was at a great loss to make her understand)
that God had revealed himself to us by his word:
and what his word was: but at last he told it her
thus:
W. A. God has spoken to sbme good men in former
days, even from heaven, by plain words: and God has*
inspired good men, by his spirit; and they have -written;
all his laws down in a book.
Wise. Me no understand that: -where is book?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book j
but I hope I shall, one time or other, get it for yoifc
to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection; but with,
inexpressible grief, that he had not a bible.
Wise. -But how you makee me know, that God
teachee them to write that book?
W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God-
Wise. What rule, what way you know?
W.A*
Vf. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
but what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
make us persectly good, as well as persectly happy j
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid alt
that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its con-
sequences.
Wise. That me would understand, that me sain see r
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing, he
teachee all good thin£, forbid all wicked th'iDg, be makee
all thing, be give all thing; be hear me when I say O to.
him, as you go to do just now; be makee me good, is
I wish to be good; he spare me, no makee kill me, whea
I no be good; all this you say he do; yes, he be great
God; me take, think, believe him be great God; me
say O to him too, with you, my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longeT;
- but, raising her up, made her kneel by him; and he
prayed to God aloud so instruct her in the knowledge of
himself, by his spirit; and that by some good providence,,
if possible, she might, some time or other, come to have
a bible, that she might read the word of God, and be
taught by him to know him.
This was the time that we saw him lift b«r »p by the
hand, and saw him knee! down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after thisy
too long to set down here; and particularly she mads
bim promise, that since he consessed his own lise had
been a wicked abominable course of provocation against
God, that he would reform it, and not make God
an»ry any more; lest be should make him. dead, as
fte'ealled it, and then she should be left alone, and never
be taught to know this God better, and lest he should
be miserable, as, he had told her, wicked men should
be after death.
. This was a strange account, and very affecting to u*
both, but particularly the young clergyman: he was,
indeed, wondersully surprised with it; but under th&
greatest affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to.
her: that he could not speak English to make her un-
derjjand him: and as slie stroke but very broken English
he
he could not understand her. However, he turned him-
self to me, and told me, that he believed there must be
more to do with this woman than to marry her: 1 did
not understand him at first, but at length he explained
himself; viz. That she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no, hold Sir, said he,
though I would have her baptized by all means, yet I
must observe, that Will Atkins, her husbands has, in-
deed, brought her in a wondersul manner t6 be willing
to embrace a religious lise, and has given her just ideas
of the being of a God, of his power, justice, and mercy:
yet I desire to know of him, if he has said any thing to
her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners: of
the nature of saith in him, and the redemption by him:
of the holy spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment,
and a suture state.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the
poor sellow sell immediately into tears, and told us, he
had said something to her of all those things, but that
he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own consci-
ence so reproached him with his hoi rid ungodly lise, that
he trembled at the apprehensions, that her knowledge of
him should lessen the attention she should give to those
things, and make her rather contemn religion, than re-
ceive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was
fo disposed to receive due impressions of all thole things,
that if I would but discourse with her, she would make-
it appear to my satissaction, that my labour would not be
lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as in-
terpreter between my religious priest and the woman, I
intreated him to begin with her; but sure such a sermon
was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter ages
of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had all
the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian,
without the errors of a Roman Catholic: and that I took
him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were,
before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty
over the consciences of men.
In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by bini,
not
not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the
first notions of a God, but with joy and saith, with an
afsection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce
to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her
own request she was baptized.
When he was preparing to baptise her, I entreated
him that he would persorm that office with fome caution,
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very
religion which we were instructing the other in. He told
me, that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper
things for the. office, I should see he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a
Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before j
and so he did, for saying only some words over to him-
self in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a
whole dish sull of water upon the woman's head, pro-
nouncing in French very loud, Mary; which was the
name her husband desired me to give her, for I was her
godsather; I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and
of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
know any thing by it, what religion he was of: he gave
the benediction afterwards in Latin; but either Will
Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them; and aster
the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins,
and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him not only
to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but
to support the convictions that were upon him, by a
resolution to reform his lise; told him, it was in vain
to say he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes'-J
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the -instrument of bringing his wise to the know*
ledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
diresul he did not dishonour the grace of Gc *; and that,
if he did, he would see the Heathen a better Christian,
tjian himseif; the savage converted, and - the instrument
cast away. .... >
c- He said a great many good things to them both, ana*
then tecoinmeBded - ttaeœ> in a sew 'Words, to -God's
'- goodness,
goodness, gave them the benediction again, I repeating
every thing to them in English: and thus ended the
ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant agreeable
day to me that ever I passed in my whole lise.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts
hung continually upon the conversation of the 37 savages;
and sain he would have staid upon the island to have un-
dertaken it; but I convinced him, First, that his under-
taking was inpracticable in itself; and 2dly, that per-
haps, I could put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to his satissaction, of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affair of the island 10 a nar-
row compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship,
when the young man, whom I had taken out of the
samished ship's company, came to me, and told me, he
understood I had a clergyman with me; and that I had
caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages,
whom they called wives; that he had a match too, which
he desired might be finished before I went, between
two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be dis-
agreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other christian woman
on the island; so I began to persuade him not to do any
thing of that kind rashly, or because fie found himself
in this solitary circumstance: 1 represented, that he had
some considerable substance in the world, and good friends,
as I understood by himself, and by his maid also; that
the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was
unequal to him, she being 26 or 27 years old; and
he not above 17 or 18; that he might, very probably,
with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness^
and come into his own country again; and that then it
would be a thousand to one but he would repent hi?
choice, and the dislike of that circumstance might be
disadvantageous to both. I was going to say more, but
he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great
deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses, that he
had nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present
circumstances^ being melancholy and disconsolate enoughs
and he was very glad to hear, that I had thoughts of
putting them ih 'a way to see their own country again-
ana
and that nothing should have set him upon staying there,
but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding long
and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the
Teach of all his friends, but he had nothirig to desire of
me, but that 1 would settle him in some little property
in the island where he was, give him a servant or two,
and some sew necessaries, and he would settle himsels
here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever
1 returned to England, I would redeem him, and hoped,
I would not be unmindsul of him when I came to Eng-
land, that he would give me some letters to his friends in
London,-to let them know how good I had been to him,
and what part of the world, and what circumstances I
had left him in; and he promised me, that whenever I
redeemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements
he had made upon it, let the value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because
he told me positively the match was not for himself.
I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived to come
sase to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his
business efsectually, and that he might depend I would
never forget the circumstances 1 lest him in; but still I
was impatient to know who was the person to be married:
upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all Trades
and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match ; for, indeed, I had thought it very suitable, The
character of that man 1 have given already; and as for
the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and
religious young woman; had a very good snare ofsense,
was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very hand-
somely, and to the purpose, always with decency End
good manners, and not backward to speak when any
thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak when
it was not her business; very handy and house-wisely in
any thing that was before her; <m excellent manager,
and fit indeed to have been governess to the whole island;
she knew very well how to behave herself to all kind of
folks she had about her, and to better, if she had found
any there.
The
The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them the same day, and as I was sather at the altar,
as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her a por-
tion, for I appointed her and her husband a handsome
large space of ground for their plantation; and, indeed,
this match and the proposal the young gentleman made
to me, to give him a small property in the island, put me
upon parcelling it out among them, that they might not
quarrel afterwards about their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will At-
kins, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave,
managing sellow, persectly reformed, exceeding pious and
religious, and, as sar as I may be allowed to lpeak post-'
tively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true sincere
penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every one's
satissaction, that they only desired one general writing
under my hand for the whole; which I caused to be
drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the
bounds and situation of every man's plantation, and testi-
fying, that I gave them thereby, severally, a right to
the whole possession and inheritance of the respective
plantations of sarms, with their improvements, to them
and their heirs; reserving all the rest of the island ;rs my
own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after eleven years, if 1 or any one from
me, or in my name, came to demand it, producing an
attested copy of the same writing.
As to government and laws among them, I told
them, I was not capable of giving them better rules
than they were able to give themselves; only made
them promise me to live in love and good neighbour-
hood with one another: and so i prepared, to leave
them. .
One thing I must not omit, and that is: that being
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among then «
selves, and having much business in hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of the
island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; for,
excepting the providing themselves food, which they
had difficulty enough in sometimes, they had no manner
of business or property to manage. 1 proposed there-
fore
fore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them
-with Friday's sather and propose to them to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several samilies as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute slaves, for I would
not admit them to make them slaves by force, by any
means, because they had their liberty given by capitula-
tion, and, as it were articles of surrender, which they
ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheersully along with him; so we allotted them
land and plantations, which three or four accepted qf,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several samilies we had settled; and thus my colony was
in a manner settled as follows :—the Spaniards pofTessed
my original habitation, which was the capital city, and
extended their plantation all along thelide of the brook,
which made the creek that I have so often described, as
sar as my bower, and as they increased their culture, it
went always eastward; the English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a
great addition of land to take in, if they found occa-
sion, so that they need not jostle one another for want
of room.
All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there only
for their usual Customary barbarities, they might come
and go ; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb
them; and no doubt, but they were often ashore, and
went away again; for 1 never heard that the planters
were ever attacked and disturbed any more.'
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to
my friend' the clergyman, that the work of converting
the savages might, perhaps, be set on foot in his
absence to his satissaction; and I told him, that now
I thought it was put in a sair way: for the savages
Deing thus divided among the Christians, if they would
but every one of them do their part with those which
came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect.
4 He
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their part. But how, says he, how shall we obtain that
of them? I told him, we should call them all toge-
ther, and leave it ict charge with them, or go to them
one by one, which we thought best; so we divided k;
he to spen.k to the Spaniards who were all papists, and
I to the English who were all protestants; and we re-
commended it earnestly to them, and make them pro-
mise, that they would never make any distinction of pa-
pist or protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but -teach them the general knowledge cf
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ: and
they likewise promised us, that thev would never have
any difserences or disputes, one with another, about
religis/n.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, (f may call it
so, for such a house, or such a piece of basket-work, I
believe was not standing in the world again!) I say,
when I came thither, I found the young woman I have
mentioned above and Will Atkins's wise were become
intimates, and this prudent, religious young woman,
had persected the work Will Atkins had begun; and
though it was not above four days after what I have
related, yet the new baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her, in all my observation or conversation in the
world.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before
I went to them; that among all the needsul things I
had to .leave with them, 1 had not left a bible: in which
I shewed,myself less considering for them, than my good
friend the widow was for me, when she lent me the
cargo of 1001. from Lisbon, where she packed up three
bibles and a prayer-book. However, the good woman's
charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined,
for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction
of those that made much better use of them than I had
done.
I took one of the bibles in my pocket, and when
I came to William Atkins's tent or house, I found
the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wise, had
teen discoursing of religion together; (for William At-
kins
kins told it me, with a great deal of joy) I asked, if
they were together now? And he said, yes: so I went
into the house, and he with me, and we found them
together very earnest in discourse: O, Sir, says William
Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile to himself,
and aliens to bring home, he never wants a mes-
senger: my wise has got a new instructor: I knew
I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work:
that young woman has been sent hither from heaven:
she is enough to convert a whole island of savages.
The young woman blushed, and rose up to go away,
but I desired her to sit still; I told her she had a good
work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless
her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any book among them, though I did not ask; but I put
my hand in my pocket, rnd pulled out my bible: here,
said I to Atkins, I have brought you an assistant, that,
perhaps, you had not before. The man was so con-
founded, that he was not able to speak for some time;
but recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands,
and turning to his wise, here, my dear, says he, did
not I tell you, our God, though he lives above, could
hear what he said? Here is the book t prayed for,
when you and 1 kneeled down under the bush: now
God has heard us and sent it. When he had said thus,
the man sell into such transports of a passionate joy,
that between the joy of having it, and giving God
thanks for it, the tears ran down his sace like a child
that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and wns like to have
run into a mistake, that none of us were aware of;
for she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her
husband's petition. It is true, that providentially it
was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense:
but I believed it would have been no difficult matter, at
that time, to have persuaded the poor -woman to have
believed, that an express messenger came from heaven,
on purpose to bring that individual book: but it was
too serious a matter, to suffer any delusion to take
place: So. I turned to the young woman, and told
her, we did not desire to impose upon the new con-
vert,
TWt, in her first, and more ignorant understanding of
things; and begged her to explain to her, that God
may be very properly said to answer our petitions, when,
in the course of his providence, such things are, in a
particular manner, brought to pass, as we petitioned for;
but we do not expect returns from heaven, in a mira-
culous and particular manner; and that it is our mercy
it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards effectually; so
that there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here;
and I should have thought it one of the most unjustifiable
frauds in the world, to have had it so; but the surprise
of joy upon Will Atkins, is really not to be expressed;
and there, we may be sure, was no delusion : sure no man
Was ever more thanksul in the world for any thing of
its kind, than he was for this bible; and, I believe,
never any man was glad of a bible from a better prin-
ciple; and though he had been a most profligate creature,
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, surious, and wicked,
to a great degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all
for the well-instructing children; viz. that parents
ihould never give over to teach and instruct, or ever
despair of the success of their endeavours, let the chil-
dren be ever so obstinate, refractory, or, to appearance,
insensible of instruction; for, if ever God in his provi-
dence touches the consciences of such, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early instruction
of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep; but, some time or other, they may
find the benefit of it.
Thus it was with this poor man, however ignorant
he was, or divested of religion and Christian knowledge.
He found he had some to do with now more ignorant
than himself; and that the least part of the instruction
of his good sather, that could now come to his mind,
was of use to him. .
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his
sather used to insist much upon the inexpressible value of
the bible—the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
samilies, and persons; but he never entertained the
least notion of the worth of it till now; wheri, being
VOL. II.' G . tO
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle/or his assistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the
present occasion, though she had one; and so had the
youth on board our ship, among the goods which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so
many things of this young woman, 1 cannot omit telling
one st6ry more of her and myself, which has something
in it very insorming and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young wo-
man was reduced; how her mistress was starved to death
and did die on board that unhappy ship we met at sea;
and how the whole ship's company being reduced to the
last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
maid, were first hardly used as to provisions; and, at
last, tota'ly neglected and starved, that is to say, brought
to the last extremity of hunger.
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extre-
mities they suffered, I asked her if she could describe,
by what she selt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and she
told her tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir,- said she, we had for some days sared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now,
at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, ex-
cept sugar, and a little wine, and a little water. The
first day aster I had received no food at all, I found my-
self, towards evening, first empty and fickish at my sto-
mach, and nearer nigTit, mightily inclined to yawning
and sleepy; 1 laid down on a couch, in the great cabin,
to sleep; and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay
down: after being about three hours awake, it being;
about five o'clock in the morning, 1 found myself empty
and my stomach fickish again, and laid down again;
but- could not sleep at all, being very saint and ill; and
thus I continued' all the second day, with a strange va-
riety, first hunger, then sick again, with Teachings to
vomit; the second night, being obliged to go to bed
again, without any food more than, a draught of sair
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes,
and that the market was mightily stocked with provisions;
that
that I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined
very heartily.
I thought my stomach was sull after this, as it would
have been after, or at, a good dinner; but when I awak-
ed, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myself
in the extremity of samine: the last glass of wine we had
1 drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being no
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise
disagreeable sumes from the stomach into the head; and
1 lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
for some time.
The third day in the morning, after a night of strange
and consused inconstant dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, 1 awaked, ravenous and surious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned, and
conquered it, I say, I question whether, if I had been a
mother, and had a little child with me, its lise would
have been sase or no.
This lasted about three hours, during which time
I was twice raging mad, as any creature in Bedlam, as
my young master told me, and as he can now insorm
you.
In one of these fits of lunacy, or distraction, whether
by the motion of the ship, or some flip of my foot, 1
know not; I sell down, and struck my sace against the
corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay; and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and
the cabin boy bringing me a little bason, I sat down, and
Wed into it a great deal; and as the blood ran from me,
1 came to myself; and in the violence of the flame, or
the sever I was in, abated, and so did the ravenous part
of the hunger.
Then I grew sicks and reached to vomit, but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up: after
I had bled some time, I swooried, and they all believed
I was dead; but I came to myself soon after, and then
had a most dreadsul pain in my stomach, not to be
described, not like the cholic, but a gnawing eager pain
for food; and, towards night, it went off with a kind
of earnest wishing'Or longing for food; something like,
g 2 as
as I suppose, the longing of a woman with child. I'
took another draught of water, with sugar in it, but my
stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again;
then I took a draught of water, without sugar, and that
stayed with me; and laid me down upon the bed, pray-
ing most heartily, that it would please God to take me
away; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slum-
bered awhile; and then waking, thought myself dying,
being light with vapours from an empty stomach; I re-
commended my foul to God, and earnestly wished that
somebody would throw me iuto the sea.
All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought expiring; but bore it with much more patience
than s, and gave the last bit qf bread sbe had to her
child, my young master, who would not have taken
it, but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it
saved his lise.
Towards the morning I slept age.in, and fi-st, when I
awaked, I sell into a violent passion of crying; and
after that, had a second fit of violent hunger, so that I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadsul condition; had
my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am
certain, I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as
much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh
of any creature appointed for food; and once or twice I
was going to bite my own arm. At last, I saw the
bason, in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the
tlay before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste
and such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered nobody
had taken it before., and afraid it should be taken from
me now.
Though after it was down, the thoughts of it silled
me with horror, yet it checked the sit of hunger; and I
drank a draught of sair water, and was composed and
refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth
-day, and thus I held it till towards night, when, within
the compass of three hours, 1 had all these several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another, viz. sick, sleepy,
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous
again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying, then
ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour; and
say strength wasted exceedingly. At night I laid me
down
down, having no comfort, but that in the hope that I
fliould die before morning.
All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now
turned into disease, and I had a terrible cholic and gri-
ping; wind instead of food, having found its way into
the bowels; and in this condition 1 lay till morning,
when I was surprised a little with the cries and lamenta-
tions of my young master, who called out to me, that
his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for 1
had not strength to rise, but found she was not dead,
tho' she was able to give very little signs of lise.
I had then such convulsions in my stomach for want
of fome sustenance, that I cannot describe them, with
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite, that nothing
but the tortures of death can imitate; and this condition
I was in, when I heard the seaman above cry out,
A sail! a sail! and halloo and jump about as if they were
distracted.
I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mis-
tress much less; and my master was fo sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; fo we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that oc-
casioned such a combustion; nor had we any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for two days, they having
told us, they had not a mouthsul of any thing to eat in
the ship; and they told us afterwards they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadsul condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our lives; and how you found us, Sir,
you know as well as I, and better too.
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct ac-
count of starving to death, as I consess, I never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the
youth gave me an account of a good part of it; though.
I mutt own, not fo distinct, and fo seelingly, as his
maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his mother
sed him at the price of her own lise: but the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman
too, the might struggle harder with it; 1 say, the poor
maid might be supposed to seel the extremity fomething
g 3 fooner
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bits something longer than she parted with any
to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here re-
lated, if our ship, or some other, had not so providenti-
ally met them, a sew days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their case stood, would have
served them but a little while, they being 500 leagues
from any land: or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened; but this is by
the way. I return to my disposition of things among the
people.
And first, it is to be observed here, that, for many
reasons, I did not think fit to let them know any thing
of the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of setting
up among them; for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they
would, upon very light disgust, have separated, and gone
away from one another; or perhaps, have turned pirates,
and so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plan-
tation of sober and religious people, as I intended it to
be; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that
I had on board, or the two quarter-deck gun?, that my
nephew took extraordinary, for the same reason; I thought
they had enough to qualify them for a desensive war
against any that should invade them; but I was not to
set them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them
to go abroad to attack others, which in the end, would
only bring ruin and destruction upon themselves and all
their undertakings; I reserved the sloop, therefore, and
the guns, for their service another way, as I shall observe
in its place.
I have now done'with the island: I left them all in
rjr« good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again the Sth day of May, hav-
ing been five and twenty days among them; and, as
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came
to remove them, I promised to send some surther relief
from the Brazils,' if I could possibly find an opportunity;
and particularly, I promised to send them some cattle,
such as"sheep, hogs, and cows; for as to the two cows,
and
151
and calves, which I brought from England, we had been
obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea,
for want of hay to seed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints,
in the Brazils, in about 22 days; meeting nothing re-
markable in our passage, but this; that about.three days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the N. N. E. running, as it were, into a bay
or gulph, on the land side, we were driven something
out of our course; and once or twice our men cried,
land to the westward; but whether it was the continent
or islands, we could not tell by any means.
But the third day, towards evening, ihe sea smooth,
and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very blackj&iot
being able to discover what it was ; but after some time,
our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way,
and looking at them with a perspective, cried out, it was
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an
army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the sellow a fool,
or some such word: Nay, Sir, says he, don't be angry,
for it is an army, and a fleet too; for 1 %j!ieve there are
a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along,
and they are coming towards us too, apace, and full ot
men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my'
nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories
of them in the island, and having never been in those
seas before, that he could not tell what to think- of it,
but said, *two or three times, we shall all be devoured.
I must consess, considering we were becalmed, and the
the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the
worse; however, I bade him not be afraid, tyut bring the
(hip to an'anchor, as soon as we came so near as to know
that we must .engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us; sol gave orders to come to an anchor, and
surl all our sails. As for the savages, 1 told them, they
had nothing to sear from them but fire; and therefore
they should get their boats out, and sasten them, one
close by the head, and the other by the stern, and man
a 4 them
them both well, and wait the issue in that posture J
this.I did, that the men in the boats might be ready,
with meet and buckets, to put out any sire these sa-
vages might endeavour to six upon the outside of the
ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came up with us, but never was such a horrid sight
seen by Christians: my mate was much mistaken in his
calculation of their number, I mean of a thousand canoes;
the most we could make of them when they came up,
being about 12fi; and a great many of them too; for
fome of them had 16 or 17 men in them, fome more,
and, the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which
they had, doubtless, never seen before, nor could they,
at first, as we afterwards understood, know what to make
of us. They came boldly up, however, very near to us,
and seemed to go about to row round us; but we called to
our men in the boats, not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it : for sive or six of their
large canoes came fo near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back; which
they understood very well, and went back; but at their
Tetreat about 500 arrows came on board us from those
boats; and one of our men in the long-boat was veiy
much wounded.
However, I called to them not to sire by any means;
but we handed down fome deal boards into the boat, and
the carpenter presently set up a kind of a sence, like waste
boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if
they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a.
body astern of us, and pretty near, fo near that we could
easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design. 1 easily found they were fome of my old
friends, the same fort of savages that I had been used
to engage with; and in.a little time more they rowed
fomewhat, sarther out to sea, till they came directly
broadside with us, and then rowed down strait upon us,
till they came fo near, that they could hear us speak;
upon
I
upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
sliould shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns
ready; but, being so near as to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant;
which accordingly he did: whether they understood
him of not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had
called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost,
or nighest boats to us, turned their canoes from us; and
stooping down, shewed us their naked backsides; just as
if in English, (saving your presence) they had bid us
kiss ———; whether this was a defiance or challenge,
we know not; or whether it was done in mere contempt
or a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday cried
out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily for
him, (poor sellow) they let fly about 300 of their ar-
rows, and to my inexpressible grief killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor sel-
low was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more sell very nigh him; such, unluckily, marksmen
they were.
1 was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the
campanion of all my sorrows and solitude, that I im-
mediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small lhot,
and four with great; and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before to be
sure.
They were not above half a cable's length oft" when
we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well that
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had
reason to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides
to us gave us no great offence; neither did I know for
certain whether that, which would pass for the greatest
contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in return, I had only resolved to have
fired four or five gnns with powder only, which I knew
would fright them susficiently: but when they shot at us
directly with all the sury they were capable of, and
especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I
so entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well
deserved it, I not only had been justified before God and
g 5 man
roan, but would have been very glad, if I could, to haves
overset every canoe there, and drowned every one o
them.
1 can- neither tell how many we killed, or how many
-we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such a fright
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude: there
were 13 or 14 of their canoes split, and overset, in all;
\ and the men all set a swimming; the rest, frighted
out of their wits, scoured away as sast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were split
or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that there were
many of them lost; and our men took up one poor sel-
low swimming for his lise, above an hour after they were
all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many: but, in short, we never knew any
thing how it went with them; for they fled so sast, that
in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above
three or four straggling canoes; nor did we ever see the
-jest any more: for a breeze of wind springing up the
same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so sullen
tha£ he would neither eat or speak; and we all sancied
that he would starve himself to death: but 1 took a way
to cure him: for I made them take him, and turn him
into the long boat, and make him believe they would tofe
him into the sea again, and so leave him where they found
him, if he would not speak; nor would that da, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came away from
him: and then he followed them, for he swam like a
cork, and called to them in his tongue, tho' they knew
not one word of what he said. However, at last, they
took him in again, and then he began to be more tracta-
ble J nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again; but I was the most
disconsolate creature alive, for want of my man Friday,
and would have been very glad to have gone back to the
island, to have taken one of the rest from thence-
for my occasion, but it could not be; so we went on;
/we had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a long
while before we co»ld make him understand any thing;
hut, in time* our mm taught him. some English, and
4 he
he began to be a little tractable: afterwards we enquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing of
what he said; for his speech was fo odd, all gutturals,
and spoken in the throat, in such an hollow, and odd
manner, that we could never form a word from him;
and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well, if they were gagged, as other-
wile; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate; but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with
an open throat; he told us however, fome time after,
when he had taught him to speak a little English,
that they were going, with their kings, to sight a great
battle. When he said kings, we asked him how many
kings? He said, there were sive' nation, (we could not
make him understand the plural s) and that they all
joined to go against two nation. We asked him, What
made them come up to us? He said, To makee te great
wonder look: where it is to be observed, that all those
natives, as alfo those of Africa, when they learn English,
they always add two e's at the end of the words where
we use one, and place the accent upon the last of them,
as makee, takee, and the like; and we could not break
them of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday les ve it
off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor sellow once more, I
must take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all decency and folemnity possi-
ble, by putting him into a cossin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to sire eleven guns
for him: and fo ended the lise of the most gratesul,
saithsul, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever
man had.
We now went away with a sair wind for Brasil, and
in about twelve days time, we made land in the
latitude of sive degrees south of the line, being the
north eastermost land of all that part of America. We
kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore, four days, when
we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
c 6 place
plrce of. my deliverance, from whence came both my
good and evil sate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less busi-
ness than I had; and yet it was with great dissiculty that
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence on
shore: not my partner himself, who was alive, and made
a great sigure among them; not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation in the
island, could obtain me that savour: but my partner,
re nembering that I had given sive hundred moidores to
the paor of the monastry of the Augustines, and three
.hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the mo-
nastry, and obliged the prinr that then was to go to- the
•governor, and beg leave for me presently, with the cap-
tain, and one more, besides eight seamen, to come oa
ihore, and no more; and this upon condition abfolutely
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any perfon away with-
out licence.
They were fo strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme dissiculty that 1 got on shore
three bales of English goods, such as sine broad cloths,
stuffs, and fome linen, which I had bought for a present
to mv partner.
He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though
'(like me) he came from little at sirst; and though he
knew not that I had the, least design of giving him any
thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moidores,
including fome tobacco, and three or four sine medals
in gold. But I was even with him in my present,
which, as I have said, consisted of sine broad cloth,
English stuffs, lace, and sine Hollands. Alfo I deli-
vered him about the value of 1001. sterling, in the
same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set
up the sloop which I had brought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in or-
der to send the refreshments I intended to my planta-
don.
Accordingly he got hands, and sinished the sloop in
a very sew days, for she was already framed, and I cave
the matter of her such instructions as he could not miss
tbe
the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an account fronr
my partner afterwards, i got him foon loaded with the
small cargo I had sent them; and one of out seamen,
that had been on Chore with me there, offered to go with
the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard, to allot him a sussicient quantity of land for
a plantation; and giving him fome clothes, and tools
for his planting work, which, he said, he understood,
having been an old planter in Maryland, and a buccaneer
into the bargain.
I encouraged the sellow by granting all he desired;
and, as an addition, 1 gave him the savage which we had
taken prifoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the
governor Spaniard to give him his share of every thing
he wanted with the rest.
When we came to sit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest sellow, a Brasil
planter of his acquaintance, who had sallen into the dis-
pleasure of the church; I know not what the matter
is with him, says he; but, on my conscience, I think
he is an heretic in his heart; and he has been obliged
to conceal himself for sear of the inquilition; that
he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to the island, and allot them
a plantation,' he would give them a small stock to begin
with; for the oificers of the inquisition had seized all
his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a
little houshold stuff, and two slaves; and, adds he,
though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
sall into their hands, for he will assuredly be burnt alive
if he does.
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wise
and daughters, on board one ship, till the sloop put out
to go to sea; and then (having put all their goods
on board the sloop fome time before) we put them
on board the sloop, after she was got out of the
bay.
Our' seaman was mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was much alike rich
in tools, in. preparations, fora sarm; but nothing to
begin;
begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials
for planting lugar canes, with some plants of canes;
•which he, I mean the Poitugal man, understood very
well.
Among-the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this sloop, three milch-
cows, and sive calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone-
horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go; and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but 1 remembered, that the poor
persecuted man had two daughters, and there were but
five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived sase, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were
now, (with this addition) betwixt sixty and seventy
. peopse, besides little children, of which there were a
great many: I found letters at London from them, all
by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brasils by this sloop, of which I shall
take some notice in its place, j
I have now done with m^ island, and all manner of
discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not
cooled by almost forty years misery and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation; not
made cautious by affliction and distress beyond imita-
tion.
1 had no more business to go to the East Indies, than
a man at sull liberty, and having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve
him. Had 1 taken a small vessel from England, and
went directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the planta-
i tion,
tlon, and for my people, took a patent from the govern-
ment here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, 1 might have
obtained; had I carried over cannon and ammunition,
servants, and people to plant, and, taking possession of
the place, fortisied and strengthened it in the name of
England, and increased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had 1 then settled myself there, and sent the
ship back, loaded with good rice, as I might alfo have
done in six months time, and ordered my friends to
have sitted her out again for our supply; had I done
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense; but I was possessed with a wan-
dering spirit, scorned all advantages, pleased myself with
being the patron of those people 1 had placed there,
and doing for them in a kind of haughty majestic way,
like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for them as
if I had been the sather of the whole samily, as well as
of the plantation: but I never fo much as pretended to
plant in the name of any government or nation, or to ac-
knowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects, to
any one nation more than another; nay, 1 never fo much
as gave the place a name; but left it as 1 found it, be-
longing to no man, and the people under no discipline or
government but my own; who, though I had an inslu-
ence over them as sather and benesactor, had no authority
or power to act or command one way or other, sarther
than voluntary consent moved them to comply: yet even
this, had I staid there, would have done well enough;
but as I rambled from them, and came thither no more,
the last letters I had from any of them, were by my part-
ner's means, who afterwards lent another floop to the
place; and who sent me word, though 1 had not the
letter till sive years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay
there; that Will Atkins was dead; that sive of the Spa-
niards were come away; and that though they had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had fome
skirmishes with them y that they begged of him to write
to me, to think of the promise I had made to setch them
away, that they might fee their own country again be-
fore they died.
But
S
But I was gone a wild-goose chace indeed; and they
-who will have any more of me, must be content to
follow me through a new variety of follies, hard-
ships, and wild adventures; wherein the justice of
Providence may be duly observed, and we may see
how easily heaven can gorge us with our own desires-,
make the strongest of our withes to be our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things which
we think it would be our utmost happiness to be al-
lowed in.
Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was able to chuse any parti-
cular station of lise for himself. Man is a short-fighted
creature, sees but a very little way before him; and as
his passions are none of his best friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst counsellors.
I say this, with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth, to wander into the world; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this principle was preserved in me
for my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the
circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give
you historically, and with its utmost variety of particu-
lars. But the iecret ends of Divine Providence, in thus
permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own
desires, are only to be understood of those who can listen
to the voice of Providence, and draw religious conse-
quences from God's justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, had I business, or no business, away I went:
it is no time now to enlarge any surther upon the rea-
son or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to
the history, I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went.
1 shall only add here, that my honest and truly pious
clergyman left me here: a fliip being ready to go to
Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; being still, as
he observed, bound never to finish any voyage he be-
gan: how happy had it been for me, if I had gone with
him!
Bui it was too late now: all things heaven appoints
are best: had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thanksul for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the travels and adventures of Robinson
Crusoe:
Crufoe; fo I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at
myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Braflls we made directly away over the At-
lantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable
good voyage, our course generally fouth-east: now and
then a storm, and fome contrary winds. But my dis-
asters at sea were at the end, my suture rubs and cross
events were to besal me on more; that it might appear
the land was as well prepared to be our scourge as the
sea, when heaven, who directs the circumstances of
things, pleases to appoint it t6 be fo.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after
she arrived at the Cape: only being limited to certain
.number of days, for stay, by charter-party, at the several
ports she was to go to; this was none of my business,
neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew the cap-
tain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things be-
tween them as they thought sit.
We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was needsul
to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way to
the coast of Coromandel; we were indeed informed,
that a French man of war of sifty guns, and two large
merchant ships, were gone for the Indies: and, as I
knew we were at war with France, I had fome appre-
hensions of them; but they went their own way, and we
heard no more of them.
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyage*, variations
of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade-
winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as almost all
the histories of long navigation are sull of, and which
make the reading tirefome enough; and are.persectly
unprositable to all that read, except only to thole who
are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our passing
from one to another. We touched sirst at the island of
Madagascar, where, tho'the people are sierce and treache-
rous, and in particular, very well armed with lances and
hows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we sared very well with them awhile; they treated os
very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave them,
such as knives, fcissars, &c. they brought us 11 good
sat bullocks, middling in size, but very good in, flesh;
•which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our pre-
sent spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here for some time, after we
had surnished ourselves with provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every nook os the
world wherever I came, was for going on shore as often
as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we
went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about us,
and stood gazing at us, at a distance: as we had traded
freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no dariger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a
mark in the country, not only of truce and friendship,
but, when it is accepted, the other fide set up- three
poles or boughs also, which is a signal that they accept
the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the
truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they come past your three poles
or boughs towards you; so that you are persectly secure
within the three poles; and all the space between your
poles and theirs, is allowed like a market, for free con-
verse, trasfic, and commerce. When you go thither,
you must not carry your weapons with you; and if they
come into that space, they stick up their javelins and
lances, all at the first poles, and come on unarmed; but
if any violence is offered to them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their
weapons, and then truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore,
that a greater number of their people came down than
usual, but were all very friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had;
their women also brought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and
and we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of
trees, and lay on the shore all that night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so
*well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat ly-
ing at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on more; and getting some boughs of trees
to cover us also in the boat, 1 ipread the sail on the bot-
tom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of
the branches of the trees, all night.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our
men make a terrible noile on the more, calling out, for
God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murdered; at the same
time 1 heard the firing of five musquets, which was the
number of the guns they had, and that three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frighted
with guns as the savages were in America, where I had
to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter; but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noil'e, I
caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three sulils we had on board, to land, and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the shore; but our men were
in too much haste, for, being come to the soore,
they plunged into- the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between
three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in
all, and only five of them had susils with them: the rest,
indeed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small
use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with disficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on more, for they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick, that we were sain to barri-
cade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two
or three loose boards, which, to our great satissaction,
we had, by mere accident, or providence rather, in the
boat*
And
And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems>
such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen but
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us: we had, by the light of the moon, a little fight
of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore with
darts and arrows; and, having got ready our fire-arms,.
we gave them a volley; and we could hear by the cries
of some of them, that we had wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore till
break of day, which we suppose was, that they might
see the better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to
•weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, because,we must
needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot:
we made signals of distress to the ship, which, though
she rode a league off, }ret my nephew the captain,
hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture
we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty
well understood us; and weighing anchor with all
speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with the
fiiip, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in
her, to assist us, but we called to them not to come
too near, telling them what condition we were in ; how-
ever, they stood in nearer to us; and one of the men,
taking the end of a tow line in his hand, and keeping
our boat between him and the enemy, so that they
could not persectly see him, swam on board us, and
made the line sast to the boat; upon which we slipt our
little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed
us out of the reach of the arrows, we all the while
lying close behind the barricado we had made.
As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside
among themx loaded with pieces of iron and leaii, small
bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which
made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray:
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in
those
fhose parts, put me upon it; for he said, he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us, after we
had made a truce, if we had not done fomething to pro-
voke them to it; at length it came out, viz. that an
old woman, who had come to sell us fome milk, had
brought it within our poles, with a young woman with
her, who alfo brought him fome roots or herbs; and while
the old woman {whether she was mother to'the young
woman or no, they could not tell) was selling us the
milk, one of our men osfered fome rudeness to the
wench that was with her: at which the old woman
made a great noise. However, the seaman would not
quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight among the trees, it being almost dark: the old
woman went away without her, and, as we suppose,
made an outcry among the people she came from, who,
upon notice, raised this great army upon us in three or
four hours: and it was great odds but we had been a,U
destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was
thrown at him, just at the beginning of the attack, as
he sallied out of the tent we had made: the rest came
osf free, all but the sellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mis-
tress, for we coukl not hear what became of him a
great while: we lay upon the shore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him;
made our boat sail up shore, and down shore, several
leagues, but in vain: fo we were obliged to give him
over: and if he alone had susfered for it, the loss had
been the less.
1 could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing
on shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them: it was the third night after the action,
that I bad a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, aiS.how the game
stood on the Indian side: I was caresui'to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again: but I ought,
indeed, to have been sure, that the men I went with had
been under my command, before I engaged in a thing fo
hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought into it
without any knowledge or desire.
We
We took twenty stout sellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and rfiyself; and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the same place where the
Indians stood drawn up the evening before: I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to
see if they had quitted the field, and if they had left any
marks behind them* or of the mischief we had done
them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or two of
them, perhaps we might get our man again, by way of
exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain commanded
one, and I the other. We neither could hear' nor
see any body stir when we landed; so we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to- the
field of battle. At first we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by and by, our boatswain, that led the
• first party, stumbled and sell over a dead body. This
made them halt there awhile, for knowing by the cir-
cumstances that they were at the place where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
we knew would be in less than an hour; and then
we would e_asily discern the havoc we had made among
them. We told two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had
an arm, and some a leg shot oss; and one had Tits head:
those that were wounded, we supposed they had carried
away.
When we had made, as I thought, a sull discovery
of all we could come at the knowledge os, I was for
going on board again, but the boatswain and his party
often sent me word, that they were resolved to make a
visit to the Indian town, where-these dogs, as they called
them, dwelt; arjd desired me to go along with them:
and if they coiS 5 find them, as they still sancied they
should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a good
booty; and it might be, they might find Thomas Jeffrys
there: that was the man's name we had loft.
Had they sent to afle my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing it
i was
was not a hazard sit for us to run, who had a ship,
and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were resolved
to go, and only asked me and my company to go along
with them, 1 positively refused it, and rose up (for
I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to the
boat; one or two of the men began to importune me
to go, and when I still resused positively, began to
grumble, and say they were not under my command,
and they would go. Come, Jack, feys one of the men, i
will you go with me? J will go for one. Jack laid
he would; and another followed, and then another, and,
in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difficulty too, I persuaded to stay; so the supercargo
and I, with one man, went back to the boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them would run the sate of Thomas
Jeffrys.
They told me, like seamen, they'd warrant it they
would come off again; and they would take care, &c.
So away they went. I entreated them to consider the
ship, and the voyage; that their Jives were not their
own; and that they were entrusted with the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship
might be lost for want of their help; and that they'
could not answer it to God and man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well
have talked to the main-mast of the ship: they were
mad upon their journey; only they gave me good
words, and begged I would not be angry; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but they
would be back again in about an hour at sarthest; for
the Indian town, they said, was not above half a mile off,
though they found it above two miles before they got
to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
attempt was desperate, and such as none but madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their clue,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
v gallantly
gallantly armed, that is true: for they had every man %
susil or musket, a bayonet, and every man a pistol: some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers; and
the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes: besides all
which they had among them .13 hand grenadoes. Bolder
sellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world.
When they went out,-their chief design was plunder,
and they were in mighty hopes of sinding gold there:
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware os,
set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of them
all: When they came to the sew Indian houses, which
they thought had been the town, which were not above
half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment,
'for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and
where the town was, or how big, they knew not: they
consulted, therefore, what to do, and were sometime
before they could resolve: for if they sell upon these,
they must cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but
some of them might escape, it being in the night, though
the moon was up; and if one escaped, he would run
away, andraise all the town, so they should have a whole
army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they
went away, and left those untouched (for the people
were all asleep) they could not tell which way to look for
the town.
However, the last was the best advice: so they re-
solved to leave those houses, and look for the town as
well as they could: they went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree .. this they presently con-
cluded would be a good guide to them; for they said
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them,
or the town behind them; and if they untied her, they
should see which way she went: if she went back, they
had nothing to say to her: but, if she went forward,
they had nothing to do but to follow .her: so they cut
the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and
the cow went on before them: in a word, the cow
led them directly to the town, which, as they re-
ported, consisted of above 200 houses, or huts: and in
some of these, they found several samilies living to-
gether.
', Here
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, as sleep
and a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind>'
could make then!: upon this they called another council,
to consider what they had to do; and in a word they re-
folved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three hoases on sire in three parts of the town: and a*
the men came out, to seize them and bind them if
any resisted, they need not to be asked what to do then;
and fo to search the reft of the houses for plunder; but
refolved to march silently sirst through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they might
venture upon it, or no.
They did fo, and desperately refolved that they would
venture upon them'; but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, that were a little
before the rest, called out aloud, aad told them they had
found Thos. Jeffrys, they all ran up to the place, and fo
it was indeed, for there they found the poor sellow hanged
up naked by one arm, and his throat cut: there was aft
Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen
or seventeen of tne principal Indians, who hadteen con-
cerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of
them wounded with our shot; and our men found they
were awake, and talking one to another ia that house,
but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade fo enraged
them as before, that they swore to one another, they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter; and to work they
went immediately; and yet not fo madly as by the rage
and sury they were in might be expected. Their sirst
care was to get fomething that would foon take sire j
but after a little search, they found that would be to no
purpose, for most of the houses were low, and thatched
with flags or rustles, of which the .country is sull; so
they presently made fome wild sire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little powder in the palms of their hands; and in
a quarter of an hour, they set the town on sire in four
or sive places; and particularly that house where the
Indians were not gone to bed. As foon as the sire began
to blaze, -the poor frighted creatures began to ruth out
to save their lives; but met with their sate in the at-
1 vol. ii. h tempt,
y
tempt, and especially at the door, where they drove them
back, the boatswain himself killing one ot two with his
pole-ax; the house being large, and many in it, he did
pot care to go in, bat called for an hand-grenade, and
threw it among them, which, at first, frighted them;
but when it burst, made such havock among them, that
they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
-part of the house, were killed or hurt with the <jrenado,
except . two or three more, who pressed to the door,
(which the boatswain and two more kept with the bayo-
nets in the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all
who came that way. But there was another apartment
in the house, where the prince or king, or whatsoever
}ie was, and'scveral others, were; and they kept in, till
the house, which was by this time all of a light flame,
sell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt
together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people saster than they could master
them; but the fire began to waken them sast enough,
and our sellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses be-
ing made of light combustible stuff, that they could
hardly bear the street between them; and their business
-was to follow the fire for the surer execution: as sast as
the fire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our peo-
ple were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
Mill calling and hallooing to one, another to remember
Thomas Jeffrys.
W hi!e this was doing, I must consess I was very un-
easy, and especially, when [ saw the flames of the town,
which, it being night, seemed to be just by me.
Aly nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men
too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was, or what danger I was in; espe-
cially hearing the guns too :. for by this time they began
•to use their fire-arms^ A tfrfcusand thoughts oppressed his
mind concerning me and the supercargo, what should
become os us; and at last though he could ill spare any
more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might
be
fce in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen men and
himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat, with no more than two men, for one had been,
left to keep the boat; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise continued, and the
flame increased: [ consess it was next to an impossibility
for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing what had happened, or their concern for the
sasety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he
would go and help his men, let what would come. I
argued with him, as I did before with the men, the sase-
ty of the ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest
of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him 1 would
•go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at a
distance learn what was like to be the event, and come
back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk
to the reft*before; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had left but ten men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help: he
had rather he said loie the ship, the voyage, and his
lise, and all; and so away went he.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now than I
was to persuade them not to go before; so, in short, the
captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and
setch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-
boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after
us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of 6'5 men, whereof two
wereioit in the sirst quarrel which brought this mischief
on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we selt
little of the ground we trod on; and being guided by
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were
surprising to us before, the" cries'os the poor people
were now quite of another nature, and silled us with
horror. I must consess 1 never was at the sacking of
a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I have
. a 2 heard
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, jn Ireland,
and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of
Count Tiliy sacking of the city of Magdeburg, and cut-
ting the throats of 22,000 of both sexes; but I never had
an idea, of the thing itself before; nor is it possible to
describe it, or the, horror which was upon our minds
at hearing it.
However we went on, and at length, came to the
town, though there was no-entering the streets of it
for the fire. The firll object we met with, was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the
house was consumed; and just before it, plain now to
be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and three
women killed; and as we thought, one or two more
lay in tlw: heap among the fire. In short, these were
such instances of rage altogether barbarous, and of a
sury something beyond what was human, that we thought
it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or if
they were the authors of it, we thought that every one
of them ought to be put to the worst of deaths: but
this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on, so that we were
'in the utmost consusion. We advanced a little way sar-
ther; and beheld, to our astonishment, three women na-
ied, crying in a most dreadsul manner, and flying as if
they had, indeed, had wings, and after them, sixteen or
seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and consterna-
tion, with three of our English butchers {tor 1 call
them no better) in the rear; who, when they could not
overtake, them, fired in among them, and one that was
killed by t,heir shot sell down in our sight; when the
rest law us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we
would murder them, as well as those that pursued them,
they set up a most dreadsul shriek, especially the women,
and two of them sell down as if already dead with the
fright.
My very foul shrunk within me, and my blood ran
chill in my veins when I saw this; and I believe, had
the three English sailors that pursued them come on, I
had made our men kill them all. However, we took
Ibme ways to let the poor flying cieatures know that
we
i
we would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted upr
made piteous lamentations to us- to save them, which we
let them know we would do v whereupon they kept all
together in a huddle, close behind us, for protection. I
left my men drawn up together, and charged them to-
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of out peo-
ple, and see what devil it was poffissed them, and what
they intended to do; and, in a word, to command them
off; . assuring them, that if they stayed till daylight,.
they would have a hundred thousand men about 'their
ears: I say I left them, and went among those flying
people, taking only two of our men with me ; and there
Was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among them; some of
them had their seet terribly burnt with trampling and
running through the fire; others their hands burnt, one
of the women had sallen down in the fire, and was almost
burnt to death before she could get out again; two or
three of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from,
our men pursuing, and another was shot through the
body, and died while I was there.
I would sain have learned what the occasion of all
this was, but I could not understand one word they said:
though by signs 1 perceived that some of them knevv
not what was the occasion-themselves. I was so terri-
fied in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
could not stay there, but went back to my own men -
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to -
follow me, when ip the very moment came four of our
men, with the boatswain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre;
when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could
halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them
hear; so (hat they knew who we were, and came up to
us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo
like a shout of triumph, for having, as he thought,
more help come; and without bearing to hear me, cap-
tain, says he, noble captain, 1 am glad you are come;
we have not half done }fet; villains! hell-hound dogs!
I will
H 3
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upoit
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we
will root out the verv name of them from the earth ; and
thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would,
not give us- leave to speak a word.
At last, raisin^ my voice that I might silence him.
a little, Barbarous dog! said I, what are you doing r
1 won't ha</e one creature touched more, upon pain of
death. I charge you, upon your lise, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute.
Why Sir, says he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what
we have done, come hither; and with that he shewed
me the poor sellow hanging upon a tree with his throat
cut.
I consess 1 was urged then myself, and at another
time should have been forward enough: but I thought
they had carried their rage too sar, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, ' Cursed be
their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was
cruel.' But I had now a new talk upon my hands; for
when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as 1 had
done, 1 had as much to do to restrain them, as I should
have had with the others; nay, my nephew himself
sell in with them, and told me, in their hearing, that
he was only concerned for sear of the men being over-
powered; for, as to the people, he thought not one of
them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves
with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought,
to be used like murderers; upon these words, away
ran eight of my men with the boatswain and his crew,
to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it quite
out of my power to restrain them, came aw.ay pensive
and sad, for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that sell
in o their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me byt'the super-
cargo and two men, and with these L-walked back to
the boats. It was a very great pkte of folly in me, I
consess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, asit
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run
over
over the country, there stood about forty men armed
with lances and bows at the little place where the twelve,, ,
or thirteen houses stood mentioned before; but by acci-
dent I misled the place, and came directly to the sea-
fide; and by that time I got to the sea-side it was bro:ul
day; immediately I took the pinace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might
Jiappen.
I observed that about the time I came to the boat-
side, the sire was pretty well out, and the noii'e abated;
but in about half an hour after I got on board; I heard
a volley of our men's sire-arms, and saw a great smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men tailing
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at the sew
houses on the way; of whom they killed 16 or 17, and
set all those houses on sire, but did not meddle with the
women or children.
By that time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnace, our men began to appear; they came drop- \.
ping in, fome and fome; not in two bodies, and in form,
as they went out, but all in heaps, straggling here and
there in such a manner, that a small force of relblute men
might have cut them all osf.
But the dread of them was upon the whole country;:
the people were amazed, and surprised, and fo frighted,
that I believe, an hundred os them would have fled at
the sight of but sive of our men. Nor in all this terrible
action was there a man who made any considerable de-
sence; they were fo surprised between the terror of the
sire, and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that,
they knew not which way to turn themselves ; for if they
fled one way, they were met by one party; if back again,.
by another; fo that the) were every where knocked down.
Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt, except
one who strained his foot, and another had one of his.
hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,,
indeed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him in,
particular; as well for his acting fo out.of his duty, as,
commander of the ship, and having she charge of the!
'voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cool-..
ing, the rage of his men, in fo bloody and cruel an en-
iji 4 . terpril'e;
terprise; my nephew answered me very respectsully j
but told me that when he saw the body of the poor sea-
man, whom they had murdered in such- a cruel and bar-
barous manner, be was not master os himself, neither
could he govern his passion; he owned, he should not
have done fo, as he was commander of the ship: but, as
he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear
it.. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject:
to me at all: and they knew it well enough: fo they
took no.notice of my dislike. .,
The next day we set siiil: fo we never heard any
more of it. Our men differed in the account of the
number they killed: fome said one thing, fome another j
but, according to the best of their accounts put all to-
gether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 people,
women, and children, and left not a house Handing in
the town,' ,
As for the poor fellow Thomas Jeffrys, as he was
quite dead, for his throat was fo cut that his head was.
half off, it would do him no service to bring him away:
fo they left him where they found him, only took him
down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
However just as our men thought this action to be, I
was against them in it: and I always, after that time,,
told them God would blast the vqyage: for I looked up-
on the blood they siled that night to be murder in them:
for though it is true that they killed Thomas Jeffrys, yet;
It was as true that Jeffiys was the aggressor, had broken
the truce, and had violated pr debauched a young woman
of theirs, who came to our camp innocently, and on the
faith of their capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said, it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that
the war was begun the night before by the natives them-
selves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men
without any just provocation: fo that, as we were in a
capacity to fight them, we might alfo be in a capacity,
to do ourselves justice upon them in an extsadrdinary
manner: that though the poor man had taken liberty
with a wench, he ought not to have been murdered, and
that in such a villanpus manner :. and that they, did no*.
thing'-
thing but what was just, and that the laws of God al-
lowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to
have warned us against going on shore among heathens:
and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind
wise, -but at their own experience; and their experience
seems to be always of most use to them, when it is dear-
est bought.
We were now bound to the gulph of Persia, and from-
thence to the coast of Cororhandel, only to touch at
Surat; but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the
bay of Bengal, where, if be missed of the business out-
ward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home. :. ,
The first disaster that besel us was in the Gulph of
Persia, where five of our men-, venturing on shore on the
Arabian side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the
Arabs, and either all killed or carried away into slavery;
the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them,
and had but just time to get off their boat; I began to
upbraid them with the just retribution of heaven in this
cafe; but the boatswain very warmly told roe,, he
thought i went sarther in my censures than I could shew
any warrant for in scripture, and reser-red to the thir-
teenth of St. Luke, ver.. 4. where our Saviour intimates,,
that those men, on whom the Tower of Siloam sell,,
were not sinners above all the Galileans; but that which,
indeed, put me to silence in this case, was, that none of
these five men,. who were now lost, were of the number
of those who went On shore to the massacre of Mada-
gascar (so I always called it, thouglrour men could not
bear the word massacre with any patience); and, indeed,
this last circumstance, as 1 have said, put me to silence
for the present, v
But nay frequent preaching to them on this subject'
had worse consequences than I expected; and the boat-
swain, who had been the head of the attempt, came up
boldly to me one time, and told me, he found that
I continually brought that affair upon the stage; that
, I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
men very ill on that account, and himself in p r,icu-
lar: that as I was but a passenger, and had no com-
H & mand
mand in the ship, or conceni in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I
might have some ill design in my head, and, perhaps,
call them to an account tor it, when they came to Eng-
land; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to concern myself farther
-with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the
ship; for he did not think it was sase to sail with me
among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told him, that I did consess I had all along op-
posed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely about it, though not more upon him
than any of the rest; that as to my having no command
in the ship, that was true, nor did I- exercise any aiir
thority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly_ concerned us all; as to- -what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his
business; I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
in that claim 1 conceived I had a right to speak, even
sarther than I had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or any one else; and began to be a little
warm with him: he made, but little reply to me at
that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and, being
-willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myielf; and
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when,
one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for
they had- orders not to carry me on board. Any one
may guess, what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes-
sage; and 1 asked the man, who bade him deliver that
errant to me 2. He told me the cockswain. J said no
more to the sellow, but,bade him let them know he had
delivered his message, and that1 had given him no an-
swer to it.
I immediately went, and found out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
saw, viz. that there would certainly be a mutiny in the
snip; and.iatreated him to go immediately on board the
Jhip.
ftip in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on-
board : the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and
in a -word, all the inserior officers, as soon as 1 was
gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and
deiired to peak with the captain; and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue (for the sellow talked
very well), and repeating all he had said to me,, told
the captain in a sew words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any vio-
lence with me; which, if I had not gone on shore,,
they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought- fit to tell him, that as
they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under- his-
command, they would persorm it saithsully: but if 1-
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit
it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no sarther with.
him: and at that word A L~, he turned his sace about
towards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them; at whjch all the seamen, being
got together,, they cried-out. One an.1 ALL! One and
ALL!
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised^,
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he -would consider of thematter;, but that he could do
nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it; he used
some arguments with them, to shew. them the unreason-
ableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in..
vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his
sace, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
enfage to them not to .suffer me to come on board the
ship.
This was an hard article upon him, who-knew his
obligation to me, and did not know how. 1 might take
it; so he began to talk, cavalierly to them v told them,
that I was a contiderable owner of the ship* and.
that in justice he could not put me out of my own.
house; that this was next door to serving me as the
samous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
the ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhabited:
h 6' iiiand
island, and ran away with the strip: that let th^m go*
into what ship they, would, if ever they came to Eng-
land again, it would cost them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not put me out of it: and that
he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleas-
ed. However,, he would go on shore, and talk with
xae there ;, and invited the boatswain to go with him,
.and perhaps they might accommodate the: matter, with,
me.
But they all rejected the proposal; and said, they
would have nothing to do with me no more* neither
on board, nor on more; and if I came on board, they
-would go on shore. Well said the captain, if you are
all of this mind let me go on shore, and talk with him;
so away, he came to me with this account, a little after
the message had been brought to me from. the. cock-
swain.
1 wasvery glad to see my nephew, I-- must consess;
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
confine him by violence, set sail, and run away with the
ship; and then I had been ftript naked in a remote
country x and nothing to help myself: in short, I had
been in.a, worse case than when. I was all. alone in the
island.
But they, had not come to that length, it seems, to my
great satissaction; and when my nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and
shook hands, that they would one and all leave the ship,,
if, I. was suffered to come on board, I told-him, he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore:
I only desired he would take care and send me ail my
necessary things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sura
of money,, and I would find mv way to England as well
as 1 could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
there was no way to help it, but to comply with it.
So in short, he went on board the ship again, and satis-
fied the men, that his uncle had yielded to their im-
portunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ship. So the matter wasu over in a very sew
4t hours;:
Bours; the men returned to their duty, and I begun toi
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of *the worlds
as I tbink I may call it, for I was oear three thousand,
leagues, by sea, sarther off' from England, than I was
at my island;: only, it is true. I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo and Scan-
deroon; from thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France: and this, put together, might be, at
Jeaft, a sull diameter of the globe; but, if it were to be
measured* 1 suppose it would appear to be a great deal
more.
I had'another way before me, which was to wait for
some English ships, which were coming to Bengals fronv
Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on.
board them for England: but as I camexhither without
any concern with the English East India Company, so it
would be difficult to go from hence without their licence,
unless with great savour of the captains of,the ships, or
of the company's sactors; and tx> both L was an utter
stranger. -.
Here I had the particular pleasurei speaking by con-
trarieties^ to see the ship set sail without me; a treat-
ment, 1 think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except .from pirates, running away with a
ship, and setting those that would not agree with their
villany ob shore; indeed this was the next door to it*,
both ways r however, my nephew left me two ser-
vants, or rather, one companion and one servant ;.
the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to;
go with me, and the other was his own servant. 1
took me also a good lodging in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lodged,, some
French,, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here 1 was handsomely enough entertained; and.
that I might not belaid to run rashly upon any thing, I
ftaid here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself; I had some English,
goods with me, of value, and a. considerable sum of
money,
money, my nephew surnHhing me with a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I. had-
occasion, that I might not be straitened, whatever might
happen.
I quickly disposed of mv goods, and to advantage:
too; and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things, was the
moil proper for me, in my circumstances, because E
mi°bt always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to Kngknd; but none salling to my mind, the
English merchant, who lodged with me, and with whom
I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me
one morning: Countryman, says he, I have a project to-
communicate to you, which, as it suits with my
thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with your's also,
when°you shall haVe thoroughly considered it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I by
my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from
our own country; but it is in a country where, by us
who understand trade and business, a great deal of money-
is to be got: if you will put a thousand pounds to my
thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first we
can get to our minds; you shall be captain, f will be-
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China; for
what should we stand still for? The whole world is in*
motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures of
God, heavenly, bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent,
why should we be idle? There are no drones, says he,
living in the world but men: why should we be of that
number? ,
I liked this proposal very well, and the more, because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, andi
info friendly a manner; I will not say that I might*
by my loose and unhinged'circumstances, bethe fitter to^
embrace a proposal for trade, and, indeed, for any thing-
else, or otherwise trade was none of my element: how-
ever, I might, perhaps, say,, with some truth, that if
trade was not my element, rambling was; and no pro-
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never,
seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.-
It was, however, sometime before we could get a
ship to our mind; and when we got a vessel, it was
not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the
sailors which we should pick there ;- after some time we
got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men;
with these, we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it
would be but very little diversion to any body to give
a long account of the places we we»t to, and the people
who inhabit there; thoie things I leave to others, ,and
leave the reader to those journals and travels of English-
men, many of which, 1 find, are published, and more
promised every day: it is enough for me to tell you.,
that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, first; and from thence to Siam, where we ex^
changed some of our wares for opium, and for some
arrack; the first, a commodity which bears agreat price
among the Chinese^ and which, at that time, was very
much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and
returned to Bengal;. and I was very well satisfied with
my adventure I observe that our people in England
often admire how the officers, which the company send
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there
get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes
come home worth sixty, seventy,, and an hundred thou~
sand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much
sarther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
then be no wonder; and much less will it be so, when
we consider, that all those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant
demand for the growth of all other countries, that there is
a certain vent for the return, as well as a market abroad
for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so
, uch money by the first adventure, and such an insight
into.
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years younger, 1 mould have been tempted to have staid
here, and sought no sarther for making my fortune: but
what was all this to a man on the wrong side of three-
score, that was rich enough, and came abroad more in
obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world,.than a
covetous desire of getting in it? And; indeed,! think,
it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire;
for it was so: when I was at home, I was restless to go
abroad, and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at
home. I say, what was this gain to me? I was rich
enough already, nor had I any uneasy desires about
getting more money; and therefore the profits of the
voyage to me were things of no great force, to me for
the prompting me forward to sarther undertakings:
hence I* thought, that by this voyage I had made no
progress at all; because I was come back, as I', might
call it, to the place from whence I came, as to an home;
whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satisfied with seeing, was still more desirous
©f wandering and seeing. I was come into a part of the
world which I never was in before, and that part in par-
ticular which I had heard much of; and was resolved to-
see as much of it as I could; and then I thought 1 might
say, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow traveller and I had different notions;
1 do not name this to insist upon my own, for I acknow-
ledge his was most just, and the most suited to the end of
a merchant's lise, who, when he is abroad upon adven-
tures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is Jike to get the most money by :.
My new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,,
and would have been content to have gone like a carrier's
horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward,
provided he could, as he caHed it, find his account in
it: on the other hand, mine, old as I was, was the no-
tion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a
thing twice over.
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience
oni me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled
resolution imaginable, which way to go: in the inter-
val of these consultations, my friend, who. was always-
, upon
upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
to me, viz. among the spice-islands, and to bring home
a load of cloves frorn the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the
islands belong partly to Spaniards; though we went not
fo sar,but to fome other, where they have not the whole
power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last,,
nothing else offering, and sinding that really stirring
about and trading, the prosit being fo great, and, as I
may say, certain, had more pleasure in it, and more sa-
tissaction to the mind, than sitting still; which, to me
elpecially, was the unhappiest part of my lise, I refolved
on this voyage too, which we made very successsully,
touching at Bornea, and several islands, whose names I
do not remember, and came' home in about sive months.
We fold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and fome
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried then*
away for the Gulph; and making, near sive of one, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at
me: Well now, laid he, with a fort of an agreeable in-t
suit upon my indolent temper, is not this better than
walking about heTe, like a man of nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and igno-
rance of the Pagans? Why truly, said I, my friend, I
think it is, and 1 begin to be a convert to the principles
of merchandizing; but 1 must tell you, said I, by the
way, you da not know what I am doing; for if once I
conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old
as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the world till
I tire you; for I (hall pursue it fo eagerly, 1 shull never
let you lie still.
But to be short with my speculations; a little while
after this there came in a Dutch thip from Batavia; sh,e
was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about
two hundred tons burthen: the men, as they pretended,,
having been fo sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as
if having got money enough, or being willing, for other
Mafons, to go sot Europe, he gave public notice, that,
he
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my
new partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to buy
it: sol went home to him, and told him of it ;. he con-
siders awhile, for he was no rash man neither: but, mu-
sing some time, he replied, She is a little too big; but,
however, we will have her. Accordingly we bought
the shio; and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and t ok posseffion. When we had done so, we resolved
to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with
•those we had, for the pursuing our business: but an a
sudden, they having not received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we asterwards learnt, not one of
them was to be found. We enquired much about them,
and at length were told, that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city ot* the Mogul's residence;
and from thence were to travel to Sui at, and so by sea to
the Gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled mea good while, as
that I missed the opportunity of going with them; for
such a ramble, I thought, and in such company as would
both have guarded me,' and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design; and 1 should both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too i but I
was much better satisfied a sew days after, when I came
to know what fort of sellows they were; for, in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked
on the shore by 'some of the Malaccans, who had,
killed the captain and three of his men; and that after
the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did;
and had brought her in at the bay of -Bengal, leaving.
the mate and five men. more on shore, of whom we shall
bear sarther.
Well, .let them come by the ship how, they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we did
not, I consess, examine into things so exactly as
we ought, for we never enquired anything os the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
- have saultered in their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps, contradicted themselves; or,, one
who-
how or other, we should have seen reason to have susr
pccted them; but the man shewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Cloftershoven, or some such,
name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called him-
self by that name; and we would not contradict him;
and being withall a little too unwary, or at least, having
no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our
bargain.
However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch; and we now resolved for a
second voyage to the south-east, for cloves, &c. that is
to say, among the Phillippine and Malacca isles; and
in short, not to sill this part of my story with trifles, when
-what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first
to last, six years in this country, tracing from port to
port, backward and forward, and with very good success;
and was now the last year with my partner, going in
the ship above-mentioned on a voyage to China; but
designing first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the streights of Ma-
lacca, and among the islands, were no sooner got clear of
those difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port;
and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia;
for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thomson,
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself, '1 his river lies on the north-fide of the
great bay orgulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on shore for re-
freshment, there conies to me one day an Englishman%
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an Eng-
lish East India ship, which rode in the same river, up at,
or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him hither
,we knew not, but he comes up to me, arid speaking
English: Sir, says he, you are a stranger tome and I to
you, but I have something to tell you that very nearly
concerns you.
1 looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
at first I had. known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, and not yourself, what moves you.
to.
to tell it me? I am moved, says he, by the imminent
danger you are in, and, for aught I see, you have .no
knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said I,
but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I
propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can
find it out. But, Sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, find
it, or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship
on shore to-morrow, when you hear what' I have to say
to you: Do you know, Sir, said he, the town of Cam-
bodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river; and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this
side, and three Dutch? Well, said I, and what is that
to me ?• Why, Sir, says he, is it for a man that is upon
such adventures as you are, to come into port, and not
examine first what ships there are there, and wherheT he is
able to deal with them? I suppose you do not think you
are a match for them. I was amused very much at his dis-
course, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned soort upon him, and said,
Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine
what reason I have to be afraid of any of the company's
iships, or Dutch sliips; 1 am no interloper; what can
they have to say to me?
fie looked like a man- half angry, half pleased?
ind, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, Sir, says he, if
rou think yourself secure, you must take your chance;
am sosry yo«r sate should blind you against good
advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked
by five long-boats sust of men ; i and, perhaps, if
you are taken, you. will be banged for a pirate, and
the particulars examined into afterwards: I thought,.
Sir, added he, 1 should have met with a better reception
than this, for doing you a piece of service of such im-
portance. 1 can never be ungratesul,, said I, for any
service, or to any man that offers me any kindness;.
but it is past my comprehension, said I, what they should
have such a design upon me for ~ However, since
you say there is no time to be lost, and that there
is some vilknous design in hand against me, Ir
will go on board this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we cart
swiitt
swim without stopping: But, Sir, said 1, (hall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give
me no surther light into it?
I can tell you but part of the story, Sir, says he; but
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and, I believe, I
-could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it: but the short of the story is this, the
first part of which, 1 suppose, you know well enough,
viz. That you were with this ship at Sumatra; that
there your captain was murdered by the Malaccans,
with three of his men; and that you, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the
story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure
you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you
know merchant's ships shew but little law to pirates, if
they get them in their power.
Now you speak plain English, said 1, and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, but lam sure we'came honestly
and sairly by the ship, yet, seeing such work is a
doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly,
1 will be upon my guard. Nay, Sir, says he, do not
talk of being upon your guard; the best desence is to
foe out of the danger; if you have any legard to your
lise, and the lives of all your men, put out to- sea,
-without sail at high-water; and as you have a whole tide
before you, you will be gone too sar out before they
•can come down; for they - will come away at high-
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them by the difference of the
tide, not reckoning the length of the way. Besides,
-as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not
venture to follow you sar out to sea, especially if it
blows.
Well, said I, you have been very kind in this: What
shall I do for you, to make you amends? Sir, says he,
you may not be so willing to make me amends, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the truth of it; I
-will make an offer to you: 1 have nineteen months pay
due to me on board the ship ', which I came out
of England in; and the Dutchman, that is with me, has
seven
seven months pay due to him; if you will make good
our pay to us, we will go along with you: if you sind
nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we
do convince you that we have saved your lise, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the
rest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As foon as I came
to the ship side, my partner, who was on board, came
out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great
deal of joy, O ho! O ho! we have stopped the leak!
we have stopped the leak! Say you fo! said I, thank
God 1 but weigh the anchor then immediately: Weigh!
says he; what do you mean by that? What is the mat-
ter? says he. Ask no questions, said I, but all hands to
work and weigh, without losing a minute. He was
surprised; but, however, he called the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and
though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land-breeze
blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story at large; and we
called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as
it took us up a great deal of time, fo before we had done,
a seamen comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased:
Chased! said I, by whom and by what? By sive sloops,
or boats, said the sellow, sull of men. Very well, said
1; then it is apparent there is fomething in it. In the
next place, I ordered all our men to be called up, and
told them, that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them if they
would stand by us, and by one another? The men an-
swered, cheersully, that one and all, they would live aad
die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way he
thought best for us to manage a sight with him; for,
resist them 1 refolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them
off with our great shot, as long as we could, and
then to sire at them with our small arms, to keep ihem
from boarding us; but when neither of these would do
any longer, we would retire to our close quarters; per-'
haps they had not materials to break openour bulk-heads,
or get in upon us.
The
The gunner had in the mean time, orders to bring two
guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear
the deck, and load them with masques-bullets, and small
pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand ; and thus
we made ready for sight: but all this while kept out to
sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at a dis-
tance, being five large long-boats following us, with all
the sail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses, we could
see, were English, had out-sailed the rest, were near two
leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably;
so that we found they would come up with us: upon
which we fired a gun without a shot, to intimate that
they should bring to: and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley: but they kept crowding after us,
till they came within shot; upon this we took in our
white flag, they having made no answer to it, hung out
the reg flag, and fired at them with shot: Notwithstand-
ing this, they came on till they were near enough to call
to them with a speaking trumpet, which we had on
board: so we called them, and bade them keep off at
their peril. -
It was all one, they crouded after us, and endeavoured
to come under our stern, so to board us on our quarter:
upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and
depended upon the strength that followed them, 1 ordered
to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broad-
side, when immediately we fired five guns at them: one
of them had been levelled so true as to carry away the
stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to
the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay-
by, and had enough of it; but, seeing the foremost boat
still crowd on aster us, we made ready to fire at her in
particular.
While this was doing, one of three boats that .was
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we
could afterwards see her take out the men; we called
again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her business with us;
T)ut had no answer; only she crowded dole under our
i ', stern.
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous
sellow, run out his two chace guns, and sired at her;
but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, wa-
ved their caps, and came on; but the gunner, getting
, quickly ready again, sired among them a second time;
one shot of which, though it misled the boat itself, yet
sell in among the men, and we could easily see, had
done a great deal of mischief among them; but we,
taking no notice of that, weared the ship asjain, and
brought our quarter to bear upon them; and siring three
guns more, we found the boat was split almost to pieces;
in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her stern, was
shot quite away; fo they handed their sail immediately,
and were in great diforder; but, to complete their mis-
fortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again;
where he hit them we could not tell, but we found
- the boat was sinking, and fome of the men already in
the water: upon this I immediately manned out our
pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with or-
ders to pick up fome of the men, if they could, and save
them from drowning, and immediately to come on board
with them; because we.saw the rest of the boats be-
gan to come up. 'Our men in the pinnace, followed
their orders, and took up three men; one of which was
just drowning, and it was a good while before we
could recover him. As foon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood sarther
out to sea; and we found, that when the other three
boats came up to the sirst two, they gave over their
chace.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I
lenew not the reafon of it, yet seemed to be much greater
than I apprehended; i took care that we would change
our course, and not let an)' one imagine whither we were
going; fo we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the
course of all European ships, Ivhether they were bc;und
to China, or any where else, within the commerce of the
European nations.
When we were now at sea, we began to consult
with the two seamen, and enquire sirst, what the
meaning of all this should be? The Dutchman let us
into
>
Into the secret of it at once; telling us, That the sel-
low that fold us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got
into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while, till at length, he, in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which sailing near the shore, in its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part of the shore where the boat- was,
but made shift in the night, to take In the water sarther
osf, and swimming a great while, at last the ship's boat
took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two
of the seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an ac-
count, that the sellow who had run away with the ship,
fold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an Eng-
lish ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to be salse, yet, as-my partner said,
very well, if we had sallen into their hands, and they had
such a prepossession against .us'before hand, it had been
in ^ain for us to have desertWjiiOurselves, or to hope for
any good quarters at their--solids, especially considering
that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would
have dictated, and ungoverned passion have executed:'
and therefore it was his opinion, we should go directly
back to Bengal, from whence we came without putting
in at any port whatever; because there we could give an
account of ourselves, and could prove where we were
when the ship put in, whom we bought her of, and the
like: and which was more than all the rest, if we were
put to the necessity of bringing it before the proper judges,
we should besure to have fomejustice.; and not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards.
*ol. ii. , . . I . .-. ;!' -Iw-as
s
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but aster A
little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it was
a verr great hazard for us to attempt returning to Ben-
gal, for that we were on the wrong side of the straights
of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given, we should,
he sure to be way-laid on every side, as well by the
Dutch of Batavia, as the English elsewhere; that if we
should be taken, as it were, running away, we should
even condemn ourselves, and there would want no more
evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's
opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast osTonquin, and so on to China; and
from thence pursuing the first design, as to trade, find
some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back
in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could
get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N. N. E.
keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual course to
the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
first, the winds, when we came to that distance from the
shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blowing al-
most trade, as we call it, from the east, and E. N. E.
so that we were a long white upon our voyage; and we
-were but ill provided wiftf^ctuals for so long a run;
and, which was still worse,*.—.is was some danger, that
those EnglMh and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us,
whereof some were bound that way, might be got in be-
fore us; and if not, some other ship, bound to China,
might have insormation of us from them, and pursue us
with the same vigour.
I must consess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
myself, including the late escape from the long boats,
to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever
I was in through all my past lise; for, whatever ill cir-
cumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a thief
before; nor had I ever done any thing that merited the
name of dishonest, or fraudulent, much less thievish. - I
had chiefly been mine own enemy; or, as I may rightly
say,
fay, I had been nobody's enemy but my own. But
bow I was embarrassed in the worst condition imagina-
ble; for though I was persectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear. And if I had
been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt of the
worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among the peo-
ple I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it, I knew not; or What port or place
we should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned at first, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several ports of
that coast, told me, he WouM put in on the coast o
Cochinchina, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao^ a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European sami-
lies resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we Tesolved to go-; and -accordingly*
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very-
much streightened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coast very early in the morning-; and -upon reflec-
tion upon the past circumstances we were in, and the
danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a
small river, which, however, had depth enough of wa-
ter for vrs, and to see if we could, either over land, ot
by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were
in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see
any European ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet, the
next morning, there came into the bay two Dutch ships,
and a third without any colours spread out, but which
we believed to be a Dutchman, -passed by at about two
leagues distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon we went by two English ships, steering
the same course; and thus we thought, we saw ourselves
beset with enemies, both one way and the other. The
place we were in wa»*wild and barbarous, the people
thieves, even by occupation or prosession; and though
it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and ex-
cept getting a sew provisions, cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty
i» that
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them seve-
ral ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east to the point of land which
opens to the great bay of Tonquin; and it was in
this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a word, we were surrounded with ene-
mies. The people we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no
correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only
in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it
may be particularly seen, that they are, as 1 said, the
most barbarous of any of the inhabitants; viz. that
among other customs they have this one, that if any
-vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; that
is to say, staves; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol-
lowing:.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak
at sea-, and that we could not find it out; and however
it happened, that as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of Siam;
yet, as we did not find the ship so persectly tight and
sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were in this
place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things
we had on board, which were not many, and to wash,
and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to find out where
the leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened <ihe ship, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom: for, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay
ter dry aground, neither could we find out a proper
place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a sight, came wondering down to the shore to look
at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a
manner, and heeling towards the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom, with stages,
and
and with their boats on the ofs side, they presently con-
cluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so very sast
on the ground.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats, having
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the
ship, and if they had found us there, to have carried us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we knew not who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at work, on the
outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seasaring man knows
how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; but, being willing to be sure, we took
this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition, to those
that were at work to desend themselves with, if there
should be occasion: and it was no more than need:
for, in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck ;.
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or
to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when-
we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they all belonged to them: and away they came di-
rectly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of
battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be
frighted; for we lay but in an ill posture to sight,
and cried out to us to know what they should do. I
immediately called to the men who worked upon the
stages to flip them down, and get up the side into the
ship: and bade those in the boat to row. round and
come on board; and those sew of us who were on
board, worked with all the strength and hands we had',
to bring the ship to rights: but, however, neither the
men upon the stage, nor those in the boats, could do
i 3r . aa
as they were ordered, before the Cochinchinese were upon,
them: and, with two of their boats boarded our long-
boat, and began to (ay hold of the men as their prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout strong sellow, who having a musquet in his hand,
never ofsered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like
a fool, as I thought. But he understood his business bet-
ter than 1 could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragged him by main force out of their own boat in-
to ours; where, taking him by the two ears, he beat his
head so against the boat's gunnel, that the sellow died in-
stantly in his hands; and in the mean time, a Dutchman,
who stood next, took up the musquet, and with the but-
end of it, so laid about them, that he knocked down five
ot them, who attempted to enter the boat; but this was
little towards refiiiing thirty or forty men, who searless,
because ignorant of their danger, began to throw them-
ielves into the long-boat, where we had but five men to
desend it; but one accident gave our men a complete
victory, which deserved our laughter rather than any
thing else; and that was this:
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of
the fliip, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulk-
ed her, to stop the leaks, had got two kettles, just let
down into the boat; one silled with boiling pitch, and
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stufs as
the shipwrights used for that work; and the man that
attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand,
•with which he supplied the men that were at work with
-that hot stufs; two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this sellow stood, being in the fore-
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladlesul of
the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half-naked, that they roared out like two bulls,
and enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done, Jack,
give them some more of it; when stepping forward
himself, he takes one of their mops, and dipping it in
the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentisully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats,
there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with
it-
t99
it in a most frightsul pitisul manner, and made such ans
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise,
and, indeed, nothing like it; for it was worth observing,
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out,
yet every nation have a particular way of exclamation,
and make noises as different from one another as their
speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures made
a better name than howling, nor a name more proper
to the tone of it; for I never heard any thing more,
like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said,
I heard howl in the forest oa the frontiers of Lan*
guedoc.'
1 was never pleased with a victory better in my lise j
not only as it was a persect surprise to me, and that our
danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory
without any bloodshed, except of that man the sellow-
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much,
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage
wretches, even though it was in my own desence, know-
ing, they came on errands which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness in.
nature: yet I thought it was a sad lise, when we must be.
always obliged to lie killing our sellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and indeed, 1 think so still; and 1 would,
even now, suffer a great deal, rather than 1 would take
away the lise even of the worst person injuring me. I
believe also, all considering people, who knew the value
of lise, would be'of my opinion, if they entered seriously
into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story: all the while this was do-
ing, my partner and I, who managed the reft of the men
on board, had with great dexterity, brought the ship
almost to rights; and having gotten the guns into
their places again, the gunner called to me, to bid out
boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not
offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work with-
out him; but bid him heat another pitch kettle; which
our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the
enemy wa-s so terrified with what they met with in their
first attack, that they would not come on again; and
i 4 some
some of them, that were sarthest off seeing the ship swim,
as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their
mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it not as
they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry sight;
and having gotten some rice, and some roots and bread,
-with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two days
before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go for-
ward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but
•we should be surrounded the next day with rogues enough,
perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for
-us.
We, therefore, got all our things on board the same
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail. In
the mean time, lying at an anchor some distance from the
ihore, we were not so much concerned, being now in a
fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any
enemy had presented. The next day, having finished our
.work within board, and finding our ship was persectly-
healed of all her leaks, we set sail; we would have gone
into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to insorm our-
Jclttes of what was to be known concerning the Dutch
ships that had been there; but we durst not stand in there,
:hecause we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed,
-hut a little before; so we kept on N. E. towards the isle
of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch
or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English mer-
chant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine maa
of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as
jf we would go to the Manillas or the Phillippine islands,
and this we did, that we might not sall into the way of
any o: the European ships; and then we steered north
again, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 20min. by
which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
Courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very sairly and punctually with us in
all their agreements and bargains; which is what we did
not find among other people, and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by
a Dutch missionary pis protestants, and is a testimony of
'' what
what I have often observed, viz. that the christian religion
always civilizes the people, and reforms their manners,
where it is received, whether it works saving essects up-
on them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast os
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond'
all the ports of China, where our European ships usually
come: being resolved, if possible, not to sall into any
of their hands, especially in this country, where, as our
circumstances were, we could not sail os being entirely
ruined; nay, so great was my sear in particular, as to
my being taken by them, that I believe firmly I would
much rather have chosen to have sallen into the hands of
the Spanish inquisition:
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees-, we re-
solved to put into the first trading port we should come
at: and standing in for the more, a boat came off two
leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer
his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board: upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in,.
and sent it back.
I thought it wasnow so much in. our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulph of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the Gulph of Nan«-
quin very well; but, smiling, asked us what we would
do there.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
&c. and so would return by the same course we earner
He told us our best port-had been to have put in-at Ma-
cao, where we could not tail of a market for our opium
to our satissadtion, and might, for our money, have pur-
chased all sorts of China goods, as cheap as we could at
Nanquin.
Not being able to put tire old man out of his talk, of
which he was very Opiniated, or conceited,. I told him^.
we were gentlemen, as well as merchants, and that we
bad a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the
I 5 famous
samous court of the monarch of China. Why then,
says the old man, you should go to Ningpo, where, by
the river that runs into the sea there, you may go up
within five leagues of the great canal. This canal is a
navigable made stream, which goes through the heart of
all that vast empire of China*, crosses all the rivers, passes
some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates,
and goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near
270 leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now: the great question is, If you can carry us
up to the city of Nanquin, from'whence we can travel
to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so very
well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up that-
way just before. This gave me a little shock; a Dutch
Ihip was now our terror, and we had much rather have
met the devil, at least if he had not come in too fright-
sul a sigure: we depended upon it, that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition
to sight them; all the ships they trade with in those parts
being -of great burden, and of much greater force than
we were.
The old man found me a little consused, and under
some concern, when he named a Dutch ship; and said
to me, Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war with your
nation. No, said I, that's true; but I know not what
liberties men may take, when they are out of the reach
of the laws of the country. Why, said he, you are no
pirates, what need you sear? 1 hey will not meddle
with peaceable merchants, sure.
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up in-
to my sace at that word, it was hindered by some stop in
the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it; for it put
me into the greatest disorder and consusion imaginable,
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that the
old man easily perceived it.
Sir, said he, I find you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way
you think sit; and depend upon it, I'll do you all the
service I can. Why, Seignior, said I, it is true, I am
a little unsettled ia my resolution at this time, whither
to
tt? o.o in particular; and I am fomething more so, for
what you said about pirates: I hope there are no pirates
in these seas, we are but in an ill condition to meet with
them: for you see we have but small force, and but very
weakly manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be concerned; I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these sifteen
years, except one, which was seen, as I hear, in the bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured-
she is gone to the fouthward: nor was she a ship of any
great force, or sit for the work; she was not built for a.
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew
that were on board, after the captain and fome of his;
men had been murdered by the-Malaccans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.
What! said I, seeming to know nothing of the mat--
ter, Did they murder the captain? No, said he, I do
not understand that they murdered him :. but, as they af-
terwards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed
they betrayed himinto the hands of the Malaccans, who •
did murder him: and, perhaps, they procured them to-
do it. Why then,- said I, they deserve death, as much
as if they had done it themselves; Nay, said the old'
man, they do deserve it: and they will certainly have it;
if they light upon any English or Dutch ship: for they
have all agreed together, that, if.they meet that rogue,.
they will give him no quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of.'
these seas; how can they meet with him then? Why
that is true, said he, they do say fo: but he was, as I
tell you, in the bay of Siam in the river Cambodia, and'.
was discovered there by fome Dutchmen who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they rua<
away with her; and fome English and Dutch traders be-
ing in the river, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay said he, if ^he foremost boats had been well second-
ed by the rest, they had certainly taken him :. but he,-
sinduK* only two boats within reach of him, tacked about;
and sired at these two, and disabled them before the other
came up; and then standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and fo he got away. But they
have all fo exact-a, description of the ship that they
\. rj I will'
will be sure to know him; and wbereever they sind
him, they have vowed to give no quarter to either the
captain or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the
yard-arm.
What! said T, will they execute them right or wrong,
hang them sirst, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
said the old pilot, there is no need to make a formal bu-
siness of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them
back to back, and set them a diving; it is no more than
they rightly deserve.
I knew 1 had my old man sast aboard, and that he
could do me no harm; fo that I turned short upon him:
Well, now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very reafon
why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country,
where the English or Dutch ships come: for be it known
to you, Seignior, those captains of the English and Dutch
ships are a parcel of rash, proud, infolent sellows, that
neither know what belongs to justice, or how to behave
themselves, as the laws of God and nature direct; but
being proud of their ossices, and not understanding their
power, they would act the murderers to punish robbers;
would take upon them to insult men salsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due enquiry, and per-
haps I may live to call fome of them to an account for
it, where they may be taught how justice is to be exe-
cuted; and that no man ought to be treated as a criminal
till fome evidence may behad of the crime, and that he
is the man.
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
had attacked: and gave him a full account of the skir-
mish we had with their hoats, and how foolishly and
coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story
of our buying the lhip, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reafons I had to believe that this story
of killing the master by the Malaccans was not true; as
alfo the running away with the ship; but that it was all
a siction of their own, to suggest that the men were turn-
ed pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was fo,
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and
oblige us to resist them; adding, that they would have
the
the blood of those men, who were killed there, in out
just desence,* to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us,
we were very much in the right to go away to the north ;.
and that if he might advise us, it should be to sell the ship
in China, which we might very well -do, and buy or
build another in the country: and said he, tho' you will
not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough
to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, ot
any where else. -
I told him I would take his advice, when I came to
any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go back
again; and that he would procure me people both to buy
one, and sell the other.
Well, but, Seignior, says I, as you say they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if 1 follow your measures,
be instrumental to bring some honest innocent men into
a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship they will prove the guilt,
upon the men, by proving this was the ship: and so
innocent men may probably be overpowered and mur-
dered. Why, said the old man, I'll find out a way to
prevent that also: for as 1 know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been lo much in the
wrong; that though the people who were on board at
first might run away with the ship, yet it was not true
that they had turned pirates: and that in particular those
were not the men that first went off with the ship, but
innocently bought her for their trade :. and I am per-
suaded they will so sar believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come. Well, said I, and
will you deliver one message to them from me? Yes,
1 will, says he, if you will give it under your hand, in
writing, that I may be able to prove it came from you,
and not out of my own head. 1 answered, that I would
Teadily give it him under my hand. So I took a pen,
and ink; and paper, "and wrote at large the story of
assaulting
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c. the pretended'
reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it; and con-
cluded to the commanders that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I lived tosee them there,,
they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my
country were not grown out of use before I arrived there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked
me several times if I would stand to it. I answered, I
would stand to it as long as I had any thing left in the-
world, being sensible that I mould, one time or other,_
find an opportunity to put it home to them. But we
had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this letter;:
for he never went back again. While those things were-
paffing between us, by way of discourse, we went for-
ward directly for Nanquin, and, in about thirteen days-
sail, came to anchor at the south west point of the
great gulph of Nanquin: where, by the way, I came by
accident to understand, that the two Dutch ships were-
gone that length before me, and that I should certainly
sall into their hands. I oonsulted my partner again in*
this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as1 was,,
and would very gladly have be,en sase on shore almost,
any where. However, 1 was not in such perplexity,
neither, but I aflted the old pilot if there was no
creek or harbour, which I might put into, and pursue
my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no.
danger of the enemy? He told me, if I would sail to
the southward about two and forty leagues, there was a
little port called Quinchang, where the sathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao,, on their progress to
teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, aud where-
bo European ships ever put in; and, if 1 thought proper
to put in there, I might consider what sarther course to
take when I was on shore. He consessed, he said,, its
was not a place for merchants, except, that at some
certain times they had a kind of a sair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chi--
nese merchandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of
the port, as he called it, 1 may, perhaps, spell wrong j
3 for
for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this,,
together with the names of many other places set down
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water,.'
on an accident which I shall relate m its order: but this
1 remember, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we
correspond with, eall it by a different name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as
above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this
place, we weighed the next day, having only gone twice
on shore, where we were to get fresh water; on both
which occasions the peopleofthe country were very civil,
to us, and brought us abundance of things to fell to us;
I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls; but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary)
not till five days; but it was very much to our satissac-
tion; and I was joysul, and, I may say, thanksul, when
I set my foot ssise on shore; resolving, and my partner
too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and ef-
sects any other way, though not every way to our satis-
saction, we would never set one foot on board that un-
happy vessel again; and indeed, I mull acknowledge,
that of all the circumstances of lise, that ever I had any.
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely mi-
serable as that of being in constant sear. Well does the
scripture say, * The sear of man brings a snare;' it is a
lise of death: and the mind is so entirely suppressed by it,,
that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits fink, and
all the vigour of nature, which usually supports men un-
der other afflictions, and is present to them in the greatest
exigencies, sails them here.
Nor did it sail of its usual operations upon the sancy,
by heightening every danger; representing the English
and Dutch captains to be men incapable ot hearing rea-
son, or distinguishing between honest men and rogues;
or between a story calculated for our own turn, made out
of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine
account of our whole voyage, progress, and design; for
we might many ways have convinced any reasonable
creature that we were not pirates: the goods we had on
board, the course we steered, our frankly shewing our-
selves'
selves, and entering into such and such ports; ever*
our very manner, the force we had, the number of meny
the sew arms, little ammunition, and short provisions;
all these would have served to convince any man that
we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods we
had on board, would make It appear the ship had
been at Bengal: the Dutchman, who, it was said, had
the names of all the men that were in the ship, might
easily see that we were a mixture of English, Por-
tuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board;
fhese, and many other particular circumstances, might
have made it evident to the understanding of any com-
mander, whose hands we might sall into, that we were
no pirates.
But sear, that blind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the imagination at work, to
form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps, might
never happen: we sirst supposed, as, indeed, every body
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were fo en-
raged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our
beating off their boats, and escaping, that they would
not give themselves leave to enquire whether we were
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we caH
it, without giving us any room for a desence. We re-
flected that there was really fo much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce enquire after any
more; as, sirst, that the ship was- certainly the same^
and that fome of the seamen among them knew herj
and hid been on board her; and secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that they
were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats,
and fled; fo; that we made no doubt but they were as
fully satissied of our being privates, as we were satissied
of the contrary; and 1 often said, I knew not but I.
should have been apt to have taken the little circum-
stances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my
ease was theirs; and have made no scruple 'of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or, perhaps,
considering, what they might have to osier in their
defence.
But
But let that be how it will, those were our appre-
hensions; and both my partner and I too scarce slept a
night without dreaming of halters and yard-arms, that
is to say gibbets; of sighting, and being taken; of
killing, and being killed; and one night I was in
such a sury in my dreain, sancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my double fist against the side of
the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my
hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the rleih; so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, but I was once afraid I mould have loft two of
my fingers.
Another apprehension I had, was of the cruel usage
we should meet with from them, if we sell into their
hands; then the story of Amboyna came into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
did our countrymen there; and make some of our men,
by extremity of torture, consess those crimes they never
-were guilty of; own themselves, and all of us, to be
pirates; and so they would put us to death, with a
formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo;
which was worth four or five thousand pounds, put all
together.
These things tormented me, and my partner too, night
and day; nor did we consider that the captains of ships
have no authority to act thus; and if we had surrendered
prisoners to them, they could not answer the destroying
us, or torturing us, but would be accountable for it when
they came into their own country. This, I say, gave
me no satissaction; for, if they will act thus with us,
-what advantage would it be to us that they would be
called to an account for it; or if we were first to be mur-
dered, what satissaction would it be to us to have them
punished when they came home?
- I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I
now had upon the past variety of my .particular circum-
stances; how hard 1 thought it was, that I, who had
spent forty years in a lise of continued difficulties, and
was, at lasi, come, as it were, at the port or haven which
all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty, should be
A'voluu^
a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own unhappy choice ,
and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my
youth, mould now come to be hanged in my old age,
and in so remote a place, for a crimfc I was not in the
leall inclined to, much less guilty of; and in a place and
circumstance where innocence was not like to be any
protection at all to me.
After these thoughts, something of religion would
come in; and I would be considering that this seemed?
to me to be a disposition of immediate Providence; and
I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such; that
although I was innocent as to men, I was sar from be--
ing innocent as to my maker; and I ought to look on,
and examine what other crimes in my lise were most,
obvious to me, and from which Providence might just-
ly inslict this punishment as a retribution; and that I
ought to submit to this, just as I'would to a shipwreck*
if it had pleased God to have brought .such a disaster up--,
on me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its
place; and then I would be talking myself up to vi-
gorous resolution, that I would npt be taken to be
barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold blood; that it was much better to have sallen into
the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters, and
who, I was sure, would seast upon me, when they had
taken me, than by those, who would, perhaps, glut their
Tage upon me, by inhuman tortures and barbarities ;.
that, in the case of the savages, 1 always resolved to die
sighting, to the last gasp; and why should I not do so
now, seeing it was much more dreadsul, to me at least,
to think of salling into these men's hands, than, ever it
was to think of being eaten by men? for the savages,
give them their due—would not eat a man till he was
dead , and killed him first, as we do a bullock; but
that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of
death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure
to put myself into a kind of sever, with the agitations
of a supposed sight; my blood would boil, and my eyes
sparkle, as if 1 was engaged; and I always resolved
that I would take no quarter at their hands: but even
at last,, if 1 could resist no longer, I would blow up the
ship.
sliip, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of.
But how-much the greater weight the anxieties and
perplexities of thole things were to our thoughts while
we were at sea, by so much the greater was our satis-
saction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my part-
ner told me, he dreamed, that he had a very heavy
load upon' his back, which he was to cany up an hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it:
but the Portuguese pilot came, and took it off his back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain. And truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a load taken off their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
1 said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for
our goods, which, by the way, was much the same:
it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to
it, all built with canes, and pallisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilsering thieves, of which it seems
tiiere were not a sew in the country. However, the
magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we had
a soldier with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who
stood centinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint
office, and a little piece of money, about the value of
threepence per day, so that our goods were kept very-
sase.
The sair or mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time; however, we found that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two japanners, I
mean, ihips from Japan, with goods which they had
bought in China, and were not gone away, having Ja-
panese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us,
was to bring us acquainted with three mistionary Romisli
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time converting the people to Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor'work of it; and made
them but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was not our business. One of these was a French-
man,
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
man, whom they called Father Simon; he was a jolly
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation,
not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did*
one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Geno-
ese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his man-
ner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, where-
ever they had opportunity. We often eat and drank
with thole men; and though I must consess, the conver-
sion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so
sar from the true conversion required, to bring heathen
people to the saith of Christ, that it seems to amount to
little more than letting them know the name of Christ-,
say some prayers to tde Virgin Mary and her son, in av
tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like; yet it must be consessed, that these
religious, whom we call Missionaries, have a firm belies
that these people should be saved, and that they are the
instrument of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not only the satigue of the voyage, and hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with
the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work;
and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever
opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of
their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and
who have no proipect of the least temporal advantage to
themselves.
But to return to my story: This French priest, Father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief
of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the
Chinese Emperor, and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met together, but
he was inviting me to go that journey with him, telling
me, how he would shew me all the glorious things of
that mighty empire ; and, among the reft, the greatest city
in the world —a city, laid he, that your London and
our Paris put together cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I consess, i$ very great, . and
infinitely:
wfinitelr sull of people: but, as I looked on those
things with difserent eyes from other men, so 1 shall
give my opinion of them in a sew words, when I come,
in the course of my travels, to speak more particularly of
them.
But first, i come to my friar or missionary: Dining
with him one day, and being very merry together, I
shewed some little inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great
many persuasions to consent Why, Father Simon, says
my partner, why should you desire our company so
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure.
O! says he, you may, perhaps, be good catholics in
time; my business here is to convert heathens, and who
knows but I may convert you too? Very well, Father,
said I, so you will preach to us all the way. I won't be
troublesome to you, said he; our religion does not divest
us of good manners; besides, said he, we are here like
countrymen, and so we are, compared to the place we
are in; and if you are hugunots, and 1 a Catholic, we
may be all Christians; at least, said he, we are asl gen-
tlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy
to one another. 1 liked that part of his discourse very
-well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the Brasils; But this Father Simon
did not come up to his character by a great deal; for
though Father Simon had no appearance of a criminal
levity in him neither, yet he had not that sund of Chris-
tian zeal, strict piety, and sincere affection to religion,
that my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said
so much.
B«t to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but'we had something
else before us at that time; for we had, all this while,
our ship and our merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtsul what we should do, for we
were now in a place of very little business; and once I
was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam; and
the city of Nanquin s But Providence seemed nOw more
visibly, as 1 thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and I was encouraged from this very time to
think,
think, I should, one way or other, get out of this entati*
gled circumstance, and be brought home to my own.
country again, though I had hot the least view of the
manner; and when I began sometimes to think Of it,
could not imagine by what method it Was to be done.
Providence, I say, began here to Clear up our way a
little; and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
began to enquire what goods we hid; 'and, in the first
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good
price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head,
that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
slirunk up his shoulders at it, when at first proposed
to him; but in a sew days after, he came to me, with
one of the missionary priests for his interpreter,, and
told me, he had a proposal to make to me, and that was
this: He had bought a great quantity of goods of us
•when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him)
of buying the {hip; and that therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the ship; but if I would let
the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he would
hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send them
From thence to the Phillippine islands with another
loading, which he Would pay the freight of, before
they went from Japan; and that, at their return, he
Would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal*
and so eager did my head run upon rambling, that I
Could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of
going with him, and so to sail from the Phillippine islands
iiway to the South Seas; and accordingly 1 asked the
Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Phillippine islands, and discharge us therei He said, no,
he could not do that; for then he could not have the
return of his cargo; but he Would discharge Us in Japan,
he said, at the ship's return. Well, stili I was for talcing
him at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner i
Wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who
are
area salse, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of
the Spaniards at the Philippines; more salse, more
cruel, more treacherous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclu-
sion: the first thing we had to do, was to consult
•with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japah; and, while
I was doing this, the young man whom, as I said, my
liephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to mt and told me, that he thought that
voyage promised very sair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would give
him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased
to order him: that if ever he came to England, and I
was there, and alive, he would render me a saithsul ac*
count of his success, and it should be as much mine as I
pleased.
I was really loth to part with him; but, considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable,,
and that he was a young sellow as likely to do well iri
it as any I knew, 1 inclined to let him go } but first I
told him I would consult my partner, and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed about
it; and my partner made a most generous offer 5
he told me, you know it has been an unlucky ship, and
-we both resolve not to go to sea in it again; if your
steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage*
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let hirst
make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
one half of the prosits of the ship's freight to us, the
other shall be his own.
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my
young man, made him such an offer, 1 could do no
less than offer him the same; and all the ship's com-
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the ship to him in property, and took a writing from
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at Japan,
and got him a license to come on shore, which the
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines,
loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo
of their own, who, trafficking with the Spaniards,
brought back European goods again, and a great quan-
tity of cloves and other spice; and there he was not only
paid his freight very well, and at a very good price, but
b-ing not willing to sell the ship then, the merchant sur-
nished him with goods on his own account: that, for
some money, and some spices of his own, which he
brought with him, he went back to the Manillas, to the
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here,
having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got
his ship made a free ship; and the governor of Manilla
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and gave him a licence to land there, and
travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe, with all his men.
He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, somehow or other, td go to Jamaica with all his
treasure; and about'eight years after came to England,
exceeding rich; of which 1 shall take notice in its
place: in the mean time I return to our particular
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship, and ship's company,
it came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pence we should give to the two men that gave us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river
of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a con-
siderable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too, for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the
ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the
design that was formed against us, but to go to sea with'
-us as pirates; and one of them consessed afterwards,
that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing, brought him to do it. However, the ser-
vice they did us was not the less; and therefore, as I
lad promised, to be grateful to them, I first ordered the
money
money to be paid to them, which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; that is to say, the
Englishmen nineteen months' pay, and to the Dutch-
men seven; and, over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well; then I made the Englishman gun-
ner of the ship, the gunner being bow being made second
mate and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
sellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country ajt Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my money,
what could -I think of myself now, when I was gotten
about a thousand leagues sarther off from home,
and persectly destitute of all manner of prospect of
return! .'
All we had for it was this; that in about four months*
time there was to be another sair at that place where
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manusactures of the country, and withal
might possibly.find some Chinese junks or vessels from
Nanquin, that would be to be fold, afid would carry
us and our goods whither we pleased. This 1 liked very
well, and resolved to wait: besides, ss our particular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch
ships came thither, perhaps we might have an oppor-
tunity to load our goods, and get passage to some
other place in India, nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here:
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three journies
into the country first. We went ten days' journey
to see the city of Nanquin-, a city well worth see-
ing indeed; they say it has a million of people in
it; which, however, I do not believe; it is regularly
built; the streets are all exactly strait, and cross one an-
other in direct lines, which gives the figure ot it great
advantage.
But when I came- to compare the miserable people of
these countries with ours, their sabrics, their man-
ner of living, their government, their religion, their
vol. ii. - * wealth
wealth, and their glory (as fome call it) I must con-
fess, I do not fo much as think it worth naming, or
worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after
me to read.
It is ver)' observable, that we wonder at the gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the go-
vernment, the manufactures, the commerce, and the con-
duct ot' these people, not that they are to be wondered
at, or indeed, in the least to be regarded, but because,
having sirst a notion of the barbarity of those coun-
tries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevail
there, we do not expect to sind any such things fo sar
off.
Otherwise, -what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe? V. bat their trade to
the universal commerce of England, Holland, France,
and Spain? What their cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich surniture, and an in-
sinite variety? What are their ports,, supplied with a
few junks and barks, to our navigation, our mer-
chants' fleets, our large and powersul navies? Our
city of London has more trade than all their mighty
empire. One English, or Dutch, or French man of
war of 80 gur.s, would sight with and destroy all
the shipping of China. But the greatness of their
wealth, their trade, the power of their government,
and strength of their arms, are surprising to us because,
as 1 have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of
pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect
such things among them; and this, indeed, is the ad-
vantage with which all their greatness and power is re-
presented to us; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all;
for, as I have said of their ships, fo it may be said of
their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
though they were to bring two millions of men into
the sield together, would be able to do nothing but ruin
the country i.nd starve themselves. If they were to
besiege a strong town in Flanders, or to sicht a disci-
plined army, one line of German cuirassiers, or of
French cavalry, would overthrow all the horse of China;
a million ot their foot could not It and before one em-
battled body of our insantry, posted fo as not to be sur-
rounded,
219
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in
iramber; nay, I do not boast if I say, that 30,000
German or English foot, and 10.000 French horse,
would sairly beat all the forces of China. And so os
our fortified towns, and the art of our engineer?, in
assaulting and desending towns; there is not a fortilied
town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries and attacks of an European army; anl at
the same time, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starved: no, not in ten years' iiege. They have fiie-
arms, it is true, but they are aukward, clumsy, and
uncertain in going off'; they have powder, but it is of
no strength; they have neither dii'cipline in the field,
exercise in their arms, skill to attack, or temper to re-
treat; and therefore I must consess it seemed strange to
me when I came home, and heard our people say such
sine things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew hat
they were a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant
sordid slaves, subjected to a government qualified only
to rule fitch a people; and, in a word, for I am now
hunched quite belide my design, I say, in a word, were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
were not the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a crowd of slaves as they are, the ciar of
Muscovy might, with, much ease, drive them .all out of
their country, and conquer them in one campaign;
and had the czar, who I since hear is a growing prince,
and begins to appear formidable in the World, sallen
tins wav, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
which attemp; none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him, he might, by this time, have
been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the
King of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their gran-
deur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry
is impersect and impotent, compared to the fame things
in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning,
their skill in the sciences; they have globes and spheres,
and a fmatch of the knowledge of the mathematics,
but when you come to enquire into their knowledge,
k. 2 how
how short-sighted are the -wisest of their students?
they know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies, and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when the
fun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they sall a clattering
with all the drufns and kettles in the country, to fright
the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of
bees.
As this is the only excursion of this kind, which I
have marie, in all the account which 1 have given of my
travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of coun-
tries and people: it is none of my business, or any part
of my design; but giving an account of my own ad-
ventures, through a lise of infinite wanderings, and
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, sew hare
heard the like osj: I shall say nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them will make
necessary. I was now, as near as 1 can compute, -in
the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty de-
grees north of the line, for we were returned" from
Nanquin: I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin,
-which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon impor-
tuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going
away being set, and the other missionary, .who was to
go with him, being arrived from Macoa, it was necessary
that we should resolve either to go or not to go;
so I reserred him to my partner, and lest it wholly to
his choice, who, at length, resolved it in the affirma-
tive; and we prepared for our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, as to finding the way; for
we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of v;ceroy, or principal magistrate
in the province where they reside, and who take great
state upon them, travelling with great attendance, and
with great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, because all (he
countries they pass through are obliged to surnish
provisions for them and all their attendants. That
which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
-with
with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses,
from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had atter
the market price of the country, and the mandarin's
steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it
duly from us, so that our travelling in the retinue of
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty savour in him', but was,
indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other people travelling in the same
manner besides up, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, 1 say,
was a great advantage to him, for his country surnished
all the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money
for them. . •
We were five and twenty days travelling to Ptkin,
through a country infinitely pupulous, but miserably
cultivated; the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though t'hey boast so much of
the industry of the people; I say, miserable, and so
it is, if we, who understand how to live, were to
endure it, or to compare it with our own, but not so
to these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride
of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which
I call their mil'erjr. 1 must needs think that the naked
savages of America live much more happy, because, as
they have nothing, so they desire nothing: wriereas,
these are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere
beggars and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible,
and is chiefly shewed in their clothes and buildings, and in
the keeping multitudes of servants or slaves, and, which
is to the last degree ridiculous, their contempt of all the
World but themlelves.
I must consess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary
than here; and yet, the roads here are well paved, and-
Well kept, and very convenient for traveliers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to see such an
haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their samed
a 3 ingenuity
ingenuity is no more. My friend, Father Simon, and I,
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of those people: for example, coming by
the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called
him, about ten leagues off' from the city of Nanquin, we
had, sirst of all, the honour to ride with the matter of
the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
persect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and
poverty.
The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a
scaramouch, or merry-andrew; being a dirty callico,
with all the tawdry trappings of a fool's coat, such as
hanging-sleeves, taffety, and cuts and slashes almost on
every side; it covered a rich tafsety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testisied that his honour must needs
be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling crea-
ture, such as-in England might sell for about thirty or
sorty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature alons;; he had a whip in
his hand, and he belaboured the beast as sast about the
head as his slaves did about the tail: and thus he
rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we
were- told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this sigure of a gentleman rode away before
us; and as we stopped at a village about an hour to re-
fresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door,
eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand,
that the more we looked on him, the better he would be
pleased.
He sat under a tree, fomething like the palmettotree,
which esfectually shaded him over the head, and on the
fouth side; but under the tree alfo was placed a large
iimbrella, which made that part look well enough;
he sat loll.ng back in a great elbow chair, be-
ing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being
brought him by two women slaves, he had two more
jwhose office, I think, sew gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, via. one sed the 'squire with a
spoon,
spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
scraped off what he let sall upon his worship's b'ard,
and taffety vest, with the other ; while the great sat brute
thought it below him to employ his own hands in any
of those samiliar offices which kings and monarchs
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy lingers
of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thusiil-
managed, must be to a man of common Cense; and,
leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our look-
ing at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we
really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey; onlv bather Simon had the curioiity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had
to teed on, in all his state; which, he said, he had the
honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dole
that Sn ringliih hound would scarce have eaten, if it had
been offered him, viz. a mess of boiled riqe, with a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with green
pepper, and another plant which they have there, some-
thing like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and
tasting like mustard; all this was put together, and a
small lump or piece of lean mutton boded in it; and this
was his worship's repast, four or five servants more atr
tending at a distance. If he sed them meaner than he
was sed himself, the spice excepted, they must sare very
coarsely indeed.
As tor our mandarin, with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a king; surrounded always with hii
gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with such
pomp, that 1 saw little of him but at a distance; but this
I observed, that ,there was not a horse in his retinue, but
that our carrier's pack-hories in Engiund seem to me
to look much better; but they were so covered with
equipage, mantles, trappings, and such like trumpery,
that you cannot see whether they are sat or lean. In a
-word, we coufd scarce see any thing but their seet and
their heads.
I was now light hearted, and all my trouble and
perplexity that I had given an account of being over,
1 had no anxious thoughts about me; which made this
K 4 journey
journey much the pleasanter to me; nor had I any ill
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
small river, my horse sell, and made me free of the coun-
. try, as they call it 3 that, is to say, threw me in; the
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over; I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set
down the names of several people and places which 1 had
occasion to remember, anil which not taking due care of,
the leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be
Tead, to my great loss, as to the names of some places
which I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with.
me but the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese Pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we gave him his passage, that is to fay, bore his charges
for his company; ants to use him as an interpreter, for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke
good French,, and a little English; and, indeed, this oki
man was a most usesul implement to us evrry where;
for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing, Ah, hiignior inglese, said he, 1 have
something to tell you will make your heart glad. My
heart glad! said I; what can that be? I do'nt know
any thing in this country can either give me joy or
grief, to any great degree. Yes, yes, said the old. man,
in broken English, make you glad, me sorrow ; sorry, he
would have said. This made me more inquisitive.
Why, said, 1i will it make you sorry? Because, said he,
you have brought me here twenty-five days journey, and
will leave me to go back alone; and whieh way shall I
set to my port afterwards, without a ship, without a
orse, without pecune? So he called money; being
his broken Latin, of which had abundance to make us
merry with.
Jn short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and they
were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to.
Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he was sure
we would take the opportunity to go with: them, arid
leave
leave him behind to go back all alone. 1 consess, f
was surprised with this news: a secret joy spread itsel
over my whole soul, which I cannot describe, and never-
selt before or since; and I had no power, for a goodl
while, to speak a word to the old man: but at last :t
turned to him: How do you know this? laid 1: are
you sure it is true? Yes, said he ; I met this morning, in
the street,' an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
or one you call a Grecian, who is among them; he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin,
where 1 formerly knew him, but has altered his mind,
and is now resolved to go back with the caravan to
Moscow, and so down the river of Wohra to Astracan.
Well, Seignior, said I, do not be uneasy about being:
left to go back alone: if this be a method for my re-
turn to England, it shall be your sault if you go back to
Macao at all. We then went to consulting together
what was to be done, and aslsed my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would suit
with his afsairs? He told me he would do just as I would,
for he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal and
left his efsects in such good hands, that as wo made a
good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks,
wrought or raw, such as might be worth the carriage,
he would be content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his-
charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased; nor,
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
part neither, if we had not rewarded him surther; for
the service he had done us was really worth all that
and more: for he had. not only been a pilot to us at
sea, but he had been also like a broker for us on
shore: and his procuring tor us the .1i pan merchant was
some hundred of pounds in our pockets. So we con-
sulted together about it: and, being willing to gratify
him, which was, indeed, but doing him justice, and very
willing also to have him with us belideS, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him a quantity of coined gold-, which, as 1 cora-
- x.',$*. :},.- ,'i. -., -- a •; putc
pute it, came to about 1 75 pounds sterling between us,
and to bear his charges, both for himself and horse, ex-
cept only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
to let him know what we had resolved; I told him, he
had complained of our being like to let him go back
alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he
should not go back at all: that as we had resolved to
go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he
should go with us, and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and said it was a long
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither,
nor to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
him, we believed it was so, and therefore we had re-
solved to do something for him, that should let him see
how sensible we were of the service he had done us;
and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I
told him what we had-resolved to give him here, which
he might lay out as we would do our own; and that as
for his charges, if he would go with us, we would
, set him sase ashore, (lise and casualties excepted\
either in Muscovy, oy in England, which he would,
at our own charge, except only the carriage of his
goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us, he would go with us over the whole world;
and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the jour-
: ney. However, as it was with us, so it was with
the other merchants, they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was four
• months and some odd days before all things were got
together.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
set out from Pekin; my partner and the old pilot, had
gone express back to the port where we had first put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there-;
and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on
his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought
ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two hundred
-pieces of other.'very fine'silks, of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had «ll these brought to Pekin
against
against my partner's return: besides this, we bought
a very large quantity of raw ,silk, and some other
goods: our cargo amounting in these goods only,
"to about, three thousand five hundred pounds ster-
ling, which, together with tea, and some fine cal-
licoes, and three camel loads of nutmegs and cloves,
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-fix camels and horses in our
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as lean,
remember, made between three and four hundred horses i
and camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty men,
very well armed, and provided for all events. i*or, as
the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by t he
Arabs, so are these by the Tartars: but they are not al-
together so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous
when they prevail.
The company consisted of peopte of several nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly; for there were about sixty of
them who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians, and to our parti-
cular satissaction five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were five in number, called all the gentle-
men and merchants; that is to say, all the passengers,
except the servants, to a great council, as they termed
it. At this great council, every one deposited a certain
quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expence of buying forage on the way, where it was not
otherwise to be had. aral for satisfying the guides, getting
horses, and the like. And here they constituted the
journey, as they call it, viz. They named captains and
officers to draw us all up, and give the command in case
of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command.
Nor was this forming us into order any more than what
-we found needful upon the way, as shall be observed in
its place.
K 6 The
The road all on this side of the 'country is very po-
pulous, and is sull of potters, and earth-makers, that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China
-ware; and, as I was going, along, our Portuguese pi-
lot', who had always something or other to say to make
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me, he would
shew the greatest rarity in all the country; and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-hu--
moured things I had said of it, that 1 had seen one thing
-which was not-to be seen in all the world beside. I was*
very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
me, it wasa gentleman's house, all built with China ware.
Well, said I, are not the materials of their building
the product of their own: country? and so it is all China,
ware, is it not? No, no, says be, I mean, it is a house
all made of China ware, such as you call so in England:
or, as it is called in our country, porcelain. Well, said
I, such a thing may be: How big is it? Can we carry
it in a box upon a, camel? If we can, we will buy it.
Upon a camel! said the old pilot, holding up both his
hands, why there is a samily of thirty people lives in it!
1 was then curious, indeed, to see it: and when 1 came-
to it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house,,
or a house built, as we call it in,England,.with lath and
plaster, butall the plastering was really China ware, that
is to say, it' was plastered with the earth that makes China.,
ware.
The outside,, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, persectly white, and paint-
ed with blue figures, as the large China, ware in England
is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to the
inside, all, the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined
up with hardened and painted tiles, like the lijtle square
tiles we call gally-tiks in England,, all made of the
finest China, and the figures exceeding fine indeed,,
with extraordinary variety of colouis, mixed with gold,,
many tiles,making but one sigure, but joined so aitifi-';
cially with mortar, being made of the sameearth, that
it was very hard to see where the tiles met.-' :The
floors of the rooms were of the same composition,
and as hard as the earthen, floors we have in use in.
-4.- several:
ffiveral part9 of England, especially Lincolnshire, Not-
tinghamshire, Leicestershire,. &c. as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller
rooms, like closets, which were all asit were paved with,
the same tile; the cielings, and in a word, all the plaif-
tering-work in the whole house, were of the sameearth ;-.
and after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the same,
but of a deep shining black.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and lite—
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the jour-
ney, 1 could have staid some days, to see and examine
the particulars of it. They told me there were fountains
and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the bottom and
fides with, the same, aud fine statues set up in* rows on
the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and
burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so theyr
may be allowed to excel in it; but I- am very sure they,
excel in their account* of it; for they told me such
incredible things of their persormance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate,.'as know-
ing it could not be true.. One told me, in particular,
•of a workman that made a ship, with all its tacklet,
and masts, and sails, in earthen ware, big enough to
carry fifty men. If be had told me he launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was,. 1 knew the whole
story, which was, in shOrt, asking pardon for the word,
that the sellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to
it.
This odd sight kepti me two hours behind the caravan,,
for which the leader, of it for the day fined me about
the value of three shillings, and told me, if it had.4
been three days' journey without the wall, as it was
three days, within, he must have fined me four times as
much, and made me ask pardon the next council
day; so I promised to be more orderly;, for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all-
together were absolutely necessary_ for our common,
sasety.
In two days more we passed the great China-wall;,
fliade fdr. a fortification against the Tartars s and a very.
great
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, o*,
indeed, climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us, its length is near a thou-
sand English miles, but that the country is five hun-
dred in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds,
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes;
'tis about four sathom high, and as many thick in some
places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without tres-
passing on our orders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I say, I stood still an hour to look at
it on e\rry fide, near, and sar off, I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been extolling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
tars, which he happened not to understand rs I meant
it, and so took it for a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed; O Seignior Inglese, said he, you speak in co-
lours. In colours! said I: what do you mean by that?
Why you speak what looks white this way, and blrvck
that way; gay one way, and dull another way; you
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell
me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartars; or it will keep out none but Tartars: I un-
derstand you, Seignior Inglese, 1 understand you, said
he, iokin"'; but Seignior Chinese understand you his own
way. ...
Well, said I, Seignior, do yoju think it would stand
out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery; or our engineers, with 'two companies of.
miners? Would they not batter it down in ten days, that
ah army might enter in battalia, or blow it up into
the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign
of it left? Ay, ay, said he, I know that. The Chinese
wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him
leave to tell him a sew days after, for we were then al-
most out of their country, and he was to leave us in a
little time afterwaads; but when he knew what I had
said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard
no
M QBUfS 0W CM I rS fJ>M
6Æ//,,? Mr ?rr<7?~1%'-»«* #'«//.
no more of his fine story of the Chinese power and great
ness while he staid.
After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall,
something like the Picts' wall, so samous in Northumber-
land, and built by the Romans, we began to find the
country thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined
to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to
the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in
great armies, and therefore are not to be resilled by the
naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began to sind the necessity of keeping to-
gether in a caravan, as we travelled; for we saw several
troops of Tartars roving about; but when I came to
see them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese
empire could be conquered by such contemptible sellows;
for they are a mere herd or croud of wild sellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, ormanner
of sight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught
nothing, and are fit for nothing; and this we found
the first day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country; our leader for the day
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as
they call it: and what was- this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the crea-
tures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I
saw of their kind; only they will not tun a great way,
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chace;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a flock,
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
In pursuit of this odd fort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very loud,
but with a barbarous found that I had never heard before;
and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all sup-
posed this was to call their friends about them; and so
it was; for in less than half a quarter of an hour a troop
of
forty or sifty more appeared at about a mile distance
but our work was over sirst, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Museow happened to
be amongst us: and as foon as he heard the horn, be
told us, in short, that we had nothing to 'do, but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and,
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were refolved;
we told him, We were ready to follow him: fo he rode
directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like a.
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shewing the sace
of any order at all; but as foon as they saw us advance,
they let fly their arrows: which, however, missed us
very happily; it seems they mistook not their aim, but
their distance: for their arrows all sell a little short of us,
but with fo tnje an aim, that had we been about 20
yards nearer, we must, have had several men wounded, if
not killed.
Immediately we halted: and though it was at a great
distance, we sired, and sent them leaden bullets for
wooden arrows, following our shot sull gallop, refolving
to fall in among them sword in hand: for fo our bold
Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,. but a
merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery.
on this occasion, and yet with such a cool courage
too, that I never- saw any. man in action sitter for
command.
As loon as we came.up to them, we sired our pistols
in their saces, and then drew; but they fled in the
greatest consusion imaginable: the only stand any of.
them made was on our light, where three of them'
Hood, and,. by signs, called the rest to come back to-
them; having a kind of scymitar in their bands, and their,
bows hanging at their back.
Our brave commander, without asking any body to-
follow him, 'gallopped up close to them, and with his.
susil knocked one of them osf his horse, killed the second
with his pistol, and the third ran away r and thus-
ended our sight: but we had this misfortune attending:
it, viz. that all our mutton that- we had in chace got
away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but,. as for
the Tartars, there were about sive of them killed: how
many wre wounded,, we knew not > but this we knew,
that
that the other party was fo frighted with the noise of our
guns, that they tied, and never made any attempt upon
as.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not fo bold as afterwards: but
in about sive days we entered a vast great wild desert,
which held us three days and nights march; and we
were obliged to carry our water with us in great leather
bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard they
do in the deserts of Arabia.
I asked our guides, whose dominion this was in f
.and they told me, this was a kind of border that
might be called, No Man's Land; being part of the
Great Karakathy, 6r Grand Tartary; but, that how-
ever, it was reckoned to China; that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves;
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the
whole march, though we were gone over fome muck
largerr
In passing this wilderness, which I consess, was at the
sirst view very frightsul to me, we saw two or three times-
little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon
their own asfairs, and to have no design upon us; and
fo, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing
to say to us, we had nothing to say to them.; we let
them go.
Once, however, a party of them came fo near as to
stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider what
they should do, viz. to attack us, or not attack us, we
knew not; but when we were passed at fome distance
by them, we made a rear-guaid of forty men, and
stood ready for them, letting the caravan pais half
a mile, or thereabouts, before us; after a while they
marched ofs', only we found they assaulted us with sive
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a horse,
fo that it disabled him; and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in great need of a good sarrier; we sup-
pose they might ihoot more arrows, which might sall
short of us; but we saw no more arrows or Tartars at
that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being;
not fo. good as at sirst, though still in. the dominions of
tht
234 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the Emperor of China; but lay, for the most part, in
villages, some of which were fortified, because of the
incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of
these towns (it was about two clays and an half's jour-
ney before we were come to the City of Nauru)-,
I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty
to be fold all the way upon that road, ami of horses
also, such as they are, because so many caravans corn*
ing that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to, to get me a camel, would have gone
and setched it for me, but I, like a fool, must be offi-
cious, and go myself along with him. The place was
about two miles out of the village, where it seems,
they kept the camels and horses seeding under a
guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being desirous, forsooth, of a little vari-
ety. When we came to this place, it was a low marshy
ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it; like a park with
a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors. Having
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, 1 came
away; and the Chinese man, that went with me, led
the camel, ,when on a sudden came up five Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the sellow, and took
the camel from him, while the other three stepped
up to me, and my old pilot; seeing us, as it were,
unarmed, for I had no weapon about me hut my sword,
which could but ill desend me against three horse-
men. The first that came up, stopped short upon my
drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards): but
a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the
head, which 1 never selt till afterwards, and won-
dered, when I came to myself, what was the mat-
ter with me, and where I was, for he laid me fiat on
the ground; but my never-sailing old pilot, the Portu-
guese (so Providence urilooked tor directs deliverances
from dangers, which to us are unsoreseen), had a pistol
in his pocket, which I knew nothing ot, nor the Tartars
neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have
attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there
is no danger.
The
The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart step-
ped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold
of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by main
force a little towards him with the other, he shot him in-
to the head, and laid him dead on the spot; he then im-
mediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again) for it was
all done as it were in a moment) made a blow at him
with a scymitar, which he always wore; but, miffing
the man, cut his horse into the side of his head, cut one
of his ears off by the root, and a great slice down the
side os his sace. The poor beast, enraged with the wounds,
was no more to be governed by his rider, though the fel-
low sat well enough too; but away he flew, and carried
him quite out of the pilot's reach, and at fome distance
rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and
sell upon him.
1n this interval the poor Chinese came in, who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon; however, seeing
the Tartar down, and his horse sallen upon him, he runs
to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-savoured weapon he
had by his stde, fomething like a poll^ax, but not a pole-
ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to
knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old
man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and, seeing
he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to sight him,
as he apprehended, but stood stock-still, the old man
stood still too and salls to work with his tackle to charge
his pistol again; but as foon as the Tartar saw the
pistol, whether he supposed it to be the same or
another, I know not; but away he scoured, and left
my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a com-
plete victory.
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought,
when I sirst began to awake, that 1 had been in a tweet
steep; but as I said above, I wondered where I was,
how I came upon the ground, and what was the mat-
ter; in a word, a sew minutes after, as sense returned,
I selt pain, though I did not know where; I clapped
my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then
1 selt my head ache; and then, in another moment, me-
mory
mory returned, and every thing was present to me
again.
Ijumped up upon my seet instantly, and got hold of
my sword, but no enemies in view. 1 found a Tartar
lie dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him;.
and, looking sarther, I saw my champion and deliverer,,
who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming
back with his hanger in his hand; the old man, see-
,ing me on my seet, tame running to me, and embraced'
me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that
I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would see
how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
sail a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any
great inconvenience from the blow other than the place
which was hurt, and which was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory;
for we lost a camas, and gained a horse; but that which
was remarkable, when we eame back to the village,
the man demanded to be paid for the camel: I disputed
it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chi-
nese Judge of,the place; that is to say, in English,
-we went before a justice of the peace. Give him his
due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality r and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked
the Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was? I am no servant, said he, but
went with the stranger. At whose request? said the
justice. At the stranger's request, said he. Why then,
said the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his ser-
vant, to wit as delivered to him, and he must pay for
it.
I consess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word-
to say: but admiring to see such^ust reasoning upon the
consequence, and so accurate stating the case, 1 paid wib-
lingly for the camel, and sent for another: but yqu may
observe, 1 sent for it: I did not go to setch it myself any-
more: I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire: they call it fortisied, and so it is, as fortifications
go there i for this I wilL venture to affirm, that all the
Tar.t>rs
Tartars in Karakathy, which I believe, are some mil-
lions, could not batter down the walls with their bows
and arrows; but to call it strong if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it
laugh at you.
We wanted, as I have silid, about two days'journey
of this city,- when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road, to tell all travellers and caravans to
halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for that an
-unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
had appeared' in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers: however, it was
caresully done of the governor, and we were very glad
to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly two days
after, we had 200 soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city
of Naum, and with those we advanced boldly: the three
hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the
two hundred in our rear, and our men, on each fide of
our camels with our baggage, and the whole caravan
in the center; in this order, and weli prepared for battse,
we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thou-
sand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the
next day, when they did appear, it was quite another
thing.
Jt was early in the morning, when marching from a
little well-lituated town, called Changu, we had a river
to pass, where we w*re obliged to serry; and had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the
time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear
there.
About three hours after, when we were entered upon
a desert of about 15 or 16 miles over, behold, by a cloud
of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand; and
they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the
spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked
so big the day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them; which is a certain lign
in a soldier, that he is just ready to run away. My
old
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me, .he
called out, Seignior Inglese, said he, those sellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tar-
tars come on, they will never stand it. I am of your
mind, said I; but what course must be done? Done,
said he, let fifty of our men advance, and flank them on
each wing, and encourage them, and they will sight like
brave sellows in brave company; but without it they
will every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up
to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right
wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of
reserve; for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
dred men to make another body to themselves, and to
guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
lend an hundred men to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
, ten. thousand we thought was the least. A party of them
came on first, and viewed our posture, traversing the
ground in the front of our line; and as we found them
within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them asa-lvo on each wing with
their shot, which was done; but they went off, and I
suppose went back to give an account of the reception
they were like to meet with j and, indeed, that salute
clogged their stomachs; for they immediately-halted,
stood awhile to consider of it, rnd, wheeling ofs to the
left, they gave over the design, and said no "more to us
for that time, which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with
such a number.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or
Naunm; we thanked the governor for his care for us,
and collected to the value of 100 crowns, or thereabouts,
-which we gave to the soldiers lent to guard us: and here
we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there
-were nine hundred soldiers kept here: but the reason
ot it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay
.nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandoned that part of the country'(which lies from
the city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate
and
nnd unsit for use ;- and more especially, being so very-
remote, and so, difficult to send troops hither for irs
desence; for we had yet above two thousand miles to
Muscovy, properly so called.
After this we passed several great river's, and two dread-
ful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing
-over, and which, as I said, was to be called No Van's
Land; and on the 13th of April, we came to frontiers of.
the Muscovite dominions. 1 think the first city, or town,
or fortress, whatever it might be called, that belonged
to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the
west fide of the river Argun.
, 1 could not but discover an infinite satissaction, that I
-was now arrived in, as I called it a christian country;
ot, at least, in a country governed by christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just de-
serve the name of christians; yet such they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done,
and who had aiay power of reflection; I say, it would
occur to him to reflect, what a blessing it is to be
brought into the world where the name of God, and of
a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored, and
mot where the people, given up by heaven to strong
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves
to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, hor- .
rible shaped animals, and statues, or images of mon-
sters. Not a town or city we passed through but had
their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and igno-
rant people worshipping even the works os' their own
hands.
Now we came where, at least, a sace of the christian
-worship appeared, where the knee was bowed to Je-
liis • and whether ignorantly or not, yet the christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God was
called upon, and adored; and it made the very recesses
of my loul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scutch
merchant I mentis nsd above, with my first acknowledg-
ment of this; and, taking him by the hand, 1 said to
him, blessed be God, we are once again come among
christians. He smiled, and answered, do not rejoice too
soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd fort of
Chris-
christians; 'and but for the name of it, you may see
very little of the substance for some months sarther of our
journey.
Well, said I, but still 'tis better than paganism, and
-worshipping of devils. Why, I'll- tell you, said he;
except the Russian soldiers in garrisons; and a sew of the
inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of
this country, for above a thousand miles sarther, is inha-
bited by the worst, and most ignorant of Pagans; and
so indeed we found it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid
earth, if I understand any thing of the sursace of the
globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea, east-
ward; we ha-d at least two thousand to the bottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; and almost three thousand
miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the Bri-
tish and French channels; we had sull five thousand mile*
to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the frozen sea, north; nay, if some
people may be believed, there might be no lea north-
east till, we came round the pole, and consequently into
the north-west, and so had a continent of land into
America, no mortal knows where; though I could
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake
too.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good
-while before we came to any considerable town, we
had nothing to observe there but this; first, that all the
rivers run to the east. As I understood by the charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
plain that all those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural
course of it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese
ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choaked up with bulrushes of a monstrous
growth, viz. three seet about, and twenty or thirty
seet high, I mull be allowed to say, I believe nothing of;
but as its navigation is of no use, because there is
no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it
belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle; so nobody that
ever I heard of, has been curious enough either to
4*1
go down to the month of it in boats, or come up from
the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river, running due east, in the latitude of 60 degrees, car-
ries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and sinds an
oceanto empty itself in that latitude; fo we are sure of
sea^here.
Someleagues to the north of this river there arc several
considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the
Yamour runs east; and these are all found to join their
waters with the great river Tartarus, named fo from the
northernmost nations of the Mogul Tartars, who-, the
Chinese say, were the sirst Tartars in the world ; and who,
as our geographers alledge, are the Gog and Magog men-
tioned in sacred story.
The rivers running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident, that
the northern ocean bounds the land alfo on that
side; fo that it does not seem rational in the least to
think, that the land can extend itself to join with Ame-
rica on that side,. or that there is not a communication
between the northern and the eastern ocean; but of
this I shall say no more; it was my observation at that
time, and therefore I take notice of it in this place. We
now advanced from the river Arguna, by easy and mo-
derate journies, and were very visibly obliged to the
care the czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities
and towns built in as many places as are possible to
to place them, where his foldiers keep garrifon, fome-
thing like the stationary foldiers placed by the Romans
in the remotest corners of their empire, fome of which I
had read were particularly placed in Britain for the secu-
rity of commerce, and for the lodging of travellers; and
thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these
towns and stations the garrifon and governor were
Russians, and prosessed mere Pagans, sacrisicing to idols,
and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the
host of heaven: and not only fo, but were, of all the hea-
thens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barba-
rous, except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as
our savages of America did.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite domi-
vol. ii, .L nioiis
nions and a city of Tartars and Ruffians together, cal-
led Neitzinfkay; in which space is a continued desert ot
"forest, which cost up twenty days to trave over it. In
a village, near the last of thole places, I had the curi-
osity to go and fee their way of lhir.g; which is most
brutish aud insusserable , they had, I suppose, a great
.sacrifice that day ; for their stootiout, upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightsul as the devil;
at least as any thing we can think of to represent the
devil can be made; it had an head certainly not so much
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears
as big as goat's horns, tmd as bi<.h; eyes as big as a
crown piece; a r.ose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill -;
it was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you can
suppose; its upper garment was of sheep skins, with the
wool outward ; a great taitar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it: it was about eight seet
-high, yet had no seet or legs, or any other proportion.
of parts
This scarecrow was set up at the out-side of the vil-
lage; -and when I came near to it, there were lixteen
or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all'flat on the
ground, rpund this formidable block of shapeless wood;
1 saw no motion among them airy more than if they
had been logs of wood like their idol. At first 1 really
thought they had been so; but when 1 came a little
- nearer, they started up upon their seet, and raised an
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased at
our disturbing them. A little way off from this mon-
ster, and at the dooT of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers-
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, 1 found they had long knives in their hands,
and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep
kilied, and one young bullock, or steer. These, it
ieeniS, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol;
and these three men priests belonged to it; and the l'e-
2'12 • ADVENTURES OT ROBINSON CRTJSOX.
-Verfteen prostrated wretches were the people who brought
the' offering, and were making their prayers to that
*stock.
I consess I was more moved at their stupid'ty, and
this brutish worship of an hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my lise; to see God's moll glorious
•and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
-works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with saculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his Maker, and be honoured by him;
J say, to lee it sunk and degenerated to a decree lo
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightsul no*
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed tip by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
'•contrivance, adorned onlv with clouts and rags; and
that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought
up in hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, en-
vying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surseiting,
•sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
ihock nature it self.
But what signified all the astonishment and reflection
of my thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my
eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage; andr
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
"will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
•its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by
•one of the horn?; and one of our men that was with
me took hold of the sheep skin that covered it, and pul-
led at it, when, behold a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three
hundred people came about my ears, so that I was
.glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and ,
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
again.
Our caravan rested three nights at this 'town, which.
"was about four miles oft', in order to provide some
-horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing been lamed arid jaded with the badness of the way,
l 2 and
and our long march over the last desert; so we had
some leisure here to put ray design in execution. I
-communicated my project to the Scots merchant of
Moscow, of whose courage I had a sufficient testimony,
as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had since thought, that human nature
could be so degenerate.. I told him, I w.?.s resolved, if
I could get but four or five men, well armed, to go with
me, to go and destroy that vile abominable idol: to
let them see that it had no power to help itself, and
•consequently could not be an object of worship, or to be
prayed to, much less help them that ofsered sacrifices
4oit,
Helaugned at me: said he, Your real may be good;
out what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
said I, to vindicate the honour of God, which is in-
sulted by this devil-worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the honour of God? said he, while the people
-will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them too, and tell them so; and
then they will fight you too, I will assure you; for
_they are desperate sellows, and that especially in de-
sence of their idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons in writing,
in their own language? Writing! said he, why there
is not, in five nations of them, one man that knows any-
thing of a letter, or how to read a word in any lan-
guage, or in their own. Wretched ignorance! said I
to him; however, I have a great mind to do it; perhaps
nature may draw inserences from it to them, to let them
see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things.
Look you, Sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so
-warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected, by force, to the czar of Muscovy's do-
minions; and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinfltay, and
.complain, and demand satissaction: and if he cannot
give them satissaction, it is ten to one but they revolt; and
at will occasion a new war with all the 1 artars in the
country.
This,
This,. I consess, put new thoughts into my head for
a while; bat I harped upon the lame string still; and?
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Towards the evening the Scots- merchant met
me by accident in our walk about the town, and de-
sired to speak with me: I believe, said he,. 1 have
put you off your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since -T for 1 abhor the idol and idolatry,
as much as you can do. Truly, said I, you have
put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you
have not put it all out of my thoughts; and, I believe, I
shall doit still before I quit this place, though I-were
to be delivered up to them for satissaction. No, no,
said he: God forbid they should deliver you up to such
a crew of monsters! they shall not do that neither ;-
that would be murdering you indeed.. Why, said I,
how would they use me? Use you ! said he; I'll tell,
you how they ierved a poor Ruffian who affronted them
in their worship just as you did, and whom they took
prifoner ; after they had lamed him with an arrow,, that
he could net run away, they took him and stripped him
stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol mon-
ger, and stood all round him, and shot as many ar-
rows into him as would stick over his-whole body., . and'
then they burnt him and all the arrows sticking in'
him, as a sacrisice to the idol. And was this the same
idol ? said I. Yes, said he, the very same. Well, said
I, I will tell you a story : fo I related the story of our men
at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the vil-
lage there, and killed, man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, 1 added, that 1 thought we ought
to do Ib to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story; but when.
I talked of doing fo to that village, said he, you mistake
very much; it was not this village, it was almost a hun-
dred miles from this place; but it was the same idol,
for they carry him about in procestion all over the
country. Well, said I, then that idol ought to be
punished for it; and it shall, said I, if I live this night
out.
l 3 In
r
In a word, sinding me rfsblute, he liked the design,
and told me 1 should not go alone, but he would go
with me; but he would go sirst, and bring a stout
fellow. one of his countrymen, to go alfo with us; and
one, said he, as samous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these. In
a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he called Captain Richardfon; and I gave him a sull .ic-
crunt of what 1 had seen, and alfo of what 1 intended;
and he told me readily, he would go with me, if it cost
him his lise. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He
said, he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all
occasions, for my desence, but that this was an adven-
ture quite out of his way: fo, I say, we refolved upon
our woik, only we three, and my man-servant, and to put
it in execution that night about midnight, with all the
secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being to
set forward in the morning, we supposed she governor
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his power; the Scots merchant, as
steady in his refolution to enterprize it, as bold in exe-
cuting, brought me a Tartar's.robe or gown of sheep-
skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had
provided the same for himself and his countryman, that
the people, if they saw us, should not be able to determine
who we were.
All the sirst night we spent .in mixing up fome combus-
tible matter with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such other
materials as we could get; and, having a good quantity
of.tar in a little pot, about an hour after night we set
out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night,
and found that the people had not the least jealousy of
danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet
the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol
stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest, only
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, whe;e.
j
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butchers;
we saw a light, and, going up close to the door, we
heard people talking, as if there were five or fix of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild fire
to the idol, these men would come out immediately,
and run up to the place to rescue it from the Ac-
struction that we intended for it •_ and what to do with
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it
away, and setting fire to it at a distance ;_ but when.
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second.
Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the. create res that were there on. the head
when they came out; but 1 could not join with that; 1
was against killing, them, if if was possible to be avoided.
Well, then, said the Scots merchant, 1 will tell you what
we 'will do; we will try to take them prisoners, tie their
fian s, and make, them sland and see their idol de-
stroyed.
Asit happened', we had twine or'packthread enough
about us, which we used to tie our fire-works together
with; so we reiolved to attack these people first, and
with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did,
we knocked at the door, when one of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him and led him to
the idol, where we <r»22ed him, that he mi^ht not make
a noise;, tied hisseet also together, and left him on the
ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that,
another would come out to see what the .matter was,; •
but we waited so long that the third man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked again
gently, and immediately out came two more, and v/je
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some diltance from one another; when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the door, and
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant
went in after them, and taking out a compolition we
l 4 , had
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set fire
to it, and threw it in among them; by that time the
other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the two
men already bound, and tied together also by the arm*
l!c-d them away to the idol, and left them there, to see
if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to
us."
When the surze we had thrown in had filled the hut
with so' much smoke that they were almost suffocated',
we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we
found there were but four people left, who, it seems,, were
two men and two women, and, as we supposed, had
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to sit
trembling and* stupid, and not able to speak neither, for
the smoke.
In- a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
other, a«d all without any noise. I should have said,,
we brought them out of the house, or- hut, first; for,
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more
than they were. When we had done this, we carried
them, altogether to the idol;, when we came there we
sell to work with- him; and first we daubed him alt
over, and his robes also, with tar, and such, other
stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with' brim-
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and' mouth
full of gun-powder; then we wrapped up a. great
piece of wild fire in his bonnet;. and- then- sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him,
we looked about to see if we could find any thing else
to help to burn him: -when my Scotsman remem-
bered, that ty the tent or hut where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes
1 do not remember: away he and the other Scotsman
san, and setched their arms sull of that. When we had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them,
having untied their seet, and ungagged their, mouths,
and made them stand up, and set them just before
their monstrous idol, and then, set fire, tp the
whole.
We-
We staid by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it, and, in a word, till we saw,,
it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then'
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be foon
quite consumed; fo we began to think of going away;
but the Scotchman said: No, we must not go; for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the
sire, and burn- themselves with the idol ;. fo we refolved
to stay till the forage was burnt down too,.and then we
came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among' our sellow tra-
vellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;-
nor could any man suggest that we had been any-
where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed,
to be, to sit themselves for the satigues of that day's-
journey.
But it did not end fo; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage, but of an hundred more, for, aught 1 know, to»
the town gates, and, in a most outrageous manner, de-
manded satissaction of the Russian governor, for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their great Cham—
Chi-Thaungu; such an hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped: the people of Nert—
zinskay were at sirst in a great consternation: for, they
said, the Tartars were no less than 30,000, and;
that in a sew days more, they would be 100,000;
strong.
The Ruffian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there
had not a foul of his garrifon been abroad: that iti
could not be from any there: and if they would lett
him know who it was, they should be exemplariljr
punished;. They returned, naughtily,.. That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who.
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to .
offer violence to his image, but fome Christian • mil-
creaat; fo they called them, it seems;,and they there-
x. 5 '. 'sore
fore denounced war against him, and all the Ruffians*,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or'to have any cause of war alledged to be given
by him, the Czar having straightly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave
them, still all the good words he could; at 1 ail he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morciig, aud, perhaps, it was some of them.who had
done them this injury; and that, if they would be satis--
fied with that, he would send after them, to enquire into.
it« This seemed to appease them a little; and accord-
ingly the governor sent aster us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimating withal,.that is
any in our. caravan had done it, they should make their
escape;, but that, whether they had done it or no, we
should make all the haste forward that was possible; and
that in the mean time, he would, keep them in play as
long ashe could;
This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
any thing of the matter; aad, as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as-
asked us the question; however, the captain of the
caravan, for the time, took the hint that the governor
gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and two
nights without any considerable stop, and then we lajr,
. at a village called Plothus: nor. did we make any
long Hop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena,
another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where
we expected we should be sase: but it is to be
observed, that here we began, for two or„ three days
march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of which
1 shall say more,in its place; and which if we had
now. been upon it, it is more than probable, we ha 1
been- all destroyed. It was the second day's march
from Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at:
a great diltance, some of our people began to be sen-
sible we were pursued; we had entered the desert, and
had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, when.
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
• other'
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling weft.
We observed they went \vay west, as we did; but
had supposed we mould have taken that-side of the lake,
whereaV we very happily took the south side; and in
two days more we Caw them not, tor they, believing
we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to
the river Udda; this is a very great riser when it passes
sarther north; but when we came to it, we found it nar-
row and formidabse: ,
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us,
towards the dust? of the evening. We hadr..to our great
satissaction, haft pitched upon a place for our camp
which was very convenient for the night: for as we
were upon a. desert, though but at the beginning of
if that was above five hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge a', and, indeed, expected none but
the city Jaraw n , which we had yet two da. > march,
to- the desert, however, had some sew woods in it oa
this side and. little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow, streight between two
small but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
oamp for-that night, ejecting to be attacked in the
DigNobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued-
for- but as it was usual for the Mogul'I artars to go-
about in troops in .that desert, so the caravans always-
fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to-
be oursued. ,, . , „
But we had this night,, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay between
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our
front - so that we could not be turrounded or attacked
any way, but ia.our front or rear; we took care alio to
make our front as strong as we. could, by placing our
nacks with our camels and horses, all ma line on the
inside'of the river, and we-selled sema tree* in out
tear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished our situa-
tion: they, did not come on us like ^eves^we
expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand5
*he men to be delivered to them, that had abused their
priests, and burnt their god Cham-Chi-Thaungu, that
they might burn them with fire; and, upon this, they
said, they would go away, and do us no sarther harm,
otherwise they would burnt us all with fire. Our men
looked very blank at this message, and began-to stare
at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in their
saces, but, nobody was the word,, nobody did it. The-
leader- of the caravan sent word, he was well assured
it was not done by any of our camp; that we were
peaceable merchants travelling on.our business; that we
had done no harm to them, or to any one else; and
therefore they must look sarther for their enemies, who
had injured them, for we were not the people; so desired:
them not to disturb us; for if they did, we should desend,
ourselves.
- They, were sar from being satisfied with this for an-.
answer*. and a great crowd of them came down in the
morning by break of day, to our camp; but seeing us
in such an advantageous situation, they durst come no
sarther than the brook in our front, where they stood,,
and shewed us such a number, as,, indeed, terrified us-
-very much; for those- that spoke least of them spoke
•of ten. thousaad. Here they stood, and looked at us a
while, and then setting up a great- howl, they let fly
a cloud of arrows among us ; - but we were well enough-
fortified for that, for we were sheltered under our bag--
gage ;. and I. do not remember that one man of us was-
hurt,.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to>
our right, and expected thenv on the rear, when, a cun-
ning sellow, a.Cossack as they call them, of Jarawena,.
in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of
the caravan* said to him, I will send all these people
away to Sibeilka; this was a city four or five days-
journey,..at least,.to the south, and rather behind us.
So he takes: his bow and arrows; and, getting on
horseback, he ridea-away from our rear directly, as-
it were, back to Nertzinskay; after this, he takes a
great circuit- about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had beea seat express to tell them
a.long;
a long story, that the people who had burnt their Cham--
Ghi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them ; that is to say, Christians;
and that they were resolved to burn, thegod Seal Isarg,.
belonging to the. Tongueses.
As this sellow, was a mere Tartar, and persectly spoke
their language,, he counterseited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they drove, in.a most vio-
lent hurry, to Sibeilka, which it seems, was five days''
journey to the south, and in less *han three hours they
were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any
more of them, or ever knew whether they went to that
other place called Sibeilka, or no.
So we passed sasely, on to the City of Jarawena,,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites;: and there we
rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly satigued
•with the laii day's, march,, and with want-of rest in the
night.
From this city, we had a frightsul desert, which held
us three and twenty days' march. We surnished.ourselves
with some tents here, For the better accommodating our-
selves in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro-
cured sixteen carriagesor waggons, of the country, for
carrying our water and provisions;, and these carriages
were our desence every night round our little camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able to
hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after-
this long journey;. for, in this desert, we saw neither
house nor tree, nor scarce a bush ; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the sable-hunters, as they call them; these are
all Tartars of Mogul. Tartary, of which this country,
is a part;-and they frequently attack small caravans:,
but we saw no numbers of them together. 1 was curi-
ous to see the sable skins they catched :. but I could never
speak with any of them; for they durst not come near
us, neither durst we straggle from our company to n-o.
near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a coun-
try pretty well inhabited ; that is to say, we found towns
and castles settled by the Ciar of. Muscovy, with garri-
4. l sons.
risons of stationary soldiers to protect the caravans, anct
desend the country against the Tartars, who would
otherwise make it tfery dangerous travelling; and his
Czari:h majesty has given such strict orders son the well
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are
any '1 artars heard of in the country, detachments of the
garrison are always sent to see travellers :a.e from station
to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the txots
merchant who was acquainted with him, ofsered us a
guard of hfty men, if we thought there was any danger,
to the next station.
I thought long before this, that, as we came nearer
to Europe, we should find the country better peopled,,
and the people more civilised; but I found myself mis-
taken in both, for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses-
to pass throigh; where we saw the same tokens of pa-
ganism and barbarity, or worse than before; only as;
they were c ni]Uered by the Muscovites, and entirely
reduced, they were not so .dangerous; but for the rude--
ness of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in.
the world ever went beyond them. They are clothed 'all
'in the skins of beasts,.and their houses are built of the
same. You know not a man fr-om a woman, neither
by the nuggednels of 'their countenances nor their clothes;:
and in the winter, when the ground, is covered with-
snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults,,
which have cavities or caves going from one to another.
If the Tartars had their I ham-Chi-Thaungu for a*
whose village or country, these had idols in every hut,
and every cave; besides, they worship the stars, the fun,,
the water, the show, and, in a word, every thing that-
they do not understand, and they understand but very-
little; so that almost evey element, every, uncommon,
thing, sets them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to describe peopl • than countries,
any sarther than my own story comes to be concerned in
therii. 1 met with nothing peculiar to myself in all this
country, which, I reckon was, from the desert which
I.spoke of last, at least, four hundred miles, half of it
being:
Being,another desert, which took us up twelve days' se--
vere travelling, without house, tree, or buft; but were
obliged again to carry our own provisions, as we:l water
[ as bread. After we were out of this desert, and had tra-
veiled two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city
or station, on the great-river Janezay. This river, they
told us, parted Europe from Asia, though our map-
makers, as 1 am told, do not agree to it; however, it is
certainly the eastern boundary of the antient Siberia,
which now makes a province only of the vast Muscovite
empire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire
of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still
prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the
country between the riverOby, and the river Jarezajv
is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the
remotest of the 'Tartars, nay, as any nation, for aught-1
know, in Alia, or America. 1 also sound, which 1 ob-
served, to the Muscovite governors, whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the pagans are not mucri.
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for beinf under
the Muscovite government; which they acknowledged
was true enough, but, they said, it was none of their
business; that if the Czar expected to convert- his Sibe-
rian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done-
by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and
they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not-so much the concern of their monarchy
to make the people Christians; as it-was to make them,
subjects.
from this river, to the great river Oby, we crossed a.
wild uncultivated country; I cannot say rtis a barbarous
foil; 'tis only barren of people and good management;
otherwise it- is in itself a most pleasant; fruitsul, and
agreeable country. What- inhabitants we found ip it
are all pagans, except such as are sent amon" them,
from Russia; for this is the country 1 mean on both
sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals,
that are not put to death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to impossible they, should ever come
-awajr..
Il have
I have nothing material to say of ray. particular
afsairs, till I came to Tobolski, the capital .os Siberia,.
•where I continued lbme time on the following occa-
sion.
We had been now almost seven months on our journey,,
and winter began to come on apace: whereupon my
partner and I called a council about our particular affairs,,
in which we found it proper, considering that we were
bound for England, and not for Moscow, to consider-
how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of fledgesand
rein-deer, to carry us over the snow in the winter-time:
and, indeed, they have such things, as it would be in-
credible to relate the particulars of, by which means the
Ruffians travel more in the winter than they can in sum-
mer ; because in these fledges they are able to run night
and day: the snow being frozen, is one universal cover-
ing to nature,, by which the hills, the vales, the rivers,,
the lakes, are all smooth, and hard as a stone; and they
run upon the sursace, without any regard to what is.
underneath.
But I had no octafion to push at a winter journey of
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route two ways: either I must go on as the ca-
ravan went, till I came to Jariflaw, and then go off west,
for Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so-either by.
sea or land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell my
China cargo to good advantage, or I must leave the cara-
van at a little town on the Dwina, from whence 1 had
but six days by water to Arch-Angel, and from thence
might be lure of snipping, either to England, Holland,,
or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these journies in the winter would
have been preposterous; for as to Dantzick, the Baltic
-would be frozen up, and I could not- get passage::
and to go by land in those countries, was sar less sase
than among the Mogul Tartars: likewise to Arch-Angels
in October all the ships would'be gone from thence,, and.
even the merchants, who dwell there in summer,, retire
south so Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone :.:
fo that 1 should have nothing but extremity of cold to
encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie
there
there in an empty town all the winter; fo that, upon the
whole, I thought it much my better way to let the cara-
van go, and to make provision to winter where I was,
viz. atToboHki, in Siberia, in the latitude of sixty de-
grees, where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold
winter with, viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country
afforded, a warm, house, with suel enough, and excellent
company; of all which I will give a sull account in its
place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved island, where I never selt cold, except when I
had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any
sire but" without doors, and my necessity, in dress-
ing my. food, &c. Now 1 made me three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them to hang down
to the seet, and butt-on close to the wrists, and all
these lined with, furs, to make them. sufficiently
warm..
ADVENTURES OS ROBINSON CRUSOE. ;5'
like our way in England, of making sires in every
room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the sire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a surnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up one
way, the door to come at the sire went in. another,
and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but
no sire seen; like as they heat the bagnios- in Eng-
land.
By thi* means we had always the same climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved ;. and how
cold foever it was without, it was always warm, within ;.
and yet we saw no sire,. nor was ever, incommoded with
any smoke.
The most wondersul thing, of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with, good company here, in a country
lb barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of Eu-
rope, near the frozen ocean, and within but a. very-sew
degrees of Nova Zembla.
But
jT
But this being the country where the slate criminals os
Muscovy, ns I observed before, are all banished; this
city was sull of noblemen, princes, gentsemen, colonels,
and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry', soldiery,
and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the famous
Prince Galil ken, or GalofFkcn, and his son, the old
General Koboslisky, and several other persons of not?,
and some lac'ies.
By mean of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless,
I parted with here, 1 made an acquaintance with several
of these gentlemen, and some of them of the first rank;
and from these, in the long winter-nights in which I:
staid here, i received several agreeable visits. It was
talking one night with a certain prince, one of the ba*
nished ministers of Hate belon^ins to the Czar of Mut-
covy, that my talk of my particular case began.
Me had been telling me abundance of sine things, of
the greatness, the magnificence, and dominions, and the
absolute power of the emperors osthe Ruffians. I inter-
rupted him, and told him, 1 was a greater and more
powersul prince than, ever the Czar of Muscovy was,
though my dominionswere not so large, or my people
so many.
The Ruffian Grandee looked a little surprised, and
fixing his eyes steadily upon me, b?gan to wonder what
1 meant.
1 told Kim his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, 1 told him, I had the absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects:
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not one
person disaffected to my government or to my person, in:
all my dominions.
He shook his head at that, and said, There indeed,. I
outdid the Czar of Muscovy.
I told him, that.all the lands in my kingdom were my
own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants,
but tenants at will; that they would all sight for
me to the last drop.; and that never tyrant, for
such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so uni-
versally beloved, and yet so horribly seared, by his
subjects.
Metr
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for a while, I opened the case, and told them
the story at large of my living in the island, and how
I managed both myself and the people there that were
under me, just as 1 have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially
the prince, who told me with a iigh, that the true
greatness of lise was to be master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a state of lise as
mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found
more selicity in the retirement he seemed to be banish-
ed to there, than ever he found in the highest autho-
rity he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar: that
the height of human wisdom, was to bring our tem-
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm,
within, under the weight of the greatest storm with-
out. When he came first hither he said, he used to
tear the hair from his.head, and the clothes from his
back, as others had done before him; but a lit tie
time and conlideration had made him look into him-
selfi as well as round himself, to things without:
that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal lise, and
how little this world was concerned in its true seli-
city, was persectly capable of making a selicity for
itself, sully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own
best ends and desires, with but very little aliiltance
from the world; that air to breathe in, food to sul-
tain lise, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exer-
cise, in order to health, compleated, in his opinion, all
that the world could do fof us: and though the great-
nels, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had
enjoyed his shar.e of, had much in them that was agreer
able to us, yet he observed,, that all those things chiefly
gratified the coarsest of our astedtions: such as our
ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our viir
nity, and our sensuality; all which were^ indeed,, the
mere product of the worst part of man, were in themr
selves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all man-
ner of crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those virtues that constituted, ui
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
wise men, or of those graces which distingnithed us as-
Chritlians: that being now deprived of all the sancied
felicity, which he enjoyed in the sull exercise of all those
vices, he said, he was at leisure to- look upon the dark
side of them, where he found all manner of deformity %.
and was now convinced, that virtue only makes a man-
truly wile, rich, and great, and preserves him- in the way
to a superior happiness in a suture state; and in. this,
he said, they were more happy in their banishment than,
all their enemies were, who had the sull postession of aft
the wealth and power that they (the banished) had left
behind them.
Nor,_ Sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politi-
cally, by the necessity of my circumstances, which fome
call miserable; but if I know any thing of myself, I
would not go back, no, not thp' my master, the Czar„
should call me, and offer to reinstate me in. all my former
grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than I
believe my foul, when it shalt be delivered from this pri-
fon of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious state
beyond lise, would come back to the goaL of flesh and-
blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven, to deal in.
the dirt and grime of human affairs.
„ He spake this with fo much warmth in. his temper, so.
much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which were
apparent in his countenance, that it was evident it was-
the true sense of his foul; and, indeed,.there was no room,
to doubt his sincerity..
I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a mo*
aarch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, but that I though he was not a. monarch only,
but a great conqueror;, for that he that has got a,
victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the
abfolute dominion over himself, and whose reafon
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater, than he
that conquers a city. But,, my Lord, laid I, shall h
take the liberty to ask you a question.? With all my
heart, said he. If the door of your liberty was opened,,
said 1, would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself
from, this exile 2
Hold,.
Hold, said he, your question is subtle, and requires
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere an-
swer; and I'll give it you from the bottom of my
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would
move me to deliver myself from the state of banish-
ment, except these two: First, the enjoyment of my
relations; and secondly, A little warmer climate; but
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of th«
court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister
of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that
is to say, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me
to all he banished me from: 1 protest, if I know
myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace of
Moscow,
But, my Lord, said I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore, but you may be absent too from some of the con-
veniencies of lise; your estate, perhaps, confiscated,
and your effects plundered: and the supplies left you
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
lise.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a Lord,
or a Prince, &c. So, indeed, 1 am; but you are now
to consider me only as a man, a human creature, not
at all distinguished from another: and so I can suffer no
-want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dis-
tempers. However, to put the question out of dispute;
you see our manner; we are in this place five persons of
rank; we live persectly retired, as suited to a state of
banishment; we have something rescued from the ibip-
•wreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere
necessity of hunting for our food, but the poor tolcliers
•who are here, without that helj>, live in as much plenty
as we. They go into the woods, and catch sables and
.fixes; the labour of a month will maintain them a year;
and as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard
to get sufficient to ourselves; lb that objection is .out of
•dcore.
•I have
I have no room to give a sull account of the rnoft
'agreeable conversation I had with this truly great
man; ami in all which he shewed, that his mind was
ib inspired with a superior knowledge of things, fo sup-
ported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the
same to the last, as will appear in the story I am going
'to tell.
1 had been here eight months, and a dark dreadsul
winter I thought it to be; the cold was fo intense,
that I could not fo much as look abroad without be-
ing wrapt in surs, and a mask of sur before my sace,
or rather a hood, with only an hole for breath, and
two for sight. The little day-light we had, was, as
we reckoned, for three months, not above sive hours a
day, and six at most; only that the snow lying on the
ground continually, and the weather clear, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather
starved) underground; and, as for our servants (for
we hired servants here to look after our horses and
selves), we had every now and then their singers and
i toes to thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify
and sall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being dole, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
class all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer,
dried and .cured in the seafon; good bread enough, but
baked as biscuits; dried sish of several forts, and fome
flesh of mutton, and of ouffaloes, which is pretty good
beef. All the store of provision for the winter are laid
'up in'the summer, and well cured; our drink was water
mixed with aqua vitae, instead of brandy; and, for a
treat, mead instead of wine; which, however, they
have excellent good. Thehunters, whoventured abroad
all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh venifon,
very sat and good: and fometimes bears slesh, but we
did not much care for the last. We had a good stock
of tea, with which we treated our friends as above; and
in a word, we lived very chearsulfy and well, all things
considered.
Tt was now March, and the days grown consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerabse; so
other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them
•over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Arch- .,
Angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no
motion, knowing very well, that the lhips from the
south do n')t set out for that part of the world till
May or June: and that if 1 was there at the beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any ships would be
ready to go away; and therefore, 1 say, I made no
haste to be gone, as others did? in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay, all the' travellers, go away
'before me. It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscow for trade, viz. to carry fur?, and buy neces-
saries with them, which they bring back to surnish
their shqpp; also others went on the same errand to
Arch-Ange'l; Tiut then they also, being to come back
-again above eight hundred miles, went out all before
me.
In short, about the latter end of May, I began to make
•all ready to pack up; and as s was doing this, it oc-
curred to me, that seeing all these people were banished
-by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when they
came there, were at liberty to go whither they would;
•why did they not then go away to any part of
the world wherever they thought sit? and I began
to examine what should hinder them from making such
an attempt.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that
subject with the person I have mentioned, who an-,
-swered me thus: Consider, first, Sir, said he, the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especially, said he, the generality of the people
who are banished hither. We are surrounded, laid he,
•with stronger tilings than bars and bolts; on the north.
side is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed,
and boat never swam; neither, if we had both, could
we know whither tosgo with them. Everv cth:r way,
aid he, we have above a thousand miles to .pass through,
he Czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly
impassable, exc pt by the roads made by the govern-
r ment,
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOfr.
tnent, and through the towns garrifoned by his troops;
fo that we could neither pass undiscovered by the road,
or subsist any other way; fo that is in vain to attempt
it.
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
were in prifon, every jot as secure, as if they had been
locked up in the castle of Moscow: however, it came
into my thoughts, that I might certainly be made an
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per«
fon, and that it was very easy for rrie to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Arch-Angel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the
desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-Angel,
where I could immediately secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off sase along
with me; and as to his subsistence, and other particu-
lars, that should be my care, till he should better supply
himself.
He heard me very attentvely, and looked earnestly
on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
very sace, that what I said put his spirits into an exceed-
ing serment; his colour frequently- changed, his eyes
looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might be
even perceived in his countenance; nor could he im-
mediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it were,
expected what he would say to it; and after he had
paused a little, he embraced me, and said, how unhappy
are we! unguided creatures as we are, that even our
greatest acts of friendship are made snares to us, and we
are made'tempters of one another! My dear friend, said
he, your offer is fo sincere, has such kindness in it, is fo
disinterested in itself, and is fo calculated for my advan-
tage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world,
if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge the
obligation 1 have upon me to you for it: But did you
believe 1 was sincere in what I have fo often said to you
of my contempt of the world? Did you believe I spoke
my very foul to you, -and that I had really maintained
that degree of selicity here, that had placed me above
-all
1 that the world could give me, or do for me? Did
yen believe I was sincere, when I told you I would not
go back, if I was recalled even to be all that once I was
in the court, and with the savour of the Cfcar, my mas-
ter? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest
man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite r
Here he stopped, as if he would -hear what I would say;
hut, indeed, I soon after perceived, that he stopped be-
rause his spirits were in motion; his heart was sull of
struggles, aud he could not go on. I was, I consess,
astonished at the thing, as well as at the man, and I
used some arguments with him to urge him to set himself
free: that he ought to look upon this as a door, opened
hy Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by Pro-
vidence, who has the care and good disposition of all
-events, to do himself good, and to render himself usesul
in the world. v.
He had by this time recovered himself: Howdoydi*
know, Sir, said he, warmly, but that instead of a sum-
mons from heaven, it may be a seint of another in-
strument, representing, m all the alluring colours, to
me, the shew of selicity as a deliverance, which may in,
itself be my feare, and tend directly to my ruin? Hfire
I am free from the temptation of returning to my former
miserable greatness; there 1 am not sure, but that
all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury>
which 1 know remain in my nature, may revive and
take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and
then the happy prisoner* whom you see now master
of his soul's liberty-, shall he the miserable slave of his
'own senies, in the sull of all personal liberty. Dear
Sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement* banished
from the crimes of lise, tattier than purchase a shew of
freedom at the expence of the liberty of my reason, and
-et the expetoce of the suture happiness which now I
have in my view, but shall then, I sear, quickly lose sight
cf; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have passions
and affections as likely to possess and overthrow me as
•finy man: O be not my friend and my tempter both
together! ,
VO-L* H. W If
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed admired what
I saw; the struggle in his foul was so great, that though
the weather was extremely -cold, it put him into a most
violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give vent to his
mind; so I said a word or two, that I would leave him
to consider of it, and wait on him again ; and then 1 with-
drew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, 1 heard somebody at or near
the door of the room, and 1 was going to open the door;
but he had opened it, and come in: My dear friend,
said he, you had almost'overset me, but 1 am recovered:
<lo not take it ill that I do not close with your offer; I
assure you, it is not for want of a fense of the kindness
ef it in you; and I come to make the most sincere ac-
knowledgment of it to you; but, I hope, I have got the
Tictory over myself.
My Lord, said 1, I hope you are sully satissied, that
you did not resill the call of heaven. Sir, said he, if
it had been from heaven, the same power would have
influenced me to accept it; but I hope, and am sully
satisfied, that it is from heaven that I decline it; and
I have an infinite satissaction in the parting, that you.
fliall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-
session to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
should always acknowledge it; and with that he offered
me a ver3'fine present of sables, too much, indeed, for.
me to accept from a man. in his circumstances; and I
would have avoided them, but he would not ,be
resused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his Lordship,
with a small present of tea, two pieces of China, da-
mask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did
not all weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts; but
were sar short of the value of his sables, which, in-
deed, when 1 came to England, I found worth near two
kundred pounds, He accepted the tea, and one piece
4 of
of the damaflc, and one of the pieces of gold, which had
a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I
found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any
more; and sent word by my servant, that be desired to
speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew what had-
passed between us, and hoped I would not move him any
more in that atFair; but that, since I'made such a gene-
rous osser to him, he asked me, if I had kindness enough
to oiler the same to another person tha.t he would name
to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. 1 told
hi,m, that I could not say 1 inclined to do. much for any
one but himself, for whom 1 had a particular value, and
ihould have been glad to have been the instrument of his
deliverance; however, if he would please to name the
person to me, I would give him m.y answer, and hoped
he would not be displeased with me, if he was with my
answer. He told me, it was only his son, who, though
I had not seen, yet was in the lame condition with him-
self, and above two hundied miles from him, on the
other side the Oby ;. but that, if I consented, he would
send for him.
1 made no hesitation, but told him I would do it: I
made some ceremony in letting him understand, that it
was wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, I would shew, my respect to him, by my
concern for his son! but these things are too tedious to
repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, and
in about twenty days he came back with the messenger,
bringing six or seven horses loaded with very rich surs,
and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great
value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young Lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his sather pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there the
manner of our travelling, and every thing proper for the
journey.' / •' ,_ . I .
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermines, and', such other surs that ate
very rich; 1 say, 1 hadbo^h^'t^teqa jn that city for
exchange for some of the goods brought from China; in
particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which 1 fold
the greatest part here; and the rest afterwards at Arch-
angel, for a much better price than I could have done at
London; and my partner, who wcs sensible of the profit,
and whose business more particularly than mine, was mer-
chandize, was mightily pleased with our stay, on account
of the traffic we made here
It was in the beginning of June, when J left this re-
mote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the
-world; and, indeed, it is to far outvof the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked5
of. We were now come to a very small caravan, be-
ing only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all os
them pafled for mine, though my new guest was pro-
prietor of eleven of them. It was most natural also, that
- I sliould take more servants with me than I had before,
and the young Lord pasted for my steward; what great
man I passed for myself I know not, neither did it con-
cern me to enquire. We had here the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met wkh in all the
journey, indeed, I call it the worst, because the way
was very deep in some places, and very uneven irt.
others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
fear, and that they sever came on this side the river
Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it
otherwise.
My young Lord had with him a saithsul Muscovite
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
fectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
by private toads, that we avoided coming into tha-
principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as
Tumen, Soloy-Kamoskoy, and several others; because
'the Muscovite garrisons which arejeept there are very
curious and strict in their observations upon travellers,
ami searching lest any of the baoished persons of note
should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but
by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so
cur whole journey was a desert, and we w.eie obliged/
to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have
had good. acwmiDAdatipa. in the cities on the rway:
thi*
this the young Lord was so sensible of, that he would
not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several citk's
on the way; but lay abroad himself, with his servant,
in the woods, and met u* alWays at the appointed
places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the riveT
Kama, which, in those parts, is the boundary between.
Europe and Asia; and the sirst city on' the European fuse
was called Soloy-Kamoskoy, which is as much as to say,
the great city on thtr river Kama ;. and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their
manners, their habit, their religion, and their Business;
but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to
pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred- miles
Iong in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it; so, till' we came past that
horrible place, we found*- very little disference between'
that country and the Mogul Tartary; the people mostly
Pagans, and little better than the savages of America;
their houses and towns sull of idols, and their way
of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities as
aBovc, and the villages near them;' where they are
Christians, ast'hey call themselves of the Greek church;
but even these have their religion mingled with
so many reliques of superstition, that it is scarce to'
be known in some places for mere sorcery and witch-
craft.
In pasting this forest, I thought, indeed, we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped,
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murdered'by a troop of thieves; of- what country
they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi,.
a kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of
the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were
the sable hunters of Siberia, Fam yet at a less to kuow;
but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrowsl,
and were at first about five and forty in number; they
came so near to us, as within about two musquet shot;
and, asking no questions, they surrounded us with their
; horse, and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at
length they placed themselves just in our way; upon
•which we drew up in a little line before our camels
M 3 being
being not above sixteen men in all; and being drawn'
up thus, we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant,
who attended his Lord, to see who they were; his
master was the more willing to let him go, because he
was not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian
troop sent out after hiiru The man came up near them.'
with a flag of fruoe, and called to them; but though-
Be spoke several of their languages, or dialects of lan-
guages rather, he could not understand a word they
find; however, after some signs to him not to come
nearer to them at his peril;. so he said he understood
them to mean, ofsering to stoat at him if he advanced;
the sellow came back no wiser than he went, only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some
Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hords; and-
that there must be more of them on the great, desert, fho*
he never heard that ever any of them were seen so sar
north before.
This was small' comfort- to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left handi at about a quarter
of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of trees,
which, ttood close together, and very near the road ;• I
immediately resolved we would advance to those trees,,
and fortify ourselves, as well as we could there; for, -
first, I considered that the trees would in. a great mea-
sure cover us from-their arrows; and, in the next place,,
they could not come to charge us in a body: it was,
indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it • andi
•who had this excellency attending him, namely, that he
-was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage
us in cases of the most danger. We advanced imme-
diately with what speed we oould, and gained that little
-wood, the Tartars or thieves, for we knew not what to
call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting to
Binder us. When we oame thither, we found, to our
great satissaction, that it was a swampy springy piece
of ground, an<!, on the other side, a very great spring
of water-, which, ranning out in a bttle. rill or
brook, was, a little sarther, joined by another- of the
like bigness: and was, in short, the head or source os
a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska;
the trees which grew about this spring, were not in aH
. above
apove two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty,
thick; fo that as foon as we got in, we saw ourselves per-
fectly sase from the enemy, unless they alighted and
attacked us on foot. .,
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with-
indesatigable application-, cut down great arms of the
trees, and laid, them hanging:, not cut quite osf", from
one tree to-another; so that he made, a continued sence
almost round us. ..
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
feme hours, without perceiving they made any offer to-'
stir; when about two hours before night, they cams
down directly upon us; and, though, we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by fome more
of the same, fo that they were near fourscore horse,.
thereof, however, we sancied' fome were women.—.
They came on. till they were within. half a shot of our
little wood, when. we sired one musquet without ball,,
and called to-them in the Ruffian tonguej. to know what
they wanted, and bid them, keep off; but, as- if they
knew nothing of what we said,, they came on- with a.
double sury directly up to the wood side, not imagining
we were fo barricadoed that they could not break hi •
our old pilot was our captain, as well as- he had been
our engineer; and desired of us,, not to sire upon them-
till they came within pistol'shot, thatwe-might be sura
to kill; and that when we did sire we should be sure-
to take good aim. We bade hina. give the word of
command; wbieh he delayed fo long, that they were,
fome of them, within two pikes length,of us when we
sired.
We aimed fo true (or Providencedirected our shot' so
sure) that we killed-fourteen of them at the sirst volley.,
and'wounded severalothersy as alfo si-veral of th-ir horses;
for We-had all of us loaded our pieces witfa;tw< or three
bullets a piece at least.
They were terribly, surprised with our sire, and retreated i
immediately about l'GO-rods from us; in which time we
loaded our pieces again, and, seeing them keep that
distance, we sallied out, and caught four or sive of
their horsea,, whose riders, we supposed, were killed;
and,.
and, coming Up to the dead, we could easily perceive
they-Vere Tartars, bat knew not from what count ry,-
or how they came to make an- excursion such an un*
usual length.
About an hour aster, tTtey made a motion to attack us
again, and rode round our Tittle wood, to see where else
they mi^ht break in ; but finding us always ready to sace
them, they went off again, and- weresolved not to stir
from the place for that night.
We slept a little, you -rrray be sure ; but spent the most
part os the n:ght in strengthening our situation, and bar-
licadoing the entrances into the wood; and, keeping ar
strict watch, we waited for day-light, and, when it came,
it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the
enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the
reception they had met with, were now increased to*
no less than thTee hundred, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp they had pithed, was upon the/
open plain, at about three quarters 0' a mile from us-
We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery; and now,.
I consess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The losses tny effects did not lie so near me (though-
they were very considerable) as the thoughts of salling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of-
my journey, after so many difficulties and hazards as
r had gone through; and even in fight of our port,
where we expected sasety.and deliverance. As for my
partner, lie was . raging; he declared, that to lose-
his goods would be his ruin; and he would rather-
die than be starved; and he was for fighting to the last
drop.
-The young Lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed it-
self, was for sighting to the last also; and my pilot was-
of the opinion- we were able to resist them all, in the
situation we then were in; and thus we spent the day
in debates of what we should do; but, towards evening,
we found that the number of our enemies still encreascd:
perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for prey,
the first had sent out scouts to call for help, and to
acquaint them of their booty; and we did not know but/
by the morning they might still be a gieater number;
ib
fo I began to enquire of those people we had brought
from Tobolski, if there was no other, or more private
ways, by which we might avoid them in the night, and
perhaps either retreat to fome town, or get help to guard
us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young Lord, told
ns, if we designed to avoid them, and not sight, he would
engage to carry us off in the night to a way that went
north towards the river Petraz, by which be made no
doubt but we might get away, and the Tartars never the
wiser; but he said, his Lord had told him he would not
return, he would rather chuse to sight. I told' him, he
mistook his Lord; for that he was too wise a man to love
sighting for the sake of it; that I knew his Lord was
brave enough by what he had shewed already; bat .that
his Lord knew better, than to desire to have seventeen or
eighteen men sight sive hundred', unless an unavoidable
necessity forced them to it; and that if-he thought it pos-
sible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to
do but to attempt it. He answered, if his. Lord gave
him. such order, he would lose his lise if he did not per-
form it. We foon brought his Lord to give that order,
though, privately, and we immediately prepared for the
putting it in practice.
And sirst, as foon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a sire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared fo as to make it burn all night, that the Tar-
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as foon as
it was dark, that is to say, fo as we could see the stars,
(for our guide would not stir before) having all our
horses and camels ready loaden, we followed our new
guide, who, I foon found, steerad himself by the pole,
or north liar, all the country being level for a long
way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite »dark atl night,
but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was-
rather lighter than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock
next morning we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we:
found a Russian village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we
rested,, and heard nothing of the Cahnuck Tartars that
day..
day. . About two hours before night we set out again,
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hastily as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river, called Kirtxa, and came to a goad
large town inhabited by Ruffians, and very populous,
called Ozemys; there we heard, that several troops or
hords of Calmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but
that we were now completely out of danger of them,
•which was to our great satissaction, you may be sure.
Ileie we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and, hav-
ing need enough of rest, we staid five days; and my
partner and 1 agreed to give the honest Siberian, wrho
brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles for his con-
ducting us.
In five days more we came to -Veuffima, upon the
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our travels by
land, that river being navigable in seven days passage to
Archangel':'from hence we came to Lawrenskoy, where
the river joins, the third of July: and we provided our-
selves with two luggage-boats, and a barge, for our con-
venience: we embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe
at Archangel the eighteenth, having been a year, five
months, and three days, on the journey, including our
stay of eight months and odd days at loholflri.
We were- obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than
any of the English ships: when, after some consideration,
that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a
market for our goods as London, we al! took freight with
him: and having put our goods on board, it was most
natural for me to put my steward on board to take care of
them: by which means my young Lord had a sufficient
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore
again, in all the time we staid there; and this he did,
that he might not be seen, in the city, where some of the
Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and dis-
covered, him.
'Wesailed from Archangel the twentieth of August, the
same year; and, after ho extraordinary bad voyage,, ar-
rived in the Elbe, the 13th of September : here my partner.
and
and 1 found a very good sale for our goods, as well those
of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the
produce of our efsects, my share amounted to 34751. 17s.
3d. notwithstanding so many losses we had sustained, and
charges we had been at: only remembering that I had
included, in this, about 6001. worth of diamonds, which
I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young Lord took his leave of us, and went
up the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where
he resolved to seek protection, and where he could corre-
spond with those of his sather's friends who were left alive
He did not part without all the testimonies he could give
of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his sense
of my kindness to the prince his sather.
To conclude, having staid near four months in Ham-
hurgh, 1 came from thence, over land to the Hague,
•where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London,
-the 10th of January, 1705, having been gone from Eng-
land ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I am
preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived
72 years a lise of insinite variety, and learned sufficiently
to know the value of retirement, and ib* blessing of
*nding our days in peace.
FINIS.
lAVt, MIN*»TA-P»IJ», tUllWAJWHn*
PERSIAN TALES,
Two Vols. elegant Plates, Price Ss. bound.
FAIRY TALES.
Tvto Vols. elegant Plates, Price 6s. bound*
PALACE of ENCHANTMENT,
Price 3s. bound.
PLEASING COMPANION,
Price 3s. bound.
BOYLE'S VOYAGES,
Pric: ss. 6l. bound.
ENGLISH HERMIT,
Price 2s. 6d. hound*'
BS=&
JHH O UvJO
r
\y I w \* »,'
r
