THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
lane, minerva-press, leadenhall-stree.u
—'—'»' * -. .- i. '»« Him
TW NEW YORt
PU3LI7.. UBRARY
ASTOFt, LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
R L
FjROHTISPIE CE- Toij

THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
BY
DANIEL DEFOE.
a. nrtn ŒWtion,
bunched with esegant Psates descriptive of the Susrlect.
'j *• * .•
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED AT THE
FOR LANE AND NEWMAN,
LEADENH ALL-STREET.
1805.
M:
Ttfg *i(
pm
m
•V YORK
J3R
I^SS
AND
iwia
»N3
A'
PREFACE.
HE merit and esteem in which this
admired work of the truly celebrated
Daniel de Foe has been held, will need no
other encomium than the numerous editions
through which it has passed. At this period
the work is read .with avidity, desire, and
pleasure: the younger branches may be said
to read it from their cradle, and the more
advanced can find amusement for their leisure
hours in these events; the circumstances it
contains engage the mind, and its principles
of instruction are founded on Virtue and
3$ Religion; yet they are conveyed in such a
uipleasing manner, that you are imperceptibly
gjled through a wonderful history to a system
wof morality.
3' •
Among the many editions presented the
Public, some are too extravagant a pur-
chase i
chase; others printed in a manner inconsist-
ent with the liberality which should have
supported a work of this kind.
It is therefore presumed this edition, which
is well printed, on good paper, enriched and
embellilhed with curious descriptive plates,
and offered for sale at a very moderate price,
will be supported by a generous and discern-
ing Public.
DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THE CUTS.
I
VOL. I.
Pobinson Crusoe climbing the clisf—Frontispiece,
Robinson Crusoe's Difappointment in launching
his Boat — — — — — — Facing Page %\9
Robinson Crusoe surprifed at the Print of a Foot 142
Robinson Crusoe rescuing and protecting Friday 190
VOL. It.
Friday meeting his Father — Frontispiece.
Robinson Crusoe's Inhabitants Dispute and Fight 45
Robinson Crusoe's viewing Will Atkins's Basket *j
'House — >. — — — __ — — 52
Robinson Crusoe's passing the great Chinese Wall 230

\
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good samily, though not of that country, my
sather being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled sirst at
Hull.—He got a good estate by merchandise; and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinfon, a very good samily in that
county, and from whom I was called Robinfon Kreutz-
naer; but, bf the usual corruption of words in Eng-
land, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and
write our name, Crufoe; and fo my companions always
called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was a lieute-
nant-colonel in an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
vol. i. a formerly
2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
sormerly commanded by the samous Colonel Loekhart,
and was killed at a battle near Dunkirk, against the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I
never knew, any more than my sather or mother did
know what was become of me.
Being the third son of the samily, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My sather, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent share of learning, as sar as
house education, and a country free-school generally
goes, and designed me sor the law ; but I would be sa-
tisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my inclina-
tion to this led me so strongly against the will, nay,
the commands of my sather, and against all the intreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that
there ieemed to be something satal in that propentioii
of nature, tending directly to the lise of mifery" which
was to besal me.
My sather, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he soresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was consined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me on this subject. He asked me,
'what reasons, more than a mere.wandcring inclination,
1 had sor leaving my sather's house and my native coun-
try, where I might be well introduced, and had a pros-
pect of raising my sortune by application and industry,
with a lise of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
men of desperate sortunes on one hand, or of aspiring
superior sortunes on the other, and who went abroad
upon adventures, to rise by enterprife, and make them-
selves samous in undertakings of a nature out of the
common road; that these things were all either too sar
above me, or too sar below me; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper station
of low lise, which he had sound, by long experience,
was the best state in the world; the most suited to hu-
man happiness; not expofed to the miferies and hard-
ships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part
of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, lux-
ury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind.
He
.^^X
He told me I might judge of the happiness of this state
by this one thing, viz. that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have fre-
quently lamented the miserable consequences of being
born to great things, and wished they had been placed
in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean
and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony to
this, as the just standard of true selicity, when he prayed
tb have neither poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe it, and 1 snould always find, that
the calamities of lise were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station
had the sewest disasters, and was not exposed to fo many
vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ;—
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who,
by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies on one
hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean
or insufficient diet on the other hand, bring distempers
upon themselves by the natural consequences of their
way of living; that the middle station of lite was cal-
culated for all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoy-
ments; that peace and plenty were the hand-maids of
a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
ness, health, fociety, al] agreeable diversions, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of lise ; that this way men went silently and
smoothly through the world, and comsortably out of it;
not embarrassed with the labours of the hands, or of the
head; not fold to a lise of slavery for daily bread, or
harrassed with perpsexed circumstances, which rcb the
foul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged with the
passion of envy, or the secret burning lust os ambition for
great things ', but in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sentibly tasting the sweets of liv-
ing without the bitter ; seeling that they are happy, and
learning, by every day's experience, to know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most af-
sectionate manner, not to play the young man, or to
precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and the
station of lise 1 was born in, seemed to have provided
against; that I.was under no necessity of seeking my
b 2 bread:
'bread; that he would do well for.me, and endeavour to
enter roe sairly into the station of lise which he had
been just recommending to me; and that if I was not
very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere
sate, or sault, that must hinder it; and that he shfiuld
have nothmg to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me, if I would stay and settle at
home, as he directed, fo he would not have fo much
hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away: and, to close,all, he told me I had my
elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into
the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and though he said he would not cease to
pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me, that is
I did take this foolish step,,God would not bless me;
and I would have leisure hereafter to reslect upon having
neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. v
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my sather did not
know it to be fo himself; I say, I observed the tears run
down his sace very plentisully, especially when he spoke
of my brother who was killed; and that when he spoke
of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he
was fo moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told
me his heart was fo sull, he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely afflicted with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and 1 refolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but. to settle at home according
to my sather's desire: but, alas! a sew days wore it all
off; and, in short, to prevent any of my sather's sarther
importunities, in a sew weeks after 1 refolved to run
quite away from him. However, I did not act fo
hastily neither as the first heat of my refolution prompt-
ed; but I took my mother, at a time when I thought
her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that
my .thoughts were fo entirely bent upon seeing the
world, that 1 should never settle to any thing with refo-
lution
lution enough to go through with it; and my sather had
better give me his consent, than force me to go without
it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too
late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my
time, but I should certainly run away from my master
besore my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
•would speak to my sather to let me go one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I
would go no more, and I wousd promise, by a double
diligence, to recover the time that I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she told
me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my
sather upon any such subject; that he knew too well
'what was my interest to give his consent to any thing fo
much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I could
think of any such thing after the discourse I had had with
roy sather, and such kind and tender expressions as she
knew my sather had used to me; and that, in short, if I
would ruin myself, there was no help for me, but I
might depend I mould never have their consent to it;
that, for her part, she would not have fo much hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say that
my mother was willing, when my sather was not. ,
Though my mother resused to move it to my sather,,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse
to him; and that my sather, after shewing a great con-
cern at it, said to her, with a sigh, that boy might be
happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad,
he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born;
I can give no Consent to it.
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to busmess, andfrequently
expostulating with my sather and mother about their
bemg fo positively determmed against what they knew
my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whither I went casualsy, and without any pur-
pose of making an elopement that time; but 1 say,
being there, and one of my companions being going
by sea to London in. his sather's ship, and prompting
me to go with him, with the common allurement of a.
B i seasaring
^
seasaring man, that it should cost me nothing sor my
passage, I consulted neither sather nor mother any more,
nor so much as sent them word of it, but leaving them
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's bless-
ing, or my sather's, without any consideration of cir-
cumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1751, I went on board
aship bound sor London. Never any young adventurer's
missortunes I believe began sooner, or continued longer,
than mine; the ship was no sooner got out of the Hum-
ber, but the wind began to blow, and the sea to rife in a
most frightsul manner; and, as 1 had never been at sea
besore, 1 was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified
in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judg-
ment of Heaven sor my wicked leaving my sather s>
house, and abandoning my duty; all the good counsel
of my parents, my sather's tears, and my mother's entrea-
ties, came now stem into my mind ; and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardiness which it
has been since, reproached me with the contempt of ad-
vice, and the breach of my duty to God and my sather.
All this while the storm increased, and the lea went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many
times liiice, no nor what 1 saw a sew days after; but it
was enough to affect. me then, who was but a young iai-
1ot, and had never known any thing of the matter. I
expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and
that every time the ship sell down, as Ithought it did, in
the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise
more. In this agony of mind ( made many vows and
resolutions that, if it would please God to spare my lite
in this one voyage, if ever I got once my soot upon dry
land again, I would go directly home to my sather, and
never set it into a 'ship again while 1 lived; that 1 would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miferies
ss these any more. Now I sarw plainly the goodness of
his observations about the middle station of lise, how
easy, how comsortably he had lived all his days, and
never had been expofed to tempests at sea, or troubles on
shore' and, in short, I resolved that I would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my sather.
These
These wise and fober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and indeed fome time after; but
the next day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer,
and I began to be a little inured to it. However, I was
very grave for all that day, being alfo a little sea-fick
still; but towards night the weather cleared tip, the
wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening fol-
lowed; the fun went down persectly clear, and rose fo
the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the light was, as 1
thought, the mof| delightsul that ever 1 saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-
sick, but very cheersul; looking with wonder upon the
sea, that was fo rough and terrible the day besore, and
could be fo calm and fo pleasant in fo little a time after.
And now, lest mv good refolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to
me, Well, Bob, says he, clapping me upon the shoulder,
how do you do after it? I warrant you were frighted,
were not you, last night when it blew but a' cap sull of
wind? A cap sull, do you call it? said I, 'twas a ter-
rible storm. A storm, you tool you! replies he; do
you call that a storm? Why it was nothing at all: give
us but a good ship, and sea room, and we think nothing
of such a squall of wind as that; but you are but a fresh
water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of punch,
and we'll forget all that ; do you see what charming wea-
ther it is now? To make short this sad part of my story,
we went the way of all sailors; the punch was made, and
I was made half drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, all my refolutions for the
suture. In a word, as the sea was returned to its smooth-
ness of sursace, and settled calmness, by the abatement
of that storm, fo the hurry of my thoughts being over,
my sears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotton, and the current of my former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I
made in my distress. I found indeed fome intervals of
reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again fometimes; but I shook them
off, and roused myself from them, as it were from a
B 4 distemper;
distemper; and applying myself to drinking and com-
pany, foon mastered the return of those fits (for fo I
called them); and I had, in five or fix days, got as
complete a victory over my conscience as any young
fellow that refolved not to be troubled with it could
desire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases it generally does, refolved
to leave me entirely without excuse; for I would not
take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such, an,
one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us
would consess both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yar-
mouth roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we
lay, the wmd continuing contrary, viz. at fouth-west,
for seven or eight days; during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads,
as the common harbour where the ships might wait for
a wind for the river.
We had not however, rid here fo long but we should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and after we had lain four or five days, blew very
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good as
an harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not the
least apprehensive of danger, but iperTtthejrtirne in rest
and mirth, after the manner ©f the sea; '%Ms the eighth
day in the morning, the vrihd,increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike our fopAiails, and make every
thing snug and close, that the mipinighr ride as easy as
.•possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and
our ship rid forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we
thought once or twice our anchor had come home;
upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor.;
fo that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables
veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the saces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in
the busmess of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him, foftly to
self, say several times, Lord me mexcisul to us! we shall
be
be all loft, we shall be all undone, and the like. During
these first hurries, I was stupid, lying still in my cabin,
which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my tem-
per. I could ill resume the first penitence which I had so
apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against;
I thought the bitterness of death had been past, and that
this would be nothing too, like the first. But when the
master himself came by me, as 1 said just now, and said
we mould be all lost, 1 was dreadsully frighted: I got
up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a difmal
light I never saw; the sea went mountains high, and
broke upon us every three or sour minutes: when Icould
look about, I could see nothing but distress round us;
two ships that rid near us we sound had cut their masts
by the board, being deep laden; and our men cried out,
that a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us; was
foundered. Two more mips, being driven from their an-
chors, were run out of the roads to sea at all adventures,
and that not with a malt standing. The light ships-
fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea, but
two or three of them drove, and came clofe by us, run-
ning away with only their spritl'ail out, besore the wind.
Towards-the evening, the mate and boatswain begged
the matter of our ship to let them cut away the soremast,
which he was very unwi ling to do; but the boatswain
protesting to him that, if he did not, the ship would
sounder, he consented; and whenthey had cut.away the
soremast, the mainmast stood so loofe, and shook the
ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away also,
and make a clear deck.
Any one must judge what a condition Imust'be in at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been
in such a fright besore at but a little. But if I can express'
at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time,.
I was in tensold more horror of mind upon account of
my sormer convictions, and the having returned from
them to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first,.than
I was at death itself; and these, added to the terror of
the storm, put me into such a condition, that Iican by
no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet:
the storm continued with such sury, that'the seamen
themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse.
b 5 We
We had a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wal-"
lowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
criedout,she would sounder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by sounder,
till I enquired. However, the storm was so violent, that
I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain,
\and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment that the ship would
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest- of our distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpofe to see, cried out we had sprung a
leak; another said, there was sour seet water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that
very word, my heart, as I thought, died within me; and
I sell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the m$} roused me, and told
me, that I that was able to do nothing besore, was as well
able to pump as another; at which I stirred up, and went
to the pump, and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who,notable
to ride out the storm, were obliged to flip and run away
to the sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun
as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing of what they
meant, was'so surprifed, that I thought the the ship had
broke, or some dreadsul thing happened. In a word, I
was so surprifed, that 1 sell down in a swoon. As this was
a time when every body had his. own lise to think of,
nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but
another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his soot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead;
and it was a great while besore I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would sounder; and though
the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not pos-
sible she could swim till we might run into any port, so
the master continued firing guns sor help; and a light
ship, who had rid it out just a head of us, ventured a
boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the'
"boat came near us; but it was impossible sor us to get
on board, or sor the boat to lie near the ship's side; till;
at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
-**_ stern,
stern, with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after much labour and hazard, took
hold of, and we hawled them close under our stern, and
got all into their boat. It was to ne purpose for them
or us, after we were in the boat, to think of reaching
to their own ship; fo all agreed to let her drive, and only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could: and
our master promised them, that if the boat was staved
upon shore, lie would make it good to their master: fo
partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away
to the northward, sloping towards the shore, almost as
sar as Wintertonnesse.
We were not much' more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, when we saw her smk; and then I under-
stood, for the first time, what was meant by a ship foun-
dering in the sea. I must acknowledge 1 had hardly eyes
to look up, when the seamen told me she was sinking;
for, from that moment they rather put me into the boat,,
than that I might be said to go in; my heart was as it
were dead within me, partly with fright, partly with
horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet»besore
me.
While we were in.this condition, the men yet labour-
ing at the oar to bring the boat near the more, we could
see (when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able
to see the shore) a great many people Joining along the
strand, to assist us when we should come near: but we
made but stow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach the shore, till being past the light-house at
Winterton, the shore salls off to the westward towards
Cromer; and fo the land broke ossa little the violence os'
the wind. Here we got in; and, though not without
much difficulty, got all sase on shore, and walked after-
wards on foot to \ armouth, where, as unfortunate m'en,
we were used with great humanity, as well by the ma-
gistrates of the town, who assigned us good quarters, as
by particular merchants and owners of ships; and had
money given us sufficient to carry us either to London,
or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy ; and my sather,
an emblem of our blessed. Saviour's parable, had even
S si killad
killed the satted calf for me; for, hearing the ship I went
away in was cast away in Yarmouth road, it was a great
while besore he had anyassuranccs thatl was not drowned.
But my ill sate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several times
loud calls from my reafon, and my more composed judg-
ment to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know
not what to call this; nor will I urge that it is a secret
over-ruling decree that hurries us on to be the instru-
ments of our own destruction, even though it.be besore
us, and that we push upon it with our eyes open. Cer-
tainly nothing but fome such decreed, unavoidable mi-
sery attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reafonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts,
and agamst two such visible instructions as I had met
with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me besore,
and who was the master's fon, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were at
Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for we
•were separated in the town to several quarters; 1 say,
the firlt time he law me, it appeared his tone was
altered; and looking very melancholy, and shaking his
head, asked me how I did? and telling his sather who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go sarther abroad; his sather, turning to me,
with a very grave and concerned tone, Young man, says
he, you ought never to'go to fea any more; you ought
to take this for a plain and visible token, that you are
not to be a seasaring man. Why, Sir, said I, will you
go to sea no more? That is another, case, said he ; it is
my calling, and theresore my duty: but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect if you persist: per-
haps all this has besallen us on your account, like Jonah
hsthe ship of Tarshish. Pray, continues he, what are you?
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon that I
told him fome of my story; at the end of which he burst
out with a strange kind of passion ; What have I done,
says he,.that such an unhappy wretch should come into
my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship with
'' thee
thee again for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as
1 said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agi-
tated by the sense of his loss, and was surther than he
could have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to
my sathar, and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told
me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against, me.
And, young man, said he, depend upon it, if you do
not go back, wherever you go, you will imeet with
nothing but disasters and disappointments, till yout
father's words are sulfilled upon you.
'We parted foon aster, for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more; which way he went 1 know
not. As for me, having fome money in my pocket, 1 tra-
velled to London by land, and there,as well as on the road,
had many struggles with myself what course of lise I
should take, and whether 1 should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
cured to me how I should be laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my sather
and mother only, but even every body else ; from whence
1 have since often observed how incongruous and irra-
tional the common temper of maekind is, especially of
youth, to that reafon that ought to guide them in such
cases; viz. that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are
ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for which
they ought justly to be esteemed fcols; b\it are ashamed
of the returning, which only can make them esteemed
'wise men.'
In this' state of lise, however, I remained fome time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of lise
to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to gping
home: and as I staid awhile, the remembrance of the
distress 1 had been in wore off; and as that abated, the
little motion I had in my desires to return, wore off with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and
looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence, which carried me first away from,
my sather's house, which hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and ,that im-
pressed those conceits fo forcibly upon me as to make me
deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even
the
the commands of my sather;—I say, the same insluence,
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all
enterprises to mv view; and I went on board a vefTel
bound to the coast ot' Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly
call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though
1 might indeed have worked a little harder than ordi^.
nary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and
osfice of a foremastman, and in time might have qualified
myself for a mate or lieutenant, is not fora master. But
as it was always my sate to chuse for the worse, fo I did
here; for, having money in my pocket, and good cjothes
on my back, I would always go on board in the habit of
a gentleman; and fo 1 neither had any business in the
ship, nor learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to sall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which docs not always happen ro such
loose and anguided young sellows as I then was, the devil
generally not omitting to lay fome snare for them very.
early; but it was not fo with me. 1 first sell acquainted
with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea, and who, having had very good success there,
was resolved to go.again: this captain, taking a sancy to>
my conversation, which was not disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say 1 had a mind to see the world,,
told me, if I would go the voyage with him, Ishoiild be
• at no expence, 1 should be his messmate, and his compa-
nion; and if I would carry any thing with me, 1 should,
have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit;
and perhaps I might meet with fome encouragement...
I embraced the osfer; and, entering into a strict;
.friendship with this captain, who was an, honest, plain
dealing man, went the voyage with him, and carried a
small adventure with me, which, by the dismterested
honesty of my friend, the captain, I increased very con-
siderably; for 1 carried about 40h, in such toys and
trifles as the captain directed me to buy: this 401.1 had
mustered together by the assistance of fome of my rela-
tions, whom 1 corresponded with, and who, 1 believe,
got my sather, or at least my mother, to contribute fo
much as that to my first adventure.
This
This was the only voyage which I may say was suc-N
cesssul in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and honesty of my. friend, the captain; under
whom I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics,
and the rules of navigation; learned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and,
in short, to understand fome things that were needsul to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to
introduce me, I took delight to learn: and, in a word,
this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant; for
1 brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my re-
turn, almost 3001.; and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.'
Yet, even in this voyage, I had misfortunes too ; par-
ticularly that I was continually sick, being thrown into
a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate;
our principal trading being upon the coast, from the.
latitude of 15 degrees north, even to the line itself.
I was now set up fora Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great.misfortune, dying foon after his arrival, 1
refolved to go the same voyage again; and I embarked
in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man
made; for though 1 did not carry quite 1001. of my
new gained wealth, fo that I had 2001. lest, and which
I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to
me, yet I sell mto terrible misfortunes in this voyage;
and the first was this, viz. Our ship, making her,course
towards the Canary islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised in the grey
of the morning by a Moorish rover of Sallee, who gave
chace to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded alfoas much canvass as our yards would spread,
or our rpasts carry, to have got clear: but finding the
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a sew hours, we prepared to fight, our ship
having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us; and, bring-
ing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of
athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of
our
#
our guns to bear on that side, ami poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer osf again, after return-
ing our fire, and pouring in alib hissmallshot from near
two hundred men which he had on board. However, we
had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to desend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quar-
ter, he entered ninety men upon our decks, who imme-
diately sell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging.
We plied them with small shot, half pikes, powderchefts,
and such like, and cleared ourdeck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our
shipbeing disabled, and three of our men killed and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried all
prifoners'to Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usuage 1 had there was not fo dreadsul as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the country, to the
Emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being voung and nimble, and fit for his
business. At this surprising change of my circumstances,
from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was persectly
overwhelmed; and now 1 looked back upon my sather's
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable,
and have none to relieve me; which 1 thought was now
fo effectually brought to pats, that I could not be worse;
and now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I
was undone without redemption. But, alas! this was
but a taste of the misery 1 was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to
his house, fo I was in hopes that he would take me with,
him when he went to sea again, believing that it would
be fome time or other his sate to be taken by a Spanish or
Portugal man of war, and that then I should be set at
liberty. But this hope of mine was foon taken away; for
when he went to sea, he lest me on shore to look after
his little garden, and do the drudgery of staves about his
house; and when he came home again from his cruize,
he ordered me to lie.in the cabin, to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method 1 might take to effect it; but found no way that
had
had the least probability in it; nothing presented to make
the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to, that would embark with me; no sellow
slave, no Englishman, Irishmen, or Scotsman there, but
myself; fo that for two years, though 1 often pleased
myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thoughts of making fome
attempt for my liberty again in my head: my patron
lying at home longer than usual, without fitting out his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used
constantly once or twice a week, fometimes oftener, if
the weather was sair, to take the ship's pinnace and go
out into the road a fishing; and as he always took me
and a young Maresco with him, to row the boat,we made
him very merry, and I proved very dextrous in catching
filh; infomuch that fometimes he would send me with
a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth Maresco, as
they called him, to catch a dim of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing with him in
a calm morning, a fog rose fo thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither, or which way, we
laboured all day, and the next night; and when the
morning came, we found we had pulled off' to sea,
instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at
least two leagues from the land, However, we got well
in again, though with a great deal of labour, and fome
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, refolved to
take more care of himself for the suture; and having.
lying by'him the long-boat of our English ship which
he had taken, he refolved he would not go a fishing any
more without a compass and fome provision. ho he
ordered the carpenter of his ship, who was alfo an Eng-
lish slave, to build a little state room, or cabin, in the
middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer, and hawl home the
main sheet; and room besore for an hand or two to
stand and work the sails. tshe sailed with what we
call a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom jjbbed over
the
the top of the cabin, which lay very mug and low, and
had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a
table to eat on, with fome small lockers to put in fome
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; parti-
cularly his bread, rice, and cosfee.
We were frequently out with his boat a fishing, and
as I was most dexterous to catch sish for him, he never
went without me. It happened one day that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moors of fome distinction,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily ; and had
theresore seht on board the boat over night a larger store
of provisions than usual; and had ordered me to get
ready three susils with powder and shot, which were on
board his ship, for that they designed fome sport of
fowling as well as fishing.
I got al! things ready a« he had directed, and waited
the next mornmg with the boat washed clean, her an-
cients and pendants out, and every thing to accommo-
date his guests; when by and by my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put osf going,
upon fome business that sell out; and ordered me, with
the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and
catch them fome fish, for that his friends were to sup at
bis house: he commanded me too, that as foon as I had
got fome fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.'
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone,
I prepared to surnish myself, not forfishmg business, but
for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did 1 fo much
as consider whither 1 would steer; for any where to get
out of that place was my way.
Mj first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor to ,get fomething for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our
patron's bread; he iakl that was true: fo he brought a
large basket of rusk, or biscuit of their kind, and three
jars with freshwater, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident by the
make were taken out of fome English prize, and I con-
veyed
veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore>
as if they had been there besore sor our master. I con-
veyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the boat, which
weighed about half an hundred weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all
which were of great use to us afterwards, especially
the wax to make randies. Another trick I tried upon
him, which he innoc,Yitly came into also: his name was
Ilmael, whom they cairMuley, orMoloy; so 1 called to
him, Moloy, said I, our patron's guns are all on board
the boat, can you not get a little powder and shot? it
may be we may-kill some aleamies (a sowl like our cur-
lew), sor ourselves; sor I know he keeps the gunner's
stores in the ship. Yes, said he,I'll bring some; accord-
ingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat : at the liime time I
had sound some powder of my master's in the great
cabin, with which I filied one ot' the large bottles in the
Case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it
into another; and thus surnished with every thing need-
sul, we tailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which
was at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no Viotice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port besore we hawled in our sail, and sat us down
to fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E, which was
contrary to my desire; sor had it blown southerly, I had
been sufe^t^have made the coast of Spain, and at least
reached tb .toe bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that
horrid place whese 1 was, and leave the rest to sate.
After we had mlied some time and catched nothing
(sor when I had fish on my hook 1 would not pull them
up, that he might not see them), I said to the Moor,
This will not do, our master will not bethus served; we
must stanjl sarther off: he, thinking no harm, agreed;
and being in the head of the boat, set the sails ;. and as I
had the helm, I ran the boat out near a league sarther,
and then brought her to as if 1 would fish; when, giving
the boy the* helm, I stepped sorward to where, the Moor
was, and making as if 1 stooped sor something behind
him;
him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his twist,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea: he rose
immediately, for he swam like a cork, and culled to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he.would go all over the
world with me. He. swam fo strong after the boat,
that he would have reached me very quickly, there being
but little wind; upon which 1 stepped into the cabin,
and setching one of the fowling-pMces, 1 presented it at
him, and told him 1 had done him' no hurt, and if he
would be quiet, I would do him none. But, said I,
you swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm; make the besl of your way to the shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I
•will shoot you through the head; for I am refolved to
have my liberty. So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
•with me, and' have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone, 1 turned to
the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, Xury,
if you will be saithsul to me, I will make you a great
man; but if youi will not stroke your sace to be true to
me, that is, swear by Mahomet, and his sather's beard,
I must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in
my sace, and spoke fo innocently, that Ipould not mis-
trust him, and (wore to be saithsul to me, and go all
over the world with me.
While I was in, the view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea, with the boat rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Strcight-mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits must have been supposed to do), for
who would have supl,osed we were sailed on to the fouth-
ward, to 'he truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations
of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes,
aud destroy us; where we could never once go one shore,
but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind!
But as foon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly fouth and by east, bend-
ing my course towards the east, that I might keep
in with the shore; and having a sair fresh gale of wind,
and a smooth quiet sea', I made such sail, that I believe
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
1 first made the land, I could not be less than one hun-
dred and fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any
other King thereabouts, sor we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and
the dreadsul apprehensions I had of salling into their
hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to
an anchor, the wind continuing sair, till 1 had sailed in
that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the
southward, 1 concluded also, that if any of our vessels
were in chace of me, they also would now give over ; so
1 ventured to make the coast, and came to an anchor in
the mouth of a little river, 1 knew not what or where,
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see any people;
the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We
came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim
on shore as soon as it was dark, and difcover the coun-
try: but as ibon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadsul noifes of the barking, roaring, and howling of
wild preatures of we knew not what kinds, that the.
poor boy was ready to die with sear, and begged of me
not to go on shore till day. Well, Xury, said I, then I
won't; but it may be we may see men by day, who will
be as bad to us as thofe lions. Then we may give them
the shoot gun, says Xury, laughing, make them run
away: such English Xury spoke by conversing among
us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy ib cheer-
sul, and I gave him a dram out of our patron's case of
bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was
good, and 1 took it. We dropped our little anchor,
and lay still all night—I say still, sor we slept none;
sor in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures,
we knew not what to call them, of many sorts, come
down to the sea shore, and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves, sor the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury
Xury was dreadsully frighted, and indeed fo was I
too. But we were both worse frighted when we heard
one mighty creature come swimming towards-our boat;
we could not see him, but we might hear him by his
blowing, to be a monstrous, huge, and surious beast;
Xury said it w?.s a lion, and it might be for ought I
know. Poor Xury cried out to me to weigh the anchor,
and row away No, says I, Xury, we can flip our cable
wifst a buoy to it, and go to sea, they cannot follow us
sar. I had no fooner said fo, but I perceived the crea-
ture, whatever, it was, within two oars length, which
fomething surprised me. However, 1 immediately
stepped to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired
at him ; upon which he immediately turned about, and
swam towards the shore again.
But it was not possible to describe the horrible noises
and hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well
upon the edge ot'the shore as higher within the coun-
try, upon the noise or report of a gun, a thing I have
fome reafon to believe those creatures had never heard
besore. This convinced me that there was no going on
ihore for us in the night upon that coast; and how to
venture on shore in the day, was another question too;
for to have sallen into the hands of any of the savages,
had been as bad as to have sallen into the. paws of lions
and tigers; at least wewere equally apprehensive of the
danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
left in the boat; when or where to get to it' was the
point. Xury said if I would let'him go on shore with,
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water;,
and bring fome to me. 1 asked him why he would go,
why 1 should not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
answered with fo much affection, that made me love
him ever after. Says he, if wild mans come, they eat
me, you go away. Well, Xury, said 1, we will both
go, and if the wisd mans come, we will kill them; they
shall eat neither of us. So I gave Xury a piece of rusk-
bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of
bottles, which I mentioned besore, and we hawled the
boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper,
i and
and waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.
1 did not care to go out of sight of th^boat, searing
the corning of the canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw him coma
running towards me. I thought he was pursued by fome
savage, or frighted by fome wild bef.st, and 1 ran for-
ward towards him to help him; but when ! came neirrer
to him, I law fomething hanging over bis shoulders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, but
different in colour, and longer legs: however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat: but the great
joy that poor Xury came with, was so tell me he had
found good water, and had seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such ,
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the.water fresh when the tide was
out, which flows but a little way up; so we silled our
jars,'and seasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human
creature in that part of the country.
. As I had been one voyage to this coast besore, I knew
very .well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
de Verd itlands alfo, lay not sar off from the coast; but
as I had no instruments to take an observation to know
what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, prat
least not remember wha^ latitude they were in, 1 knew
not where to look for them, or when to stand off'to sea
towards them, otherwise 1 might now east!}' have found
fome of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till 1 came to that part where the Eng-
lish traded, 1 mould find fome of their vessels upon their
usual design of trade, that arould relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was, must be that country which, lying between the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, lies
waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the ne-
groes having abandoned it, 'and gone surther fouth for
iear of the Moers; and the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting by reafon of its barrenness; and indeed both
forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers oi tigers,
lions,
lions, leopards, and other surious creatures which har-
bour there; fo that the Moors use it for their hunting
only, where they go like an army, two or three thou-
sand men at a time: and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing
but howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day time 1 thought 1 saw the
Pico of Tencriffc, being the high top of the mountain
Ter.eriffe, in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, 1 was sorced in again by contrary winds, the
sea alfo going too high for my little vessel; fo I refolved
to pursue my first design, and kept along the shore.
Several times we were obliged to land forfresh water,
after we had lest this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under
a little point of land, whicti was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go sarther in.
Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems
mine were, calls foftly to me, and tells me, that we had
best go sarther off the shore; For, says he, look yonder
'lies a dreadsul monster, on the side of that hillock, sast
asleep. I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadsul
monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion, that lay
on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the
hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xury, said
I, you shall go on shore and kill him. Xury looked
frighted, and said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth; one
mouthsul he meant. However, I said no more to the
boy, but bade him be still, and took our biggest gun,
which was almost musket bore, and loaded it with a
good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it
down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets, and
the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim 1 could with the
sirst piece to have shot him in she head; but he lay fo,
with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the slug
hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He
started up, growled at first; but finding bis leg broke,
sell down again, and then got up upon three legs, and
gave the most hideous roar that 1 ever heard. 1 was a
little
little surprised that I had not hit him on the head: how-
ever I took up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop; and, making
but little noise, he lay struggling for lise. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore.
Well go, said I. So the boy jumped into the water, and
taking the little gun in one hand, swam to the shore with
the other hand; and coming close to the creature, put
the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into the
head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no fo»d;
and I was very forry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would have fome of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet.
For what, Xury? said I. Me cut osf his head, said he^
However, Xury could not cut osf'his head, but he cut osf
a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of fome value to us ; and
I refolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it; for I knew very ill how to do it. 'Indeed
it took us up both the whole day: but at last we got off
the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin,
the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and it after-
wards served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the fouthward continu-
ally for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our
provitions, which began to abate very much, and going
no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for
fresh water. My design in this was to make the river
Gambia, or Senegal; that is to say, any where about the
Cape de Verd, where [ was in hopes to meet with fome
European' ship.; and If I did not, I knew not what course
I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there
among the, negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the cotiff of Guinea, or
to Brasil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those
islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune
vos.. i, c upqa.
upon this single point, either that I must meet with some
iliip, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I laid, I began to see that the land was inha-
bited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore, to look at us ; we could
also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I
was once inclined to have gone on shore to them ; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me,.No go,
no go. However, I hawled in nearer the shore, that I
might talk to them; and I sound they ran along the shore
by me a good way. I observed they had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick,
which Xury said was a lance, and that they could throw
them a great way with good aim ; ib I kept at a distance,
but talked with them by signs as well as I could, and
particularly made signs sor something to eat. They
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would setch
me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my sail,
and lay by; and two of them ran up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back, and brought
with them two pieces of dried flesh, and some corn, iuch
as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew
what the one nor the other was; however, we were wil-
ling to accept it. But how to come at it was our next
difpute; sor I was not sor venturing op shore to them, and
they were as much asraid of us; but they took a sase way
sor us all; sor they brought it to the shore, and laid it
down, and went and stood a great way oft", till we setched
it on board, and then came clofe to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, sor we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wondersully; sor while we
were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one
pursuing the other, as we took it, with great sury, from
the mountains towards the sea'; whether it was the male
pursuing the semale, or whether they were in sport, or in
: rage, we could. not tell, any more than we could tell
whether it was usual or strange; but I believe it was the
latter, because, in the first place, thofe ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second place,
we sound the people terribly affrighted, especially the
women.
V
'.
•women. The man that had the lance to dart did not fly
from them, but the rest did. However, as the two crea-
tures ran directly into the water, they did not seem to osfer
to sall upon Ae negroes,but plunged themselves into the sea,
and swam about as if they, had come for their diversion.
At last one of them began to come nearer our. boat than
I first expected; but I lay ready for him; for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade
Xury load both the others. As foon as he came sairly
within my reach, I fired, and diet him directly into the
head: immediately he sunk down into the water, but
rose instantly, and plunged up and down as struggling for
lise, and fo indeed he was: he immediately made to the
shore; but between the wound which was his mortal
hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just besore
he reached shore.
1t is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; fome of
them were ready even to die with sear, and sell down
as dead with the very terror. But when they law the
creature dead, and sunk into the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart,
and came to the shore, and began to search for the crea-
ture, f found him by his blood staining the water, and
by the help of a rope which I flung round him, and
gave the negroes to hawl; they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and
sine to an admirable degree; and the negroes held up their
hands with admiration to think what it was I killed him
with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran
up directly to.the mountains from which they came,
nor could I at that distance know what it was. i sound
quickly the negroes were for eating the ftc.sh of this
creature; fo 1 was willing to have them take it as a
iavour from me; which, when 1 made signs to them
that they might take it, they, were very thanksul for.
Immediately they sell.to work wish him , and though they
had no knise, yet, with 'a. sharpened piece of wood they
took off his skin as readily, nay much more readily than
we would have done with a knise; they ofsered me fome
c 2 os
of the flesh, which I declined, tnaking as if I would give
it them, but made signs for the skin, which they gave
me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their
provision, which, though I did not understand, yet I
accepted. Then I made signs to them for fome water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning its bottom
upward, to shew that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it silled. They called immediately to fome of
theit friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as 1 suppose, in the
sun; this they set down for me, as besore, and I sent
Xuryon shore with my jars, and filled them all three.—
The women were as stark naked as the men.
I was now surnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without offer-
ing to go near the shore, till 1 saw the land run out a great
length into the sea, at about the distance of four'or five
leagues besore me; and the sea being very calm, I kept
a large offing to make this point. At length, doubling
the point, at about two leagues from the land, 1 saw
plainly land on the other fide, to sea-wards; then I con-
cluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence
• Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were ata great
distance, and 1 could not well tell what I had best to do;
for if I should be taken with a fresh gale of wind, I might
neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin, and set me down, Xury having the helm ;—
when on a sudden the boy cried out, Master, master, a
ship was a sail! and the foolish boy was frighted out of
his wits, thinking it must needs be fome of his master's
ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten sar
enougft out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was,
'viz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was
bound to the coast of Guinea for negroes. But when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was foon convinced they
were bound fome other way, and did not design to go any
nearer the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, refolving to speak with them, if possible.
With
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone
by besore I could make any signal to them; but after I
had crouded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-glafies,
and that it was fome European boat, which they sup-
posed must belong to fome ship that was lost; fo they
shortened sail to let me come up. 1 was encouraged with
this ; and as I had my patron's ensign on board, I made
a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a
gun, both of which they saw; for they told me they saw
the smoke, though they did not hear the gun ; upon these
signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me,
and in about three hours time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but at
last a Scots sailor, who was on board, called to me, and
I answered him, and tolcshim I was an Englishman, that
had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at
Salee; then they bid me come on board, and very kindly
took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, any one will believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a
miserable, and almost hopeless condition as I was in; t
immediately osfered all 1 had to the captain of the ship,
as a return for my deliverance; but he generously told
me he would take nothing from me, but that all 1 had
should be delivered sase to me when I came to the Brasils;
for, says he, I have saved your lise on no other terms,
than as I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may
one time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. Besides, when I carry you to the Brasils, fo
great a way from your own country, if I should take from
you what little you have, you will be starved there, and
then I only take away that lise I have given. No, no,
Signior Inglese (Mr. Englishman) I would carry you
there in charity; and these things will help you to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.
As he was charitable in this proposal, fo he was just in
the persormance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen,
that none should offer to touch any thing I had; then he
took every thing into his own possession, and gave me
c 3 back
. i
back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them
again, even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me sor the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have sor it. I told him
he had been so generous to me in every thing, that I could
not ofser to make any price of the boat, but lest it entirely
to him; upon which he told me he would give me a
note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight sor it at
Brasil; and when it came there, if any one offered to
give more, he would make it up. He ossered me also
sixty pieces of eight more sor my boy Xury, which I
was loath to take; not that 1 was unwilling to let the
Captain. have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so saithsully in pro-
curing my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this me-
dium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian. Upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the
Captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and arrived
in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in
about twenty-two days after. And now 1 was once more
delivered from the most miferable of all conditions of lise,
and what to do next with myself I was to consider.
The generous treatment the Captain gave me I can
never susficiently remember; he would take nothing of
me sor my passage, gave me twenty ducats sor the leopard's
skin, and sorty sor the lion's skin, which I had in the
boat; and caused every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered me; and what I was willing to sell
he bought ; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns,
and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, sor I had made
candies of the rest. In a word, I made about two hun-
dred and thirty pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with
this stock 1 went on shore in the Brasils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to
the house of a good honest man like himself, who .had an
jngenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation, and a sugar-
house, I lived with him some time, and acquainted
myself, by that means, with the manner os their plant-
ing and making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
.' lived,
31
lived, and how they grew rich suddenly, I refolved, if I
could get a licence to settle there, I would turn planter
among them; refolving, in the mean time, to find out
fome way to get my money, which I had lest in London,
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a
letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land, that
was uncured, as my money would reach; and formed a
plan for my plantation and settlement, and such an one
as might be suitable to the stock which I proposed to my-
self to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of Lnglish parents, whose name was Wells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. 1 call him neighbour, be-
cause his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very fociably together; my stock was but low, as well
as nis; and we rather planted for food than any thing
.else, for about two years. However,we began to increase,
and our land began to come into order; so that the third
year we planted fome tobacco, and made each of us a
large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the
year to come; but we both wanted help; and now I
found more than besore, I had done wrong in parting
with my boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was
no great wonder; I had no remedy but to go on; 1 was
gotten into an employment quite remote to my genius,
and directly contrary to the lise I delighted in, and for
which I forfook my sather's house, and broke through all
his good advice. Nay, I was coming into the very mid-
dle station, or upper degree of low lise, which my sather
advised me to before, and which, if I refolved to go on
with, I might as well have staid at home, and never sa-
tigued myself in the world, as I have done; and 1 used
often to fay to myself, \ could have done this as well in
England among my friends, as have gone five thousand
miles off', to do it among strangers and savages, in a wil-
derncss, and at such a distance as never to hear from any
part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with but
now and then this neighbour; no work to be done but
by the labour of my hands; and I used to say, I lived
c 4 just
just like a man cast away upon fome defolate island, that
had nobody there but himself: but how just has it been,
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare
their present condition with others that are worse, heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be con-
vinced of their former selicity, by their experience! I
saw how just it has been, that the truly folitary lise I re-
flected on in an island, or mere defolation, should be my
lot, who had fo often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had, in.
all probability, been exceeding prosperous and rich!
I was in fome degree settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, besore my kind friend the Captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the
strip remained there in providing her loading, and pre-
paring for her voyage, near three months; when telling
him what little stock 1 had lest behind me in London,
•he gave me this friendly and sincere advice :—Signior
Inglese, says he (for fo he always called me), if you will
give me letters, and a procuration here, in form to me,
with orders to the perfon who has your money in Lon-
•don, to send your effects to'Lisbon, to such perfons as I
shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, 1 will bring you the produce of them, God will-
ing, at my return; but since human affairs are all sub-
ject to changes and disasters, 1 would have you give
orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which you
say is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; fo that if it comes sase, you may order the rest the
same way; and if it miscarries, you may have the other
half to have recourse to for your supply.
This was such wholefome advice, and looked fo friend-
ly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best
'course. I could take; fo I accordingly prepared letters to
the gentlewoman with.whom I had lest my money, and
a procuration to the Portuguese Captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English Captain's widow a sull account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portugal Captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with
asl other necessary directions for my supply; and when
this honest Captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by
fome
fome of the English merchants there, to send over not
the order only, but a sull account of my story to a mer-
chant at London, who presented it effectually to her ;—
whereupon , she not only delivered the money, but out
of her own pocket sent the Portugal Captain a very hand-
fome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the Captain had written for; sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all
sase to me to the Brasils: among which, without my
direction (for I was too young in my business to think of
them), he had taken care to have all forts of tools, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and
which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made,,
for I was surprized with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the Captain, had laid out the sive pounds which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to.
purchase, and bring me over a servant, under bond
for six vears service, and would not accept of any consi-
deration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own prodnc?..
Neither was this all; but my goods, being all English
manusactures, such.as cloth, stusf, bays, and things par-
ticularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found.
means to sell them to a very great advantage; fo that I
may say 1 had more than four times the value of mv first
cargo, and was now insinitely beyond my poor neigh-
bour, T mean in the advancement of my plantation; for
for the first thing 1 did, I bought me a Negro slave, and.
an European servant alfo; I mean another besides that
which the Captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greatest adversity, fo was it with me. L
went on the next year with great success in my planta-
tion; I raised sifty great rolls of tobacco, on my own,:
ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries among
my neighbours; and these sifty rolls being each of above
one hundred pounds weight, were well cured, and laid
by, against the return os'the fleet from Lisoon. And now
increasing in business and wealth , my head began to be
sull of projects and undertakings beyond my reach;—•'
c 5 such.
such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in
business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet besallen me, for
which my sather fo earnestly recommended a quiet re-
tired lise, and which he had fo sensibly described the
middle station of lise to be sull of; but other things at-
tended me; and I was still to be the wilsul agent of all
my own miseries; and particularly to increase my saults,
and double the reflections upon myself, which in my su-
ture forrows I should have leisure to make: all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate
adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad;
and pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a sair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of lise.,
which nature and Providence concurred to present roe
with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done this in breaking away from my
parents, fo I could not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view 1 had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising saster than the na-
ture of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself dowa
again into the deepest gulph of human misery that ever
man sell into, or perhaps could be consistent with lise, and
a state of health in the world.
To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
this part of my story; you may suppose, that having
.now lived almost four years in the Brasils, and beginning
to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I
had not only learned the language, but had contracted
acquaintance and friendship among my sellow planters,
as well as among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which
was our port; and that, in my discourse among them, I
had frequently given them an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the
coast, for trifles (such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hat-
chets, bits of glass, and the like) not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants teeth, &c. but negroes for the
service of the Brasils, in great numbers.
They
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on those heads, but especially to that part which related
to the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not
only not sar entered into, but, as sar as it was, had been
carried on by the Assientos, or permission of the king of
.Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock;
fo that sew negroes were bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company one day with fome
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to me
the next morning, and told me, they had been musing
very much upon what I had discoursed of with them the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to
me; and, after enjoining me secrecy, they told me that
they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that
they had all plantations as well as I, and were streight-
cned for nothing fo much as servants; that as it was a
trade that could not publicly sell the negroes when they
came home, fo they desired to make but one voyage,
to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the ques-
tion was, whether I would go their supercargo in the
stiip, to manage the trading part upon the coast of
Guiuea? And they offered me, that 1 should have my
equal share of the negroes, without providing any part
of the stock.
This was a sair proposal, it must be consessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and'
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a sair
way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But sor me, that was thus established, and
had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for three or
four years more, and to have sent for the other hundred •
pounds from England, and whoin that time, and with that
little addition^ could scarce have sailed of being worth'
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing
too; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most
preposterous thing that ever man, in such circumstances,
could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer than 1 could restrain my first
rambling designs, when mv sather's good counsel was
c6' lost
lost upon me. In a word, I told them 1 would go with
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such
as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they all en-
gaged to do, and entered into writings, or covenants, to
do fo; and I made a formal will, disposing of my plan-
tation and effects, in case of my death, making the Cap-
tain of the ship that had saved my lise, as besore, my uni-
versal hejr, but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will; one half of the produce being
to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my ef-
sects, and to keep up my plantation. Had I used half as
much prudence to have looked into my own interest , and
have made a judgment of what 1 ought to hav& done,
and not to 'have done, I had certainly never gone away
from fo prosperous an undertaking; leaving all the pro-
bable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a
voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards ;—
to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular
misfortunes to myself.
But 1 was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my sancy, rather than my reafon; and accordingly
the ship being fitted out, and the cargo finished, and all
things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voy-
age; I went on board in an evil hour again, the 1st of
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that I
went from my sather and mother at Hull, in oruer to act
the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own,
interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons bur-
then, carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the mas-
ter, his boy, and myself. We had on board no large
cargo of goods, except such toys as were fit for our trade
with the negroes; such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and
odd trifles; especially little looking-glasses, knives, scis-
sors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coasts, with design
to stretch over for the African coast, when they came in
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which,
it seems, was the manner of their course in those days.—
3 We
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the
way upon our own coast, till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keeping sarther off
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were
bound for the isle Fernand de Tyoronba, holding our
course N. E. by N. and leaving those isses on the East.
In this course we passed the line in about twelve day's
time, and were, by our last observation, in seven degrees
twenty-two min. northern latitude, when a violent tor-
nado or hurricane took us quite out of our knowledge; it
began from the fouth-east, came about to the north-west,
and then settled in the north-east, from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together
we could do nothing but drive; and scudding away be-
fore it, let it carry us wherever sate, and the sury of the
winds, directed; and during these twelve days 1 need not
say that I expected every day to be swallowed up; nor
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
1n this distress we had, besides the terror of a storm,.
one of our men died of the calenture, and a man and a'
boy washed over-board. About the twelfth day, the'
weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees of north latitude, but that he was twenty-two
degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St. Au-
gustinp, fo that he found he was gotten upon the coast
of Guiana, or the north part of Brasil, beyond the river
Amazones, towards that of the river Ortionoque, com-
monly called the Great River; and now he began to
consult with me what course he should take, for the ship
was leaky, and very much disabled; 'and he was for
going directly back to the coast of Brasil.
I was positively against that, and, looking over the
charts of the sea coast of America with him, we concluded
there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to,
till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and
theresore reiolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which,
by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraught of the bay
or gulph of Mexico, we might eatily persorm, as we
hoped, in about fifteen days sail; whereas we could not
possibly make our voyage to the coiist of Africa without
fome assistance both to our ship and to ourselves.
With v
With this design we changed our course, and steered
away N. W. by W. in order to reach fome of our Eng-
lish islands, where I hoped for relies; but our voyage was>
otherwise determined ; tor, being in the latitude of twelve
deg. eighteen min. a second storm came upon us, which
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,,
and drove us fo out of the very way of all human com-
merce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we
were rather in danger of being devoured by savages, than
ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early one morning cried out land; and we
had no fooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes
of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being
ib stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately;
and we were even driven into our close quarters, to shel..
ter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation
of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing where
we were, or upon what land it was we were driven;
whether an island or the main,.whether inhabited or
not inhabited ; and, as the rage of the wind was still
great, though rather less than at first, we could not fo
much as hope to have the ship hold out many minutes
without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word,
we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as'
preparing for another world; for there was little or
nothing, more for us to do in this. That which was'
our present corn'ort, and als the comsort we had, was,
that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not
break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship, having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too sart for us to expect her getting, off, we
were in a dreadsul condition indeed, and had nothing to
do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could.—
We
We had a boat at our stern just besore the storm; but
'she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder,
and, in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk,
or was driven off to sea; fo there was no hope from her:
we had another boat on board, but how to get her off' into
the sea was a doubtsul thing. However, there was no
room to debate; for we sancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute; and fome told us me was actually
broken already.
'In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got
her flung over the ship's side ; and getting all into her, let'
go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to
God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadsully high
upon the shore, and might well be called Den wild Zee,
as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went fo high, that the boat
could not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail we had none, nor, if we
had, could we have done any thing with it: fo we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy
hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew that
when the boat came near the shore, she would be dashed
in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our fouls to God in the most earnest man-
ner; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling, as
well as we could, towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was,
if we might happen into fome bay or gulph, or the mouth
of fome river, where by great chance we might have run
our boats in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps
made smooth water. But there was nothing of this
appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the more,
the land looked more frightsul than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bid us expect
the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such a
sury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating us as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say, O God! for we were all swallowed up in
a moment.
Nothing can describe the consusion of thought which
I selt when I sunk into the water; for though 1 swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
fo as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or
rather carried me a vast way on towards the shore, and
having spent itself, went back, and lest me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I.
had fo much presence of mind, as well as breath lest,
that, seeing myself nearer the main land than 1 expected,
I got upon my seet, and endeavoured to make on to-
wards the land as sast as I could, besore another wave
should return and take me up again. But I foon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after
me as high as a great hill, and as surious as an enemy,
which I had no means or strength to contend with: my
business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon:
the water, if I could, and fo by swimming to preserve my
breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when ft
came on, might not carry me back again with it, when it
gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
twenty or thirty seet deep in its own body, and I could
seel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore a very gteat way; but I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my'
breath, when, as 1 found myself rising up, fo, to my
immediate relies, I found my head and hands shoot
out above the sursace of the water; and though it was
not two seGonds of time that I could keep myself fo,
yet it relieved me greatly; gave me breath and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not fo long but I held it out: and finding the
water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck
forward
sorward against the return of the waves, and selt
ground again with my seet. I stood still a sew moments
to recover breath, and till the waters went from me, and
then I took to my heels, and ran with what strength I
had sarther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the sury of the sea, which came pouring
after me again, and twice more 1 was lifted up by the
waves, and carried sorwards as besore, the shore being
very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been satal
to me; sor the sea, having hurried me along as besore,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and that with such sorce, as it lcit me senseless, and
indeed helpless, as to mine own deliverances; sor the
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it
were quite out of my body; and had r.t returned again
immediately, 1 must have been strangled in the water;
but I recovered a little besore the return of the waves;
and seeing 1 should be covered again with the water, I
resolved to hold sast by a piece of the rock, and so to
bold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back.
Now as the waves were not so high as at first, being
near land, I kept my hold till the waves ab'ated; and
fhen setched another run, which brought me so near the
stiore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet
did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took I got to the main land, where, to my
great comsort, I clambered up the clrfts of the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite
out of she reach of the water.
I was now landed, and sase on shore, and began to
look up and thank God, 'that my lise was saved in a
case wherein there was, some minutes besore, scarce any
room to hope. 1 believe it is impossible to express to the''
lise what the extasies and transports of the soul are
when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave;
and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz. that
when a malesactor, who has the halter about his neck,
is tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a
reprieve brought to him; I say 1 do not wonder that
they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that. very
'moment they tell him of it, that the surprife may not
drive
drive the animal spirits from the heart, a:.d overwhelm*
him.
For sudden loys, sike griefs, confound at first.
1 walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may lay, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting,
upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
should not be one foul saved but myself; for as for them
I never siw them afterwards, or anysign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two (hoes that were not
fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being fo big, I could hardly see it, it
lay fo sar off'; ami considered, Lord, how was it possible
1 could get on shore!
After I had folaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me to sec
what kind of place I was m, and what was the next to
be done; and I foon found my comforts abate, and that,
in a word, I had a dreadsul deliverance; for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing eithertoeat or
drink to comsort me; neither did I see any prospect be-
fore me but that of perishing with hunger, or being de-
voured by wild beasts. And that which was particu-
larly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon either to
hunt or kill any creature for my sustenance, or to desend
myself against any other creature that might desire to kill
me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knise, a tobacco pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this
was all my provision, and this threw me into terrible
f.gonies of mind, that for a while I ran about like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, I began, with an heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot, if there were
any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but
thorny, which grew near me, and where I refolved to fit
all night, and consider the next day what death I should
die; for as yet I saw no prospect of lise. I walked
about a surlong from the shore, to see if I could find any
fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great joy;
and having drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth,
to prevent hunger, I went to the tree; and, getting up
into it, endeavoured to place myself'fo as that, if I
should sleep, I might not sail; and, having cut me
a short stick like a truncheon for my desence, I took up
my lodging; and having been excessively satigued, I sell
fail asleep, and flept as comsortably as I believe sew
could have done in my condition; and found myself the
most resreshed with it, that I think I ever was on such an
occasion.
When I awaked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, fo that the sea did not rage and
swell as besore. But that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand
where she lay, ,by the swelling of the tide, and was
driven up almost as sar a3 the rock, which I first men-
tioned, where I had been fo bruised by the dashing me
against it: this being within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up still, I
wished myself on board, that at least I might have fome
necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again; and the first thing I found was
the boat, which lay as the wind and the Tea had tossed
her upon the land, about two miles to my right hand. I
walked as sar as I could upon the shore to have got to
her; but found a neck or inlet of water between me and
the bo.1t, which was about half a mile broad; fo I came
back for the present, being more intent upon getting at
the ship, where 1 hoped to find fomething for my present
subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed fo sar out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship. And here i found a fresti
renewing of my gries; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all sase; that is to say,
we had all got sase on shore, and I had not been fo mi-
serable as to be lest entirely destitute of all comsort and
company as I how was. This forced tears from my
eyes
44 advbntur.es or robinson crusoe.
eyes again; but as there was little relies in that, I re-
folved, if possible, to get to the ship; fo I pulled off my
clothes (for the weather was hot to an extreme) and took
to the water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty
was still greater to know how to get on board; as she
j lay aground and high out of the water, there was no-
thing within my reach, to lay hold of. 1 swam round
her twice, and the second time I espied a small piece of
rope, which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down
by the fore-chains, fo low, as with great difficulty I got
hold of it; and, by the help of that rope, got up into
the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bilged, and a great deal of water in the hold; but
that she lay fo on the side of a bank of hard sand, or
rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank,
and her head low almost to the water; by this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part was
dry; for you may be sure my work was to search, and
to see what was spoiled, and what was free. And first I
found that all the ship's provisions were, dry, and un-
touched by the water; and, being very well disposed to
eat, I went to the bread-room, and filled my pockets with,
biscuit, and eat it as I went about other thmgs, for I had
no time to lose. I alfo found fome rum in the great cabin,
of which I took a large dram, and which I nad indeed
need enough of, to spirit me for what was besore me.
Now! wanted nothing but a boat to surnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be very necessary to
me.
It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was not
to be had; and this extremely roused my application.
We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship; I refolved to sall to work with these, and stung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for their
weight, tying every one with a rope, that they might
not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them sast together at both ends as well as I could, in
the form of a raft; and laying two or three short
pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any
any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I went
to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-
mast into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
a great deal of labour and pains; but the hope of sur-
nishing myself with neceflaries, encouraged me to go be-
yond what I should have been able to have done upon
another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reafon-
able weight; my next care wiis what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surge
of the sea. But I was not long considering this; I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get;
and having considered well what I most wanted, 1 first
got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft; the first of these I filled with provisions, viz..
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's stem, which we lived much upon, and a little
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by
for fome fowls which we brought to sea with us, but
the sowls were killed; there had been fome barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disappointment, I
found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it
all. As for liquors, 1 found several cases of bottles
belonging to our skipper, in which were fome cordial
waters, and in all about five or six gallons of arrack;
these 1 stowed by themselves, there being no need to
put.them into the chest,, or any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though
very calm; and I had the mortification to see my coat,
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on Ihore upon
. the sand, swim away: as for my breeches, which were
only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them
and my stockings. However, this put me upon rum-
maging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took
no more than I wanted for the preient use, for I had other
things which my eye was more upon; as first, tools
to work with on shore; and it was after long search-
ing that I found out the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very usesul prize to me, and.much more valu-
able than a ship laden with gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in gene-
ral what it contained.
My next care was for fome ammunition and arms:
there were two very good fowling pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these 1 secured first, with fome
powder horns, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords'. I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water; these two I
got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I
should get to shore With them, having neither sail, oar,
nor rudder; and the least capsull of wind would have
overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: first, a smooth and calm
sea; second, the tide rising and setting ir/to the shore;
third, what little wind there was blew me towards the
land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat, and betides the tools which were
in the chest, 1 found two saws, an axe, and a hammer;
and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there-
abouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive
a litile distant from t':e place where I had landed besore;
by which 1 perceived that there was fome indraught of
the water, and consequently I hoped to find fome creek of
the river there, which 1 might make use of as a port to
get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, fo it was. There appeared besore me
a little opening of the land; I found a strong current of
the tide set into it, fo I guided my raft as well as I
could to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I
had like to have susfered a second shipwreck, which, if
I had, I think verily would have broken my heart; for,
knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end os it upon a shoal, and not being aground at
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo
had flipped ots'towards that end that was afloat, and so
sallen into the water. I did my utmost by setting my
back against the chests to keep them in their places,
but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength;
neither durst I stir from the posture 1 was in, but holding
up
.up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner
near half an hour; in which time the rising of the water
brought me a little more upon a level: and a little after,
the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel; and then
driving up higher, lat length found myself in the mouth
'of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong
current of tide running up. I looked on both fides for a
proper place to get to shore; for I was not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping in time to see fome ,
ship at sea, and theresore refolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.
At length 1 espied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and disficulty, I
guided my raft; and at last got fo near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in.
But here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the
sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
say, Hoping, there was no place to land, but where one
end of the Boat, if it ran on shore, would lie fo high, and
the other fink lower, as besore, that it would endanger
my .cargo again. All that I could do was to wait till
the tide was at the highest,, keeping 'the raft with my
oar, like an anchor, to hold the fide of it sast to the
stiore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would slow over, and fo it did. As foon as I found
water enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water),
I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened, or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars
into the ground; one on one side near one end, and one
on the other side near the other end: and thus I lay till
the water ebbed away, and lest my raft and all my cargo
sase on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitarion, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the conti-
nent, or on an island; whetherinhabited,or not inhabited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop fome other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northwird. I took out
one
one of the fowling pieces, and one of the pistols, and a
horn of of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for dis-
covery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with
great labour and difficulty got up, I immediately saw my
sate, to my great affliction; viz. that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen ex-
cept fome rocks, which lay a, great way ofs', and two
small islands less than this, which lay about three leagues
to the west.
I found alfo that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none; yet I saw abun-
dance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither when I
killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what
not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird which
I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a large wood: I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there smce
the creation of the world. I had no fooner fired, but
from all the parts of the wood there arose an extraordi-
nary number of fowls of many forts, making a consused
screaming and crying, every one according to his usual
note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew: as
for that creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a
hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common; its flesh was carrion,
and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and sell to work to bring my cargo onshore, which took
me up the rest of the day. What to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but fome
wild beast might devour me; though I afterwards found
there was really no need for those sears'.
However, as well as I could I barricadoed myself round
with the chests and boards that 1 had brought on shore,
and made a kind of an hut for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, ex-
cept that I had seen two or three creatures like hares run
out of the wood where I shot the fowl.
. I now began to consider that 1 might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be usesul
to me, and particularly fome of the rigging and sails,
and
and such other things as might come to hand; and I re-
solved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if pos-
sible: and as 1 knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all
other things apart, till I gat every thing out of the ship
that I could get. Then 1 called a council, that is to sov,
in my thoughts, whether 1 mould take back the raft; but
this appeared impracticable; so I resolved to go as besore
when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped besore I went from my hut, having nothing on
but a chequered shirt, a pair or linen drawers, and a pair
of pumps on my seet.
I <rot on board the ship as besore, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, 1 neither
made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard; but yet I
brought away several things very usesul to me; as first,
in the carpenter's store I sound two or three bags sull of
nails and spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that moil usesul thing called a
grindstone. All these I secured, together with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, aud two barrels of musket bullets, seven
muskets, and another sowling piece, with some small
quantity of powder more, a large bag sull of small shot,
and a great roll ef sheet of lead; but this last was so heavy
I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Betides these things, I took all the men's clothes that
I could sind, and'a spare sore-top sail, hammock, and
some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and brought them also all sate on shore, to my very great
comsort.
1 was under some apprehensions, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be de-
voured on shore; but when 1 came back, I sound no sign
of any viliter, only there sat a creature like a-wild cat,
upon one of the chests, which, when I carne towards if,
ran away to a little distance, and then stood stii!; she sat
very compofed and unconcerned, and looked sull in my
face, as ir the had a mind to be acquainted with me. I
presented my gun at her, but she did.not understand it;
she was persectly unconcerned at it, nor did me ofser to
stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of bifcuit,
vol. i. d thcu<:h
'though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and
fise went to it, smelled of it, and eat it, and looked (as
pleased) for more;' but 1 thanked her, and. could spare no
more, fo she marched osf'.
Having got my second cargo on shore (though I was
sain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large castes), I
went to work to make a little tent with the sail and fome
poles which I cut for. that purpose; and into this tent I
brought every thing that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun: I piled all the empty chests and casks up in
a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden
attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with fome boards within, and an empty chest set up
an end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
gun at length by me, I wenbto bed for the first time, and
il'ept very quietly all night: I was very weary and heavy,
for the night besore I had slept but little, and had laboured
very hard all day, as well to setch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.
1 had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
were laid up, I believe for one man. But I was not satis-
fied still; for while the ship sat upright in that posture,
I thought 1 ought to get every thing out of her that I
«culd. So every day at low water I went on board, and
brought away fomething or other: but particularly the
third time I went, I brought away as much of the rig-
ging as I could; as alfo all the small ropes and rope-
twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the' barrels of
wet gunpowder; in a word, I brought away all the
fails first and last, only that I was sain to cut thorn in
pieces, and bring as much at a time as 1 could; tor they
were no more usesul to me sor sails, but as mere canvas
only.
But that which comsorted me more still was, that at
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that' was worth meddling with; I say, after
all
all this, I-sound a great hogshead of bread, three large
iundlets of rum, or spirits, a box of fine sugar, and a
barrel of sine flour; this was surprising to me, be-
cause I had given over expecting any rstore provisions,
except what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied
the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails which I cut out; and, in a
word, I got all this sase on shore also, though at several
times.
- The next day I made another voyage; and now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable, and fit to
hand out, I began with the cables, and cutting the great
cables into pieces, such as I could move, 1 got two cables
and an hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could
get; and having cut down the spritsail yard and the
mizen-yard, and every thing I could to makea'large raft,
I loaded it with all thnse heavy goods, and came away:
but my good luck began to leave me; sor this raft was
so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered
the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods,
not being able to guide it so handily as 1 did the other,
it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water: as sor myself, it was no great harm, sor I was near
the shore; but as to-mycargo, it was great part of it loft,
especially the iron, which 1 expected would have been of
great use to me. However, when the tide was out, I got
molt of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
though with insinite labour, sor I was sain to dip sor it
into the water, a work which satigued me very much.
After this, 1 went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.
I had been tffirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
times on board the ship; in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed
capable to bring; though I believe verily, had the calm
weather held, I should have brought away the whole
ship, piece by piece: but preparing the twelfth time
to go on board, 1 sound the wind began to rife. How-
ever, at low water 1 went on board; and though I
thought I had rummaged the cabin so essectually as that
nothing more could be sound, yet I difcovered a locker with
drawers ia it, in one of which I sound two or three
b 2 ^ razors,
'
Tazors, and one pair of large scissars, with ten ot a
dozen good knives and forks, in another I found about
thirty-six pounds value in money, fome European coin,
fome Braiil, fome pieces of eight, fome gold, and fome
silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. Oh
drug! said I aloud, what art thou good for? Thou art
not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground; one.
of those knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner
of use for thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to
'the bottom, as a creature whose lise is not worth saving.
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think
of making another raft; but while I was preparing this,
I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and
in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the
shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain
to pretend to make a raft, with the wind offshore; and
that it was my business to be gone besore the tide of flood
• began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore
.at all; accordingly 1 let myself down into the water, and
swam across the channel which lay between the ship and
the sand, and even that with difficulty enough, partly
with the weight of the things 1 had about me, and
partly the roughness of the water, for the wind rose very
hastily, and besore it was quite high water, it blew a
storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay,
with all my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very
hard all that night; and in the morning, when I looked
out, behold no more ship was to be seen. I was a
little surprised, but recovered myself with this satissac-
tory reflection, viz. that I had loft no time, nor abated
any diligence to get every thing out of her that could
be usesul to me; and that indeed there was little left
in her that I was able to bring away, if I had yet
more time. I now gave over any more thought of
the ship, or of any thing out of her, except what might
drive on shore from her wreck; as indeed divers pieces of
her afterwards did, but those things were of small use to
me.
My
'My thoughts were now wholly employed about secur-
ing myself against either savages, if any mould appear, or
wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many
thoughts of a method how to do this, and what kind of
dwelling to make, whether I should make me a cave in
the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I re-
solved upon both, the manner and description of whichHt
may not be improper to give an account of.
I loon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorilh
ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whol-
sorne, and more particularly because there was no water
near it; fo I re blved to find a more healthy and more
convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me; first, health, and fresh water, as
I just now mentioned; secondly, fljelter from the heat o£
the sun; thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whe-
ther man or beast; fourthly a view to the sea, that if
God sent any ship in fight, I might not lose any advan-
tage of my deliverance, for which I was not willing to
banish my expectation yet.
In search of a psace proper for this, I found a little
plain on the tide of a rising hill, whose form towards
this little plain was as steep as an house tide, fo that
nothing could come down upon me from the top. On
the side of this rock there was an hoslow place, worn a
little. way in, like the entrance or door of a cave, but
there was not really any cave or way into the rock at
all.
On the flat of the green, just besore this hollow place,
I refolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and
lay like a green besore the door, and at the end of it de-
scended irregularly every way down into the low grounds
by the sea-iide. It was on the N. N. W. tide of the hill,
fo that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by Si sun, or thereabouts, which in
those countries is near the setting.
Besore 1 set up my tent; I drew an half circle besore
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
D 3 semi-diameter
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its dia-
meter, from its beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, .the biggest end being out of the ground above five
feet and an half, and sharpened on the top; the two rows
jid not stand above fix inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows upon one another with-
in the circle, between those two rows of stakes, up to the
top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against
them, about two seet and a half high, like a spur to a
post; and t.'is sence was fo strong, that neither man nor
beast could get into it, or over it. This cost me a great.
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the
wood, bring them to the place, and drive them into the
earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I listed over after me: and fo
I was completely senced in and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I could not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution from the enemies 1 had apprehended danger
from.
Into this sence, or fortress, with insinite labour I car-
ried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and
stores, of which you have the account above: and I made
me a large tent alfo, to preserve me from the rains, that
in one part of the year are very violent there; I made it
double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one larger tent
above it; and covered the uppermost part of it with a
large tarpaulin, which 1 had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had brought on shore, but in an hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the
ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus in-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
.. . '' now
now I had lest open, and fo passed and repassed, as I said,
by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that 1 dug
down out through my tent, I laid them up within my
sence in the nature of a terrace, fo that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus 1 made
a cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, besore all
these things were brought to persection; and theresore I
must go back to fome other things which took up fome
of my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I
had laid my scheme for sotting up the tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain sidling from a thick dark
cToud, a sudden flaso of lightning happened, and after
that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect
of it. I was not fo much surprised with the lightning,
as I was with the thought which darted into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself.—Oh my powder! My very
heart funk within me, when I thought that at one blast
all my powder might be destroyed, on which, not my de-
sence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, en-
tirely depended; I was nothing near fo anxious about my
own danger, though, had the powder took fire, I had
never known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my work, my build-
ing, and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags
and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in hopes that, whatever might
come, it might not all take sire at once, and to keep fo
apart, that it should not be possible to make one part sire
another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and
1 think my powder, which in all was about one hundred
and forty pounds weight, was divided into less than an
hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I
did not apprehend any danger from that, fo I placed it in
my new cave, which in my sancy I called my kitchen;
and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks ,
fo that no wet rnight come to it, marking very caresully
where I laid it.
d 4 In
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out at lcast once every day with my gun, as well to di-
vert mysels, as to see if I could kill anything fit for
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out, I
presently discovered that there were goats in the island,
which was a great satissaction to me; but then it was
attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they
were fo shy, fo subtle, and fo swift a foot, that it was
she most difficult thing in the world to come at them;
but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I
might now and then shoot one, as it foon happened; for
after I had found their haunts a little, 1 laid wait in this
manner for them:—I observed, if they saw me in the
valleys, though thev were unon the rocks, they would
run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were seed-
ing in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of sne: from whence I concluded, that by the
position of their optics, their sight was fo directed down-
ward, that tb«ey did not readily see objects that were
above them. So afterwards I took this method; I al-
ways climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and
then had frequently a sair mark. The sirst shot I made
among these creatures, I killed a she goat which had a
little kid by her which she gave suck to, which grieved
me heartily; but when the old one sell, the kid stood
stock still by her till I came and took her up; and not
only fo, but when I carried the old one with me upon
my shoulders the kid followed me quite to my inclo-
sure; upon which 1 laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat; fo I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied
me with iiesh a great while, for 1 eat sparingly, and saved
my provisions, my bread especially, as much as possibly I
could.
Having now sixed my habitation, I found it abfo-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and
suel to burn; and what I did for that, as alfo how I
enlarged my cave, and what conveniencies 1 made, I
shall give a sull account of in its place; but I must sirst
give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts
about
abiut living, which it may be well suppofed were not a
sew.
I had a difmal profpect os my condition; sor as I was
not castaway upon that island, without being driven, as
is said, by a violent ilorm, quite out of the'course of our
intended voyage, and a great way, viz. some hundreds of
leagues out of the ordinary course of the trade of man-
kind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination
otTIeaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my lise. The tuars would run plen-
tisully down my sace when 1 made these reslections; and
sometimes I would expoftulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and ren-
der them so absolutely miferable, so without help aban-
doned, and so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thanksul sor such a lise..
But something always returned swift upon me to check
'these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one
day, walking, with my gun in my hand, by the sea side,
lwas very pensive upon the subject of my present condi-
tion, when reason, as it were, put in, expostulating with
me t'other way, thus:—Well, you are in a desolate
condition 'tistrue; but pray remember where are the rest
of you? Did not there come eleven ot'.you into the boat?
AVhere are the ten? Why were not they saved, and you
lost? Vv hy are you singled out? Is it better to be here or
there? And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in them, and with what
worse attended them*
Than it occurred to me again how well I was furnished
sor my subsiftence, and what i would have been my case
if it had not happened, which was an hundred thousand
to one that the ship floated from the place where sir'fc she
struck, and was driven lo near to the shore, that I had
time to get all these things out of her !. .What'would
have been my case, if I had been to have lived in the
condition in which I first came on shore, without ne-
cessaries of lise, or any msans to supply and procure
them? Particularly said I aloud, though to myself, what
would I have done without a gun, without ammunition,
with.outany tools to make any thing, or to work with?
d 5' Without
:-U

Without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of co-
vering? And that now I had all these to a sufficient quan-
tity, and was in a sair way to provide myself in such a
manner, as to live without my gun when my ammuni-
tion was spent; fo that 1 had a tolerable view of subsisting
without any want as long as I lived; for I considered,
from the beginning, how I should provide for the acci-
dents that might happen, and for the time that was to
come, even not only after my ammunition should be spent,
but alfo after my health or strength mould decay.
I consess I had not then entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my
powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thoughts of it surprizing to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.
.And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of silent lise, such perhaps as was never heard of
in the world besore; I shall take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the
30th of September, when, in the manner as above said,
I first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being
to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head; for 1 reckoned myself, by observation, to be
in the lotitude of 9 degrees and 22 minutes fouth of the
line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my fhoughtsthat I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books, and pen, 'and ink, and should even
forget the sabbath days from the working days: but .to
prevent this, I cut it with my knise upon a large post in
capital letters, and making it into a great cross, I set it
up on theshore where I first landed, viz. I came on shore
here, the 30th of September, 1659.' Upon the sides of
this square post I cut every day a notch with my knise,
and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long
one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things that 1 brought from the ship in the seve-
ral voyages ,which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I
X
got several things of less value, but not at all less usesul
to me, which 1 omitted setting down besore; as in par-
ticular pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the cap-
tain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three
or four compafles, fome mathematical instruments, dials,
perspectives, charts, and books of navigation, all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them'or ndt.
I alfo found three very good bibles, which came to me
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things; fome ,Portuguese books alfo, and
among them two or three popish prayer-books, and seve-
ral other books, all which I caresully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two
cats, of whose eminent history I must have occasion to say
fomething in its place; for I carried both the cats with
me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after Iwent on
more with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me
many years. I wanted nothing that he could setch me,
nor any company that he cousd make up to me; I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that he cousd not do.
As I observed besore, I found pens, ink, and paper, and
I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall shew that,.
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact, but after
that was gone, I could not; for I could not make any.
ink by any means that I could geti
And this put me in mind that I wanted many thing3,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and of
these, this of ink is one; as alfo a spade, pick-axe, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I foon learned to want that .without
much difficulty..
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily; and it was near a whole year "besore I had en-
tirely smithed my little pale, or surrounded habitation.
The piles, or stakes; which were as heavy as lcould
Well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more by sar in bringing home; fo that
I spent fometimes two days in cutting and bringing home
one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into.the
ground; for which purpose 1 got;a heavy piece of
wood at first, but at last bethought myself os one of the
D. 6 iron.'
iron crows; which, however, though I found, it yet
made driving those posts, or piles, very laborious and
tedious work.
But what need T to have been concerned at thetediouf-
nel's of any thing I had to do, seeing 1 had time enough
to do it in? Nor had 1 any other employment, is that had
been over, at least that I could foresee, except the rang-
ing the island to seek for food, which I did more or lefe
every day.
I now began seriously to consider my condition, and
the circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing; not fo much to leave them
to any that were to come after me, for I was like to have
but sew heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily por-
ing upon them, and afflicting my mind. And as my
reafon began now to master my despondency, I began to>
comsort myself as well as I could, and to set the good
against the evil, that I might have fomething to distin-
guish my case from worse; and I stated it very impartially,
like debtor and creditor, the comsort I enjoyed agamit
the miseries I suffered, thus :—
* I am cast upon an horri- But I am alive, and not
lible, defolate island—void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company were.
I am singled out and sepa- But I am singled out too
rated, as it were, from all from all the ship's crew, to
the world, to be miserable. be spared from death; and
he that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from man- But I am not starved, and
kind, a folitary, one banished perishing on a barren place,
from human fociety. affording no sustenance.
J have no clothes to cover But I am in an hot cli-
me'. ' mate,where, if I had clothes,
I could hardly wear them.
1 am
lam without any desence, But I am cast on an ifland
or means to resill any vio- where I see no wild beasts to>
lence of man or beast. hurt me, as I saw on the
coast of Africa: and what
if I had been shipwrecked
there?
I have no soul to speak But God wondersully sent
to, or relieve me. the ship in near enough the
shore, that I have gotten out
so many necessary things as
will either supply my wants*
or enable me to supply my-
self, even as long as I-live.
Upon the whole, here Was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so mi-
serable, but there was something negative, or something
politive, to be thanksul in it; and: let this stand as a
direction from the experience of the most miserabla of all
conditions in this world, that we may always sind in it
something to comsort ourselves from, and to set in the
description of good and evil, on the credit side of the
account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my con-
dition, and giving over looking out to sea, to see if I could
spy a ship; 1 say, giving over these things, I began to -
apply myself to accommodate my way of living, and to
make things as easy as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of pofts and cables, but I might now rather call it
a wall; sor I raifed a kind of wall up against it of turt"s,
about two seet thick on the outside; and after some time,
I think it was a year and a half, I raifed rafters from
it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with
boughs or trees, and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I sound at some times of the year very
violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I must observe too, that at sirst this was
3 a consused
a consused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no ordery
fo they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
myself; fo I set myself to enlarge my cave, and worked
sarther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it. And
fo, when I found I was pretty sase as to beasts of prey,
I worked sideways to the right-hand into the rock, and
then turning to the right-hand again, worked quite out,
and made my door to come out on the outside of my pa';.?.
or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a
back ,way to my tent, and to my store-house, but gave
me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make suchneces-
sary things at I found I most wanted, particularly a chair
and a table; for without these I was not able to enjoy
the sew comsorts I had in the world ; I could not write, ,
or eat, or do several things with fo much pleasure, with-
out a table.
So I went to work: and here I must needs observe,.
that as reafon is the substance and origin of the mathe-
matics, fo, by stating and squaring every thing by rea-
fon; and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be, in time, master of every me-
chanic art. I had never handled a tool in my lise, and!
yet in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I
found at last that I wanted nothing but I could have
made it, especially if 1 had had tools. However, I made
abundance of things even without tools, and fome with'
no more toolsthan an adze and an hatchet, which per-
haps were never made that way besore, and that with
insinite labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had
no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
besore me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till
I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub
it'smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I
could make but one board out of a whole tree.; but thi3 ~
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had
for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took
me up to make a plank or board. But my time or labour
was little worth, and fo it was as well employed one way
as another.
> However,,
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this 1 did out of the short
pieces of boards thatl brought on my ra:t from the ship.
But when I had wrought out fome boards as above, I
made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and an half,
one over another, all along on one side of my cave, to
lay all my tools, nails, and iron work; and, in a word,
to separate every thing at large in their places, that I might
easily come at them: I alfo knocked pieces into the wall
of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a
general magazine of all necessary things; and I had every
thing fo ready at hand, that it was a great pleasure to me
to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find
my stock of all necessaries fo great.
And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for indeed at first 1 was in too
much hurry, and not only an hurry as to labour, but in
too much discomposure of mind, and my journal would
have been sull of many dull things. For example, I
must have said thus: Sept. the 30th, after I got to shore,
and had escaped drowning, instead of being thanksul to
God'for my deliverance, having first vomited with a great
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach,
and recovering myself a little, 1 ran about the more,
wringing my hands, and beating my head and sace, ex-
claiming at my misery, and crying out I was undone,
undone! till tired and saint, I was forced to lie down on
the ground for repose, but durst not sleep for sear of being
devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been onboard the
ship, and had got all I could out of her, yet I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship; then sancy
at a vast distance I espied a sail, please myself with the
hopes of it, and then, after looking steadily till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and fit down and weep like a
child and thus increase my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in fome mea-
sure, and having settled my household stuff and habita-
tion, made me a table and a chair, and all as handfome
about
about me as I could, I began, I say, to keep my journal,
'of which I shall here here give you the copy, though in it
'will be told all these particulars over again, as long as it
lasted; sor at last, having no more ink, I was sorced to
leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30, T659. 1, poor miferable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadsul storm in
the offing, came on shore on this difmal and unsortunate
island, which I call the island of Despair, all the rest of
the ship's company being drowned, and myself almost
dead.
All the rest of the day 1 spent in afflicting mysels at the
difmal circumstances I was brought to, viz. 1 had neither
sood, house, clothes, ntapon, or place to fly to; and, in
despair of any relies, saw nothing but death beiore me,
either that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered
by savages, or starved to death sor want of sood. .At the
approach of night, 1 slept in a tree, sor sear of wild crea-
tures but slept soundly, though it rained all night.'
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my groat surprife,
the ship had floated with the high.tide, and, was driven on
shore again much nearer the island; which, as it was
some comsort, on. one hand, sor seeing her lit up-right,
and not broken in pieces, i hoped, if the wind abated, I
might get on board, and get some sood and necessaries
out of her sor my relies; ib, on the other hand, it renewed
my gries, at the lofs of my comrades, who, I imagined,
if we had all staid on board, might have saved the ship,
or at least that they would not have been all drowned as
they were; and that, had the men been saved, we might,
perhaps, have built us a boat uut of the ruins of the ship,
to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
things: but at length, seting the ship almost dry, I went
on the sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
'ibis
<
This day also continued raining, though with no wind at
all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in making several voyages to get all 1 could
out of the ship, which I brought on shore every tide of
flood upon rafts. Much rain also on these days, though
with some intervals of sair weather. But it seems this
was the rainy season.
Oct. 24. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, 1 recovered many of theih when the
tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces,
the.wind blowing a little harder than besore, and was no
iTioro to bs Iccn, except the wreck of her, and that only
at low water. I spent this day in covering and securing
the goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil
them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to
find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned
to secure myself from any attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper
place under a rock, and marked out a semi-circle sor my
encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work,
wall, or sortification, made of double piles, lined within
with cable, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in car-
rying all my goods to iny new habitation, though some
part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, 1 went out into the ifland
with my gun, to see sor some sood, and difcover the coun-
try, when I killed a'she goat, and her kid sollowed me
home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would
not seed.
November.I. I set up my tent underarock, and lay
there sor the first night, making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 5. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rait, and with them
sormed a sence round me; a little within the place 1 had
marked out sor my sortification.
Nov.
/
"Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls.
like ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon-
went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then employed myself at work till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two
I 133- down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot,
and then in the evening to work again. The working
part of this day and the next were wholly employed in
making this table, for I was but yet a very forry work-
man, though time and necessity made me a complete na-
tural mechanic foon after, as I believe it Would do any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day I went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty foft, but her
flesh good for nothing: every creature I killed I took oft'
the skins, and preserved them. Coming back by the sea
shore, 1 saw many forts of sea fowls which I did not un-
derstand; but was surprised, and almost affrighted with
two or three seals, which while I was gazing at, not well'
knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped
me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, 1 went to work witht
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking j
nor was it long besore I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled sair weather. The
7th, 8th, ,9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th
was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly
ur>to make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to
a tolerable shape, but never to please me; and even in
the making 1 pulled it to pieces several times.—Note, I
foon neglected keeping Sundays; for omitting my mark
for them on my posl, 1 forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which resreshed me ex-
ceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied
with terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me
dreadsully for sear of my powder. As foon as it was over,
I refolved to separate my stock of powder into as many
little parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which, might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder; and fo put-
ting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
remote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but
1 knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my sarther conve-
niency.—Note, three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel,' and a wheel-barrow,
or basket; fo 1 deiisted from my work, and began to
consider how to supply that want, and make me fome
tools. As for the pick-axe, I made use of the iron
crows, .which were proper enough, though heavy; but
the next thing was a shovel, or spade; this was fo ab-
folutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing esfec-
tually without it; but what kind of one to make lknew
not. "'
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that.wood, or like it, which in the Bra(i!»
they call the iron tree, for* its exceeding hardness ; of this,
with great labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home with difficulty enough, for it
was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of,the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine ; for
I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the "form,
of a shovel, or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me fo long; how-
ever, it served well enough for the uses which I had occa-
sion to pot it to: but never was a shovel, I believe, made
after that sashion, or fo long a making.
I was still desicient, for I wanted a basket, or wheel-
barrow; a basket I could not make by any means, hav-
ing no such things as twigs that would bend to make
wicker-ware, at least none yet found out: and as to the
wheel-barrow, I sancied I could make all but the wheel, .
but that I had no notion of, neither did 1 know how to
go about it: besides, I had no possible way to make iron
gudgeons for the spindle, or axis, of the wheel to run in.;
so
fo I gave it over: and fo, for carrying away the eartFl
which I dug out of the cave, !• made me a thing like a
'* 4iod, which the labourers carry mortar in when they serve
the bricklayers.
This was not fo difficult to me as the making of tire
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took roe
up no less than four days; I mean always, excepting my
morning's walk with my gun, which I seldom sailed;
and very seldom sailed alfo of bringing home fomething
sit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having stood still, because
of my making these tools; wheln they were finished, 1
went on, and working every day as my strength and time
allowed, 1 spent eighteen days entirely in widening and
deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods com-
modiouily.
Note.—During all this time I worked to make this
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehouse or magazine, a kirchen, a dining-room, and
'a cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, except that
fometimes, in the wet seafon of theyear, it rained so
hard, that I could not keep myself dry ; which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock,
and load them with flags, and large leaves of trees, like
thatch.
Dec. 10. I began now to think my cave, or vault,
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth sell down from the top
and one side, fo much, that in short it frightened me, and
not without reafon to; for if I had been under it, I had
never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster 1 had a
great deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose
earth to carry out, and, which was of more importance,
J had the cieling to prop up, fo that I might be sure no
more would come down.'
Dec. 11. This day 1 went to work with it accordingly,
and got two shoars, or potts, pitched upright to the top,
with two pieces of board across over.each post; this I
finished the next day; and setting up more posts with
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured,
and
and the posts standing in rows, served me sor partitions
to part of the house.
Dec. 1 7. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves,
and knocked up noils in the posts, to hang every thing
on that coukl be hung up: and now I began to be in
some order within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the cave, and
hegan to surnistl my house, and set up some pieces of board
. like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but board began
to be very scarce with me: I also-made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 2a. Rain all day.
Dec. 26'. No rain, and the earth much cooler than
besore, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat,'and lamed another, so
that I catched, and led it home in a string: when I had
it home, I bound and splintered up its leg which was
broke. — N. B. I took such care of it that it lived, and
the leg grew well, and as strong as ever: but by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and sed upon the green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time
that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that 1 might have sood when my powder and
shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 2y, 30. Great heats,and no breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, sor
sood. This time I spent in putting all my things in order
within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day.
This evening, going surther into the valleys, which lay
towards the center of the island, I sound there was plenty
of goats, though exceedingly shv, and hard to come at:
however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to
hunt them down.
Jan. 2, Accordingly the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him at the goats; but I was miftaken,
sor they all saced about upon the dog, and he knew his
danger too well, sor he would not go near them.
Jan. 3. I began my sence, or wall, which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N.B. This
N. B. This wall being described besore, I purposely
omit what was laid in the Journal; it is sufficient
to observe, that 1 was no less time than from the
3d of January to the 14th of April, working, finish-
ing, and persecting this wall, though it was no more
than about twenty-four yards in length, being an half
circle, from one place in the rock to another place
about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the center behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, fometimes weeks together; but I
thought I should never be persectly secure till this wall
was finished; and it is scarcely credible what inexpres-
sible labour every thing was done with, especially the
bringing piles out of the wood,. and driving them into the
ground, for I made them much bigger than 1 needed to
have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
senced with a turs wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself, that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not perceive any thing like an habitation:
and it is very well I did fo, as may be observed hereafter,
upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time, 1 made rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in those walks of fomething or other to
my advantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeons, which build not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and
taking fome young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up
tame, and did fo; but when they grew older, they all
flew away, which perhaps was at first for want of seed-
ing them, for 1 had nothing to give them. However, I
frequently found their nests, and got their young ones,
which was very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could never make a
cask to be hooped; I had a small rundlet or iwo, as i'ob-
ferved besore, but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though 1 spent many v^eeks about
it:
I could neither put in the heads, nor join the staves fo
true to one another as to make them hold water; so I
gave that alfo over.
In the next place I was at a great loss for candles;
fo that as foon as it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remem-
hered the lump of bees-wax with which. I made candles
m my African adventure; but i hid none of that now:
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a
goat, I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made
of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a
wick of fome oakum, I made me a lamp; and this
gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it happened,
that rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which,
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the seed-
mg of poultry, not for this voyage, but besore, as I sup-
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little re-
mamder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured by
the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust;
and being willing to have the bag for fome other use (I
think it was to pat powder in, when I divided it for sear
of the lightning, or fome such use), I shook the husks
of corn nut of it on one iide of my fortification under the
rock.
1t was a little besore the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of
any thing, and not fo much as remembering that I had
thrown any thing there; when about a month after, or
thereabouts, I saw' fome sew ib.lks of fomething green
mooting upon the ground, which I fancied might be
fome plant 1 had not seen; but I was surprised, and per-
sectly astonished, when after a little longer time, I saw
about ten or twelve ears come out, which were persect
green barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as
our EngHsh barley. , .
It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had hitherto
acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I
had' very sew notions of religion in my heed, nor
had entertained any sense of any thing that had befallen
me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say,
what
what pleases God, without fo much as enquiring into the
end ot' Providence in these things, or his order in govern-
ing events in the world. But after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew wiis not proper for corn,
and especially as I knew not how it came there, it startled
me strangely; and 1 began to suggest, that God had mi-
raculously caused this grain to grow without any help of
seed fown, and that it was fo directed, purely for my
sustenance in that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out
of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a pro-
digy of nature mould happen, on m)r account; and this
was the more strange to me, because I saw near it still,
all along by the tide of the rock, fome other straggling
stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I
knew, because 1 had seen it grow in Africa when I was
ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Pro-
vidence for my support, but not doubting but that there
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the
island where I had been besore, peeping into every cor-
• ner, and under every rock, to see for more of it, but £
could not sind any. At last it occured to my thoughts
tnat I had shaken the bag; of chicken's meat out in that
place, and the wonder began to cease; and I must con-
sess my religious thanksulness to God's providence began
to abate upon discovering that all this was nothing but
what was common; though 1 ought to have been as
thanksul for fo strange and unforeseen a Providence as if
it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order to appoint, that
ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled,
when the rats'had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been
dropped from heaven: as alfo, that I should throw it out
into that particular place, where, it being in the shade of
an high rock, sprang up immediately: whereas, if 1 had
thrown it any where else at that time, it had been burnt
top and destroyed.
I caresully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their seafon, which was about the end of June; and
laying up every grain, I refolved to fow them all again,
hoping in time to have fome quantity, sufficient to supply
me
me with bread; but it was not till the fourth year that I
would allow myself the least grairl of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its
order; for I lost all I sowed the first seafon, by not ob-
serving the proper time; for I fowed it just besore the dry
seafon, fo that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care,
and whose use was of the same kind, or to the same
purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
tor I found ways to cook it up without baking, though
I did that alfo after fome time. But to return to my
journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over a wall by
a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of my .
habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; fo I went up with it
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it
down ois the inside. This was a complete inclosure to.
me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me from without, unless it could first mount my
wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and my-
self killed; the cause was thus: as I was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into
my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadsul
surprising thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the
earth came tumbling down from the roof of my cave,
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two
of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a fright-
sul manner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing
of what really was the cause; only thinking that the top
of my cave was salling in, as fome of it had done besore;
and for sear I should be buried in it, I ran forwards to
my ladder, and not thinking myself sase there neither,
I got over piy wall for sear of the pieces of the hill;
which I expected might roll down upon me. I was no
fooner stepped down upon the firm ground,' but I plainly
vol. i. e saw
saw it was a terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood
on snook three times, at about eight minutes distance,
with three such fhocks as would have overturned the
strongest buildings that could be supposed to have stood
upon the earth; and a great piece os the top ot' the rock,
which stood at about half a mile from me, next the sea,
sell down with such a terrible noise as 1 never heard in all
my lise. I perceived alfo the very sea was put into a
violent motion by it; and I believed the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.
I was fo amazed with the thing itself, having never selt
the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was
like one dead or stupified; and the motion of the earth
made my stomach sick, like one that is tossed at sea: but
the noise os the salling os the rock awaked me, as it were,
and rousing mefrom the stupified condition I was in, filled
me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the
hill salling upon my tent, and all my household goods,
and burying all at once; and this sunk my veiy foul
within me a second time.
After spe third shock was over, and I selt no more for
fome tirpe, I began to take courage; and yet I had not
heart enough to get over my wall again, for sear of being
buried alive; but still sat on the ground, greatly cast
down, and disconfolate, not knowing what to do. Asl
this while I had not the least serious religious thought,
nothing but the common, Lord,' having have mercy upon
me! and when it was over, that went away too.
While 1 sat thus, 1 found the air over-cast, and it grew
cloudy, as if it would rain; and in less than half an hour
it blew a most dreadsul hurricane of wind. The sea all
'on a sudden was covered with foam and froth, the shore
was covered with the breach of the water, the trees were
torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm it was; and
this held about three hours, and then began to abate;
and then in two hours more it was calm, and began to
rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much terri-
fied and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts that these winds and rain being the consequence
of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and
over, and I might venture into my cave again. With
this
this thought my spirits began to revive, and the rain
helping alfo to persuade me, I went in, and sat me down
in my tent; but the rain was fo violent, that my tent was
ready to be beaten down with it, and I was forced to go
into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy tor
sear it should sall on my head. ". ,
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut
a hole through my new fortification, like a fink, to let th'i
water out, which would else have drowned my cave.
Aster I had been in my cave fome time, and found still no
more shock of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed. And now, to compose my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store,
and took a small sup of rum, which however I did thrn,
and always very sparingly, knowing I could have no
more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, fo that I could not stir abroad; bat my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best to do; concluding, that if the island was sub-
ject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for
me in a cave, but I must think of building me fome
little hut in an open place, which I might surround with
a wall, as I had done here, and fo make myself secure
from wild beasts or men; but concluded if I staid where
I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried
alive.
With these thoughts, I refolved to move my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should bo
shaken again, would certainly sall upon my tent: and
I spent the two next days, being the 1.9th and 20th of
April, in contriving where and how to remove my habi-
tation.
The sear of being swallowed up alive affected, me fo,
that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehensions of
lying abroad, without any sence, were almost equal to
it. But still, when I looked about and saw how every
thing was put in order, how persectly concealed I
was, and how sase from danger, it made me loth to
remove'.
e 2 In
-
In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would re-
quire a vast deal os time sor me to do this, and that I must
be contented to run the venture where 1 was, till I had
sormed a camp sor myself, and had secured it so as to re-
move to it. So with this resolution I compofed myself
sor a time; and resolved that I would go to work with all
speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a
circle, as besore, and set my tent up in it when it was
sinished ; but that 1 would venture to stay where I was till
it was sinished and fit to remove to.—This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution; but I was at a
great lofs about my tools: I had three large axes, and
abundance of .hatchets (sor we carried the hatchets sor
traffic with the Indians) but with.much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all sull of notches,
and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. This cost me as much thought
as a statesman would have bestowed on a grand point
of politics, Or a judge upon the lise and death of a-cri-
minal. At length I contrived a wheel, with a string to
turn it with my soot, that I might have both my hands
at liberty. - Note, I had not seen any such thing in Eng-
land, or at least not to take notice how it was done;
though since I have observed it was very common there:
besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a sull week's work to bring it to
persection.
April 28, 20. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools; my machine sor turning my grind-
stone persorming very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced
myself to one bifcuit-cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side,-
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask: when I
came to it, I sound a small barrel, and two or three
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore bv the late hurricane: and looking towards the
wreck itself, I thought it seemed to. lie higher out of the
5 water
water than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and foon found it to be a barrel of
gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone. However, I rolled it sar-
ther on the shore for the prerent, and went on upon the
sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look
for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed; the fore-castle, which lay besore buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six seet; r.nd the item, which
was broken to pieces, and pai ted from the rest by the
force of the sea, foon after I had lest rummaging hei,
was tossed as it were up, and cast on one .fide; aud the
ftud was thrown Ib high on that side next the stern, that
whereas there was a great place of water besore, fo that
I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck
without swimming, I could now wask quite up to her
when the tide was out. I was surprised at this at first,
but foon concluded it must be done by the earthquake;
and as by this violence the ship was more broke open
than formerly, fo many things came daily on shore which
the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether 1 could make
any way into the ship; but I found nothing was to be'
expected of the kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choaked up with sand. However, as I had learned not.
to despair of any thing, I refolved to pull every thing to
pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that every
thing I could get from her would be of fome use or other
to me. <
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held fome of the upper
part, or quarter deck together; and when I had cut it
through, I cleared away the sand as well as 1 could from
the side whisA lay highest: but the tide coming in, 1 wa»
obliged to give it over for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught but one fish that
I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just
going to leave osf, I caught a young dolphin.' I had
£ 3 made
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no
hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I
cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and eat them ,
dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asun-
der, and brought three great fir planks off from the decks,
which I tied together, and made swim on shore when the
tide of flood came on.
Ma}' 6". Workdd on the wreck,.got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked very
hard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over.
May 7- Went to the wreck again, but with an intent
not to work; .but sound the weight of the wreck had
broker, itself down, the beams being cut, that several'
pieces of the ship teemed to lie loofe, and the inside of the
hold lay so open, that I could Yee into it, but almost sull
of water and sand.
May S. Went to. the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wieuch up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
water^or ssncl. I wrenched open two planks, and brought
them on shore also with the tide. I lest the iron crow in
t.ie wreck sor the next day. /'
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
Way into the; body of-the wreck, and selt- several casks,
and loofened them with the crow, but could not break
them up; 1 selt also a roll of Englifh lead, and could stir
it, but it was too heavy to remove.
Ma}' 10, 11, 12, 13, l'f. Went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber and boards, or
planks, and two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15. I earned two hatchets, to try if I could not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about'
a soot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow i
to drive the hatchet.
May 16". It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appearedfmore broken by the sorce of the water;
but 1 staid so long in the woods to get pigeons sor sood,
that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore at a great diftance, two miles off me, but resolved
to
X
to fee what they were, and found a piece of the head, but
too heavy.forme to bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck; and with much labour I loosened fome things fo
much with the crow, that the first flowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests. But the
wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that
day but pieces of timber, and an hogshead which had
fome Braiil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the loth of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always ap-
pointed, during this part of my employ ment, to be when
the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed
out; and by this time had gotten timber and plank, and
iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had
known how: and I alfo got, at several times, and in.
several pieces, near one hundred weight of the meet lead.
June 16'. Going down to the sea-tide, I found a larger
tortoise, or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which, it
seems, was only my misfortune, not any desect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other
side of the island, 1 might have had hundreds of them
everyday, as 1 found afterwards; but perhaps have paid
dear enough for them.
June 17, I spent in cooking-the turtle; I found in her
threescore eggs; and her Sdh .was to me, at that timer
the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my lise,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrible place.
June 18. Rained all the day, and I staid within; I
thought at this time the rain selt cold, and I was fome-.
what chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill and soivering, as if the weather had.
been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and severish.
June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition—to be sick, and no
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the storm oft'
Hull; but scarce knew what I said or why, my thoughts
bsing all consused..
£ 4, Jun*.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadsul appre-
hensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering', and
then a violent head-ach.
June 24. Much better-
June 25. An ague, very violent; the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit and hot, with saint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, butsound myself very weak. However, I killed
a she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and
broiled some of it, and eat: I would- sain have stewed it,
and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay a-bed
all day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to pe-
rish with thirst, but so weak 1 had no strength to stand
up, or get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God
again, but was light-headed; and when 1 was not, I
was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; 1 only lay
and cried, Lord lcok upon me! Lord pity me! Lord
have mercy upon me! 1 suppofe I dM nothing else sor
two or three hours, till the fit wearing off, 1 sell asleep,
and did not awake till sar in the night. When I awaked,
I sound myself much resreshed, but weak, and exceed-
ingly thirsty: however, as I had no v>ater in my whole
habitation, I was sorced to lie till meaning, and went
to sleep again, in this second sleep L/had this terrible
dream:— '. -
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where 1 sat wheri the storm blew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from
a great black cloud, in a bright flame cvf fire, and light
upon the ground. He was all ov.fr a's fright as a flame,
so that I could but just bear to look towards him; his
countenance was most inexpressibly dre&dsuli, impossible
sor words to describe. When he stepped upon the ground
with his seet j I thought the earth tremblfedijust as it had
done besore in the earthquake; and {rrffrle air looked, to
my -apprehension, as if it had been silled with flashes of
fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
sorwards towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me ; and when he came to a rising ground at.
some
fome distance, he spoke to me, or I he^rd a voice fo ter-
rible, that it is impoffibleto express the terror of it; all
that I can say I understood was this. Seeing ali'thcie
things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die! At which words, I thought he listed up tiv:
spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever, read this account, will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my foul
at this terrible vision; I mean, that erven while it was a
dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any
more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked and found it was but a
dream. ''
I had, alas 1 no divine knowledge; what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my sather, was then
worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of
sea-saring wickedness, and a constant conversation with
none but such as were like myself, wicked and prosane
to the last degree. 1 do not remember that J had in asl
that time one thought that fo much as tended either to
looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a re-
flection upon my own ways; but a certain stupidity cf
foul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil, had
entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most
hardened, unthinking, wieked creature among; our com-
mon sailors can be supposed to be, not having. the least
sense of the sear of God in dangers, or of thanksulness to.
God iiTdeliverances.
In relating what is already past of my story, this wisl
he the more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through,
all the variety of miseries that had to this day befassen.
me, I never had fo much as once thought of.its being the
hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sins,
my rebellious behaviour against my sather, or my present
sms, which were great; or fo much as a punishment ttjr
the general course of my wicked lise. When I was oh
the desperate ex;>edition on the desert shores of Asrica, I
never had fo much as one thought cf what would become
of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither l siiouiii
go, or to keep me from the danger which apparentsy
surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures,, as cruel
swages: .but 1 was merely thoughtless of Go;!, or a
t » providence;
providence; I acted like a meie brute, from the prin-
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only,
and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at lea by the Por- ..
tugal captain, well used and dealt justly and honourably
ivith, as well as charitable, I had not the least thanksul-
ness in my thoughts. \Vher> again I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was
as sar from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I
only said to myself often, that 1 was an unfortunate dog,
and born to be always miserable. N
It is true, :\hen F got onshore first here, and found all
my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstacy, and fome transports of foul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have came up
to true thanksulness; but it ended where it began, in a
mere common flight of 30}.; or, as I may say, being glad
I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guishing goodness of the hand which had preserved me,
and smgled me out to be preserved, when all the rest were
destroyed; or an enquiry why Providen,ce had been thus
mercisul to me; even just the same common fort of joy
which seamen generally have, after they have got safe
ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as foon as it is
over, aud all the rest of my lise was like it.
Eve.i when I was afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of ray condition, how I was cast on this
dreadsul place, out of the reach of human kind, out of
aH hope of relies, or prospect of redemption; as foon as
I saw a probability of living, and that I should not starve
.and perish for hunger, all the sense of my asfliction wore
off, and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the
works proper for my preservation and supply, and was
sar enough from being asflicted at my condition, as a
j udgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against me:
these were thoughts that very seldom entered into my
head. •'
'1 he growing up of the' corn, as is hinted in my jour-
nal, had at sirst fome little insluence upon me, and be-,
gan to asfect me with seriousness, as long as I thought
it
it had fomething miraculous in it; but as foon as ever
that part of thought was remoyed, all the impression
which was raised from it, wore off. alfo, as I have noted
already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to the
Invisible Power which alone directs such things; yet no
fooner was the first fright over, but the impreflion it had
made went off alfo. I had no more sense os God, or his
judgment, much less of the present affliction of my cir-
cumstances being from his hand, than if I had been in the.
mosl prosperous condition in lise.
But now, when 1 began to be sick, and a leisurely view
of the miseries of death came to place itself besore me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burtheni of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the vio-.
lence of the sever; conscience, that ha% slept fo long,
began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my
past lise, in which I had fo evidently, by uncommon.,
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me info vindictive a*
manner.
These reflections oppressed me from the second or thinls
day of my distemper, and Ln a violence, as well of the.
sever, as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience^ ex-.
torted fome words from me, like praying to God, though,:
I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with:
desires, or with hopes ;. it was rather the voice of mere.
fright and distress: my thoughts were consused, the con-.
victions great upon, my mind, and the horror of, dying ini
such a miserable condition, raised vapours.into, my head'
with the mere apprehensions; and in these hurries of my
foul,. I knew not what my tongue might express :. but. it:
was rather exclamation, such as,.Lord what a miserable
creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die.
for want of help, and what will become of me? Then the:
tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more a good,
while.
In this interval, the good advice of my sather came to«
my mind, aud presently his prediction, which I men-.
tioned in the beginning of this story, viz. That if I did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me* and liwould.
s b' have:
have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might he none to assist me in my
recovery. Now, snidl aloud, my dear sather's words
are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me, and
I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of
Providence, which had mercisully put me in a posture
or station of lise wherein 1 might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to
know the blessing of it from my parents; I lest them to
mourn over my folly, and now I am lest to mourn under
the consequences of it. I resused their help and assist-
ance, who would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me; End now I have dif-
ficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature itself
to support, and no assistance, no help, no comsort, no
advice. Then I cried out, Lord be my help, for I am in
great distress! - .
This was the sirst prayer, if I might call it fo, that I
had made for many years. But I return to my Journal.
June 28. Having been fomething resreshed with the
steep I had taken, and the fit being entirely off', I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream was very.
great, yet I considered that the sit of the ague would re-
turn again the next day, and now was my time to get
fomething to refresh snd support myself when I should
be ill: and the first thing 1 did, I filled a large square cafe
bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of
my bed : and to take off the chill or aquish disposition of the
water, I put aboufa quarter of a pint of rum into it, and
mixed them together; then I got me a piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little-
I walked about, but was very weak, and withal, very
sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
At night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs^
which I roasted in the assies, and eat, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked
God's blessing to, even, as I could remember,, in my
whole lise.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went
out
out without that), fo I went out but a little way, and
sat down upon the ground, looking out ,upon the sea,
which was just besore me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, fome thoughts, such as these, occurred to
me.
.What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen fo
much? Whence is it produced? And what am 1, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal,
whence are we?
Sure we are all made by fome secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is
that?
Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made it all. Well, but then it came on strongly, if God
has made all these things, he guides and governs them all,
and all things that concern them ; for the Being that could
make all things, must certainly have power to guide and
direct them.
If fo, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and in a dreadsul condition; and
if nothing happens without his appointment, he has ap-
pointed all this to besal me. ,
Nothing occured to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and theresore it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it must needs be that God
had appointed all this to besal me; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he
having the fole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it fol-
lowed,
• Why has God done this to me? What have I done to
be thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that enquiry,
as if 1 had blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me
like a voice, Wretch ! dolt thou ask what thou halt done?
look back upon a dreadsul mis-spent lise, and ask thy-
self what thou hast not done? Ask, why it is that thou
wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou n.ot
drownexl in Yarmouth Reads?' .Killed in the sight when
the strip was taken by the Sallee man of war? Devoured
by the wild beasts of the coast of Africa? Or drowned
here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou
aik, What have 1 done?
I was struck dumb with these.reslections as one asto-
.nishcd, and had not a word to say, no, not to.answer to
myself; but rofe up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been goinc
to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and 1 had
no inclination to steep; so I sat down in my chair, and
lighted my lamp, sor it began to be dark: Now, as the
apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Bratilians
take no physic but their tobacco sor almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests,
which was quite cured, and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; sor in this
chest I sound a cure both sor stool and body. I opened
the chest, and sound what 1 looked sor, viz. the to-
bacco: and as the sew books I had saved lay there to,.
I took out one of the bibles which 1 mentioned besore,
and which, to this time, I had not sound leifure, or so
much as inclination, to look into; I say I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with. me to the
table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew n»t,. as to.
my diftemper, or whether it was good sor it or no; but-
I tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved
it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a
leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first
almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being green and
strong, and that 1 had not been much used to it; then I
took some, and steeped it an hour or two in rum, and re--
solved to take a dofe of it when I lay down; and lastly,.
I burnt sorne upon a pan of coals, and held my nofe clofe
over the smoke. of it, as long as I could bear it, as well
sor the heat as the virtue of it, and 1 held almost to suftb-
cation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible,.
and began to read; but my head was too much. difturbed.
with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time, only.
having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred
\
occured to me were these, Call op me in the day of Irauhle,
and I mil deliver, and shoujlials glorify me.
The words were very apt to my case, and made fome
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not fo much as they did afterwards; for
as for being delivered: the word had no found, as 1 may
fay, to me; the thing was fo remote, fo impossible in
my apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the
children of Israel did, when they were promised flesh to
eat, Can Godspread a table in the wilderness? So I began
to say, can God himself deliver me from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any hope ap-
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts:
but however, the words made a very great impression
upon me, and 1 mused upon them very often. It grew
now late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head
so much, that I inclined to ileep; fo I lest my lamp
burning in the cave, lest 1 should want any thing in the
night, aud went to bed; but besore I lay down, I did
what I never had done in all my lise; I kneeled down
and prayed to God to sulsil the promise to me, that if I
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver
me. Alter my broken and impersect prayer was over, I
drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco,
which was fo strong and rank of the tobacco, that in-
deed I could scarce get it down. Immediately upon this
I went to bed, and I found presently it flew up into my
head violently; but I sell into a found lleep, and waked
no more, till by the sun it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay, to this hour
1 am partly of the opinion, that 1 Uept all the next day
and night, and till almost three the next day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day put of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared fome
years after 1 had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and
re-crosiing the line, I should have lost more than a day;
but in my account it was lost, and 1 never knew which
way.
Be that however one way or other, when I awaked,
I found myself exceedingly resreshed, and my. spirits
lively and cheersul; when 1 got up, I was stronger than
\ was the day besore, and my stomach better; for I
6 was
was hungry,; and, in short, I had no sit the next day,
but continued much altered sor the better: this was the
2;:th.
The 30th was "my well day os course. and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too sar.
I killed a sea sowl or two, something like a brand goofe,
and brought them home, but was not very sorward to
eat them; so 1 eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine
which 1 had suppofed did me good the day besore, viz.
the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as besore, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold
my head over the smoke. However, I was not to well
the next day, which was the lit of July, as 1 hoped I
mould have been; sor I had a little spice of the cold sit,.
but it was not much.;
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dozed myself with it at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3- I missed the fit sor good and all, though I did
not recover my suit strength sor some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, I will deliver thee; and
the impofsibility of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was dif-
couraging myself with/iich thoughts, it occurred to my
mind, that I pored so much upon my-deliverance from
the main asfliction, that I difregarded the deliverance I
had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself
such questions as these; viz. Have I net been deliver*;!,
and wondersully too, from sickness ?. from the most dif-
tressed condition that could be, and that was'so frightsul
to nje? and wjiat notice had I taken of it? had 1 done
my part? God had delivered me, but 1 had not glorisied
him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thanksul
sor that as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immediate!}r I
kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud sor my reco-
very from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning 1 took the Bible, and begin-
ning at the New Testament, 1 began seriously to read it;
and
and impofed upon myself to read a while every morn-
ing and every night, not tying myself to the number of
chapters, but as long as my thoughts mould engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I
sound my heart most deeply and sincerely affected with
the wickedness of my past lise; the impression of my
dream revived, and the words All these things have not
brought thee lo repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts.
I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentally the very day, that,
reading the scripture, I came to these words. He is ex-
alted a Prince, and a Saviour, to give repentance, and lo
five remiffion. I threw down the book, and with my
eart as well as my hand lifted up to Heaven, in a kind
of ecstacy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, thou son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance!
This was the first time that I could say in the true sense
of the words, that I prayed in all my lise; for now I
prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true'
icripture view of hope, sounded on the encouragement of
the word of God: and from this time, I may say, I began
to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
Call on me, and I will deliver thee, in a different sense
from what I had ever done besore; sor then I had no
notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my be-
ing delivered from the captivity I was in; sor though I
was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was cer-
tainty a prifon to me, and that in the worst sense in the
world; but now 1 learned to take it in another sense.
Now I looked back upon my past life with such horror,
and my sins appeared so dreadsul, that my soul sought
nothing of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt'
that bore down all my comsort. As sor my solitary lise,
it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be deli-
vered from it, or think of it; it was all of no considera-
tionjn comparifon of this: and 1 added this part here,
to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they
come to a true sense of things, they will Cud deliverance
from sin a much greater blessing, than deliverance from
affliction.
But
But leaving; this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miser-
able as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind;
and my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading
the scripture, and praying to God, to things of a higher
nature, I had a great deal of comfort within., which till
now I knew nothing of. Asfo as my health and strength
returned, 1 bestirred myself to surnish myself with every
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as regu-
lar as 1 could.
From the 4th ctf July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little
and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be ima-
gined, how low 1 was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. The application which I made use of, was per-
sectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
besore; neither can I recommend it to any one to prac-
tise by this experiment; and though it did carry off the
fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some
. time.
I learnt from it alfo this in particular, that being abroad
in the rainy seafon was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came
attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as
the ram which came in a dry seafon was always most
accompanied with such storms, fo I found this rain was
much more dangerous than the rain which sell in Sep-
tember and October. >
1 had been now in this unhappy island above ten
, months; all possibility of deliverance from this condi-
tion seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly
believed that no human shape had ever set foot upon
that place. Having now secured my habitation, as I
thought, sully to my mind, I had a great de/ire to make
a more persect discovery of the island, and to see what
other productions I might find, which yet I knew nothing
of.
It
It was the 15th of July that I began to make a more .
particular survey of the island,itself; I went up the creek
first, where as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and Very fresh and good; but
this being the dry seafon, there was hardly any water in
in fome parts of it, at least not enough to run into any
stream, fo as it could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savan-
nas, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass;
and on the rismg parts of them next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as.it might be supposed, never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and grow-
ing to a great and very strong stalk : there were divers
other plants which I had no notion of, or understanding
about; and might perhaps have virtues of their own
which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava root* which the Indians in
all that climate make their bread of, but 1 could find none.
I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then understand
them . 1 iaw several sugar-canes, I "t wild, and, for want
of cultivation, impersect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back, musing with roy-
self what course I might take to know the virtue and
goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should
discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in
short, I had made fo little observation while 1 was in the
Brafils, that I knew little of the plants of the field, at least
very little that might serve me to any purpose, now in my
distress.
The next day, the lsith, I went up the same way
again; and, after going fomething sarther than I had
done the day besore, I found the brook and the savannas
began to cease, and the country became more woody
then besore. In this part I found different fruits, and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great
abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the vines had
spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes
were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding
glad of them; but 1 was warned by my experience
to
to eat sparingly of them, remembering that-, whea I
was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed seve-
ral of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by throw-
ing them into fluxes and severs. But 1 found an excel-
lent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or dry
them in the fun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins
are kept; which I thought would be, as indeed they
Were, as wholefome, and as agreeable to eat, when no
grapes might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as I
might say, I had lain from Borne. In the night I took my
first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well, and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery,
travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills
on the fouth and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the weff; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the tide of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the
country appeared fo s • sh, fo green, fo flourishing, every
thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring,
that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed
with other afflicting thoughts) to think that this was all
my own, that 1 was king and lord of this country inde-
seaSbly, and had a right of possession; and if I could.,
convey it, ] might have it in inheritance as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. 1 saw here abundance
of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon, and citron trees; but
all wild, and sew bearing any fruit, at least not then:
however, the green limes that i gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholefome; and 1 mixed their'
ju:ce afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
fome, and very cool and resreshing.
I found now 1 had business enough to gather and carry
home; and refolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes
as limes and lemons, to surnish mj self for the wet seafon,
which I knew was approaching,
In
In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in
one place,.and a lesser heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking
a sew of each with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved
to come again, and brin<r a bag or sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave);
but besore I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the rich-
ness of the fruit, and the weight of the juice, having
broken them, and bruifed them, they were good sor little
or nothing; as to the limes they were good, but I could
bring but a sew.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But
I was 'surprifed, when coming to my heap of grapes,
which were so rich and rine when 1 gathered them", I
sound them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged
about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and
devoured: by this I concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts, which had done this, but what
they were I knew not.
However, as I sound there was no laying them up on
heaps, and no carrying them away in alack, but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, 1 took another
course; sorl gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as sor the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, 1 contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms
on that side of the water and the wood; and con-
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode,
which was by sar the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, 1 began to consider of removing my habitation,
and to look out sor a place equally sase as where I now
was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitsul part of
the ifland.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding sond of it sor some time, the pleasantness of the
place
on my post, and found ! had been on shore three hundred
and sixty-five days. 1 kept this day as a folemn sast, setting
it apart to a religious exercise, prostrating myself to the
ground with the most serious humiliation, consessing my-
self to God, acknowledging his righteous judgment upon
me, and praying him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and having not tailed the least resresoment for
twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then
eat a biscuit-cake, and a bunch of grapes, and went to
bed, finishing the day as 1 be^an it.
1 had all this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at
first 1 had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after
fometime omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and fo
did not really known what any of the days were; but
now having cast up the days as above, I found 1 had
been there a year; fo 1 divided it into weeks, and set
apart every seventh day for a sabbath; though I found
at the end of my acco'unt I had lost a day or two of my
reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and fo I
contented mj'self to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events ot my lise, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things. .
The rainy seafon, and the dry seafon, began now to ap-
pear regular to me, and I learned to divide them fo as to
provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my ex-
perience before 1 had it; and this 1 am. going to relate,
was one of the most discouraging experiments that 1 made
•at all. 1 have mentioned that 1 had saved the sew ears of
barley and rice which I had fo surprisingly found spring
up, as 1 thought of themselves, and believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley;
and now I thought it a proper time to fow it after the
rains, the sun being in its fouthern position going from me.
Accordingly 1 dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into' two
parts, I fowed my grain; but as I was sewing, it casully
occurred to my thoughts, that I would not fow it. all at
first, because 1 did not know when was the proper time
for it; fol fowed about two-thirds of the feeds, leaving
an handful of each.
It
Tt was a great cornfort to me afterwards that I did fo,
'for not one .grain of that I fowed this time came to any
'thing; for the dry months following, the earth having
had no rain after the seed was fown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet
seafon had come again, and then it grew as if it had beea
newly fown.
Finding my first seed did not grow^ which I easily
•imagined was by the drought, 1 fought for a moistef
piece of ground, to mr.ke another trial in; and I dug up
'a piece of ground near my iiew bower, and sowed the
tell of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox; and this, having the rainy month's of March
and April 'to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and
yielded a very good crbp$ but having part of the seed
left only, and not daring to fow all that I had yet, .I had
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amount-
ing to above half a peck of each kind.
Hut by this experience I was made master of my busi-
ness, and knew exactly when the proper seafon was to
fow; and that 1 might expect two seed times and two
harvests every yeas.
While this corn was growing, I made a little disco-
very, which was of use to me afterwards. As' foon as
the rains were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, I made a
visit up the country to my bower, where, though I had
not been fome months, yet I found all things just as i lest
them. The circle or double hedge that 1 had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which. I had
cut off of fome trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot
out, and grown with long branches, as much as a wil-
low tree usually moots the first year after lopping its
head. 1 could not tell what tree to call it, that theie
stakes were cut from. I was- surprised, and yet very well
pleased to see the young trees grow; and I pruned them,
and led them up to grow as much alike as I could; and
it issearce credible, how beautisul a sigure they grew into
in three years; fo that, though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, sor
such I might now call them, foon covered it, and it was a
compleat ihade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry seafon.
vol, i, F This
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me ah hedge like this in a semicircle round my
wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I did; —
and, placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at above
eight yards diftance from my first sence, they grew pre-
sently, and were at first a sine cover to my habitation,
and afterwards served sor a desence also, as I shall ob-
serve in its order.
I sound now that the seasons of the year might general-
ly be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe,
but in the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus :—
A-, 7' t Rainy, the sun beinir then on, or near,
Match, >'" . =,.: .''
Half April,) theequmox.
Half April,'
, J ' T Dry, the fun being then to the north.
July,
Half August',,
of the line.
Half August, )
September, >
Half October, )
eptember, VRain, the sun being then corne back.
Half October,'
t^ , 'f Dry, the sun being then to the south
December, > --' ',.v8,.
. '/ of the line.
January, »
Half February,)
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as
the winds happened to blow; but this was the general
observation 1 made. After 1 had sound, by experience,
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, i took
care to surniih myself with provisions besorehand, that I
might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I sound much employment (and very
suitable also to the time), sor I sound great occasion of
many things which I had no way to surnish myself
with, but by hard labour, and constant application ;—
particularly, I tried mary ways to make myself a
basket;
basket; but all the twigs I could get sor the purpose
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved
of excellent advantage to me now, that, when 1 was a
hoy, 1 used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
"maker's in the town where my sather lived, to see them.
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually
are, very officious to help^^and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lent an hand, I had b- this means so sull knowledge of
the methods of it, th* I wanted nothing but the mate-
rials; when it ca . 'ijto my mind, that the twigs of that
tree from whence 1 ejrmy stakes that grew, might pos-
sibly be as tough as she sallows, and willows, and osiers,
in England; and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, next day, I went to my country-
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, I sound them to my purpofe as much as I could
tlelirc; whereupon 1 came the next time prepared with
an hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I loon sound,
for there was a great plenty of them: these I set up to
'dry within my circle or hedges; and when they were
sit sor use, I carried them to my cave; and here, durin"-
the next season, 1 employed myself in making (as well
"as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay tip anything, as 1 had occasion; and
though 1 did not smith them very handsomely, yet I
made them sufficiently serviceable sor my purpofe; and
thus afterwaYds I took care never to be without them;
and as my wicker-ware decayed, 1 made more; espe-
cially I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when -I inould come to have any quan-
tity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see, if pof-
sible, how to supply two wants. 1 had no vessels to
hold any thing that was liquid, except two ruiidlets,
-which were almost sull of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common fize, and others which were case-
bottles, square, sor the holding of waters, spirits, &e*
I had not so much as a pot to boil any thine in, except
a great kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and which
'was too big sor such uses as I desired it sor, viz. to
r 2 make
758786

make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself.' The se-
cond thing i would sain have had was a tobacco pipe,
but it was impossible for me to make one; however, I
found a contrivance for that too at last.
'I employed myself in planting my second rows offtakes
of piles, and in this wicker work, all the summer, or
dry seafon; when another business took me up more
time than it could be imagined I could spare'.
1 mentioned besore, that I had a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and
fo on to where I built my bower, and where I had an
opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island:
] now refolved to travel quite across to the sea shore oft
that side; Ib taking my gun and hatchet, and my dog,
and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
with two biscuit-cukes, and a great bunch of raisins in
my pouch, form}' store, I began my journey. When I
had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I
came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a
very clear day, I sairly descried land, whether an island
or continent 1 could not tell; but it lay very high, ex-
tending from the west to the W.S.W. at a very great dis-
tance; by my guess it could not be less than sifteen or
twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as 1 concluded by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, tmd perhaps was all inhabited
by savages, where, if 1 should have landed, I had been
in a worse condition than I was now; and theresore 1 ac-
quiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which 1' began
now to own, and to believe, ordered every thing for the
best; I say, I quieted my mind with this, and lest afflict-
ing myself with fruitless wisb;es of bemg there.
Besides, after fome pause upon this affair, I considered,
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
on» time or other, see some vtssels pass'or repass one way
or other; but snot, then it was the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brasil, which were indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men eaters,
and' fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies
that tall into their hand*.
With
With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward; I found that side of the island where I now was
much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields
sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very
sine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and tain would
I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after fome pains-
taking, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down
with a slick, and having recovered it, brought it home,
but it was fome years besore I could make him speak. —
However, at last I taught him to call me by my name very
samiliarly; but the accident that followed, though it be
a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
1 was exceedingly diverted with this lourney: I found,
in the low grounds, hares, as 1 thought them to be,
and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other
kinds I had met with; nor could 1 satisfy my felt' to eat
them, though I killed several; but I had no need to be
venturous, for 1 had no want of food, and of that which
was very good too; especially these three forts, viz.
goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise; which, added to
my grapes, Leadenhall-market could not have surnished
a better table than 1, in proportion to the company.—.
And though my case was deplorable enough, yet 1 had
great cause for thanksulness, that I was not driven to
any extremities for food; but rather plenty, even to
dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took fo many
turns and returns to see what discoveries I could make,
that I came weary enough to the place where I refolved
to sit down for all night; and then either reposal my-
selt in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes
set upright in the ground, either from one tree to ano-
ther, or fo as no wild creature could come at me without
waking me.
As foon as I came to the sea fliore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island; for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles.; whereas, on the other side, 1 had
found but three in a year and a half. Here was alfo an
infinite cumber of fowls of many kinds, fome of which
F3 lhad
I had not seen besore, and many of them very good
meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those
called penguins.
I could have shot as many as 1 pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and theresore had more
mind to kill a she goat, if I could, which I could better
seed on; and though there were many goats here, more
than on the other iide os the island, yet it was with much
more difficulty than I could come near them; the coun-
try being flat and even, and they saw me much fooner
than/when 1 was on the hills.
I consess this fide of the country was much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to re-
move, for as I was sixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed, all the while I was here, to
be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home. How-
ever, I travelled along the more of the sea towards the
casl, I suppose about twelve mile?, and then setting up
a great pole upon the shore for a mark, i concluded I
would go home again; and the next jouuey I took
should be on the ether iide of the Hland, east from my
dwellmg, and fo round tiil I came to my post again: of
which injts place.
1 took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island fo much in
say view, that 1 could not miss finding my first dwelling
\>y \iewing the country, but I found myself mistaken;
for being come abort two or three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley; but fo surrounded
with hills, and those hills covered with woods, that I
could not see which was the way by any direction but
that of the sun, nor even then, unless 1 knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the day.
Is happened to my surther misfortune, that the wea-
ther proved hazy for three or sour days, while I was in
this valley, and not being able to see the sun, 1 wan-
dered about very uncomsortably, and at last was obliged
to find out *he sea-side, look for my, post, and come
back the lame way I went; and then, by easy journieg,
I turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot;
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things,
very heavy.
la
..
la this journey my dog surprised a young kid,' and
seized upon it; and I, running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and sa*ed it alive from the dog. I had a great
mind to bring it home, if I could, for I had often been
musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and fo raise a breed of tame goats, which might
supply me when my powder and shot should he spent.
1 made a collar to this little creature, and with a string,
which I made of fome rope yarn, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with fome difficulty,
till I came to my bower, and there I inclosed him, and
lest him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satissaction it was to me to
come to my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without a fettled
place of abode, had been fo unpleasant to me, that my
own house, as I called it to myself, was a persect settle-
ment to me compared to that; and it rendered 'every
thing about me fo comsortable, that I refolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest aad regale my-
self aster my long journey; during which, most of the
time .was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my poll, who began now to be a mere domestic,
and to be pretty well acquainted with me. Then Jt
began to think of the poor kid, which I had pent in
within my little circle, and refolved to go and setch ifi
home, ami give it fome food. .Accordingly 1 went, and
found itVhere 1 lest it, for indeed it could not get out,
but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could
find, and threw it over, and having sed it, 1 tied it as I
did besore, to lead it away; but it was fo tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it; for it
followed me like a dog; and as I constantly sed it, the>
creature became fo loving, fo gentle, and fo fond, that it
became from that time one of my domestics alfo, and
would never leave me afterwards.
The ramy seafon of the autumnal equinox was now?
Come, aud I kept the 30th of September in the same
f 4 folemn
solemn manner as besore, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island, having now been there two years,.
and no more profpect of being delivered than the first
day I came there. I spent the whole day ia humble and
thanksul acknowledgments of the many wondersul mercies
which my solitary condition was "attended with, and
without which it might have been insinitely more mifer-
able. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God had
been pleased to difcover to me, even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in-a liberty os society, and in all the
pleasures of the world.. That he could sully'make up
to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want
of human society, by his presence, and the communica-
tion of his grace to my soul, supporting, comsorting, and
encouraging me to depend upon his providence here, and
hope sor his eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that 1 began sensibly to seel- how much
more happy the lise I now led was, with all its miferable
circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life
1 led all the past part of my days; and now having
changed both my sorrows and my joys, my very desires
altered, my affections changed their gust, and my de-
-lr*hts were persectly new from what they were at first
comtnei, or indeed lor the two years past.
Besore, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
sor viewing the country, the anguish of my soul, at my
condition, would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the desarts I was in; and how I
'was a prifoner locked up, with the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without re-
demption. In the midst of the greatest compofures of
my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm,;
and make me wring my hands, and weep like a child.—
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately fit down and sigh, and look
upon the ground sor an hour or two together, and this
wassstill worse to me; sor if I could burst out into tears,
or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief
having exhausted itself, would abate*
But
'-">
:
But now I began to exercise myself with new.
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied alt
the comsorts of it to my present state. One morning,,
being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words,.
"I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Im-
mediately^ occurred that these words were to me; why
else should they be directed in such a manner, just at the
moment when 1 was mourning over my condition, as
one forsaken of God and man? Well, then, said 1, if
God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should all for-
sake me; seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and should lose the favour and bleffing of God*
there would be no comparifon in the loss?
from this moment I began to conclude in my mind,
that it was poffible for me to be more happy in this for-
saken, folitary condition, than it was probable L should
have ever been in any other particular state in the world ^
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to»
God for bringing me to this place
I know not what it was, but fomething shocked my:
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words.
How canst thou be such a hypocrite, said I,, even au-
dibly, to pretend to be thanksul for a condition, which,
however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with,thoa
wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered srom? So I
stopped there; but though 1 could not say 1 thanked God.
for being there, yet 1 sincerely gave thanks to God for
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting Providences, to
see the former condition of my lise, and to mourn for
my wickedness, and repent.. I never opened the Bible
or shut it, but my very foul within me blessed God for
directing my friend in England, without any order of
mme, to pack it up among my goods; and sor assisting;
me afterwards to lave it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year ;• and though 1 have not given the reader the
trouble of fo particular an account of my works this
year as the first, yet in general it may be observed, that
I wasvery seldom idle; having regularly divided my
time, according to the several daily employments
that were besore me; such as—First, My duty to God,
e 5 and
and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart
fome time for, thrice every day.—Secondly, The going
abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me
up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain.
Thirds, '1 he ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking
what 1 had killed or catched for my supply—these took
up great part os the day.—Alfo, it is to be considered,
that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out,
fo that about four hours in the evening was all the time I
could be supposed to work in, with this exception, that
fometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working,
and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my
gun in the evening.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
rie added, the exceeding laboriousnes's of my work; the
many hours, which, for want of tools, want of help,
want of skill, every thing that I did took up out of
my time. For example, I was sull two and forty days
snaking me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in
my cave ; whereas two sawyers, with their tools and
iaw-pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame tree
in half a day.
My case was this—It was to be a large tree which
was to be cut down, because my board was to be at
broad one. The tree I was three days in cutting down,
and two more cutting osf the boughs, and reducing it
to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hack-
ing and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips,
till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one side of it smooth and Hat, as a board,
from end to end. Then turning that side downward,
cut the other side till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge of the labour of my hands in such a piece of
work; but labour and patience carried me through that
and many other things. I only observe this in particu-
lar to (hew the reafon why fo ranch of my time went
away with fo little work, viz. That what might be a
little to be done with help and tools, wr.s a vast labour,
and required a prodigious time to do alone, and by
hand.
But
But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour t
went through many things, anil indeed everything that
my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will
appear by what follows.
1 was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I
had manured or dug up for theni was not great; for, a*
I observed, my. seed of edch was not above the quantity'
of half a peck; for I had loft one whole crop by fowing
in the dry seafon; but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found 1 was in danger of losing it
all again by enemies of several forts, which it was scarce
possible to keep from it. As, sirst, the goats, and wild
creatures, which 1 called hares, who, tasting the sweet-
ness of the blade, lay in it all night and day, as foon as
it came up, and eat it Co close, that it could get no time.
to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and the more, because it required a great deal of
speed; the creatures daily spoiling my corn. However,
as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got
it totally well senced in about three .weeks time; and
shooting fome of the creatures in the day time, 1 set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at.
the gate, where he could stand and bark all night long;
so in a little time the enemies forfook the place, and the
corn grew very strong, and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me besore, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me.now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place, to
see how it throve, 1 saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls of I know not how many forts, which stood as it
were watching till I, should.be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for 1 had always my gun with roe.—
I had no sooner shpt t,han,there arose u.p a little cloud os
fowjs, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn
itself!'' , '.*.'.. r..
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw, that in a sew-
days they would devour als my hopes: thgt I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and
what to do I could.'not tejl. However, 1 refolved not t'tv
i 6 lose
lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night
and day. In the first place, 1 went among it to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled
a good deal of it; but that, as it was yet too green for
them, the loss was not fo great, but the remainder was
like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I staid by it, to load my gun, and then, coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all ths trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be fo; for as I walked off as
if I was gone, I was no fooner out of their sight, bat they
dropt down, one by one, into the corn again. I was fo
provoked, that I could not have patience to stay till more
came on, knowing that every grain that they eat now
•was, as might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
quence; but coming up to the hedge, I fired a^ain, and
killed three of them. This was what 1 wished for; fo I
took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains for a
terror to others. It is almost impossible to imaging, that
this should have such an esfect as it had; for the.fowls
•would not only not come at the corn, but in short they
forfook that part of the island, and I could never see a
tird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second har-
vest in the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could, out of one of the broad swords, or cutlasses,.
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my crop wiis small, I had. no great disficulty
to cut it down. In short, I reaped it my way, for 1 cut'
nothing ofs but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and fo rubbed it out with my
hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, 1 found,
that out of my half peck of seed, I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley,
that is to fay, by my guess, for I .had no measure at that
time. - ,
However, .this was a great encouragement .to me ;—
and I foresaw, that in time it would please God to sup-
ply me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed again,
for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part It; nor if made
into rheal, how to make bread of it; and, if how to
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These things
being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I refolved not to
taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
'gainst the next seafon, and in the mean time to employ
all my study, and hours ot working, 10 accomplish this
great work of supplying myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that I now worked for my
bread. It is a little wondersul, and what I believe sew
people have thought much upon, viz. the strange multi-
tude of little things necessary in the providing, produc-
ing, curing, dressing, making and sinishing this one
article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to be my daily discouragement, and was made more
and more sensible of it every hour, even after I got the
sirst handsul of seed corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to my surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn up the earth, no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a
wooden spade, as I observed besore; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a
great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not
only wore out the fooner, but made my work the harder,
and made it be persormed much worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of
the persormance. When the corn was fowed, I had no
harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a
great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth,
as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things ] wanted—to sence it, secure it,
mow, or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh, part it
srom the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to
grind it, sieves to dress it, yest and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it in; and all these things
1 did without, as shall be observed; and yet the com
was
110 A»VEW«niEs or robiksoi* crbsoe.
\vas an inestimable comsort and advantage to me too;
but all this, as I said, made every thing laborious arfci
tedious to me, but that there was no help for; neither
was my time fo much loss to me, because I had divided
it; p certain part of it was every day appointed to these
works; and as I refolved to use none of the corn for
bread, till 1 had a greater quantity by me, I had the next
six months to apply myself wholly by labour and inven-
tion, to surnish myself with uteniils proper for the per-
forming all the operations necessary for the making the
corn, when 1 had it, fit for my use.
But first I had to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to fow above an acre of ground. Besore I
did this, I had above a week's work to m-ake me a spade,
which, when it was done, was a very forry qne indeed,
and very heavy, and required double labour to work
with it; however, 1 went through that, and fowed my
seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house
as I could find them to my mind, and senced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut oflr
that wood which I had set besore, which I knew would
grow, fo that in one year's time I knew I mould have a
quick, or living hedge, that would want but little re-
pair. This work was not fo little as to take me up less
than three months, because great part of that time was
the wet "-afon, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occasion:
.Always observing, that all the while I was at work I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching
him to speak, and 1 quickly learned him to know his
own name; and at last to speak it pretty loud, Poll;
which was the first: word I eves heard spoken in the island,
by any mouth but my own. This theresore was not my.
work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said,
1 had a great employment upon my hands, as follows,
viz. I had long studied, by fome means or other, to
make myself fome earthen vessels, which indeed I want-
ed forely, but knew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I might
botch up fome such pot as might, being dried by the
fun,
AnvesTmtES or robinson cihtsoe. lit
fan, be.hard enough, and strong enough, to bear hand-*
ling, and lo hold any thing that was dry, and required
to be kept, fo; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, Sec. which was the thing I was upon, I re-
folved to make fome as large as I could, and fit only to
stand like jars, to hold what I should put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many aukward ways 1 took to raise this
paste, what odd mis-shapen ugly things I made, how
many of them sell in, and how many sell out, the clay
not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many sell to pieces with only re-
moving, as well besore as after they were dry ed; and, in
a word, how, after having laboured hard to nnd the clay,
to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I
could not make above two large earthen ugly things, I
cannot call them jars, in about two months labour.
However, as' the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which 1 had made on
purpose for them, that they might not break; and, as
between^the pot and the basket, there was a little room
to spare, I stuffed it sull of the rice and barley straw :—
and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was bruited.
Though I miscarried fo much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dithes, pitchers, and
pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and the
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the
fire, which none of these could do. it happened, aster
fome time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when 1 went to put it out, after 1 had done with.
it, I sbund a broken piece of one of my earthen ware
.vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a
tile. ) was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to
myself, that certainly they might be made to burn whole,
if they would burn broken.
3 This
This set me to study how to order my fire, fo as to
make it burn me fome pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had fome lead to do it with;. but I
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a
pile one upon another, and placed my sire-wood all
round it, with a great heap of embers under them: I
plied the fire with fresh suel round the outside, and upon
the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot quite
through, and observed that they did not crack at all :—
when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
about five or six hours, tils I found one of them, though,
it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand which,
was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the.
heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on j
fo I slackened my fire gradually, till the pots began to-
, abate of the red colour; and watching them all night,
that I might not let the fire abate too sast, in the morn-
ing I had three very good, 1 will not say handfome, pip-
kins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could
be desired; and one of them persectly glazed with the
running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
fort of earthen ware for my use; but 1 must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any-
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them,
but es the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would
make pies that never learnt to raise paste.
No joy, at a thing of fo mean a nature, was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that
would bear the fire, and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold, besore 1 set one upon the, fire again,
with fome water in it, to boil me fome meat, which I
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
fome very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it fo good as I
would have had it.
. My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat fome corn in.; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that persection os' art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want, I was
at a great loss; for of all trades in the world I was as
periectly
perfectly unqualisied for a stone-cutter as for any what-
ever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. I spent
many a day to sind out a great ttone, big enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could fmd none
at all, except what was in the folid rock, and which I
had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks
iji the island of hardness sufficient, but were alL of a sandy
crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight
of a heavy pestle, nor wousd break the corn without
filling it with land: fo, after a great deal of time lost in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and refolved to look
out a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to,
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with my
axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire and in-
finite labour, made an hollow place in it, as the Indians
in Brasjl make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood,
and this 1 prepared and laid by against I had my next
crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grinds or ra-
ther pound, my corn or meal to make wiy bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve ot fierce, to
dress my meal, and part it from the bran and the hulls,
without which I did not see it possibse 1 could have any
bread. This was a. most difficult thing, fo much as but
to think on; for to be sure 1 had nothing like the ne-
cessary things to make it 'with; I mean fine thin canvass,
or stuff to fierce the meal through. And here I was at
a sull stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do; linen 1 had none lest but what was mere
rags; I had goat's hair, bat neither knew I how to,
weave or spin it; and had I known how, here were no
tools to work it with; all the remedy that I found for
this was, that at last I did remember 1 had among the
seamen's clothes, which were saved out of the thip, fome
neckcloths of callico or muslin; and with fomepieces of
these I made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
work; and thus I made shift for fome years; how I
did afterwards, I shall shew in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how 1 should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, sirst, I had no yest; as to that part, as.
there
there was no supplying the want, fo I did not concern
myself much about it. But for an oven, I was indeed in
great pain. At length I found out an experiment for
that alfo, which was this; I made fome earthen vessels
very broad, but not deep; that is to say, about two seet
diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I burnt
in the sire as I had done the other, and laid them by ; —
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great sire upon
the hearth, which I had paved with fome square tiles of
my own making and burning alfo; but I mould not call
them square.*
When the sire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, fo as to cover it all over; and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all
the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves; and whelm-
ing down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers
all round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and add to
the heat: and thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little
time a mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made
myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed I
made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into them,
supposing I had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered' at, if all these things took
me up most part, of the third year of my abode here ;—.
for it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these
things I had my new harvest and husbandry to ma-
nage; fpr I reaped my corn in its seafon, and carried
it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear,
in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it oat; for
1 had no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it
with.
And now indeed my slock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to.
lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me
fo much, that 1 had of the barley about twenty bushels,
and of the rice as much, or more; infomuch that I now
refolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been
quite gone a great while: alfo I refolved to see what
quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to
sow but once a year.
Upon
Upon the whole, I sound that the sorty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than T could consume ia
a year; so I resolved to ibw just the same quantity every
year that I sowed the last, in hopes.that such a quantity-
would suVly provide me with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you maybe sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the profpect; of the
land which I had seen from the other side of the ifland;
and I was not without secret wishes, that I was on shore
there, sancying, that seeing the main land, and an inha-
bited country, I might sind some way or other to convey .
myself sarther, and perhaps at last sind some means os
escape.
But all this while I made no allowance sor the clangers
of such a condition, and how 1 might sall into the ham's
of savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to-
think sar worse than the lions and tigers of Africa: that
if I once came into their power, 1 sliauld run an hazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed, and per-
haps of being eaten; sor 1 had heard that the people of
the Caribean coalis were cannibals, or men-eaters; and
I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be sar oft" from
that shore: that, suppose they were not cannibals, yet
they might kill me, as many Europeans, who had sallen
into their hands, had been served, even when they had
been ten or twenty together, much more 1 that was but
one, and could make little or no desence. All these
things, I say, which 1 ought to have considered well
of, and I did cast up my thoughts afterwards,- yet
took none of my apprehensions at first; and my head
ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that
lhore.
Now I wished sor my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
'with the shoulder of mutton sail, with which 1 sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain. Tien I thought .1 would gc and look on
our ship's boat, which, as 1 have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way in the storm, when vve were
first cast away. She lay almost where she did at first,
but not quite, and was turned by the sorce of the waves
and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against the
high ridge of beachy rough sanely but no water about her
as bet'orei, .
u
If I had had hands to have resitted her, and have.
launched her into the water, the boat would have don*
•well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brafils
with her easy enough; but I might have easily. foreseen,
that I could no more turn her, and set her upright upoa
her bottom, than 1 could remove the island. However,
I went to the wood, and cut leaves and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, refolved: to try what I could
do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had re-
ceived, and she would be a very good boat, and I might
go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed. in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, 1 think* three or four weeks about iti At last,
sinding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength,
1 sell to digging away the sand to undermine it; and so
to make it sall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust
and guide it right in the sall.
But when I had done this,' I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get,under it, much less.to move it forwards.
towards the water; fo I was forced to give it over; and
yet, though 1 gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire
to venture over for the main increased,, rather than de-
creased, as the means for it seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as
the natives of those dimates make, even without tools,
or, as 1 might say, without hands, viz. of the trunk
of a great tree. This 1 not only thought possible, but
easy; and pleased myself extremely with my thoughts
of making it, and with my having much more conve-
nience for it than any of the negroes or Indians; but not
at' all considering the particular inconveniencies which
1 lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want of
hands to move it into the water, when it was'made ;—
a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all
the consequences of want of tools cousd be to them :.—•
fur. what was it to me,, that when I had chosen a vast
tree in the woods, 1 might with great trouble cut it
down,, if, after I'might be able with my tools to hew
and dub the outside into a proper shape of a boat, and
burn or cut the inside to make it hollow, fo to make
a boat of it, ift after all this, I must leave it just thers
where
sphere I found it, aud was not able to launch it into the
water.
One would have thought I could not have had the
least reflection upon my mind of my circumitance, while
I was making this boat, but I should have immediately
thought how 1 could get it into the sea; but my thoughts
were fo intent upon my voyage over the .ea in it, that
I never once considered how I should get it off' of the
land; and it was really in its own nature more easy fof
me to guide it over foity-sive miles of sea, than about
forty-five sathom of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in
the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake >
1 pleased myself with the design,.without determming
whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came oiten into my
head; but 1 put. a stop to my own inquiries into it by
this foosisli answer, which I gave myself; Let me first
make it; I'll warrant I'll sind fome way or othqr to get
it along, when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eager-
ness of my sancy prevailed, and to work I went, and
selled a cedar.tree; 1 question much whether Solomon
ever had such an one for the budding the temple at
Jerusalem; it was sive seet ten inches diameter at the
lower part next the stump, and four seet eleven inches
diameter at the end of twenty-two seet, after which-i*
lessened for a while, and then parted mto branches.—-
It was not without insinite labour that 1 selled this
tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it. at
the bottom; 1 was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cutoff,
.which i hacked and hewed throt.gh with my axe and
hatchet, with inexpressible labour: Aster this it colt me
a month to shape it, and dub it to a proportion, and to
fomething like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it ought to do> It cost me near three
months more to char the inside, and work it out fo
as to make an exact boat of it. This 1 did indeed with-
out fire, by mere mallet and chissel, and by the dint of
hard labour j till I had brought it to be a very hand*
fome
some periagua, and big enough to have carried fix and
twenty men, aud consequently big enough to have car.«
Tied me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this Work, I Was extremely.
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
1 ever saw a canocor pcriagua, that was made of.one tree,
in my lise ; many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure, for there remained nothing but to get it into the wa-
ter; and had I gotten it into the water, 1 make no ques-
tion but I should have begun the madest voyage, and the
molt unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But alljmy devices to get it into the water sailed me,
though they cost insinite labour too; it lay about one
hundred yards, from the water, and not more ; but the
sirst inconvenience was, it was up.hill towards the creek.
Well', to take away this, discouragement, I refolvedtto
tlig into the sursace of the earth, and fo make a decli-
vity; this J began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of
pains : but who'grudge pains that have their deliverance
in view? But when this was worked through* and this
difficulty managed, it was still much as one; for 1 could
no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the riiisance of the ground, and re-
folved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, feeing I could not'bring the icanoe down to
the water: Well, I bet an this work; and when I began
to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be
dug, how broad, how the stufftobe thrown out, 1 found,
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my
own, it mult have been ten or twelve years besore I
(hould have gone through with it; for the shore lay
high, fo that at the upper end it must have been at lead
tyventy seet deep; fo at length, though with great reluc-
tancy, I gave this attempt over alfo..
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, ithc folly of beginning a work besore we count the
cost, and besore we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it. :'
In the middle of this work I finislled my fourth yea*
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comtort, as ever besore 5
for by a constant study, and serious application of the
word

i
THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBBAB^
ASTOH, LENOX AND
££* FOUNDATIONS -
word of God, and, by the 'assistance of his grace, I
sained a different knowledge sr. m what 1 had besore;
entertained different notions of things; I looked now
upon the world as a thmg remote, which i had nothing
to do with, no expecta irn from, and indeed no desiics
about: In a word, 1 had nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever like to have; fo 1 thought it looked as we
may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well 1 n.ight
say, as sather Abraham to Dives, between me and thee
there is a great guJph fixed.
1n the sirst place, I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world here: 1 had neither the lust of the
flesh, the sust of the eye, or the pride of lise: 1 hais no-
thing to covet, for 1 had all I was now capable of enjoy-
ing: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if 1 pleased, I
m.ght casl myself king or emperor over the whole coun-
try which I had pesiession of: There were no mals; —
1 had no competitor, none to dispute fovereignty or com-
mand with me. I might have raited ship loadings of
corn, but 1 had no use for it; fo 1 let as little grow as I
thought enough for my occasion; I had tortoises or tur-
tles enough; but now and then one was as much as I
could put to any use: 1 had timber enough to have built
a fleet of ships; I had grapes enough to have made
wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that
fleet when they had been built.
But all 1 couU: make use of was all that was valuable:
I had enough to cat, and to supply my wants, and what
\yas all the rest to me? If 1 killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin: if 1 fowed
more corn than 1 could eat, it must be spoiled: The trees
that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground, 1 could
make no more use of them than for suel, and that I had
no occasion for, b it to dress my sood.
1n a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me upon just reflection, that i'!! I he good
things of this world are no sarther good to us than
they are for our use; and that whatever we may heap
up indeed to give to others, we. enjoy as much as we can
use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser in
the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness,
tovetoufncss, if he had been in my case; for I postered
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for defise, except it was of things which 1 had not,
and they were but trifles, though indeed of great use to
me. I had, as I hinted besore, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas!
there the nasty, forry, Useless stuff lay. I had no roan1*
Tier of business for it; and I often thought with myself,
that I would have given an handsul of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay,
1 would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnep
ami carrot seed out of England, or for an handsul of
pease and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had
not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but there
it lay in, a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of
the cave, in.the wet seafon; and if 1 had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case ; and they had
been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my state of lise to be much easier
in itself thanit was at first, and much easier to my snindj
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my.
meat with thanksulness, and admired the hand of God's
providence, which had thus spread my table in the
wilderness: I learned to look more upon the bright side
of my condition, and less upon the dark side; and to
consider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted;
and this gave me fometimes such secret comsorts, that I
cannot express them; and which I take notice pf here*
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comsortably what God hath given them, be-
cause they see and covet fomething that he has not given,
them. All our discontents about what we want, ap.*
'pearedto me to spring from, the want of thanksulness for
What we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less would be fo to any one that should sall into such.
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my pre-
sent condition with what I at first expected it should be j
nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good
providence o/God had not wondersully ordered the ship
to he cast up nearer to the shore, where 1 not only
could come at her, but could bring whalt I got out of
her
her to the shore for my relies and comsort; without
which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for desence,
or gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
1 spent whole hours, I may say, Whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the molt lively colours, how I must
have acted, if I had got nothing out of the ship; how I
could not have fo much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that, as it was long besore I found any of
them, 1 must have perished first: that I should have lived,
if 1 had not perished, like a mere savage: that if 1 had
killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I hail no way
to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin and
th^ bowels, or to cut it up, but must gnaw it with my
teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible os the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thanksul for my pre-
sent condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes:
and this part alfo I cannot but recommend to the reflec-
tion of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is any
affliction like mine? Let them consider how much worse
the cases of fome people are, and what their case might
have been, if Providence had thought fit.
1 had another reflection which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes, and this was, comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
theresore reafon to expect from the hand of Providence:'
I had lived a dreadsul lise, persectly destitute of the
knowledge and sear of God: I had been well instruc-
ted by my sather and mother; neither had.they been,
wanting to me in their early endeavours, to insuse a
religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my
duty, and of what the nature and end of my being
required of me: but alas! salling early into the sea-
saring lise, which of all the sives is the most destitute
os the sear of God, though his terrors are always besore
them; I say, salling early into the sea-saring lise, and
into sea-saring company, all that little sense of teligion
which I had entertained, was laughed out of me by my
messmates; by an hardening despising of dangers, and
the views of death, which grew habitual to me; by
my long absence from all manner of opportunities to
converse with any thing but what was like myself,
vol. i. e or
or to hear any thing of what was good, or tended to*
wards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good; or of the
least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my escape from
Salee, my being taken up by the Portuguese master of
the ship, my being planted fo well in Bralil, my receiv-
ing the cargo from England, and the like, I never once
had the word thank God, so much as on my mind, or in
my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much
thought as to pray to him; nor fo much as to say, Lord
have mercy upon me! No, not to mention the name of
Cod, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of
my wicked and hardened lise past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences
had attended me, smce my coming into this place, and
h w God had dealt bountisully with me; had not only
punished me less than my iniquity deserved, but had ib
plentisully provided for ine; this gave me great hopes
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet
mercies in store for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only
to resignation to the will of God in the present ditpo-
'fition of my circumstances, but even to a tincere thank-
sulness of my condition ; and that 1, who was yet a living
man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my fins; that I enjoyed fo many mercies,
which I had no reafon to have expected in that place;
that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but
to rejoice, and to give daily thanks sor that daily
bread, which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have
brought: that I ought to consider I had been sed even
by a miracle, even as great as that of seeding Esijah by
ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I
could hardly have named a place in the uninhabited part
of the world where I could have been cast more to my
advantage: a place, where, as I had no fociety, which
was my affliction on one hand, fo 1 found no ravenous
beasts, no surious wolves or tygers, to threaten my
lise; no venomous creatures, or poifonous, which I might
~ .•„ hav«
riave sed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and de-
vour me.
In a word, as my lise was a lise of forrow one way, fo
Jt was a lise of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to
make it a lise of comsort, but to be able to make my
sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me .in this
condition, be my daily confolation; and after I made a
lust improvement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad.
I had now been here fo long, that my things, which I
brought pn shore for my help, were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for*fome time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water a
little and a little, till it was fo pale it scarce sest anv ap-
pearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted,
I made use of it to minute down the days of the mojnth
on which any remarkable thing happened to me; and
first by casting uptimes past, I remember that there was).
a strange concurrence of days, in the various providences
which besel me, and which, if I had b'-en sirperstitioufly
inclined to observe days as satal or fortunate, I might
have had reafon to have looked upon with a great deal
of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my sather and my friends, an I tan away to
Huls in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards 1 was
taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped outosthe wreck
of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz. the
20th of September, the same day I had my lise fo mira-
culously saved cwenty-six years after, when I was cast:
ashore in this island; fo that my wicked lise, and foli-
tary lise, both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink's bein£ wasted was that of
my bread, I mean the bisouit which I brought out ot' the
ship: this I had husbanded to the lait degree, allowing
mysels but one cake of bread a day, for above a year;
and yet I was quite without bread for a year besore I
got any corn of my own; and great reafon I had to be
g 2 thankful
thanksul that I had any at all, the getting it b_ing, as.ha*
teen already observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. As to linen,
I had none a god vvlule, except some checquereel shirts
which 1 sound in the chests of the other teamen, and
which I carefully preserved, because many times I could
"bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very-
great help to rherihat I had, among all the men's clothes
of the ship, almostjhree dozen of shirts. There were also
i'everal thick watch-coats of the seamen, which were lest
xiehind, but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is
true, that the weather was so violent hot, that there was
no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; no,
-though I had been inclined to it, which I was not; nor
"tould I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked was, I
"could not bear the heat of the sun so Well when- quite
naked, as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat fre-
quently blistered my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the
* air itself made some motion, and whiftling under the
shirt, was twosold cooler than without it : no more could
I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun with-
out a cap or an hat; the heat of the sun beating with
such violence as it does in that place, would give me the
head-ach presently, by darting so directly on my head,
'without a cap or hat on, so tliat 1 could not bear it:—
whereas, if 1 put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting
the sew rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my
business was now to try if I could not make jackets out.
of the great watch-coats which 1 had by me, and with
such other materials as I had; so I set to work a taylor-
ing, or rather indeed a botching; sor I made most pite-
ous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or
three waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great
while: as sor breeches or drawers, I made but sorry shift
indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that 1 killed; I mean sour-sooted ones; and I
had hung them up, stretched out with sticks in the sun;
by which means some of them were so dry and hard, that
they
V
fhey were fit sor little; but others, it seems, were very"
usesul. The firlt thing I made of these was a great cap
sor my head, with the hair on the outride to shoot off'the
rain ; and this I persormed so well, that after this I made
a suit of clothes wholly of thofe skins; that is to say, a
waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, and both
loofe; sor they were rather "wanting to keep me cool,
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge, that they were wretchedly made; sor if 1 was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse taylor. However, they
"were such as 1 made a very good shift with; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make me
an umbrella': I-was indeed in great want of one, and
had a great mind to make one. 1 had seen them made in
the Brasils, where they are very usesul in the great heats
-which are there; and I selt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox. Besides,.
as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most use-
sul thing tome, as well sor the rains as sor. heats. I
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before
I could make any thing likely to hold. Nay, after I
thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three besore
J made one to my mind; but at last I made one that an-
swered indisserently well: the main difficulty I sound
was to make it to let down. 1 could make it to spread;
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not
be portable sor me any way, but just over my head,
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made
one to auswer; I covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
ib that it Cast osf the rain like a penthouse, and kept osf
the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the hot-
est of the weather, with greater advantage than I couM
besore in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, I -
could clofe it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comsortably, my mind being
entirely compofed, by resigning to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon.the difpofal Of his provi-
dence. This made my lise better than sociable; sor
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
would ask myself, whether thus converting mutually
G 3 with
With my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may say, wit$K
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was not
better than the utmost enjoyment of human fociety in
the world?
1 cannot say, that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the>
same cpurt'e, in the fame posture and place, just as be-
fore. The chies thing I was employed in, besides my
yearly labour of planting my barley and ,rice, and
curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just
enough, to have sufficient stock, of the year's provision/8
^besorehand: I say, besides this yearly labour, and my
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had one la-
bour to make rne a canoe, which at last I finished. So
that by digging a canal to it six seet wide, and four seet
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile.—r
As for the first, that was fo vastly big, as I made i£
without considering besorehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be able to launch it; fo never being able r.9
bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, I wap
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiftr next time. Indeed the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in &
place where I could not get the water to it, at any lefe
distance than, as I have said, of near half a mile; yet as
J saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over; and
though I was near two years about it, yet J never grudged
ray labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to lea 3t
last.
However, though my little pariagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view, when I made the first; 1 mean of
.•venturing over to the Terra Firma, where it was above
rjfarty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I
thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next de-
sign was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
teen on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, fo the discoveries.!
made in that journey made me very eager to see the other
parts of the coast; and now I had. a boat, I thought of
. nothing but failing rpun<J th$ island.
For
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing with
discretion and consideration, I iitted up a little mast to
my boat, and made a sail to it out of fome of the pieces
o(the sliip's sails, which lay in store, and of which I
had a great store by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I
found she would sail very well. Then 1 made little
lockers and boxes at either end of my Boat, to put pro-
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c. into, to be kept
dry, either tYgm rain, or the spray of the sea; and a little
long hollow place'I cut in the inside of the boat, where
I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it to keep it dry.
I sixed my umbrella alfo in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun off me like ai* awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went
sar out, nor sar from the little creek: but at last, being
eager to view the circumserence of my little kingdom, I
resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled my
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves
.(cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread; an
earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal
of, a little bottle of rum, hals a goat, and powder with,
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned besore, 1 had saved out of
the seamen's cherts: these I took, one to lie upon, and
the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set out
on this voyage and I found it much longer than I ex-
pected; for though the island itlelf was not very large,
yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea,
fome above water, fome under it; and beyond this a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more; fo that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that
point.
Vv hen I first discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprize, and come back again, not knowing
how tar it might oblige me to go out to sea, and above
all, doubting how I should get back again; fo I came
a 4 to
to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anchor*
with a piece of broken grappling, whrch.1 got out of the
ship. V
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
onshore, climbing up an hill, which seemed to over-
look that point, where I saw the sull extent of it, and
refolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong, and indeed a moil surious current,
which ran to the east, even came close to the point; and
1 took the more notice of it, because I law there might be
fome danger, that when I came into it, I might be car-
ried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
.make the island again. And indeed, had I not gotten
inst upon this hill,. I believe it would have been fo; for
there was the same current on the other side of the island,
only that it set off at a sarther distance; and I saw there
was a strong eddy under the shore; fo I had nothing to
'do but to get out of the first current, and I should pre-
sently be in an eddy. .
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind,
blowing pretty _fresh (E. at S. £. and that.being just
contrary to the said current), made a great breach of the
sea upon the point; fo that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too
sar off because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having
abated overnight, the sea was calm, and 1 ventured;
hut I am a warning-piece again to all rath and ignorant
pilots; for no fooner was I come to the poin.t, when
even I was not my boat's length from the shore, but
1 found myself in a great depth of water, and a cur-
rent sike a sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could
not keep.her fo much as on the edge of it; but I found
it hurried me sarther and sarther out from the eddy,
which was on the lest hand. There was no wind stir-
. ring to help me, and all that I could do with my pad-
dles signified nothing; and I now began to give my-
self over for lost; for, as the current was on both sides
the island, I knew. in a sew leagues distance, they
mull join again/ and then I was irrecoverably gone;
nor
not did I see any possibility of avoiding it; fo that I had
no prospect besore me but of perishing; not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunjreT. I
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as
I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and 1 had a;
great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen
pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main;
land or island for a thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make the most miserable condition that man-
kind could be in, worse. Now I looked back upon my
defolate folitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for
was to be there again. 1 stretched out my hands to it
with eager wishes. Oh happy desart,'said I, I shall
never see thee more. Oh miserable creature, said I, whi-
ther am I going! Then 1 reproached myself with my un-
thanksul temper, and how 1 had repined* at my folitary.
condition; and now what would 1 give to be on shore
there again? Thus we never see the true state of our
condition, till it is illustrated to' us by its contraries;
nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want
of it; it is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for.
fo it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the
side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly
I could; when about noon, as the sun passed the me-
ridian, I thought I selt a little breeze of wind in my
sace, iptinging up from the S. S. E. This cheered, my
heart a little, and especially when in about half an hour
more it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By thistime
1 was gotten at a frightsul distance from the islimd ;'— ,
and, had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I'
had been undone another way too; for I had no crem~
pass on board, and should never have known how to
have steered towards the island, if 1 had but once lost
fight of it; bat the weather continuing clear, I applied
e 5 '• loyiel?
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sall»
standing away to the north as much as possible, to get
out of. the current.
Just as 1 had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness of the wa?
ter, fome alteration of the current was near; for where
the current was fo strong, the water was foul; but per,-.
Reiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and
presently 1 found to the east, at about half a mile, a
preach os the sea upon fome rocks: these rocks I found
caused the current to part again; and as th,e main stress:
of it ran away more foutherly, leaving the rocks to the
north-e:ist, fo the other returned by the repulse of the
lock, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to
the north-west with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in such
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise of
jgy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream
of this eddy; and the wind alfo freshening, how gladly I
spread my sail to it, running cheersully besore the wind,
and with a strong tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried roe about a league in my way back
again directsy towards the island, but about two leagues
more towards the northward than the current lay, which,
carried me away at first; so that when I came near th*
island, I found myself open to the.northern shore of it,
that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to
that which I went out from.
When I had made fomething more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent, and saved me no sarther. However, I found that
being 'between the two great currents, viz. that onHh*
fouth-side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay about two leagues on the other fide; I
fay, between these two, in the west of the island, I fou»c>
the water at least still, and running no way; and haying
still a breeze of wind sair for me, I kept on steering di-
rectly for the island, though not making such fiesta way
as i did besore.
Aboucfour o'clock in the evening, being then within
3 . . about
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this distance stretching out as is
described before, to the'fouthward, and, casting ofF tne.
current roore foutherly, had of course made another
eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, but not
ciirectly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost sull north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north west, and
in about an hour came within about a mile shot of the
shore, where, it bemg smooth water, 1 foon got to land.
VV hen 1 was on ihore, 1 sell oil my knees, and gave
God thanks sor my deliverance, refolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and resresh-
ing myself with such things as 1 had, 1 brought my boat
close to the shore, in a littse cove that 1 had espied under
fome trees, and said me down to sleep, being quite spent
with the labour and satigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat; I had ran fo much hazard, and knew too
much the case to thmk of attempting it by the way I
went out; and what .might beat the other tide (I mean
the west-side) 1 knew not, nor had I any mind to run,
any more ventures: fo 1 only refolved in the morning to
make my way westward along the shore, and to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate iu«
sasety, fo as to have her again it I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed tiil it came to a very little rivulet, or brook*
where I found a convenient harbour for my boat, and
where she lav as if the had been in a sittle dock, made on,
purpose for her. Here 1 put in.; and having stowed my'
boat very sase, I went on shore to.look about me, and
see where I was.
I foon found I had but a little passed by the place.
where 1 had been besore, when I travesled on toot to that
shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun,
and my umbrelsa, for it was exceeding hot, J began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a
voyage as 1 had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where 1 found every thing standing as I
lest it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as L
said before, my country-house. I got
&6
I got over the sence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs, sor I was very weary, and sell asleep:
but judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a
surprize I must be in, when I was awaked out of my
sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times,
Robin, Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robinson Crusoe!
W here are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where
have you been r
I was so dead asleep at sirst, being satigued with row-
ing or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day,
and walking the latter part, that I did not awake tho-
roughly; and dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me: but as
the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe, at last I began to awake more persectly, and was
at first dreadsully frighted, and started up in the utmost
consternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and imme-
diately knew that this was be that spoke to me; sor just
in such bemoaning language I had used.to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so persectly, that
he would sit upon my singer, and lay his bill clofe to my
sace, and cry, Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you ?—
Where have you been? How came you here? and fuch
things as 1 had taught him.
However, even though 1 knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
besore 1 could comp'ose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither, and then how he should just
keep about the place, and no where else; but as I was
'well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it
over; and holding out my hand, and calling him by his
name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me,
Poor Robin Crusoe, and, how did I come here? and,
where had 1 been? just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again; and so I carried him home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea sor some
time, and had enough to do sor many days to sit still,
and reflect upon the danger I had been in. 1 would
have been very glad to have had my boat again on
jny side of the riland, but I knew not how it was
practicable
practicable to get it about. As to the east Tide of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart would
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of k:
and to the other side of the island 1 did not know how
it might be there.; but supposing the current ran with
the same force against the shore at the east, as it passed
by it on she other, I might run the same risque of being
driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as
I had been besore of being carried away from it; fo
with these thoughts I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of many
months' labour to make it, and of fo many more to get
it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate retired lise, as you may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and sully comforted in reisigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought 1 lived
really very happily in all things, except that of fociety.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering how.
sew tools 1 had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected persection in
my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found insinitely easier and
better, because 1 made things round and shapeable, which
besore were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think
I never was more vain of my own persormance, or more
joysul for any thing I found out, than for my being able
to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red like
other earthen ware, yet as it was hard and sirm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comsorted with it;
for 1 had always been used to smoke, and there were pipes
in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing there
was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when I iearch-
ed the ship again, 1 could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware 1 alfo improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets as well as my invention
fliewcd
shewed me, though not very handsome, yet convenient
for my laying things up in, or setching things home in.
P'or example, if) killed a goat abroad, 1 could hang it up
in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and
bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle; I
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two
of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a busiest, and leave the rest behind me. Also
large deep baskets were nty receivers for my corn, which
I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured;
and kept it in great beflets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated consider-
ably; and this was a want which it was impossible for
me to supply, and 1 began seriously to consider what. I
must do when I,should have no more powder; that is to
say, how 1 thould do to kils any goats. 1 had., as I ob-
served in the third year of my being here, kept a young
kid, and bred her up tame. I was in hopes of getting
a he kid, but I could not by any means bring it to
pass, till my kid grew'an old goat;' and i could never
find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere
age-'
But being pow in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as 1 have said, my ammunition growing low, 1 set
myself to study fome art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I could not catch fome of them alive,' and
particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them; and
believe they were more than once taken in them; but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and always,
found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I refolved to try a pit-sall ; fo. I dug several
large pits in the earth, ,in places where I had observed
the goats used to seed, and o\er these pits I placed hurdles
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them,
and several times i put ears ai barley, and dry rice, with-
out setting the trap; and 1 could easily perceive that the
goats had gone in, and eaten up the corn, that I could
see the mark of their seet. At length i set three traps
in one night, and goinrj the next morning, 1 found them
all Handing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was
very discouraging ; however, 1 altered my trap ; and, not
'to
to (trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see
my traps, I sound in one of them a large old he goat; and,
in one of the other, three kids, a male and two semales.
As to the old one, 1 knew not what to do with him ; he
was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is
to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was
what I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was
pot rny business, nor would it answer my end; so I e'en
let him out, and he ran away as if he had been fright*
eued out of his wits; but I did not then know what {
afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a lion. If
) had let him stay there three or sour days without sood,
and then have carried him some water to drink, and then.
a little .corn, he would have been as tame as one of the
kids; sor they are mighty sagacious tractable creatures,
'where they are well used.
However, sor the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; theh 1 went to the three kids; and,
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings toge-
ther; and with sortie difriculty brought them all home.
It was a good while besore they would seed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and.
they began to be tame: and now 1 sound, that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goats' flesh, when I had no-
powder or shot lest, breeding some up tame was my only
way, when perhaps I might have them about my house
like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep
(the tame from. the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up; and the only way sor this was
.to have some inclofed piece of ground, well senced either
with hedge or pale, to keep them up so essectually, that
'those within might not break out, or those. without .
break in.'
This was a great undertaking sor one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute neceffity of doing it,
niy first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, Al. where there was likely to be herbuge sor
jthem to e.at, water sor .them to drink, and cover to keep
them from she sun.
Those who understand such inclofures, will think J
had very little contrivance when 1 pitched upon a.
place very proper sor ali these, being a plain open piece
''of
shewed me, though hot very handsome, y** " i *lt :„ tt.e
sor my laying things up in, or setching f 'i dr;.u nf
I or example, if 1 killed a goat abroad, 1 wo"dv . , "soJ
in a tree, flay it, and drels it, and c- {hy[ t f, ', *
bring it home in a basket; and the „„3 ?" l°™ f
, „ ij , , grouno in luch a
could cut it up, take out the egg i u„ „ u . i n.
„f ,i,„fl n ',' u i u¥ ."' "ave been at least
ottneriesh, which was enough j„„r„ „f :f
t. _' , n . . . a jdnels ot it .o great as
home m a basket, and eaire' ,„„ „,;.„„ 0. t° ,
i„ i , n '-- ,en miles about, I was
large deep baskets were aiy,' i '*' i „ i V , I
I .fl„.„ ii j .. Y- .to do it in; but 1 did not
1 always rubbed out as 1' , -i , .,, . <. .
,m, i ;, -,. „, „ ii-ould be as wild insomuch
and kept it in great bas*- .-", i a L i n , , T
(i' ° """ / ftad the whole llland: and I
1 began now to"pe . , u lL - ' . r
i . ° , -.. ^.. /iiom to chace them in, that I
abiy; and this was ..:.;-'' *
me to supply, 'ar ^>"!' , ', T , ,.
must do when r .'.-^? ™d «"™* on. I believe, about
/' . T ,i :,i <,„5 thought occurred to me; so I pre-
scrv'ecTin t' :>,:U and sor the ^^Z^mg 1 resolved
kid, and" '.;**> l^1'4 15° *"* in lenStl1' and 10(>
a he Is J*'/'?1 ltb» 'as il wou,cl maintain as many
pass '' ff^Crc'0 my realonable time, so, as my flock
rin l' '''IS*'*"''/ c0"'d add more ground to my inclofure.
a(r' ^/^ acting with some prudence, and I went to
r ^J'JwVt courage. 1 was about three months hedging
ft/fk-fst piece; and, till 1 had done it, 1 tethered the
p&Ltfg'm the best part of it, and used them to seed as
tW* ,e as possible, to make them samiliar; and very
His j lVouW g° i'nd carry them some ears of barley, or
handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand; so
*", after my inclofure was sinished, and I let them lonse,
£*„ virould sollow me up and down, bleating after me
<&%„ handsul of corn.
'/'hi* answered my end, and in about a year ami a
.alr I had-a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
as"d in two years more I had three and sorty, besides
several that 1 took and killed sor my sood; and after
that I inclofed five several pieces of ground to seed them
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as
j wanted them, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another.
Rut this was not all; sor now I only had goat's
flesh to seed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which indeed in my beginning 1 did not lo much as think
of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, was
really
x
\ . . -'
\
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137
agreeable surprife, , sor now I set up my dairy,
., Vietimes a gallon or two of milk in a day.—
^'£. .e, who gives supplies of sood to every crea-
'^, \ven naturally how to make use of it; so J,
'1 a cow, much less a coat, or saw butter
cry readily and handily, though aster a
c' and mifcarriages, made me beth butter
.ili, and never wanted it afterwards.
* crcisully can our great Creator treat his crea-
even in thofe conditions in which they seem to
overwhelmed in destruction! I low can he sweeten
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praife him
for dungeons and prifons! What a table was here spread
sor me in a wilderness, where 1 saw nothing at sirst but
to perish sor hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and
my little samily fit down to dinner. There was my ma-
jesty, the prince and lord of the" whole ifland; I had the
lives of all my subjects at absolute command; I could
hang, draw, give lise and liberty, and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me.—
My dog, which was now grown very old and crazy, and
sound no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always
at my right hand; and two cats, one on one fide the
table, a-nd one on the other, expecting now and then a
bit from my hand, as a mark of special savour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at iirst; sor they were both of"them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hands ; but
one of them having multiplied by 1 know not what kind
of creature, these were two which 1 preserved tame;
whereas the rest ran wild into the woods, and became
indeed troublesome to me at last : sor they would often
come into my houle and plunder me too, till at laic I
was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many.-i-
At length they lest me with this attendance, and in this
plentisul manner 1 lived; neither could I be said to want
any thing but society, and of that, in some time after
this, I was like to have too much.
I wag
I was fomething impatient, as I had observed, to have?
the use of my boat, though very loth to run any more
hazard: and theresore fometimes I lat contriving ways
to get her about the ifland, and at other times 1 sat my-
self down contented enough without her. But I had a
strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of
the island, where, as 1 have said in my last ramble, I
went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the
current set, that I might see what I had to do. This in-
clination increased upon me every day, and at length I
refolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge
of the shore, I did fo: but had any one in England been
to meet such a man as 1 was, it must either have,frighted
them, or raised a great deal of laughter; and as 1 fre-
quently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile
at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to
take a sketch of my figure, as follows :—
1 had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to .keep the
sun from me, as to shoot the rain osf from running into
my neck; nothing being fo hurtsul in these climates as
the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middse of my thighs; and a pair of
open-kneed breeches pf the fame. The breeches were
made of a skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs. Stockmgs and shoes
I had none; but I had made me a pair of fomething, I
scarce knew what to call them, like buskins, to flap over
my legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes; but
of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of
this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw
and a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I
had another belt not fo broad, and sastened in the same
manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made
made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot. At my back 1 carried
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy ugly goat's-skin umbrella, but which,
after all, was the molt necessary thing 1 had about me,
next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was
really not fo Mullato-like as one might expect from a
man not at all caresul of it, and living withm nine or
ten degrees of the Equinox. My beard I had once suf-
fered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as 1 had both seissars and razors sufficient, L had cut
it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which
I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by fome Turks, whom 1 law at
Sallee : for the Moors did not wear such, though the
Turks dick Of these mustachios, or whiskers, 1 wisl not
say they were long enough to hang ray hat upon them;
but they were of length and shape monstrous enough, and
such as in England would have passed for frightsul.
But all this is by the bye; for as to rny sigure, I had
ib sew to observe me, that it was of no manner of con-
sequence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or fix,
'days. I travelled first asong the sea-shore, directly to the
'place where 1 first brought my boat to anchor, to get up
upon the rocks; and, having no boat now to take care
of, I wept over the land a nearer way, to the same
height that 1 was upon besore; when, looking sorward to
.the point of the rock which lay out, and which 1 was to
double with my bfcat, as 1 said above, I was surprized to
see the sea all smooth and quiet; no ripling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in other psaces.
1 .was at a strange loss to understand this, and refolved
•to spend fome time in the observing of it, to see if nothing.
from the sets of the tide had occasioned it: but 1 was
presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of
ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current
of waters from fome great river in the shore, must be
the occasion of this current; and that, according as the
jvind blew more forcible from the west, or from the
north, this current came near, or went sarther from
the more: for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being
made, I plainly saw the current again as besore, only
that it ran sarther off, being near half a league from the
ihore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the shore,
and hurried me in my canoe along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that 1 had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again: but when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spiiits at the
remembrance of the danger i had been in, that I could
not think of it again with any patience ; but, en the con-
trary, I took up another refolution, which was more
sase, thougltmore laborious; and this was, that I would
build, or rather make me another periagua, or canoe;
and fo have one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may ca}I
it, two plantations in the island; one my little fortisica-
tion or tent, with the wall about it under the rock, with
the cave behind me, which by this time I had enlarged
into several apartments or caves, one within another.
One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had
a door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to
say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all
filled up with the large earthen pots, of which I have
given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great,
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provisions, especially my
corn, fome in the ear cut offshort from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as besore, with long stakes or
piles; those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown fo big, and spread fo very much, that there
was not the least appearance, .to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little sarther within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn-ground, which I kept duly cultivated and fowed,
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its seafon;
and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I bad more
land adjoining as fit as that. Besides
Besides tl>i=, I hud my country-ftat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also: For first, I had my little
bower, as I ceiled it, which I kept in repair; that is to
say, 1 kept the hedge which circled it inconstantly fit-
ted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in
the inside. 1 kept the trees, which at sirst were no more
.than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall;
I kept them always fo cut, that they might spread and
grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade, which they did essectually to my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this 1 had made me a fcluab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft
things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our
sea-bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat
to cover me; and here, whenever! had occasion to be ab-
sent srommy chies seat, 1 took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle;
that is to say, my goats. And as 1 had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to sence and inclose this ground, I
was fo uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats .should
break through, that 1 never lest ots', till with insinite la-
bour! had stuck the outside of the hedge fo sull os small
stakes, and fo near to one another, that it was rather a
pale than an hedge, and there was scarce room to put
an hand through between them, which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they asl did in the next rainy seafon,
made the inclosure strong, like a wall; indeed stronger
than any wall.
This, will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
1 spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared ne-
cessary' for my comsortable support; for I considered the
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me; as long as I lived in the place, is it were
to be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach
depended entirely upon my persecting my inclosures to
such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them
together; which, by this method, indeed 1 fo eisectually
secured, that when these httie stakes began to grow, I
had
had planted them so very thick, I was sorced to pull some
of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on sor my winter store- of raifins,
and which 1 never Failed to preserve very caresully, us the
best and most agreeable dainty of my whole <diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only, but phytical, whole-
some, nourishing, and resrelhing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other ha-
bitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I
generally staid and lay here in my way thither; sor I
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order. Some-
times 1 went out in her to divert myself, but no more:
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a
stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive
of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the cur-
rents, or winds, or any other accident; but now I come
to a new scene of my lise.
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprized with the print of a
man's naked soot on the shore, which was very plain to
beseen in the land. I stood like one thunderstruck, or
as if 1 had seen an apparition; I listened, 1 looked round
me, 1 could hear nothing, nor see any thing; I went up
to a rising ground, to look sarther. I went up the shore,
and down the shore, but it was all one, I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it again to see
if there were any more, and to observe if it might not be
my sancy ; but there was no room sor that, sor there was
exactly the very print of a soot, toes, heel, and every
part of a soot. How it came thither I knew not, nor
could in the least imagine. But after innumerable flutter-
ing thoughts, lite a man persectly consused, and out of
myself, 1 came home to my sortirication, not seeling, as
we say, the ground 1 went on, but terrified to the last de-
gree, looking behind me• at every two or three steps, mif-
taking every bush 'and tree, and sancying every stump
at a distance to be a man; nor is it possible to describe
bow many various shapes an affrighted imagination re-
presented things to me in; how many wild ideas were
sormed every moment in my sancy, and what strange
unaccountable
M ®BUy8@Æ CM ITsSOE
) '>zurAv'i-*ea sr///// /'/'////o/e '/'curf.
W
Onaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the
way.
When I came to my callle, sor so I think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued : whether 1 went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the
hole in the rock, which 1 called a door, I cannot remem-
ber; sor never frighted hare-fled to cover, or sox to earth,
with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I had no steep that night; the sarther 1 was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were, which is tamething contrary to the nature of such
things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures
in sear. But I was so embarrassed with my own fright-
sul ideas of the thing, that I sormed nothing but difmal
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great
way offit. Sometimes 1 sancied it must be the devil;
and reason j-oined in with me upon this supposition. For
how should any other thing in human shape come into
the -place? W here was the vessel that brought them ?—*
What marks were there of any other sootsteps? And
how was it possible a man mould come there? But then
to think that Satan should take human shape upon him,
in such a place,. where there could be no manner of occa-
sion sor it, but to leave the print of his soot behind him,
and that even sor no purpofe too (sor he could not be
sure I should see it), this was an amazement the other
way. I considered that the devil might have sound out
abundance of other ways to have terrisied me than this
of the single print of a soot. That as I lived quite on
the other tide dt the island, he would never have been so
simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thou-
sand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in
the sand too, which the first surge 'of the sea upon an high
wine! would have desaced entirely. All this seemed in-
consistent with the thing itself, and with all notions we
usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil. And
I presently concluded, then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz. That it must be some of the
savages of the main land over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either thriven.
by
by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made the
island; and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have staid in this deso-
late island, as I would have been to have had them.
V\ hiie these reslections were rolling upon my mind,
1 was very thanksul in my thought, that I was fo happy
as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did
not fee my boat, by which they would have concluded
that fome inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps
have searched sarther for me: then terrible thoughts
Tacked my imaginations about their having found my
boat, and that there were' people here; and that if fo,
I should certainly have them come again in greater num-
bers, and devour me: that if it should happen fo that
they should not find me, yet they would find my inclo-
sure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of
tame goats, and I Ihould perish at last for mere want.
Thus my sear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God, which was founded wpoa
such wondersul experience, as 1 had had of his good-
ness, now vanished; as if he that had sed me by miracle
hitherto, could not preserve, by his power, the provision
which he. had made for me by his goodness. 1 re-
proached myself with my easmess, that J would not fow
any more corn one year, than would just serve me till
the next seafon, as if no accident could intervene to pre-
vent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground:
and this I thought fo just a reproof, that I refolved, for
the suture, to have two or three years' corn before-hand,
fo that whatever might come, I might not perish for
want of bread..
How strange a chequer-work of providence is the
lise of man! And by what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-
day we seek wi:at to-morrow we shun; to-day we de-
sire what to-morrow we sear; nay, even tremble at The
apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at this
time in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was, that 1 seemed banished from
human fociety, that I was alone, circumscribed by the
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned
,' to
in what I call a silent lise.; that I was as one whom
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures; that
to have seen one of my own species would have seemed
to me a raising me from death to lise, and the greatest
Westmg that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing
of salvation, could bestow: I say, that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and
was ready to sink into the ground, at but the shadow, or
silent appearance of a man's having set his foot on the
island.
Such is the uneven state of human lise; and it asford-
ed me a great many curious speculations afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I consi-
dered that this was the station of lise the insinitely wife
and good providence of God had determined for me ;—
that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom
might be in all this, fo I was not to dispute his fove- .
reignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted
right by creation to govern and dispose of me abfolutely
as he thought sit: and who, as I was a creature who had
offended him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn
me to what punishment he thought fit; and that it was
my part to submit to bear his indignation, because I had
sinned against.him.
I then reslected, that God, who was not only right-
eous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
punish and afflict me, fo he was able to deliver me; that
if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself abfolutely and entirely to his will.
And, on the other hand, it was my duty asfo to hope in
him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and
directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular esfect of
my cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz. one
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts
about my danger fromthe appearance of savages, I found
it discomposed me very much; upon which those words
of the Scripture came into ray thoughts—Call upon me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thoujhalt
glorify me.
VOL. I. H UdO»
Upon thisi rising cheersully out of my bed, my heart
'was not only comsorted, but I was guided and encou-
raged to pray earnelily to God sor deliverance. When
I had done praying, 1 took up my Bible, and opening it
to read, the rirft words that presented to me were—Wait
on the JLord, and he of good cheer, and heJliallstrengthen
thy heart: Wait, Isay, on the Lord. It is impossible to
express the comsort this gave me; and, in return, I
thanksully laid down (he book, and was no more'sad, at
least not on that occasion.
Jn the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
resiections, it came into my thoughts one day, that ail
this might be a mere chimera of my own, and thi'.t this
soot might b the print or my own soot,.when 1 came on
shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ;—
that it was nothing else but my own soot: and why
might 1 not come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that way to the boat? Again, 1 considered
also, that i'could by no means tell ror certain where I
had trod, and where I had not; and that if at last this
was only the print of my own soot, I had played the part
of thole sools who strive to make stories of spectres
and apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at
them more than any body else.
Now 1 began to take coinage, and to peep abroad
again; sor i had not stirred out of my Castle sor three.
days and nights, so that 1 began to starve sor provision;
sor 1 had little or nothing within doors, but some barley-
cakes and water. Then 1 knew that my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and in-
convenience sor want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled
some of them, and almoit dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, theresore, with the belies that this
'was nothing but the print of one of my own seet (and
so I might be truly said to start at my own shadow),
I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-.
bouse to milk my flock; but to see with what sear
I went sorward, how orten 1 looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then, to lay down my bai-
led, and run sor my lise, it would ha\e made any one
feave.
,
have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or
that I had been lately most terriby frighted; and fo in-
deed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination; but I could not persuade myself sully of
this, till 1 should go down to the shore again, and see
this print of a root, and measure it by my own, and see
if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot. Fiut when I carae to the
place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid
up my boat, I could n;.t poflibly be on shore any where
thereabouts. Secondly, when 1 came to measure the
mark with my own foot, 1 found my foot not fo large by
a great deal. Both these things sisird my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapour* again to the
highest degree; fo that I shook mrith cold, like one in an
ague, and 1 went home again, filsed with the belies, that
fome man or men had been on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and I might be' surprised
besore I was aware; and what course to take for my se-,
curity 1 knew not/
O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! 1c deprives them of the use of those
means which reason esters for their relies. The first
thing ! proposed to myself was, to throw down my in-
closures,, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods,.
thai. the enemy might not rind them, and then frequent
the island in prospect os the same, or the like booty ;—.
then to the simple thing of digging up my two corn-
fields, that they might not find such a grain there, and
still to be prompted to frequent the island; th..n to deino-
lish my bower and tent, that they might not see any ves-
tiges of my habitation, and bi prompted to look sait her,
in order, to find out the perfons inhabiting.
These were the subjecis of the first night's cogitation,
after ! was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had fo over-run my mind were fresh upon me, and
ray head was sull of vapours, as above. '1 hus tear of
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger
itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden.
. '.] h2 of
of anxiety greater by much than the evil which we are
anxious about; but, which was worse than all this, I
had not that relies in this trouble for the resignation I
used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I
thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken
him; for I did not now take due ways to compose my
mind, by crj'ing to God in my distress, and resting upon
bis providence, as I had done before, for my desence and
deliverance; which, if I had done, 1 had, at least, been •
more cheersully supported under this new surprise, and
perhaps tarried through it with rrtore resolution.
This consulion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the mornmg I sell asleep; and having, by
the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and
my spirits exhausted, 1 slept very foundly, and awaked
much better composed than I had ever been besore. And
now I began to thmk sedately: and, upon the utmost
debate with myself, I concluded, that this island, which
was fo exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no sarther from
the main land than as I had seen, was not fo entirely
abandoned as I might imagine. That although there
were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that-
there might fometimes come boats off from the more,
who, either with design, or perhaps never but when they
were driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That 1 had lived here fifteen years now, and had not.
met with the least shadow or figures of any people be-
fore; and that, if at any time they should be driven here,
it was probable they went away again as foon as ever
they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there
upon any occasion, to this time.
That the most 1 could suggest any danger from, was
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were
driven hither, were here against their wills; fo they
made no stay here, but went off again with all possible
speed, seldom staying one night on more, lest they should
not have the help of the tides and day-light back again;
and that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider of
some sase retreat, in case I should see any savages land
upon the spot.
Now
Now I began forely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large, as to bring a door through again, which door,
»s I said, came out beyond where my fortification loined
to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, theresore,
I refolved to draw me a second fortification, in the same
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just
where I had planted a double row of trevs about twelve
years besore, of which I made mention. These trees
having been planted fo thick besore, there wanted but a
sew piles to be driven between them, that they mould be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be foon finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wali
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every thing 1 cotdd think of to ma*ke it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about as big as i might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to
about ten seet thick, continually bringing earth out of
my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walk-
ing upon it; and through the seven holes 1 contrived to
plant the muikets, of which I took notice that I got
seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held
them like a carriage, that so 1 could fire allthe seven
guns in two minutes time. This wall I was many a
weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself
sase till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as sull with stake*
or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found fo apt to
grow, as they could well stand; infomuch that I believe
I might set in it near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I
might have room to see an enemy, and they might have
no shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to ap-
proach my outer wall.•
Thtis, in two years time, I had a thick grove; and fa
sive or six years time I had a wood besore nay dwelling,
grown fo monstrous thick and strong, that it was in-
deed persectly impassable; and no man, of what kind
foever, would ever imagine that there was any thing,
beyond it, much less an habitation. As for the way I
proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue),,
a a k
it was by setting two ladders; one to a part of tise
rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room
to place another ladder tipen that ; fo when the two
ladders were taken down, no man. living could come
down to me without mischiefing himself; and if they
had come down, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall.
Thus i took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen at
length, that they were not altogether without just rea-
fon; though I foresaw nothing at that time more than
my mere tear suggested.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other assairs; forl had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats; they were not only a present
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be suf-
ficient to me, without the exprnce ot' powder and shot,
but alto abated the fatigue of my hunting a.ter the w,ld•
ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think but of two ways to preserve them ; one was to find
another convenient place to dig a cave under ground,
and to drive them into it every night; and the other
was to inclose two or three little bits of land, remote
from one another, and as much concealed as I could,
where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in
each place , fo that, if any disaster happened to the flock,
in general, I mi^ht be able to raise them again with
little trouble and time; and this, though it would re- •
quire a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.'
Accordingly I spent fome time to find out the most
retired parrs of the island, and 1 pitched upon one, which
was as private indeed as my heart could wish; for it was
a little damp piece cf ground in the middle of the hol-
low and thick woods, where it is observed, I almost
lost myself once besore, endeavouring to come back
that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I
fouiid a clear piece of land of near three acres, fo sur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an inclosure by
nature; at least it did not want near .fo much labour to
; make
make it fo as the other pieces of ground I had worked fo
hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so senced it round,
that my flock or herd, call it which you please, which
were not fo wild now as at first they might be supposed
to be, were well enough secured in it. So without any
sarther delay, 1 removed ten (he-goats and two he-goats
t>> this piece; and when tiit.re, 1 continued to persect
the sence, till 1 had made it as secure as the other, which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more
time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expence of purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the prmt of a man's
foot, which 1 had seen; for as yet, 1 never saw any hu-
man creature come near the island, and I bad now lived
two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed made
my lise much less comfortable than it was besore; as
'may weli be imagined, by any who know what it
is to live in the constant snare of the sear of man; and
this 1 must observe with gries, too, that the discomposure
of my mind had too great impressions alfo upon the reli-
gious part of my thoughts; for the dread aud terror of
salling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay fo
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due
temper for application to my Maker; at least, not with
the sedate calmness and resignation of foul which I was
wont to do.. 1 rather prayed to God as under great af-
fliction and pressure o'f mind, surrounded with danger,
and in expectation every night os being murdered and de-
voured before the morning; and I must testify, from my
experience, that a temper of peace, thanksulness, love,
and affection, as much more the proper frame for. prayer
than that of terror and discomposure; and that, under
the dread os rcischies impending, a man is no more fit
for a comsorting persormance of the duty of praying to
God., than he is for repentance on a tick bed; for these
(iiscomposures.afsect the mind as the Others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater,
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body. .'
,...'' * h 4 But
But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such ano-
ther deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to
sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great dis^-
tance; 1 had found a perspective glass or two in one of
the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship; but
I had it not about me, and this was fo remote, that I
could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to look any longer; whether
it wa? a boat or not, I do not know; but as I descended
srom the hill, I could see no more of it, fo I gave it over %
only 1 refolved to go no more without a perspective glass
in my pocket.
V\ hen I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been besore, I was pre-
sently convinced, that the seeing the print of a man's
foot, was net such a strange thing in the island as 1 ima-i
gined; and, but that it was a special Providence that I
.was cast upon the side of the island, where the savages
never came, 1 should easily have known, that nothing
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main,
when they happened to be a little too sar out at sea,~to
moot over to that fide of the island for harbour; like-
wise, as they often met, and fought in their canoes, the
victors, having taken any prifoners, would bring them
ov<>r to this shore, where, according to their dreadsul
customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat
them; of which hereafter.
When 1 was come down the hill to the ihore, as 1 said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was per-
fectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me
to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, seet, and other bones of hu.*
man bodies; and particularly I observed a place where
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth,
like a cock-pit, where it is supposed the savage wretches
had sat down to their inhuman seastings upon the bodies
of their sellow-creatures.
I was fo astonished with the sight of these things, that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from
it.
Ai>VENTtJRES or TtOBIKSOfT CRUSOE'. !'&£
it, for a long while; all my apprehensions were burled:
• in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish bru-
tality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human na-
ture; which, though I had heard of often, yet I never.
had fo. near a view of before ,' in short, I turned away
my sace from the horrid spectacle; my stomach' grew
sick, and I was juft at the point of sainting, when nature
discharged the diforder from my stomach, and, having
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little.
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a mo-
ment; fo I got me up the hill again, with all the speed;
I could, 'and walked on towards my ownliabitation..
When I came a little out of that part of the island*
I stood still awhile as amazed; and then recovering*
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
foul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks,, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world?
where 1 was distinguished from such dreadsul creatures,
as these; and that though 1 had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet given me fo many
comsorts in it, that I had still more to give thanks foe.
than to complain of; and this above all, that I had,,
even in this miserable condition, been comsorted with,
the knowledge of'himself* and the hope of his bless-
ing, which was a selicity more than sufficiently equi-
valent to all the misery which I had suffered,, or could
suffer.
In. this fr.ame of thanksulness* I went home to my
Castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the.
&sety of my circumstances, than, ever I was besore; for
I observed, that these wretches never came to this
island in' search of what >they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding any thing to their
purpose: I knew I had been, here now almost eighteen?
years, and never saw the least footsteps ^f a. huroarL
creature there besore; and might be here eighteen
more as entirely concealed as 1 was now, if I did not
discover myself to them,.which I had no manner of
occasion to do, it being my only business so keep my-
self entirely concealed where I was, unless I found &.
u4 bettec
better fort of creatures than cannibals to make myself.
known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating
one another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and
kept close within my own circle for almost two years
after this ; -when I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, viz. my Castle, my country-seat,
which i called my bower, and my inclosure in the
woods; nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion which
nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
I was as searsul of seeing them, as of seeing the devil
himself; nor did I fo much as go to look after my boat
in all this time, but began rather to think.of making
me another; for I could not think of ever making any
more attempts to bring the other boat round the island
to me, lest I should meet with fome of those creatures at
sea, in which, if I had happened to have sallen into their
hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satissaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, began
to wear off my uneasiness about them; and 1 began to
live justin the same composed manner as besore; only
with this difserence, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me than I did besore, lest I should
happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly, I
was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them
on the island should happen to hear it; and it was there-
fore a very good providence to me, that I had surnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, that 1 had no need
to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was
by traps and snares, as I had done besore; fo that for
two years after this, I believe, I never fired my gun
once off, though. I never went out without it; and,
which was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the
ship, I always carried them out with me, or at least
two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt; 1 like-
wise burnished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
oijt of the ship, and made me a belt to put it in alfo;
* fo
fo that I was now a mod: formidable sellow to look at,
when I went abroad, if you add to the former descrip-
tion of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broad sword, hanging at my side in a belt, but without
a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for fome time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living; all these things tended
to shew me more and more how sar my condition was
from being miserable, compared to fome others; nay,
to many other particulars of lise which it might have
pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon,
reflecting, how little repining there would be among
mankind, at any condition with those that are worse in
order to be thanksul, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, fo indeed I thought that
the frights I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern 1 had been in for my own preservation
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own con-
veniences, and I had dropped a good design, which I had
once bent my thoughts upon; and that was, to try if I
could not make fome of my barley into malt, and then
try to brew myself fome beer; this was really a whim-
sical thought, and.l reproved myself often tor the sim-
plicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the
want of several things necessary to. the makmg my beer,
that it would be impossible for me to supply; as suit,
casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have
observed already, 1 could never compass; no, though
I spent not manv days but weeks, nay months m at-
tempting it, but' to no purpose. In the next place I,
had no hopes to make it keep, no yeast to make it work
no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet had not all
these things mtervened, 1 m<pn the frights and terrors
lwas in Ibout the savage*; I had undertaken it, and
peThaps brought it to pase too; lor 1 seldom gave any
£ over without accomplishmg *, when I once had
it inDmy head enough to begm it, ^
But my invention now ran quite another way; for'
night and day I coutd think of nothing but how 1 might
destroy fome of these monsters in their cruel bloody
entertainment; and if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to
set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded,
upon in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures,
or at least frightening them, fo as to prevent their com-
ing hither any more; but all was abortive, nothing
could be possible to take efsect, unless I was to be there
to do it myself; and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of
them together, with their darts, or their bows and ar-
rows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as
I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the'place
•where they made their fire, and put in five or fix pounds
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but, as in the first place I should be very loath-
to waste fo much poSvder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of a barrel; fo neither could I
be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, et best, that it would little more
than just blow the fire about their ears, and fright them,,
'but not sufficient to make them forsake the place; fo I
laid it aside, and then proposed, that I would place my-
self in ambush, in fome convenient place, with my three
guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let fly at them, when 1 should be sure to kill
or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and thea:
salling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, 1 make no doubt but that, if there were twenty,
I should kill them all; this sancy pleased my thoughts
sor fome weeks, and I was fo full of it that I often,
dreamt of it; and semetidses, that I was just going to>
let fly at them in my sleep.''
I went fo sar with it in my indignation, that I em-
ployed myself several days to sind out proper places to.
put myself in ambuscade as I said, to watch for them ;.
and 1 went frequently to the place itself, which was
tow
now grown more samiliar to me; and especially while
my mind was thus filled with thoughts os' revenge, and
of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the
sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had at the
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches de-
vouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I sound a place in the fide of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till 1 saw any
of the boats coming, and might then, even besore they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen
into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a
hollow large enough to conceal me. entirely; and where
I might sit, and observe all their bloody doings, and
take my sull aim at their heads, when they were so closo
together, as that it would be next to impossible that I
should mifs my shot, or that I could sail wounding three
or sour of them at the first shot.
In this place then I resolved to fir my design; and!
accordingly I prepared two muskets, and my ordinary-
fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and sour or five smaller bullets, about
thefize of pistol bullets, and the sowling-piece I loaded
with near a handsul of swan-shot, of the largest size -r
I also loaded my pistols with about sour bullets eaeh;
and in this posture, well provided with ammunition sor
% second and third charge, I prepared myself sor my
expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme sor my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually made-
my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, w.Richj
was from my Castle, as I called it, about three miles or
more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the iea,.
coming near the island, or standing over towards it; but
I began to tire of this hard duty, alter I had sor two or
three months constantly kept my watch j but came al-
ways back without any difcovery, there having not in all
that time been-she least appearance, not only on or. near
the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so sar as roy eyes
or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour, to the hill to
lookout, so long also I kept up the vigour of my de-
sign, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suit-
abk
able frame, for fo outrageous an execation, as the kill-
ing twenty or thirty naked savages for an osfence, which
I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts,
an)r further than my passions' were at first fired by the
horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the
people of that country, who, it seems., had been suffered
by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable
and vitiated passions; and consequently were lest, and
perhaps had been for fome ages, to act such horrid
things, and receive such dreadsul customs* as nothing
but nature, entirely abandoned of Heaven, and actuated
by fome hellish degeneracy, could have run them into;
but now, when, as I have said, 1 began to be wea*y of
the fruitless excuriion which I had made ib long, and
fo sar, every morning in vain; fo my opinion of the
action itself began to alter, and I began with cooler
and calmer thoughts to consider what it was 1 was go-
ing to engage in; what authority or call I had, to pre-
tend to be judge and executioner upon these men as
criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for fo many
ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioners of his judgments upon one an-
other; alfo how sar these people were offenders against
me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of
that blood which they shed promiscuously one upon an^
other; 1 debated this very often with myself thus: how
do I know what God himself judges in this particular
case? It' is certain these people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their light reproaching them. They do not know it
to be an offence, and then commit it,in desiance of di-
vine justice, as we do in almost asl the sins we commit.
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken
in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat human
flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When 1 had considered this a little, it followed necessa-
rily, that 1 was certainly in the wrong in it; that theie
people were not murderers in the sense that 1 had be-
fore, condemned them in my thoughts, any more than
those Christians were murderers, who often put to
death the prifoners taken in battle, or more frequently,
up jn
upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to the
sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms and submitted.
In the next place it occurred to me that albeit the
usage they gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing tome; these people
had done me no injury; that it' they attempted me, or
1 saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to sall
upon them, fomething might be said for it; but that
I was yet out of their power, and they had really no
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me;
and theresore it could not be just for me to sall upon
them; that this would justify the conduct of the Spa-
niards, in all their barbarities practised in America,
where they destroyed millions of these people, who,
however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had
several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such
as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as
to the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the
rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the
utmost abhorrence and detestation even by the Spani-
ards themselves, at this time, and by all other Christian
nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God
or man; and such, as for which the very name of a
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightsul and terrible to all
people of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if
the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the
product of a race of men, who were without principles
of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous
temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to
a kind of a sull stop; and 1 began by little and little to
be off of my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong
measures in my refolutions to attack the savages; that
it was not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me, and this it was my business, if possible,
to prevent; but that, if I were discovered and attacked,
then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this
really was the way not to deliver mysesf, but entirely
to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill
every
.* J
-aniards
-Jiem ou
'horrenc
'selves, i
f Europ
piece o
and suc
.is rcckoi
r humanii
•orn or Sp
Df a race c
™=se, or
which is
th= rninc
coni'iderat
f a rull stQ
a my defig
in my r"
-ot my bus
"M V \3\lt
-TCV^w Tt\y
as \.\\e
every one that not only should be on shore at that time*,
but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one
of them escaped to tell their country-people what had
happened, they would come over again by thousands to.
revenge the death of their sellows; and I should only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present
1 had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole I concluded, that neither in principle*
nor in pelicy, I ought one way or other to concern myself
in this affair; that my business was, by all possible means
to conceal myself from them, and not to leave.the least;
signal to them to guess by, that there were any living,
creatures upon the island; I mean of human shape-
Religion joined in with this prudential,, and I was cow-
winced now many ways, that 1 was persectly out of my
duty, when 1 was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures; I mean innocent as
to me; as to the crimes they were guilty of towards
one another, I had nothing to do with them; they were
national punishments to make' a just retribution for
national offences; and t<f bring public judgments upon,
those who ost'end in a public manner, by such ways a*
best please God.
This apeared to me fo clear now, that nothing was %
greater satisfaction to me, than that I had not been suf-
sered to do a thing, which I now saw fo much reafon'
to believe would have been no less a sin than, that o£
wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most
humble thanks on my knees to God that had thus de-
livered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to.
grant me the protection of his providence, that I might
not' fall into the hands of barbarians; or that I might
not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear
call from Heaven to do it, in desence of my own lise.
lid this disposition I continued for near a year, after
this; and fo sar, was I from desiring an occasion for sall-
ing upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there, or not; that I might not be tempted toi
renew any of my contrivances against them, or be pro-
voked by any advantage which might present itself, to
fall
fall upon them; only this I did, I went and removed
my.boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where
I ran it into a little cove, which I found under fome high
rocks, and where I knew, by reafon of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not come with their
boats, upon any account whatfoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for the
bare going thither; viz. a mast and sail, which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which
could not be called either anchor or grappling; however,
it was the best I could make of its kind. All these I re-
moved, that there might not be the least shadow of any
discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any
habitation upon the isand.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever; and seldom went from my cell, other than upon
my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood; which, as it
was quite on the other part of she island, was quite out
of danger; for certain it is, that these savage people,
who sometimes haunted this island, ncer came with any
thoughts of finding any thing here, and consequently
never wandered oft from the coast; and 1 doubt not, but
they might have been several times on shore, after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well
as besore; and indeed, 1 looked back with ibme horror
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been, if 1 had chopped upon them, and been discovered
before that, when naked and unarmed, except with one
gun, and that loaded often only with smasl shot. I
walked every where, peeping and peering about the
island, to see what 1 could get; what a surprise should
I have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's
scot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of
their running, no possibility of my escaping them 1
The thoughts of this fometimes sunk my very foul
within me, and distressed my mind fo much, that 1 could
not foon recover it; to think what 1 should have done,
end haw I not only should not have been able to resist
them.
them,.but even should not have had. presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done; much less, what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might
be able to do. Indeed, afeer serious thinking of these
things, I would be very melancholy, and fometimes it
would last a great while; but I refolved it at last all into
thankfulness to that providence which had delivered mt
from fo many unseen dangers, and had kept me from
those.mischiess, which I could no way hive been the
agent in delivering myself from; because 1 had not the
least notion ot' any such thing depending, or the least
supposition os its being possibse.
This renewed contemplation, which often had come
to my thoughts in former time, when first I began
to see the mercisul dispositions of Heaven, in the dan-
gers we run through in this lise; how wondersully we
are delivered when we know nothing of it; how when
we are ist a quandary, as we call it, a doubt or hesita-
tion, whether to go this way, or that way, a secret,
hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to go>
another way; nay when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has called to go the other way, yet 'a
iirange impression upon the mind, from we know not
what spring, and by we know not what power, shafl
over-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way, which we would have
gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone,
we should have been ruined and loft; upon these, and
many like reflections, 1 afterwards made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever 1 found those secret hints,
or pressings of my mind, to doing or not doing any-
thing that presented, or to going this way or that way,
I never sailed .to obey the secret dictate; though 1 knew
no other reafon for it, than that such a pressure, or. such a
hint, hung upon ray mind; I could give many exam-
ples of the success of this conduct in the course'of my
life; but more especialsy in the latter part of my inha-
biting this unhappy island; betides many occasions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if
I had seen with the same eyes then,.lhat I saw with now;
but it is never too late to be wise; and 1 cannot but ad-
vise all considering men, whole lives, are attended with
....; such
such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though
not fo extraordinary, not to slight such secret intima-
tions of Providence, let them come from what invisible
intelligence they will; that I shall not discuss, and per-
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof
of the converse of spirits, and the secret communica-
tion between those embodied and those unembodied;
and such a proof as can never be withstood; of which I
shall have occasion to give fome very remarkable in-
stances, in the remainder of my folitary residence iss
this dismal place. /
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if
1 consess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I
lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances
that 1 had laid for my suture accommodations and
conveniences. I had the cure of my safety more now
upon my hands, than that of my food. 1 cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for sear
the noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reafon; and above
all, I was very uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me; and for this reafon I removed that
part of my business, which required sire, such as burn-
ing of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in
the wood; where, after I had been fome time, 1 found,
to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave
in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I
dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it,
would be fo hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing
fo much as a sase retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident, I would say, iff
1 did not see an abundant reafon to ascribe all such
things now to Providence, I was cutting down fome.
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and besore
1 go on, I must observe the reafon of my making this
charcoal which was thus':
1 was afraid of making a smoke about my habita-
tion, as I said besore; and yet 'i could not live there
Hvithout baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. fo I
, contrived
contrived to burn some wo id here, as 1 had seen done in
England under turs, till it became chark, or dry coal;
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
carry home, and persorm the other services, which sire
was wanting for at home, without danger of smoke.
But this by the bye; while I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch
of low brush-wood, or underwood, there was a kind
of hollow place; I was curious to look into it, and
getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for me to
Hand upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but
I must consess to you, I made more hafte out than I did in;
when looking surther into the place, which was persectly
dark, 1 saw two broad shining eyes of fome creature,
whether devil or man, I knew not, which twinkled like
two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in and making the reflection.
However, after fome pause, 1 recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself,
that he that was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to
live twenty years in an island all alone, and that I durst
to believe there was nothing in this cave that was m«re
frightsul than myself; upon this plucking up my cou-
rage, I took up a large firebrand, and in 1 ruflied again,
with the stick flaming in my hand; I had not gone
three steps in, but 1 was almost as much frightened as
I was besore; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in fome pain; and it was.followed by a brokeil
noise, as if of words half expressed, and then a deep
sigh again; 1 stepped back, and was indeed struck with
such a surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat;
and if I bad had a hat on.my head, I will not answer tor
it, that my hair might not have listed it off. But still
plucking up my spirits as well as 1 could, and encou-
raging myself a little, with considering that the power
and presence of God was every where, and was able to
protect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a litlc over
my head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous
frightsul old he-goat, just making his will, as we say,
gasping for lise, and dyin^.indeed of a mere old age.
I stirred
I stirred him a little, to see if I could get him out, and
heassayed to get up, but was not able to raife himself;
and I thought with myself, he might e'en lie there; sor
if he had frightened me so, he would certainly fright any
os the savages, if any of fhem should be so hardy as to
come in there, while he had any lise in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I sound the cave was but very'
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve seet over,
but in no manner of thape, either round or square, no
bands having ever been employed in making it bnt thofe
of mere nature. I observed also, that there was a place
at the sarther tide of it that went in sarther, but so low,
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to
get into it, and whither it went I knew not; so having
no candle, 1 gave it over sor some time, but resolved to
come again the next day, provided with candles and a
tinder-box, which 1 had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six
large candles of my own making,. sor I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and, going. into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all sours, as I have
seid, almoii ten yards; which, by the way, I thought
was a venture bold enough, considering that 1 knew not
how sar it might go, or what was beyond it. When 1
was got through the streight, I sound the roof *ofe higher
up, [believe near twenty seet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the ifland, I dare say, as it was, to
look round the fides and roof of this vault or cave. The
walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles. W hat it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather sup-
posed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightsul cavity, or
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though per-
sectly dark. The sloor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loofe gravel upon it; so that there was no nau-
seous creature to be seen; neither was there any damp
*ir wet on the sides of the roof. The only difficulty iii
rt was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place
of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thpughj
6 that
that was a convenience; so that 1 was really rejoiced at
the difcovery, anil resolved, without any delay, to bring
some of thofe things, which I was moll anxious about,
to this place; particularly, 1 resolved to bring hither my
magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two
sowling-pieces (lor 1 had three in all) and three muskets
(sor of them 1 had eight in all) ; so I kept at my Castle
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of
cannon, on my outmost sence; and were ready also to
take out upon an)' expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing mr ammunition, I
'was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I sound
that the water had penetrated about three or sour inches
into the powder on every side, which, caking and grow-
ing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell;
so that I had near sixty pounds ot very goed powder in
the centre of the cask; and this was an agreeable disco-
very to me at that time; so I carried all away thither,
never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with
rue in my Castle, sor sear of a surprife of any kind. I
also carried thither all the lead 1 had left sor bullets.
1 sancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
who were said to live in caves and holes in the recks,
where none could come at them; sor I persuaded myself,
while I was here, if live hundred savages were to hunt
me, they couid never sind me out; or if they did, they
yfou'.d not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, which I sound expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave, the next day after 1 made this difco-
very; and I sound it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent os-
sense to my nose..
1 was now in my twenty third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place, and to the
manner of living, that could I hare but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, 1 could have been content to have capitulated sor
spending the reft of my time there, even to the last mo-
ment, till 1 had laid me down and died, like the.old goat
in the cave, t had also arrived to some little diversions.
aud
and amusefnents, which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did besore; as, first, I
had taught my Poll, as I noted besore, to speak; and he
did it fo samiliarly, and' talked fo articulately and plain, ,
tli it it was very plea'ant to me; and he lived with me no
less than fix and twenty years. How lone; he might live
afterwards, [ knew not; though I know they have a no-
tion in the Brasils, that they live an hundred years; per-
haps fome of my Polls may be alive there still, calling
after poor Robin Crusoe to this day. I wish no Fnglish-
man the ill luck to come there ami hear them; but if he
did, he would certainly believe it was the devil. My
dog was a very pleasant ^nd loving companion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of
mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have,
observed, to that degree, that 1 was obliged to shoot seve-
ral of them at first, to keep them from devouring me, and;
all 1 had; but at length, when the two old ones t
brought with me were gone, and after fome time conti-
nuasly drivmg them from me, and letting them have no
provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, ex-
cept two or three savourites, which 1 kept tame, and
whose young, when they had any, i always drowned, and
these were part of my family. Betides these, 1 always
kept two or three houiehold kids about me,'which I taught,
to seed out of my hand; and I had alfo more parrots,
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Cru-.
foe, but noue like my sirst: nor, indeed, did 1 take the.
pains with any of them that I had done with him. 1 had
a'.io several tame sea-fowls, whose names 1 know net,
which.1 caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and(
the little stakes, which I had planted besore my castle..
Wall, being now groxn up to a good .thick grove, these:
sowls all li.cd among these low trees, c.iid bred there,
which was very agreeable to me ; io that, as 1 said above,
1 began to be very well contented with the lise I led, if if
might but have been secured from the dread of savages. • ,
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not be
amiss for all people who (hals meet with my story, .to
make this just observation from it4 viz. How frequently,
mthe course os our lives, the evil, which in itself »c
seek most to fliun, and which, when we are falsen into,
is
is the most dreadsul to us, is oftentimes the very mean*
or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be
raised again from the affliction we are sallen into. I
could give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable lise; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my last
years of folitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the fouthern
folstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when, going out pretty early in the
morning, even besore it was thorough day-light, I was
surprised with seeing a light of fome fire upon the shore,
at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the
end of the island, where I had observed fome savages had
been, as besore, but not on the other side; but, to my
great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest 1 might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had, that if these savages, in ramb-
ling over the island, should find my corn standing, or
cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would
immediately conclude, that there were people in the
place, and would then never give over til) they found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my Castle,
and pulled up the ladder after me, having made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of desence. I loaded all my cannon, as 1 called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortisication, and all my pistols, and re-
folved to desend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to recommend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians; and in this' posture I continued
about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance
ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of
the hill, where there was a fiat place, as I observed be-
sore, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up
again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling
out my perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpofe,
I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground, and be-
gan to look sor the place; I presently sound there were
no less than nine naked savages fitting round a small sire
they had made ; not to warm them, sor they .had no need
of that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I sup-
pofed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether alive
or dead, I could not know. i
They had two canoes with them, which they had haul-
ed up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb,
they seemed to me to wait the return of the flood to go<
away again. It is not easy to imagine what consusion
this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on
my side the ifland, and so near me too: but when I
observed their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my
mind, being satissied that I might go abroad with sasety
all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on shore
besore; and having tnade this observation I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more compofure.
As I expected, so it proved; sor as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take. boat, and row
(or paddle as we call it) all away; I should have ob-.
served, that sor an hour and more besore they went orf,
they went to dancing, and I could easily difcern th^ir
postures and gestures by my glasses; I could not perceive,
by myiiidcst observation, but that they were stark-naked,
and had not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not diftinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, i took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard;
and with all the speed I was able to make, 1 went away to
the hill, where 1 had difcovered the first appearance of all.
As soon as I got thither, which was not less than two hours
(sor I could not go' apace, being so loaded with arms as
I was), Ipeceived there had been three canoes more of
vol. i. . .1 savages
savages on that place; and looking out surther, I saw
they were all at sea together, making over sor the main.
This was a dreadsul sight to me, especially when going
down to the shore, 1 could fee the marks of horror, which
the difmal work they had been about had lest behind it,
viz. the blood, the bone?, and part of the flesh of hamr.ii
bodies, eaten and devoured by thofe wretches, with mer-
riment and spoit. I was so filled with indignation at the
light, that 1 began now to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the vitits which they
thus made to this island, were not very frequent; for it
was above fifteen months besore any more of them came
on shore there again; that is to say, I never saw them, or
an* sootsteps or signals of them, in all that time; fo'r as
to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come
abroad, at least not ib sar; yet all this while I lived un-
comsortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I
'was in of their coming upon me by surprife ; from whence
I observe that the expectation of evil is more bitter than
the sufsering, especially if there is no room to shake oft*
that expectation or thofe apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering humour;
and took up most of my hours, which should have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
sall upon them the very next time I should see them;
especially if they mould be divided, as they were the last
time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if
1 killed one party, suppofe ten or a dozen, I was still the
next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so
another, even ad insmitiun, till 1 should be at length no
less a murderer than they were in being men-eaters, and
perhaps mach more so.
1 spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I thould one day or other sall
into the hands of thofe merciless? creatures; if 1 did at
any time venture abroad, it was not without looking
rouud me with the greatest care and caution imagina-
ble; and now I sound to my great comfort, how happy
it was that 1 had provided a tame. flock or herd of
goats; tor I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun,
especially near that side of the iiiand where they usually
came,
vame, lest I should alarra the savages; and if they had
fled from me nmv, I was fine to have them come back
again, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with.
them, in a sew days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, 1 wore out a year and three months more
besore I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
sound them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true,
they might have been there once or twice, but either
they made no stay, or, at least,. 1 did not hear them;
but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my sour-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange
encounter with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months interval, was very great; 1 slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightsul dreams, and often started out
of my steep in the night; in the day great troubles
overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often
of killing the savages, and the reasons why I might
justify the doing of it; but to wave all this sor a while,
it was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth da}', I'
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would rec-
kon; sor 1 marked all upon the post still; 1 say it was on
the sixteenth of May, that it blew a great storm of wind
all day, with a great "deal of lightning and thunder, and
a very soul night was aftor it; I know not what was the
particular -occasion of it; but as 1 was reading in the
Bible, and taken up with serious thoughts about my
present condition, I was surprifed with the noife of a
gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
. This was to be sure-a surprise of a quite different na-
ture from any I had met with besore; sor the notions
tnis put into my thoughts were quite of another kind j (
started up in the greatest haste imaginable; and in a trice
clapped tip my ladder to the middle place of the rocli",
and pulled it aster me, and mounting ic the second time,
got to the top of the hill; that very moment a flash of
fire bade me listen sor a second gun, which accordingly
in about half a moment I heard, and by the sound knew
that it was from that part of the sea where I was drivea
out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered, that this must be some ship in
diftress, aud that they had some con.rade., or some other
i 2 ship
ship in company, and sired these guns sor signals of dis-
tress, and to obtain help; I had this presence of mind
at that minute, as to think, that though I could not help
them, it may be they might help me; so I brought to-
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and makin»
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill; the'
wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt sairly out, so that I was certain
if there was any such thing as a ship, they mull need
see it, and no doubt they did; sor as soon as ever my sire
blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all
night long, till day broke; and when it was broad day,
and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great dif-
tance at sea, sull east of the ifland, whether a sail, or a
hull, I could not diftinguifh, no not with my gliisses,
the distance was so great, and the weather still some-
thing hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the south-east side of the ifland, to the rocks *
'where I had been sormerly carried away with the cur-
Tent; and getting up there, the weather by this time'
beino' persectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sor-
row, the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon thofe
concealed rocks which 1 sound when I was out in my boat;
and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were
the occasion of my recovering then from the most del'perate
hopeless condition that ever 1 had been in all my lise.
Thus, what is one man's salety is another man's
destruction; sor it seems, these men, whoever they
were, being out of their "knowledge, and the rocks be-
ing wholly under water, had been driven upon them in
the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E.
Had tiny teen the island, as I must necessarily suppofe
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their siring of their guns sor help, especi-
ally when they saw, as I imagined, my sire, silled ine
's with
with my thoughts; first I imagined, that, upon seeing
my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore; but that
the sea going very high, they mi^ht have been cast
away; other times I imagined; that they might have lost
their boat besore, as might be the case many ways; as
particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship,
which many times obliges men to stave, or take in pieces
their boat, and sometimes to throw it over-board with
their own hands; other times I imagined, they had
some other ship or ships in company, who upon the sig-
nals of distress they had made, had taken them up, and
carried them off; other whiles I sancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away br
the current that I had been sormerly in, were carried
out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but
mifery and perishing; and that perhaps they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition.
to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I-could do no more than look upon
the mifery of the poor men. and pity them; which "had
still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so hap-
pily and comsortably provided sor me in my desolate
condition; and that of two ships' companies wao were
now cast away upon this part os the world, not one life
should be spared but mine. I learnt here again to ob-
serve, thac it is very rare that the providence of God
casts us into any condition of lise so low, or any misery so
.gr#at,but we may see something or other to be thanksul sor,
and may see others in worse circumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I
could not so much as see room to suppofe any of them were
saved; nothing could make it rations, so much as to wish
or expect that they did not all perifh there, except the
possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in
company; and this was but mere possibility indeed; sor
I saw not the least lignal or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing, or hankering of delire, I selt
in my soul" upon this sight; breaking out sometimes
. 1 3 * thus:
thus : Oh that there had been but one or two, nay, or but
one soul saved out of the dip, to have escaped to me,
that I might but have had one companion, one sellow-
creature, so have spoken to me, and to have conversed
with! in all the time of my solitary lise, 1 never selt so
earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my sellow-
creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going by some object
in view, or be it some object though not in view, yet
rendered present to the mind by the power of imagina-
tion, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuofity
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that
the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, that but one man
lad been saved! Oh that it had been but one! I believe I
repeated the words, Oh that it had been but one ! a thou-
sand times; and my desires were so moved by it, that
when I spoke the words, my hands would clinch together,
and my singers press the palms of my hands, that if I
had had any soft thing in my hand, it would have cruffi-
_ ed it involuntarily; and my-teeth in my head would
strike together, and set against one another so strong,
that sor some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them; all 1 can say of them is, to describe
the sact which was ever surprising to me when I sound it;
tho' I knew not from what it mould proceed; itwasdoubt-
'less the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas sormed
in my mind, realizing'the comsort which the conversation.
of one of my sellow-christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their sale, or mine, or
both, sorbad it; sor till the last year of my being on this
jsiand, I never knew whether any were saved out of that
ship or no;_ and had only the affliction some days after,
to see the corpse of a drowned boy come en shore, at
the end of the island, which was next the shipwreck:
he had on no clothes, but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but
nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation. he
was of: he had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of
eight, and a tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten
times more value than the first.
It
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find fomething on board that might be usesul to me ;—
but that did not altogether press me fo much, as the possi-
bility that there might be yet fome living creature on
board, whose lise I might not only save, but might, by
saving that lise, comsort my own to the last degree.—
And this thought clung fo to my heart, that i could not
be quiet night nor day, but 1 must venture out in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest^to
God's providence, I thought the impression was fo strong
upon my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must
corne from fome invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage, took,
a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a com-
pass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great
deal of that lest), a basket sull of raisins. And thus load-
ing myself with every thing necessary, I went down to
my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo m her, and then went home again
for more. My iecond cargo was a great bag sull of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot sull of fresh water, and about two dozen of my
small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than besore, with a
bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, with great
labour and sweat, I brought to my boat; and praying
to God.to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or
paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to the
utmost point of the island, on that side, viz. N. E.—
And now 1 was to launch out into the ocean, and either
to venture, or not to venture, I looked on the rapid cur-
rents, which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at
a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from
the remembrance of the hazard I had been in besore,
and my heart began to sail me; for I foresaw, that if I
was driven into either of those currents, 1 should be car-
ried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach,
or sight ot the island agam; and that then, as my boat
w:is but small, if any sittle gale of wind should rise, I
shousd be mevitably sost.
14 These
These thoughts fo oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterpriie; and having hauled my boat
into a little creek on tbe Ihore, I stepped out, and sat me
down upon a little spot of rising ground, very pensive and
anxious, between sear and desire, about my voyage ;—
'when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide
was turned, and the flood came on, upon which my
going was for fo many hours impracticable. Upon this
it presently occurred to me, that I fliould go up. to the
highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I
could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay, when the
flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven
another way home, with the same rapidnefs of the cur-
Tents. This thought was no fooner in my head, but I
<ast my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the sea both ways, and from whence I had a clear
-view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and 'which way
J was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that
as the current of the ebb set out close by the fouth point
of the island, fo the current of the flood set in dose by
the shore of the north-side; and that 1 had nothing to do
but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and
1 mould do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I refolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and re-
posing myself for that night in the canoe, under the great
•watch-coat 1 mentioned, I launched out: 1 made first a
little out to sea sull north, till I began to seel the benefit
of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me
at a great rate, and yet did not fo hurry me as the
fouthern fide current had done besore, and fo as to take
from me all government of the boat; but having a
strong steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours 1
came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at. Thesotp, which, by
itj building, was Spanish, stuck sast, jambed in between
tworocks: All the stern and quarter of her was beaten
te pieces with the tea.; and as her forecastle, which
flfuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence,
her main-mast and fore-mast were brought by the.board,
that
that is to say, broken short osf'; but her bow-sprit was
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. When I
came clofe to her, a dog appeared upon her, which, see-
ing nv coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into, the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, but sound him almnst dead sor hun-
ger and thirst. J gave him a cake of my bread, and he
eat like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a sortr
night in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some
frelh water, with which, if I would have let him, he
would have burst himself.
After this I wrnt on board: the first fight I met with
was two men drowned in the cock-room, or sorecastle,
of the ship, with their arms sast about one another. I
concluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship
struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and
so continually over her, that the men were not able to
bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water.—
Besides the dog, there was nothing lest in the ship that
had lise, nor any goods that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in
the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I
could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the
seamen, and I got two of them into the boat, without
examining what was in them.
Had the stern of theship been sixed, and the sore part
broken off, i am persuaded 1 might have made a good
voyage; sor by what I sound in these two chests, 1 had
room-to suppofe the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board ', and if I may guess, by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the
Rio de la Plata, in the South part os America, beyond
the Brasils, to the Havannah, in the gulph of Mexico,
and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great trea-
fure in her, but of no use, at that time, to any body; and
what became of the rest of her people I then knew- not.
I sound, besides these chests, a little cask sull of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much disficulty. . There were several muskets
i 5 in
y
in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about sour
pounds of powder in it. As sor the muskets, I had no
occasion sor them, so I lest them, but took the powder-
horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongK, which 1 wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot
to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo,
and the dog, 1 came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, about an -hour
'within night, I reached the ifland again, weary aud sa-
tigued to the last degree.
1 reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new cave,
not to carry it home to my castle. After resreshing my-
ielf, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine
the particulars. The cask of liquor I sound to be a kind
of rum, but not such as we had at the Brasils; and, in a.
'word, not at all good; but when 1 came to open the
chests, I sound several things which I wanted. For ex-
ample, I sound in one a fine case of bottles, of au extra-
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, sine, and
very good: the bottles held about three pints each, and
were tipped with silver. I sound two pots of very good
succatles, or sweetmeats, so sastened also on the top, that
the salt water hall not hurt-them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. 1 sound some very
good shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about
u dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiess, and
coloured neckcloths. The sormer were also very welcome i
being exceeding resreshing to wipe my sace in a hot
day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the chests,
1 sound there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapped tip in a paper, fix doubloons of gold, and
fume small bars, or wedges of gold. I suppofe they
niight all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I sound had some clothes in it, but os
little value; but, by the circumstances, it must have be-
longed to the gunner's mate, though there was no pow-
der in it, iiut about two pounds of glazed powder, in the
three flasks, kept, I suppnse, sor charging their sowling-
pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by
ttiis voyage that was of much use to me; sor, as to tha
money,
money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me
as the dirt under my seet; and I would have given it
all for three or four pair ot English shoes and stockings,.
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had ois
iny seet now for many years. I had, indeed, gotten two.
pair of shoes now, which I took osf the seet of the two
drowned men, whom 1 saw in the wreck: and I found
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very wel-
come to me; but they were not like our English shoes,.
either for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps
than (hoes. I found in the seaman's chest about fifty
pieces of eight in rials, but no gold. I suppose this
belonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to besong to fome officer.
Well, however, 1 lugged the money home to my cave,
and laid it up, as I had done that besore, which I
brought from our own snip; but it was great pity, as I
said, that the other part of the (hip had not come to my
share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money, which, if I had ever
escaped to England, would have lain here sase enough,
till I might have come again and setched it.
Having now brought ass my things onshore, and se-
cured them, 1 went back to my boat, and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old habita-
tion, where I found every thing sase and quiet; fo I be-
gan to repose myself, live after my old sashion., and take.
care of my samily affairs: and for awhile I lived easy
enough; only that I was more vigilant than I uled ta
be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad fo much:
And if at any time 1 did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the issand, where I was pretty.
well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could
go without fo many precautions, and such a load of arms
and ammunition, as Ialways carried with me, if I went,
the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it.
was born to make my body miserable, was asl those two.
years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were:
•possible, I might get away from this island; for fome-
i. (i times
times I was for making another voyage to' the wreck,
though my reafon told me, that there was nothing lest
there worth the hazard of my voyage: fometimes for a
ramble one way, fometimes another: and 1 believe ve-
rily, if I had had the boat that 1 went from Sallee.in, I
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I knew
not whither.
I have been, jn all my circumstances, a memento to
those who are touched with that general plague of man-
kind, whence, for aught I know, one half of their mise-
ries flow; 1 mean that of not being satisfied with the sta-
tion wherein God and Nature hath placed them; for, not
to look back upon my primitive condition, and the ex-
cellent advice of my father, the opposition to which was,
as I may call it, my.origmal sin,, my subsequent mistakes
of the fame kind have been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for, had that Providence,
which fo happijy had seated me at the Brazils as a plant-
er, blefied me with confined desires; and could 1 have
been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have
been by this time, I mean in the time of my being on,
this island, one of the most comfortable planters in the
Brazils : nay, I am persuaded, that, by the improvements
I had made in the little time I lived there, and the in-
crease I should probably have made, if I had stayed, I
might have been worth an hundred thousand nioidores;
and what business had I to leave 3 settled fortune, well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn su-
percargo to Guinea, to setch negroes, when patience and
time would have fo increased our stock at home, that we
could have bought them a.t our own doors, from those
•whose business it was to setch them. And though it had
cost us fomething more, yet the difference of that price
wes by no means worth saving at fo great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the sate of young heads, fo re-
flection' upon the folly of it is as ordinarisy the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time;
and so it was with me now ; and yet fo deep had the mis-
take taken root in my temper, that 1 ponld not satisfy
myself in my station, but was continually poring upon,
the means and possibility of my escape from this place;
and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
6 bring
tringon the remaining part of my story, it may not be
improper to give some account of my first conceptions on
the-fubject of this sooliih scheme sor my escape; and
how, and upon what soundation, [ acted.
I am now to be suppofed to be retired into my castle,
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up,
and secured under water as usual, and my condition re-
stored to. what it was besore. 1 had more wealth indeed
than I had besore, but was not at all the richer; sor I
had no more use sor it than the Indians of Peru had be-
sore the Spaniards came thither.
'It was one of the nights, in the rainy season in March,
the sour-and-twenti-th year of my first setting soot in this
ifland of solitariness, I was lying in my bed or ham-
mock, awake, and very well in health, had no pain. no
distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness
of mind more than ordinary, but could by no means
clofe my eyes; that is, Ib as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long, otherwife than as sollows : —
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughsare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time. I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, to my
coining to this island; and also of that part of my lise
since 1 came to this island; in my reflections upon the
state of my case, since I came on shore on this island,
I was comparing the happy posture of asfairs, in the
first years of my habitation here, to that course of
anxiety, sear, and care, which I had lived in ever since
I had seen the print of a soot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island even,
all the while, and might have been several hundreds of
them ut times on shore there; but as I had never known
it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it,
my satissaction-was persect,' though my danger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger,.
as if 1 had never really been expofed to it; this surnished
my thoughts with many very proritable reslections, and
particularly this one, how insinitely good that Provi-
dence is, which has settled in its government of man-
kind such narrow bounds to his Sight and knowledge
of
of things; and though he walks in the midst of fo many
thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to)
him, would'distract his rnind, and sink his spirits, lie is
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things hid
from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which
surround him.
After these thoughts had for fome time entertained me,
I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger 1 had
been in for fo many years in this very island; and how I
had walked about in the greatest security, and with all
possible tranquillity, even perhaps when nothing but a
brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of
night, had hee.i between me and the worst kind of de-
struction, viz. that of salling into the hands of cannibals
and savages, who would have seiied on me with the
same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more crime to kill and devour me, than I
did of a pigeon or a curlieu. I should unjustly standee
myself, if 1 should say I was not sincerely thanksul to my
great Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknow-
ledged, with great humility, that alt these unknown de-
liverances were due, and without which I mould inevi-
tably have sallen into their merciless hanils.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
fome time taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean the savages: and how it
came to pass in the world,'that the Wise Governor of all
things should give up any of his creatures to such inhu-
manity, nay, to fomething fo much below even brutality
itself, as to devour its own. kind; but as this ended in
fome .(at that time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to
me to enquire what part of the world these wretches
lived in; how sar off the coast was from whence they
came; what they ventured fo sar from home for; what
kind of boats they had; and why 1 might not order my-
self and my business fo, that I might be as able to go
over thither as they were to come to me.
I never fo much as troubled myself to consider what
I should do with myself when I came thither, what should
become of me, is I sell into the hands of the savages, or
how I should escape from them, if they attempted me ^
no, nor fo much as hpw it was possible lor me to reach th*
coast,
coasts and not be attacked by fome or other of thetp,
without any possibility of delivering myself; and if. I
should not sall into their hands, what I should do for pro-
vision, or whither 1 should bend my course; none of these
thoughts, I say, fo much as came in my way; but my
mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing
over in my boat to the main land. I looked back upon
my present condition as the most miserable that could pos-
sibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into any
thing but death that could be called worse; that if I
reached the shore of the main, 1 might, perhaps, meet with
relies; or I might coast along, as I did on the shore of
Africa, till I came to fome inhabited country, and where
I nvght find fome Christian ship that might take me in;
and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which
would put an end to all these miseries at once. Pray
note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind—an im-
patient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the long
continuance of my troubles, and the disappointments 1
had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and where
1 had been fo near the obtaining of what 1 fo earnestly
longed for, viz. fomebody to speak to, and to learn
fome knowledge from, of the place where I was, and of'
the probable means of my deliverance. I say, 1 was
agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my calm of
mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the
issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspend-
ed; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the main,
which came upon me with such force, and such an im-
petuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted.
W hen this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a serment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a sever, merely with the extraordinary ser-
vour of my mind about it, Nature, as if 1 had been,
satigued and exhausted'with the very thought of it,
threw me into a found sleep. One would have thought
I should have dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of any
thing relating to it; butl dreamed, that as I was going
cm in the morning, as usual, from my castle, 1 saw
unoa
upon the shore two canoes, and eleven savages commg
to 'and. and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him ; when,
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his lise; then I thought in my
sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove,
besore my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, fee-
ing him alone, and not perceiving that the others fought
him that wav, shewed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me,
seeming to pray me. to assist him; upon which I mewed
my ladder, made him go up it, and carried him mto my
cave, and he became my servant; and that as foon as I
had gotten this man, 1 said to myself, now i may certain-
ly venture to the main land; for this sellow will serve me
as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go
for provisions, and whither not to go for sear of being de-
voured, what places toventure into, and what to escape.
I waked with this thought, and was under such inex-
pressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which I self upon
coming to myself, and finding it was no more than a
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and
threw me into a very great direction of spirit.
Upon this, however, 1 made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape, was, if
possible, to get a savage in my possession; and, if pos-
sible,.it should be one of their prifoners whom they had
condemned to be eaten, and thould bring hither to kill;
but these thoughtsll still were attended with this dif-
ficulty, that it was impossible to effect this without at-
tacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them all;
and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly
scrupled the lawsulness of it to me, and my heart trem-
bled at the thoughts of shedding fo much blood, though
it was for my d liverance. 1 need not repeat the argu-
ments which occurred to me against this, they being the
same mentioned besore. But though I had other reafons
to osfer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my
lise, and would devour me, if they could; that it was
self-preservation in the highest degree, to deliver myself
lie IB
from this death of a lise, and was acting in my own
desence, as much as is they were actually assaulting me,
and the like; I say, though these things argued for it,
yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliver-
ance were very terrible to me, and such as I could by
no means reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with my-
self, and after great perplexities about it (for all these ar-
guments, one way and another, struggled in my head a
jong time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at
length mastered all the rest, and I refolved, if possible, to
get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it
would. My next thought then was to contrive how to
do it; and this indeed was very difficult to refolve on:
but as 1 could pitch upon no probable means for it, fo I
refolved to put myself upon the witch, to see them when
they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking
such measures as the opportunity should present, let it be
'what it would.
'With these refolutions in my thoughts, 1 set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed fo osten,
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and
a half that 1 waited, and for a great part of that, time
went out to the' west end, and to the fouth-west corner
of the island, almost every day to see the canoes, but
none appeared. This was very discouraging, and be-
gan to .trouble me much; though I can't say that it
did in this case as it had done fome time besore that, viz.
wear off the edge of my 'desire to the thmg; but the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for
it.—In a word, I was not at first more caresul to thun
the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them,
than 1 was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, I sancied myself able to manage one, nay, two
or three savages, iff had them, fo as to make them en-
tirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them,
and to prevent their being able, at (any time, to do me
any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself
•with this affair, but nothing still presented'; all my san-
cies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came
near me for a great while.
About a year and a hals after I had entertained these
notions,' and, by long musing, had, as it were, refolved
them
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution, I was surprised one morning early,
with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together,
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of
them broke all my measures; for seeing fo many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or fome-
times more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of
it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single-handed; fo 1 lay still in my castle, perplexed
and discomsorted: however, I put myself into all the
same postures for an attack that 1 had formerly provided,
and was just ready for action, if any thing had presented.
having waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise; at length, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the
top of the hill by my two stages, as usual; standing fo,
however, that my head did not appear above the hill;
fo that they could not perceive me by any means. Here
I observed, by the help of my perspective-glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number; that they had a fire
kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they
were all dancing in I knew not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the
boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I peiceived one of them,
immediately sall, being knocked down, I suppose, with
a club or wooden sword, for that was their way: and
two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was
left Standing by himself, tisl they should be ready for him.
In that very moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a
little at libe ty, nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness al. ng the sands, dire, tly towards me, I mean to-
wards that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadsully frighted (that 1 must acknowledge)'
when I perceived him to run my way; and especiasly
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the wnoie
twdyj
finch"; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he certainly would take shelter
in my grove; but 1 could not depend, by any means,
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the other sa-
vages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to re-
cover, when 1 found that there were not above three
men that followed him; and still more was I encou-
raged,, when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly
in running, and gained ground of them; fo that, if he
could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
sairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, .
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew he mutt necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch
would be taken there. But when the savage escaping
came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was
then up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed-
ing strength and swiftness. When the thiee pursuers,
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
hut the third could not, and that he, standing on the
other side, looked at the others, but went no sarther; and
foon after went foftly back again, which, as it happened,
was very well for him in the main.
I observed that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
sellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or aiiistant, and that I was called plainly
by Providence to save this poor creature's life. 1 im-
mediately got down the ladders with all possible expe-
dition, setched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladder, as 1 observed above; and getting
up agam with the same hasle to the top os the hill,
I crossed towards the sea; and, having a very snort cut,
and all down hill, clapped mysesf in the way between
the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with
my
buried them both in a quarter of an hour; then calling
him away, 1 carried him not to my castle, but quite away'
to my cave, on the sarther part ol the island; so I did not.
let my dream come to pass in that part, viz. that he came
into my grove sor shelter.
Here 1 gave him bread, and a bunch of raifns to eifl^
and a draught of water, which I sound he was indeed m
great diftress sor, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs sor him to go lie down and sleep,
pointing td a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice' .
straw, and a blanket upon" it, which 1 used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome sellow, persectly well made,
with straight long limbs, not too large, tall, and well-
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix years of age..'!
He had a very good countenar.ee, not a sierce and surly^r
aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in hirf...'
sace, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an'*;!
Kuropean in his countenance, too, especially when he'
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool; his sorehead very high and large, and a great.
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians
Ernd V irginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it some-
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to describe.—
His ftvee was round and plump, his nnse small, not slot
like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his
teeth line, well-set, and white as ivory. After he had
siumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he wak-
etl again, and comes out of the cave to me, sor I had been -
milking my goats, which 1 had in the inclofure just by.
When |ie espied me, he came running to me, laying him-'
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful difposition", making many
antick gestures to shew it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the ground, clofe to my soot, and lets my 'other soot
upon his head, as he had done besore; and after this,
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and sub-
miffion imaginable, to let me know how much Ik- would
-ierve
PUBLIC LIBRARY
ASTOR. T-ENOX AND
TTLDEN FOUNDATIONS
serve me as long as he lived. 1 understood him in many
things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I oegan to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and first, I made him know his nane
iKiuld be Friday, which was the day I saved his'lise;
aSd I called him sor the memory of the time. I likewife
taught him to say master, and then let him know that
was to be my name. 1 likewife taught him to !'ay yes
and no, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me diink it
besore him, and sop my bread in it. ] gave him ''. cake
os bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with,
and made ligns that it was very yood sor him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as-it
was day, 1 beckoned him to come en with n.e, and let
him know I would give him some clothes, at which he
seemed very glad, sor he was stark-naked. As we went
by the place where we had buried the two men, he point-
ed exactly to the spot, and jhewed me the marks that he
had made to sind them iigain, making signs to me that
we should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I
appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made
as if I.would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned
with my hand to him to come away, which he did im-
mediately, with great submission. 1 then led him up to
the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and.
pulling out my "lass, I looked, and saw plainly the place
where they had been, but no appearauce of them, or of
their canoes; to that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
B'it 1 was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curiositv,
I took my man, Friday, with me, giving him the sword in
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry
one gun sor me, and I two sor myselr, and away we
marched to the place where these creatures had been;
sor 1 had a mind now to get some suller intelligence of
th^m. When I came to the place, my very blood ran
chill in my veins, and my he rt sunk within me at the
horror of the lptctacle, Indeed it was a dreadsul sight,
at
at least it was fo to me, though Friday made nothing of
it. 'she lilace was covered with human bones, the ground
died with the blood, great pieces of flesh lest here and
there, baK eaten, mangled, and scorched: and in short,
all the tokens of the triumphant seast they had b..Q\
making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw
three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four
legs and sect, and abundance of other parts of the bodies;
and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prifoners to seast upon; that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth; that there had been a great battle be-
tween them and their next King, whose subjects, it
seems, he had been one of; and that they had taken a
great number of prisoners, all which were carried to
several places by those that had taken them in the sight,
in order to seast upon them, as was done .here by these
wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
nnd whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I found r riday had still a hankering stomach
after fome of the fiesti, and was still a cannibal in his na-
ture; but I discovered fo much abhorrence at the very
thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he
durst not discover it; for I had, by seme means, let him
know, that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our, castle,
and there 1 sell to work for my man Friday; and firstof all,
1 gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I found in
the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him
very well ; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well
ps my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolera-
ble good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had
made of a hare-skin, very convenient, and sashionable
enough; and thus he was dressed, for the present, tolera-
bly well, and mighty well was he pleased to sec himself
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true he went
awkwardly Mn these things at first; wearing the drawers
was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders, and the insideof his arms; but a little
easing
eftsing them, where he complained they hurt him, and
using himself to them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to' my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him; and
that I might.do well for him, and yet be persectly easy
myself. t made a Kttle tent for him in the vacant plaee
between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last,
and in the outside of the first. And as there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in
the passage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; fo that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making fo much noise in getting over, that it must needs
awaken me; for my first wall had now a complete roof
over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the hill, which was agam laid cross with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a
great thickness with the rice straw, which was strong
like reeds; and at the h'ole or place which was left to
go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap
door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside,
would not have opened at all, but would have sallen
down, and made a great noise; and as to weapons, I
took them all in to my fide every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more saithsul, loving, sincere servant, than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenneis, or de*
signs; persectly obliging and engaging; his very/affec-
tions were tied to me, like those of a child to a father';—
and, I.dare say, he would have sacrificed hiiVHfe for thi
saving mine, upon any occasion whatloever: the many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of tloubt; and
foon convinced me, that I needed to use no precautions
as to my sasety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that, 'however it had pleased God in his
providence, and in the government of the works of his
hands, to take front fo great a part of the world of his
creatures, the best uses to which their saculties, and the
powers of their fouls, are adapted; yet that he has
vol. I.. k bestowctl.
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and
obligation, the saine passions and resentments of wrongs,
the same sense of gratitude! sincerity, fidelity, and all
the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to-us; and that, when he pleases to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay,
more ready to apply them to the right uses sor which
they were bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reslecting, as the several
occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all
these, even though we have these powers enlightened by
the great lamp of inltruction, the spirit of God, and by
the knowledge of his word, added to our understanding;
and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving know-
ledge from,so many millions of souls, who, if I might
judge by this poor savage, would make a much better
use,of it than we did.
'-Jronishcnce I sometimes was led too sar to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the
justice of so arbitrary a difpofition of things, that should
hid? that light from some, and reveal it to others, and
yet expect a like duty from both : but I shut it up, and
checked my lthqughts with this conclusion :—First, that
we.do not knesw by what .li<;ht and law these should be
condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and by the
auture-of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could
not be; ibiit that if these creatures were all sentenced to
ab^flcetfrom himself, it was on account of sinning against
thafjig))^ which,' as the scripture says, was a law to
rijemljejVeSj.and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge; .to be just, though the soundation was not
.discovered to .us.—And, secondly, that still, as we are all
clay in the {l.arul of the potter, no vessel could say to him,
Why hast jho.u sormed me thus? .
But to return to my new companion.—I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him usesul,
handy, and helpsul; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I l'poke; and he was the apteli
scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand
•understand me, or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my lise
began to be fo easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could J but have been sase from more savages, I cared not
if. I was never to remove from the place while I lived.' .
After I had been two or three days returned to my cas-
tle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday off from his
horrid way of seeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's
stomach, I ought to let him. taste other flesh; fo I took
him out with me one morning to the woods; I went in-
deed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a
(he-goat lying down in the fliade, and two young kids
fitting by her; I catched hold of Friday, hold, laid I,
stand still; and made signs to him not to stir; immediately
I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage his enemy, but did not know, nor could ima-
gine, how it was .done, was sensibly surprised, trembled,
and shook, and looked fo amazed, that 1 thought he
would have sunk down: he did not sec the kid 1 had
shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to seel if he was not wounded; and, as I found, pre-
sently thought I was refolved to kill him ; for he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand, but I could easily'
see, that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I foon found a way to convince him, that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and, pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and sctchjit, which he did; and
while he was wondering and looking to see how the
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-
b}'e I saw .a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree with-
in shot; fo, to let Friday understand a little what I would
do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,.which
was indeed a parrot, though 1 thought it had been a.
hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and
to'the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would
make him sall, I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly 1 fired, and bid him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot sall: he stood like .
k 2 one"
one frighted again, notwithstanding all that I had said
to him; and 1 found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put anything into the gun ; but thought
there must be fome wondersul sund of death and destruc-
tion in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any-
thing near or sar off; for the astonishment this created in
him, was such as could not wear off for a long time;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun itself, he
would not fo much as touch it for several days after; but
would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered
him, when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards
learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and setch the bird I had shot
which he did, but staid fome time; for the parrot, not
hting quite dead, was fluttered a good way off from the
place where she sell ; however he sound her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and, as I had .perceived his ig-
norance about the gun besore, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time; fo I brought home
the kid; and the same evening I took the skin off, and
cut iticut as well as I could, and having a pot for that
purpose, I boiled or stewed fome of the flesh, and made
fome very good broth; after I had begun to eat fome, L
gave fome to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and
liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me,
that the salt was not gootl to eat, and putting a little into
his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at it,. washing ~his mouth with fresh water
after it; on the other hand, I took fome meat in my
mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt, as fast as, he had done at the salt; but
it would not do, he would never care for salt with meat,
or in. his broth; at least not for a great while, and then
hut.a^ery little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was refolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid; this I did by hanging it before the
fire
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually; this Friday.
admired very much; but when he came to taste the stem,
he took fo many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him; and at last he told
me he would never eat man's flesh any more, which.I
was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating fome com-
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as 1 ob-
served besore; and he foon understood how to do it as
•wels as I, especiajly after he had seen what the meaning
of it was^ and that it was to make bread of; for after
that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work
for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to
seed instead of one,, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used
to do; fo I marked out a larger piece of land, and began
the sence in the same manner as before, in which Friday
.not only worked very willingly, and very hard, but did it
.very cheersully; and when L told him what it was for, that
it was for corn to make more bread, because he was now
with me, and that I might have enough for him and my-
self too, he appeared very sensible of that part, and let
me know, that he thought I had much more labour up-
on me on his account, than I had for myself, and that
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do..
This was the pleasantest year of all the lise I led in this
place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost every thing I had occasion to call
for, and of every place I had to send him to, and talk a
great deal to me; fo that in short, I began now to have
fome use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very
little, occasion for besore; that is to say about speech:
besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the sellow himself; his simple unseigned
honesty appeared to me more and more every day, and I
began really to love the creature; and on his side, I
k 3 believe
believe he loved me more than it was possible for him
ever to love any thing besore.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli-
nation to his own country again; and having learned him
English fo well, that he could answer me almost any ques-
tion; I asked him, whether the nation that he belonged
to never conquered in battle. At which he smiled, and
said, yes, yes, we always sight the better; that is, he
meant, always get the better in sight, and fo we began
the following discourse. You always sight the better,
said I; how came you to be taken prifoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for ail that.
Master. How beat? if your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken? /
Friday. They more than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me. My nation
over-beat them in yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then? ,
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away, and
eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mens too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday, Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, 1 been here [Points to the N. W. fide
of the island, which, it seems, was their fide].
'. By this I understood, that my man^Friday had formerly
been among the savages, who used to come on shoreon the
sarther part of the island, on the said men-eating occasions
that he was brought for; and fome time after, when
1 took the courage to carry him to that side, being the
same I formerly mentioned, he persectly knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty.
men, two women, and one child. He could not telltwenty
in English, but he numbered them by laying.fo many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have
I have told this passage, because it introduces what fol-
lows ;that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked
him how sar it was from our island to the'shore,' and
whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a little
way out to sea, there was a current, and a wind always
one way in the morning the other in the afternoon.
'This I understood to be no more than the 1'ets of the
tide as going out or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and re-
flux of the mighty river Oroonoque; in the mouth of
which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river: I asked Friday a thou-
sand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near; he told me
all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable;
I asked him the names of the several nations of his fort
of people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood,' that these were the
Caribees, which our maps place'on that part of Ame-
rica which reaches from the mouth'of the river Oroono-
ique to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha; he told me
that up a great way beyond the moon, that 'was, beyond
the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
pointed to my great whiskers, which 1 mentioned besore;
and that they had killed much mans, that was his word;
by which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose
cruelties in America had been spread oveY the whole
countries, and were remembered by all. the nations from
sather to fon."''
I enquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island, and get among those white men; he told mt',
Yes, yes, 1 might go in two canoe;''I could not under-
stand what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with
great difficulty, I found he meant;' that it.must be in a
large great boat as big as two canoes. '.'.'
This part of Friday's discourse began to 'relish with
me Very well; and from this time 1 entertained fome
hopes, that one time or other I might find an oppor-
k 4 tunity
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that this
poor savage might be'a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been "with
me, and that he began to speak to me and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a soundation of religious
knowledge in'his mind, particularly, I asked him one
time, -who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, -but thought I had alked whewas his
sather; but-1 took it by another handle, and aiked hinT
\*hojna(le the sea, the ground he walked on, and the
hjlls and woods? He tpld.me, it was one old Benamuckee
th«t lived beyond.all: he could describe nothing of this
great person, but that he was very old; much older, he
said, than the sea, or the land, than the moon or the
stars: I afleed him then, if this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a persect look of innocence said,
all things said O to him: I asked him, if the people who
died in his country, went away any where: he said, yes,
they all went to Benamuckee: then I asked him, whether
thole they eat up went thither too.? He said, yes.
From these things! began to instruct him in the know-
ledge of the true God. I told him, tbattthe great maker
of all things lived there, pointing up towards heaven:
that he governs the world by the fame ,power and pro-
yidence by which he made it: that he was omnipotent,
could do every thing sor us, give every thing to us,-take
every thing from us; and thus by degrees, 1 opened his
eyes-: he listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to re-
deem us, and of the manner of makingiOur prayers.to
God, and his being a.ble to hear us, even jntp heaven:
as he told me one day, that if our God could hear us up
beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than
their Benamuckee, who lived hut a little way off, and yet
could not hear, till they yvept up to the great mountains,
where he,dwelt, to speak to him. I asked him if he ever
went to ilpeak; $9 Benamuckee? He {aid, no, 4hey never
went that were young men; none yrefl* th,ither but the
old men, whom he called their Oowookakee, that is, as I
made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy;
and that they went to say O (so :he called saying prayers)
and
and then cnrne back, and told them what Benamuckee
said: by this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
amongst the most blinded ignorant Pagans in the world;
-and the policy of making a secret religion, in order to
preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not
only to be sound in the Roman, but perhaps among.all re-
ligions in the world, even among the moil brutish and
barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday;
and told him, that the pretence of their old men going up
to the mountains to say O to their god Benamuckee, was
a cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he
said, was much more so; that if they met with any an-
swer, or spoke with any one there, it must be with an
evil spirit: and then I entered into a long difcourse with
him about the devil, the original of him, his rebellion
against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his set-
ting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
"worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their
ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions, and to
our afsections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations,
as to cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run
upon our own destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a
God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to
him even the necessity of a great first cause, and over-
ruling governing power, a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to him
that made us, and the like; but there appeared nothing
of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his original,
his being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination to
do evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a ques-
tion merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew
what to say to him. 1 had been talking a great deal to'
him of the power of God, his omnipotence, his dreadsul
aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire to the workers
of iniquity ; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy
«s, and all the world, in a moment; and he listened with
great seriousness to me all the while.
K 5 Aster
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used. all his ma-
lice and skill to deseat the good designs of Providence,
and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the
like: Well, says Friday, but you say, God is fo strong,
fo great, is he not much strong, much might, as the de-
vil? Yes, yes, laid I, Friday, God is stronger than the
devil, God is above the devil, and therefore we l>ray to
God to tread him under our seet, ami enable us to resist
his temptations, and quench his'fiery darts. But, says he
again, if God much strong, much might, as the devil,
why God not kill the devil, fo make him no more wicked?
I was strangely surprised at his question, and after all,
though I was now an old man, yet I was but a young
doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver
of difficulties: and, at first, 1 could r.ot tell what to say ;.
fo I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said: but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his
question; fo. that he repeated it in the very same broken.
words, as above. But this time I had recovered myself a
little, and I said, God will at last punish him severely, he
is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, t« dwell with everlasting fire: this did
not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me repeating my
words, Reserve at last, me no understand: but why not
kill the devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well
tsk me, said I, why God does not kill you and me, when
we do wicked things here that offend him: we are pre-
served to repent and be pardoned. He muses a while at
this ; Well, well, says he, mighty affectionately, that well,,
fo you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God
pardon all: here I was run down again by him to the
last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how the.mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reafonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship
or homage due to tlic supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature; yet nothing but divine re-
velation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of
a redemption purchased for us; of a mediator ; of a new
covenant; and of an intercessor at the footstool of God's
throne, I say nothing but a revelation from heaven can
form these in the soul, and that theresore the Gospel of
our
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the word os'
God, and the spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of his people, are the abfolutely necessary in-
structors of the fouls, of men in the .saying knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation. ,, tni. >:
J theresore diverted the present discourse between me:
and my man, rismg up hastily, as upon fome sudden oc-'
cation of going out; then sending him for fomething a •
great way off, 1 seriously prayed to God, thathe would'
enable me to instruct savingly this poor; savage,' assisting:
by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature, tow
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ, re-
conciling him to himself, and would guide me to Qieak.
so to him from the word of God, as his. conscience'
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his foul saved:
when he came again to me, I entered into a long.dis-•
course with him upon the subject of the redemption Qf
man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine.ot
the Gospel preached from heaven, viz. of the repent-
ance towards God, and saith in our blessed Lord Jesus:
I then explained to him, as well as 1 could, why our
blessed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels,
but the seed of Abraham, and how for that reafon the
sallen angels had no share in the redemption; that he;
came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the'
like. •:
1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, ini
all the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction :.
and must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon
the same principle wisl find, that in laying things open.
to him, I really informed and instructed myself in many*
things that either I did not know, or had not sully con-
sidered besore; but which occurred naturally to my mind,*
upon my searching into them, for the information's this,
poor savage; and I had more affection in my enquiry
after things upon this occasion, than ever I selt besore.;.
Ib that whether this poor wild wretch was the bette? for
me or no, I had great reafon to be thanksul, .that evetf
he came to me: my gries sat Ughter upon me, my har.
bitation grew comsortable to meibeyond measure: .and'
when I reflected, that in th^.folitary lise which I had;
been consined to, I had not oi>l.y been moved myself to
'.. ra ¥'& '/.' .'i . >' .> l««k
look up to heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought
me thither, but was now to be made an instrument, under
Providence, to save the lise, and, for aught 1 know, the
soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is lise eternal j
I say, when I reflected upon all things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my foul, and I frequently rejoiced,
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had often
thought the most dreadsul of all afflictions that could
-possibly have besallen me.
'In this thanksul frame 1 continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together persectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi-
ness can be found in a sublunary state: the savage was
now .a good Christian, a much better than I; though I
have reafon to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comsorted, restored penitents: we
had here the Word of God to read, and nosarther oft'
from his Spirit to instruct, that if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what
I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries and ques-
tions, made me, as I said besore, a much better scholar in
the scripture knowledge, than I should ever have been
by my own mere private reading: another thing I can-
not resrain from observing here alfo from experience, in
this retired part of my lise; viz. how infinite and inex-
pressible a blessing it is, that the knowledge of God, and
of the doctrine of salvation by Christ JefuS, is fo plainly.
laid down in the WoreVof God, fo easy to be received and
understood, that as the bare reading the scripture made
v me capable of Understanding enough of my duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of sincere repentance
for my fins, and laying hold of a Saviour for lise and
salvation, to a stated resormation in practice, and obe-
dience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor (I mean, human),fo the plain in-
struction susficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian, as I
have known few equal to him in my lise. As
As to the disputes, wranglings, strise, and contention,
which have happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all persectly useless to us, as, for aught I can
yet fee, they have been to all the reft in the world; we
had the sure guide to heaven, via. the Word of God j
and we had, blefled be God, comfortable views of the
Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by his Word,
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his Word.; and I cannot see
the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed
points in religion, which have made such consusions in
the world, would have been to us, if we could have ob-
tained it; but [ must go on with the historical part of
things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and 1 became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all 1 said to hiirt,
and speak fluently, though in broken English, to me; I
acquainted him with my own story, or at least fo much
of it as related tp my coming into the place, how I had
lived there, and how long; I let him into the mystery
(for such it was to him) of gunpowder and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot; I gave him a knise, which he
was .wondersully delighted with, and I made him a belt
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I
gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in fome cases, but much more useful upon many
occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and parti-
cularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one ami
other, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world; I gave him an account of the wreck which I had
been on board of, and shewed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
long besore, and quite gone.
1 shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now sallen almost all to pieces;
upon seeing this boat, Fiday stood mulmg a great while,
and said nothing l I asked him what it was he studied
upon?
4
upon? at last, says he, Me see such boat like conn: to
place at my nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined surther into it, 1 understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore
upon the country where he lived; that is, as he explained
it, was driven thither by stress of weather: I prescntly
imagined, that fome European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was fo dull, that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come; fo I only enquired after a de-
scription of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,,
with fome warmth, We save the white mans from drown:
Then I presently asked him, if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat: Yes, he said, the boat sull
of white mans: I asked him, how many? he told upon
his fingers seventeen: I asked him then what became of
them? he told me, They live, they dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head again ; for I
presently imagined, that these might be the men belong-
ing to the (hip that was cast away in sight of my island,
as I now call it; and who, after the ship was struck on
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild.
sbore among the savages.
Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what was
become , of them; he assured me they lived still there,
that they had been there about four years, that the savages
set them alone, and gave them victuals to live: 1 asked
him* how it came to pass they did not kill them, and
eat them? He said, No, they make brother with them:
that is, as I understood him, a truce : and then he add-
ed, They eat no mans but when make the war sight:
that is to say, they never eat any men, but such as come
to sight with them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this, fome considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east tide of the island,
from whence, as I have said, Lhad in a clear day disco-
vered the main or continent of America; Friday, the wea-
ther
ther being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the
mainland, and in a kind of surprise salls a jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at fome distance
from him; I asked him what was the matter! O joy!
fays he, O glad! there fee my country, there my nation!
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his sace, and his eyes s;>arklcd, and 'his countenance
discovered a strange eagenicss, as if he had a mind to
be in his own country again; and this observation of
mine put a great many thoughts into me, which made
me at first not fo easy about my new mast Friday, as
I was besore; and I'made no doubt, but that if Friday
could get back to his own nation again, he Would not
only forget all his religion, but als .his .obligations to
me; and would be forward enough to give his country-
men an account of me, and come back, perhaps with
an hundred or two of them, and make a seast upon me,
at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very forry afterwards: however,, as my
jealousy increased, and held me fome weeks, I was a>
little more circumspect, and not fo samiliar and kind to.
him as besore; in which I was certainly in the wrong'.
too, the honest gratesul creature havmg no thought
about it, but what consisted ot the best prmciples, both;
as a religious Christian, and as a gratesul friend, as ap-
peared afterwards to my full satissaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him to see if he would discover any
of the new thoughts, which I suspected were in him; buj:
I found every thing he said was fo honest, and fo innocent,
that I could find nothing to nourish nvy suspicion: and,
in spite of all my uneasmess, he made me at last entirely
his own again ; nor did he in the least perceive that I was
uneasy ; and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, fo that we could not see the
continent, 1 called to him, and said, Friday, do not
you wish yourself in your own country, your own na-
tion? Yes, he said, 1 be much O glad to be at my own
nation. What would you do there? said I: would you
turn
*'
turn wild again, eat mens flefli again, and be a savage
as you were besore? He looked sull of concern, and,
shaking his head, said, No, no, Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread,
cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again. Why then, said I to
him, they will kill you : he looked grave at that, and then
said, No, they no kill me, they willing love learn; he
meant by this, they would be willing to learn; he added,
they learned much ot' the bearded mens that came in the
boat: then I asked him, if he would go back to them?
He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim fo sar;
I told him I would make a canoe for him; he told me
he would go if I would go with him. I go! said I,
why they will eat me if I come there; No, no, says he,
me make them no eat you, me make they much love you;
he meant he would tell them how I had killed his ene-
mies and saved his lise, and fo he would make them
love me; then he told me as well as he could, how kind
they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore in distress.
From this time I consess, I had a mind to venture*
over, and see if I could possibly joist.with these bearded
men, who 1 made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu-
guese; not doubting but, is I could, we might find fome
method to escape from thence, being upon the conti-
nent, and a good company together, better than I could
srom an island forty miles off the shore, and alone with-
out help: fo, after fome days, I took Friday to work
again, by way of discourse; and told him, I would give
him a boat to go back to his own nation; and accord-
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island; and having cleared it of water (for I
always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out, shewed
it him, and we both went into it.
J found he was a most dexterous sellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and sast again as I
could ; fo when he was in, I said to him, Well, now
Friday, shall we go to your nation? He looked very
dull at my saying fo, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go fo sar; I told him then
1 had a bigger; fo the next day, I went to the place
where the first boat lay which 1 had made, but which I
could
could not git into the water; he said that was big
enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it
had lam two or three and twenty years there, the sun
had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten,
Friday told me, such a boat would do very well, and
would carry, 'much enough vittle, drink, bread,' that
was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time fo .fixed upon my
design of going over with .him to the continent, that I
told him we would .go and make one as big as that, and
he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was
the matter with him. He asked me again, thus, Why you
angry mad with Friday? what me done? I aslced him
•what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at
'nil: No angry! no angry! says he, repeating the words
several times,.Why send Friday home away to my na-
tion ? Why, said I, Friday, did not you say you wished
you were there ? Yes, yes, says he, wish be both there, no
wish Friday there, no master there. In a word, he
would not think of going there without nre. 1 go there,
.Friday! said I, what should I do there? He turned very
quick upon me at this; You do great deal much good,
fays he, you teach wild mans be good, fober, tame mans;
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new lise.
Alas, Friday, .said I, thou kno welt not what thou sayest;
I am but an ignorant man myself. Yes, yes, says he>
you teechee me :gpod, you teechee them good. No, no,
Friday, said I, you shall go without me; leave me here
.to live by myself, as I did besore. He looked consused
again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives
it me. What must I do with this? said I to him: you
take kill Friday, says be. What must I kill you for?
said I again. He returns very quick, What you send
Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away. This he spoke fo earnestly, that I saw tears
stand in his eyes. In a word^ I to plainly discovered
the utmost afsection in him to me, and a firm refolu-
tion in him, that 1 told him then, and often after, that
I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.'
Upon
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse, a
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, fo I found all the foundation of his de-
sire to go to his. own country, was laid in his ardent af-
fection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them
good; a thing, which as I had no notion of myself, fo
I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of un-
dertaking it; but still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the supposi-
tion gathered from the former discourse: viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and theresore, with-
out any delay, I went to work wiih Friday, to find out
a great tree, proper to sell, and make a large periagua
or canoe, to undertake the voyage: there were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of
periaguas and canoes only, but even of good large ves-
sels; but the main thing 1 looked at, was to get one fo
near the water, that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake 1 committed at first.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
'knew much better than 1, what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree
we call sustick, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the same Colour and smell:
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this
tree out, to make it into a boat: but I shewed him how
rather to cut it out with tools, which after I shewed him
how to use, he did very handily, and in about a month's
hard labour we finished it, and made it very hand-
fome, especially when with our axes, which 1 shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into
the true shape of a boat; after this, however, it cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers into the water: but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
•ease. ''
When she was in the water, and though she was fo big,
it amazed'me to see with what dexterity and how swift
my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and pad-
dle her along; fo I asked him if he would, and if we
might venture over in her: Yes, he said, he venture over
in
in her very well, though great blow wind; however, I had
a sarther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an anchor
and cable: as to a mart, that was easy enough to get;
fo I pitched upon a strait young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, and which there was a great plenty
of in the island: and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and order
it: but as to the sail, that was my particular care; .
I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old. sails
enough; but as 1 had them now twenty-fix years by
me, and had not been very caresul to preserve them,
not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use
for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed most of them were fo; however, I found two
pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awk-
ward tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing,
like what we call in England a shoulder of mutton sail,
to go with a boom at bottom, arid a little short sprit at
the top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with,
and such as I knew best how to manage; because it was
such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my escape
from Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months persorming this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or
foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I sixed a rudder to the
stern of her, to steer with; and though I was but a
bungling' sttipwright, yet as I knew the usesulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with fo
much pains to do it, that at last 1 brought it to pass,
though considering the many dull contrivances I had for
it that sailed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as
making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my iffon Friday to
teach as to what belonged to'the navigation of my boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe,
he knew nothing What belonged to a sail and a rudder,
and was the most amazed when he saw me work the
boat
.. ..J
boat to-and-again in the sea by the rudder, and how (he
sail gybed, and rilled this way or that way, as the course
we sailed changed; 1 say, when he saw this, be stood
like one astonished and amazed: however, with a little
use, I made all these things samiliar to him, and he be-
came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I
could make him understand very little of that: on the
.other band, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was the less
occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the fliore by day, except in the
rainy seafons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad,
either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of
my captivity in this place; though the three last years
that I had this creature with me, ought rather to be
• lest out of the account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept
the anniversary of my landing here with the same thank-
sulness to God for His mercies as at first; and if I had
such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more
fo now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
esfectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was
at hand, and that I should not be another year in this
place: however, I went on with my husbandry, digging,
planting, sencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my
grapes, and did every necessary thing, as before.
The rainy seafon was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
fo I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
for her to float in; and then when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out; and fo ihe lay dry, as to the tide, from
the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees so thick, that flic was as well
thatchsd
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I designed to"
make my adventure.
When the settled seafon began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the sair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first thing
I did was to lay up a certain quantity of provision, being
the stoTe for the voyage; and intended, in a week or k
fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon fomething of this
kind, when I called to Friday, and bidhim go to the sea-
shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing
'which we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my outward
wall, or sence, like one that selt not the ground, or the
steps he set his seet on; and besore I had time to speak
to him, he cried out to me, O master! O master ! O for»
row! Obad! What's the matter, Friday? said I. O
yonder there, says he, one, two, three, canoe! one, two,
three ! By this way of speaking I concluded there were
fix; but on enquiry I found there were but three. Well,
Friday, said I, do not be frighted; fo I heartened him up
as well as I could. However, 1 saw the poor sellow most
terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces,
and eat him. The poor sellow trembled fo, that I scarce
knew what to do with him. I comsorted him as well as
I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would eat me as well as him. But, said I,
Friday, we must refolve to sight them. Can. you fight,
Friday? Me moot, says he, but there come many great
number. No matter for that, said I again; our guns
will fright them that we do not kill. So I asked him,
whether, if I refolved to desend him, he would desend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bade. him? He said,
me die, when you bid die, master; so I went and setched
a good dram of rum, and gave him; for I had been fo
good a husoand of my rum, that I had. a. great deal left.
When he had drank it, I made him take the two fowl-
ing pieces which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small .pistol-bullets; then.1 took'
four
sour muskets, arid loaded them. with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a .
brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspec-
tive glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to sec what
I could difcover; and I sound quickly, by my glass, that
there were one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and
three canoes: and that their whole business seemed to be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies;
a barbarous seast indeed, but nothing more than as I had
observed was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came clofe almnst down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, so-silled me with indignation, that 1 came down
again to Friday, and told him 1 was resolved to go down
to them, and kill them all, and asked him if he would
stand by me. He was now gotten over his fright; and
his spirits being a little raifed with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheersul; and told me, as besore/he
would die when I bid die..
In this fit of sury, I took first and divided the arras
which I had charged, as besore, between us. I gave Fri-
day one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon
his shoulder, and I took one pistol, and the other three
myself, and in this posture we marched out. 1 took a
small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullet; and as to or-
ders, I charged him to keep dole behind me, and not to
stir, ..shoot, or do any thing till I bid him; and in the
mean time, not to speak a word. In this posture I setched
a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek as to get into the wood; so that I might
come within shot of them besore I could be difcovered,
which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my sormer thoughts
returning, 1 began to abate my. resolution. I do not mean
that I entertained any sear of their number; sor as they
werennk,ed, unarmed wretches, 'tis certain I was superior
to
X
to them; nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less
what necessity I was in to go and dip my hands in blood,
to attack people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong, who, as to me, were innocent, and whofe barba-
rous customs were their own difaster, being in them a
token indeed of God's having lest them, with the other
nations os that part of the world, to such stupidity and
to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take
upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his justice; that whenever he thought sit, hs
would take the cause into his own hands, and by nation-
al vengean«e, punifh them sor national crimes; but that
in the mean time it was none of my business. That it
was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular
people, and it was lawsul sor him to attack them; but I
could not say the same with respect to nie. These things
were so warmly prefled upon my thoughts all the way as
I went, that I resolved I would only go place myself near
them, that I might observe their barbarous seast, and
that I would act then as God should direct; but that un-
less something offered that was more a call to me than
yet I knew of, 1 would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday sollowing close
at my heels), I marched till I came to the skirt of the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one corner of the wood lay between me and them.—-
Here 1 palled softly to Friday, and shewing him a great
tree, which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him goto the tree, and bring me word if he could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about the
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prifoners; and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
whom he said they would kill next, and which fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told
me of, who came to their country in the boat. I was
filled with honor at the very naming the white-bearded
rtian, and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass,
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his seet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was an European, and had clothes on.
'There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undifcovered, an 1 that then I should be within
half shot of them; so I with-held my passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree, and then I
came to a little rising ground, which gave me a sull view
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; sor nineteen of the
dreadsul wretches sat upon the ground all clofe huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poorChristian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to
their fire, and they were stooped down to untie the bands
at his seet. I turned to Friday. Now, Friday, said 1, do
as I bid theei Friday said he would. Then Friday, said I,
do exactly as you see me do; sail in nothing. So I set
down one of the muskets and the sowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his ; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the
like. Then asking him if he was ready, he said yes. Then
fire at them, said I, and the same moment Ifired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my side'I kilted one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadsul conster-
nation; and all of them, who were not hurt, jumped up
upon the:r feet immediately, but did not know which way
to run, or which way to look, sor they knew not from
-whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
clofe upon me, that as 1 had bid him, he might observe
what I did; so as soon as the first shot was made, 1 threw
down the piece, and took up the sowling-piece j and
Friday did the like; hesees me cock, and present; he did
the same again. Are you ready, Friday? said I. Yes,
says he. Let fly then, said I, in the name of God; and
-with that I sired again among. the araaied wretches, and
so
fti did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with,
what I called swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found
only two drop; but fo many were wounded, that thev
]ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all
bloody and miserably wounded, most of them; whereof
three more sell quickly aster, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, saidl, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket, which was yet loaden, follow
me, laid I, which he did, with a deal of courage ; upon
'which I rushed out of the wood, and shewed myself, and
Friday, close at my foot. As foon as I perceived they saw
me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do fo
too; and running as sast as I could, which, by the way,
was not very sast, being loaded with arms as 1 was, I made
directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, ly-
ing upon the beach, or shore, between the place where
they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just
going to work with him, had lest him, at the surprise of
our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made
the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step
forwards, and fire at them. He understood me immedi-
ately, and, running about forty yards to be near them, he
fliot at them ; as I thought, he had killed them all; for I
saw them all sall on an heap into the boat; though I saw
•two of them up again quickly. However, he killed two
of them, and wounded the third, fo that he lay down in
the bottom of the boat, its if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knise, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and seet, I lifted him up, and asked him,
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was? He answered,
in Latin, Christianus; but was fo weak and saint, that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of
my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should
drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread,
•which he eat. Then I asked him what countryman he
was? and he said Espagnole; and, being a little re-
covered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly
make, how much he was in debt for his deliverance-
Seignior, said 1, with as much Spanish as I could make
vp, we will talk afterwards, but we must fight now.—
veu a, x. If
If you ha.re any strength lest, take this pistol and sword,
.and lay about you. He took them very thanksully; and
'no fooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murder-
ers like a sury, and had cut two of them in'pieces in an
instant: for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise ta
them, fo the poor rreatures were fo much frighted with
the noise of our pieces, that they sell down for mere
amazement and sear, and had no moie power to attempt
their own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday shot in the
boat; for as three of them sell with the hurt they re-
ceived, fo the other two sell with the fright.
1 kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
^Spaniard my pistol and sword ;—fo I called to Friday, and
'hade him run up to the tfree from whence we first fired,
and setch the arms, which lay there, that had been dis-
charged, which he did with great swiftness; and then
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden swords,
the same weapon that was to have killed him besore, if I
had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold
and as brave as could be imagined, though 'Weak, had
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two
great wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout
lusty sellow, closmg in with him, had thrown him down,
being saint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely (quitting
his sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, besore
I, who was runnmg tQ help, could come near him.
Friday, being now lest at his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet;
and with that he dispatched those three, who, as I laid
hefore, were wounded at first and sallen,' and all the rest
he rcould come up with; and the Spaniard coming to
mt for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with,
swhich he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them
both:
lioth: but as he was not able to run, they both got from
Kim into the wood, where Friday 'pursued them, and
lcilled one of them; but the other was too nimble for
him; and though he was wounded, yet he plunged into
the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to those who
were lest in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with
one wounded, who we know not whether he died or no,
•were all that escaped our hands of one and twenty. The
account of the rest is as follows :—
3 Killed at oar shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot. v
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of theif
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not
dead.
21 in all.
Those that were in the tianoe worked hard to get out
'ef gun-lhot; and though Friday made two or three shots
•at them., I did not sind that he hit any of them. Friday
•would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
'escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back, perhaps, with two or three. hun-
dred 'of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitudes;
so I consented to pursue them by sea; and running to
ione of their canoes, 1 jumped in, and bade Friday fol-
low me; but when I was in the caBoe, I was surprised
•to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and footi as the Spaniard was, fxjr the slaughter,
and almost dead with sear, not knowing what the mat-
ter was; for. he had not been able to look up over the
fide of the boat, he was tied fo hard, neck and heels,
and had bees tkd fo long, that he had really little life in
h 2 I imme«
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
•they had bound him with, and would have helped him up.,
but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned most pite-
ousty, believing, it seems still, that he was only unbound
in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bot-
tle, made him give the poor wretch a dram, which, with
the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat ; but when Friday came to hear him speak,
and looked in his sace, it would have moved any one to
tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own sace and head, and then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature. I was a good while
besore 1 could make him speak to me, ior tell me what
was the matter; but when he came a little to himself,
be told me that it was his sather.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved me, to
fee what extacy and silial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of bis sather, and of his being
delivered from death; nor indeed can I describe half the
extravagancies of bis affection after this; for he went
into the boat and out of the boat a great many times.—
When he went in to him, he would fit down fcy him,
open his breast, and hold his sather's head close to his
bofom, half an hour together, to nourish it. Then he
took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff
with the binding, and chased and rubbed them with his
bands; and.I, perceiving what the case was, gave him
fome rum out of my bottle to rub them with., which did
them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost out
osfiobt; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
Jt blew fo hard within two hours after, and besore they
.could begotten a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing fo hard all night, and that from the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their
pwst coast.
But
But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his sa-
ttier, that I could not sind in my heart to take him off sor
some time; but after 1 thought he could leave him a lit-
tle, I called him to nie, and he came jumping and laugh-
ing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked him.
if he had given his sather any bread? He shook his head,-
and said, none,; ugly dog eat all up self: so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch 1 carried on purpofe.
I also gave him a dram sor himself, but he would not taste
it, but carried it to his sather. I had in my pocket also
two or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a hand-
ful of them sor his sather: He had no sooner given his
sather these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat
and run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at such
a rate (sor he was the swiftest sellow of his seet that ever
I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight
as it were in an instant; and though I called and hallooed
too after him, it was all one; away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so sast as he went; and as he came nearer, I sound his
pace was slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home sor an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his sather some
fresh water; and that He had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water
he carried to his sather. However, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his sa-
ther more than all the rum or spirits• I had given him,
sor he was just sainting with thirst.
'When his sather had drank, I called hint, to know is
there was any water lest. He said yes; and I bade him.
give it to the poor Spaniard, who'was in as much want'
of it as his sather; and I sent one of the cakes, that
Friday brought, to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himsels upon a green place,
under the shade os a tree, and whofe limbs were also
very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage
he had been tied with. When I saw that upon Friday's
coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and
took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave
him an handsul of raisins. He looked sip in my sace with
ail the tokens of gratitude and thanksulness that could
<L 3 appear
y
appear in any countenance; but was so weak-, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the sight, that he
could not stand up upon hi* sect: he tried to do it two
or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were
so swelled and so painsul to him; so 1 bade him sit still,
and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with
rum, as he had done his sather's.
I observed the poor assectionate creature every two mi-
nutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned
his head about, to see if his sather was in the same place
and posture as he kit him sitting; and at last he sound he
was not to be seen; at which he started up, and without
speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that
one could scarce perceive his seet to touch the ground
as he went; but when he came, he only sound he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs : so Friday came back
to me presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let
Uriday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat,
and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I
would take care of him: but Friday, a lusty young sel-
low,'took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and car-
. lied him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon
the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his seet in the in-
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him clofe
to his sather, and presently stepping out again, launched
the boat oss, and paddled it along the shore saster than I
could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so
he brought them both sase into our creek, and leaving
them in the boat, runs away to setch the other canoe.—
As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither
he went? He told me, Go, setch more boat; so away he
went, like the wind, sor sure never man or horse ran
like him, and he-had the other canoe in the creek, almost
as soon as 1 got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so
that poor Friday knew not what to do." ^
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up both together upon. it between us; but when we got
them
'v
V&em to the outside of our wall or fortification, we were
at a worse loss than besore; for it was impossible to get'
'them over; and I was refolved , not to break it down;
/f"o I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about two
liours time, made a very handfome tent, covered' with
old sails, and above that with bough^of trees, being in!
the space without our outward sence, and between .that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted; and
here we made two beiss of such things as 1 had, viz. of
good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and
another to cover them on each bed.
My iftand was now peopled, and I thought myself
•very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection which
I frequently made, how like a king I looked. First, of
all the whole country was my own mere property; fo
that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were persectly subjected. I was abfolute lord
and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were
Teady to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion
for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three
subjects, and they were of three different religions. My
man Friday was a protestant; his sather a pagan and a
cannibal; and the Spaniard was a papist. However, I
allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions;
but this by the way.
As foon as I had secured my two weak rescued prifon-
ers, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making fome provision forthem:
and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a year-
• 'ing goat> betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular
stock, to be killed ; then I cat off the hinder quarter, and,
chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work, to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I
assure you, of flesh and broth; having put fome bar-
ley and rice alfo into the broth, and as I cooked it with-
out doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, fo I
carried it all into the new tent; and having set a table
there for them, I sat down and eat my dinner alfo with
them; and, as well as I could, cheered them and en-
couraged them, Friday being my interpreter, especially
to his sather,. and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the
Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
l V After
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to t:tke one of the canoes, an,d go and setch our musquets
and other fire arms, which sor want of time we had lest
upon the place of battle; and the next day I ordered him.
to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay
open to the sun, s^id would presently be offensive; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous seast, which I knew were pretty much,
and which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I
could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all
which he punctually persormed, and desaced the very ap-
pearance of the savages being there; so that when I went
again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwife than
by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
J then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and first 1 let Friday to enquire of
his sather, what he thought of the escape of the savages
in that canoe, and whether he might expect a return of
them with a power too great sor us to resist? His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live
out the storm, which blew that night they went off,. but
must of necessity be drowned or driven south to thofe
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured, as
they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but as
to what they would do if they came sase on shore, he
said, he knew. not; but it was his opinion, that they were
so dreadsully frighted with the manner of being attacked,
the noife and the sire, that he believed they would tell
their people they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, and not by the hand of man; and that the two
which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly
spirits or suries come down to destroy them, and not men
with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because ha
heard them all cry out so in their language to one ano-
ther; sor it was impossible to them to conceive that a man
should dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a dif-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now.
And this old savage was in the right, sor, as I understood
since by other hands," the savages of that part never at-
tempted to go over to the island afterwards. They were
so terrified with the accounts given by thofe sour men .
(sor it seems they did escape the sea] that they believed,
* whoever
Whoever went to that enchanted island, would be de-
ls gtyed with fire from the gods. . . . .'
^This, however; I knew not, and theresore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, land all my army; for as wa
were now.four of us, I would have ventured upon. aa.
hundred of them sairly in the open field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consi-
deration, being likewise assured by Friday's sather, that
I might depend upon good usage from their nation on his
account, if Lwould go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under-
stood,.that there Were sixteen more of bis countrymen
and*Portuguese, who having .been . cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace in-
deed.with'the savages, but were very fore put to it for
necessaries, and indeed for lise: I asked him all the par-
ticulars of their voyage, and found they Were,a Spanish
ship, bound .from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havanna,
being directed to leave their loading there, which v/as
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what Euro-
pean goods they could meet with there; that they had
five Portuguese seamen'on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned
when first the ship was loft; and that these escaped;
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost
starved on the Cannibal coast, where they, expected td
have been devoured every• moment. •
He told me, they had fome arms with them, but they
.were persectly usesess, for that they had neither powder
nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder but a little which they used at their first landing
to provide themselves fome food. ..
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they.had formed no design of making any
escape? He said, they had'had maixy consultations about
it; but that, having neither vessel, nor tools to bviild one^
nor provisions of any kind, theiv counsels always, ended in
tears and despair,', , ,.k . , ...:
; '.. , . iS . I tasked'
I asked him how he thought they would receive a pro«*
posal from me, which might tend towards an escape, aJTll
•whether, if they were all here, it might not be done? I
told him wkh freedom, 1 seared mostly their treachery
and ill usage of me, if I put my lise in their hands, for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man, nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they had received, fo much as they did by
the advantages they expected: I told him, it would be
very hard that I should be the instrument of their deli-
verance, and that they should afterwards make me their
prifoner in new Spain, where an Englishman was certain
to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or wbat accident,
foever, brought him thither: and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than
sall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried
into the inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was per-
suaded, if they were all here, we might, with fo many
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away.
either to the Brazils fottthward, or to the islands or Spa-
nish coast northward: but that if in requital they should,
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by
force among their own people, I might be ill used for
•my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it
vras besore.
He answered with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was fo miserable, and they
were fo sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor
the thought of using any man. unkindly that should con-
tribute to their deliverance; and that, if I. pleased, he
would go to them with the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their an-
swer: that he would make conditions with thena upon,
their folemn oath, that they would be abfolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and that
they should swear upon the holy sacraments and gospel
to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as I
•should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly
and abfolutely by my orders till they were landed sasely
in such country, as I intended; and that he would bring a
•contract from them under their hands for that purpose.
Then he told me, he would sirst swear to mo .himself,
1 3 that
that he would never stirsrom me as long as he lived, till
I gave him order; and that he would take my side to the
last drop of blood, if there should happen the least
breach of saith among his countrymen.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin-'
able, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any sood,
but at the mercy and difcretion of the savages; out os
all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and
that he was sore, if I would undertake their relies, they
<Would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this *
Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had gotten.
all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one
hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his
advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades sor at least.
half a year. The.case was thus:'
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had pro- -
vided, with the assistance of Providence, sormy support;'
and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had
lain up; which,as it was more than sufficient sor my-
self* so it was not sufficient, at least, without good hus-
bandry, sor my samily, now it was increased to number
sour: but much less would it be sufficient, if his coun-
trymen, who were, as he said, sourteen still alive,
fliould come over; and least of all would it be sufficient -
to victual our vessel, if we should build one, sor a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he told
me, he thought.it would be more adviscable, t6 let him'
and the other two di^ and cultivate some more land, as
much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we should'
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of
corn sor his countrymen when they soould come; sor
want might be a temptation-to them to difagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwife than out of one
difficulty into another: you know, sayshe, the children
ef Israel, though they rejoiced at first at their being deli-
Ttred outyof Egypt, yet rebelled even a^aiast God himself,
lU that
that delivered them, when they came to want bread iii.
the wilderness.
His caution was fo seafonable, and his advice fo good, .
that I could not but be very well pleased with his propo-'
sal, as well as»I was satisfied with his sidelity: fo we sell
to digging, all four of us, as welt as the wooden tools we
were surnished with,permitted ; and in about a month's
time, by the end of which it was sded time, we had got-
ten as much land cured and trimmed up as( we fowed'
twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare; nor
indeed did we leave ourselves barely sufficient for our
own food for the six months that we had to expect our
crop, that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our
seed aside for fowing; for it isnotto be.supposed itis six
months in the ground in that country.
Having now fociety enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of sear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went.
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon, our
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the
means of it out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out
several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his sather to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard,.to whom I imparted my thoughts.
On that affair, to oversee' and direct their works : I shewed
them with what indesatigable pains 1 had hewed a large
tree into single planks, and 1 caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a doz.en large planks of good
Oak, near two seet broad, thirty-sive seet long, and from
two inches tofonr inches thick: what prodigious labour
it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock'
of tame goats asmuch as 1 could; and to this purpose I
.made Friday and she Spaniard to go' out one day, and my-
self, with Friday, the next day, for we took our turn?,'
and by this means we got about twenty young kids to
breed up with the rest; for whenever We shot the dam,
we saved the kids, and added them to our flock; but
, above all, the seafon for curing the grapes coming on, I
caused saoh a prosligious'tjuatitity to b* hiirtg Tip in the
* *' fun,
'fctn, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we should have silled sixty or
eighty barrels; and these with oar bread, . was a great
part of our food, and very good living too^I aslure youj
for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it
was not the most plentisul increase I had seen in the island, .
but, however, it was enough to answer our end ; for from
twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and threshed
out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like
in proportion of the rice, which was store enough for
our food to the next harvest,, though all the sixteen Spa-
niards had been on shore with me; or, if we had been
ready for a voyage, it would very plentisully. have vic-
tualled our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of .America. When we . had thus
housed and secured our magazine of corn, we sell to work
to make more wicker-work, viz. great baskets, in which.
we kept it, and the. Spaniard was very handy and dex-
terous at this part, and often blamed me^ that I did not
make fome things for desence, of this kind of work; but
1 saw no need of it: and now having, a sull supply of
food for all the guestsexpected, Igaye the Spaniard leave
to go overto the main, to see what he could do with those
he sest behind him there: I gav%him a strict charge ia
writing not to bring any man with him, who would
not first swear in the presence of himself and of the old
4'avage, that he would no way injure, sight with,
or attack the' perfon he should find in the island, who was
so kind to send for them in order to their deliverance;
. but that they would standby arid desend him against all
such attempts; and wherever they went, would be en-
tirely tmder, and subjected to his command.; and that
this should be put in writing, and signed with their
hands: how we were to have this done, when I knew
they had neither psa nor ink,'that indeed, was .a ques-
tion which we never asked. .' :i
Under these'instructions, the. Spaniard, and the old
savage (the..sather of Friday.) went away in one of the
canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prifoners to be de-
voured by the savages,
I gave
I gave each of them e musquet with a firelock on It,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to u se
either of them but upon urgent occasion.
This was a chearsul work, being the first measures
used by me in view of my deliverance for now 27 years
and fome days; [ gave them provisions of bread, and of
dried grapes, susficient for themselves for many days, and.
sufficient for their countrymen for about eight days time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go, agree-
ing with them about the signal they should hang out at
•their return, by which I should know them again, when
they came back, at a distance, besore they came on shore.
They went away with a sair gale on the day that the
moon was at the sull, by my account in the month of
October; but as for the exact reckoning of days, after I
had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had
I kept even the number of years fo punctually, as to be
sure that I was right, though, as it proved, when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when *
a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of .which,
the like has not, perhaps, been.heard of in history. I i
was sast asleep in my hatch one morning, when my man
Friday tame running in to me, and calsed aloud, Muster, .
Riastcr, they.at,c come, they are come.
1 jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out'
as foon as 1 could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which (by the way) was. by this.time grown to
be a very thick wood: i say, regardless of danger, ,I
went without my arms, which was not my custom to do:'
but ( was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I
presently saw a boat at about a league and an half's dis-
tance, Handmg in for the shore, with a shoulder of mut-
ton sail, as they ©asl it, and the wind.blowing pretty sair
to bring them in: alfo I observed presently that they
•lid not come, srom that side which the iKoie lay on, but
from the fouthermostend of the island: upon this 1 called
Friday in, and bat'.e him lie close, for these were not the
'people we looked for, and that we did not know yet
whether they were friends ot enemies-.
In
In the next place, I went in to setch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having
takenthe ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill,
as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any thing,
and to take my view the plainer without being dif-
covered.
I had scarce set my soot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a half's distance from me, S. S. E. but
not above a league and an half from the shore. By my
observation it appeared plainly to be an Engliih strip,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the consusion I was in, though the
joy of seeing a strip, and one whom I had reason to
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-.
quently friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet
I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
srom whence' they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. 1n the first place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English strip could have in that part os
the world; since it was not the way to or from any
paVt of the world where the English had any traffick;
and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there, as in distreis ; and that, if they were.really English,
it was most probable,-that they were here upon no good
design ; and that I had better continue as I was, than sall
into the bands of thieves and murderers. -:
Let no man despife the secret hints and notices of
-danger, which sometimes are given him when he mny
think there is no possibility of its being real. That such.
hints and notices are given us, I believe sew that
'have made any observations- of things can deny; that
they are certain difcoveries of an invisible world, and
"a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of dan-
ger, why shbuld we not suppose they are from some
'friendly agent (whether supreme, or inserior and subor-
dinate, is not the question), anil that they are given sor
«ur good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; sor had I not been made cau-
tious. by this secret admonition, come from whence it
will,
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a sarworse
condition than besore, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked sor a
creek to thrust in-at sor the convenience of landing; how«-
ever, as they did not come quite sar enough, they'did
not see the little inlet where 1 sormerly landed my rafts,
but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at-about
half a mile from me, which was very happy sor me;
sor otherwife they would have landed just, as I may
say, at my door, and would have soon beaten me out
of my castle, and, perhaps,- have plundered me of all
1 had.
When they were on' shore, I was sully satisfied' fhey
Were Englishmen, at least most-of them; one or'two I
thought were Dutch, but it'did hot prove so: there
were in all eleven men i whereof three of them I sound
were unarmed, and (as-I thought) bound ; and when the
sirst sour or five of them were jumped on shore, they
took those three out of the boat-as prifoners: one of the
three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures
of intreaty, asfliction, and despair, even to a kind of
extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared. concerned indeed^
but not to such a degree us the first.
I was persectly consounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should-be. Friday called out to
me in English, as well as he could, O master; you -see
English mans eat prifoners as well as savage mans.—
Why, said I, Friday, do you thinkthey are going to eat
them then? Yes, says Friday, they will eat them. No, no,
'said I, Friday; I am afraid they will murder them in-
deed; but you may be sure they will not eat them.
All this while 1 had no thought of what the matter
really" was* but stood trembling with the horror of the
fight, expecting every moment when the three prifoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw-one of the villains
lift up his. arm with a great cutlass (a* the seamen call
it) or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I
expected to see him sall every moments at which all the
blood in my body seemed to run thill in my Veins.
. . I wished
I wished heartily now sor our Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him; or that I had any way,to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that 1 might have
rescued the three men; sor I sow no fire-arms they had
among them; but it sell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usa^e of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the sellows ran
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country: I observed also, that the three other men had'
liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like men
in despair.
This put me in mind of -the first time when I came
on inure, and oegan to look aoout me; now 1 gave my-
lelr over sor lo'.i, how wildly 1 looked round me, what
dreadsul apprehensions I had, and how 1 lodged in the
tree all night sor sear of being devoured by wild beaus.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving os the snip nearer the
land by the storms and tides, by which 1 have sines
been so long nourished and supported, so these thr^e
pdor desolate men knew nothing how certain ot deliver-
ance and supply they were, how near it was to them, and
how essectually and really they were in a condition of
satety, at the same time they thought themselves lost, and
their case desperate.
So little do we see besore us in the world, and so much.
reason have we to depend chearsully upon the great
maker of the world, that he does not leave his creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstances
they have always something- to be thanksul sor, and-
sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine;
nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the
means by which they seem to.be brought to their de-
struction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they n stood
parleying with the prifoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of place they
were in, they had careiesly staid till the tide was spent,
and. the water had ebbed considerably away,. leaving
their boat aground. They
They had lest two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, sell
asleep; however, one of them waking fooner than the
other, and finding the boat too sast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest who were straggling about,
tipon which they all foon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a foft ousy sand,,
almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave
it over, and away they Urolled about the country again;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another (calling
them offfrom the boat), Why let her alone, Jack, can't
ye? ctie'll.float next tide : by which 1 wassully confirmed,
m the main enquiry, of wtiat countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any sarther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad.
I was, to think bow well it was fortified : I knew it was
no less than ten hours besore .the boat could be on stoat
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might
be more at liberty to lee their motions, and to hear their
discourse, if they had any. *
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle, as be-.
sore, tho' with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first; 1 ordered Fri-
day alfo, whom 1 had made an excellent marksman with
his gun', to load himself with arms: I took myself two
. fow!ing-pj( ces, and I gave him three musquets; my sigure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-flrin
coat on, with the great cap I mentioned, a naked sword,
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my dcsign, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, 1 found that in short they
•were all gone straggling into the woods, and,. as' I
thought, were all laid down to sleep; the three poof
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any deep, were however set down under the shelter of
a "Teat tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and
'a...1 thoughtt out of sight of any of the rest.
Upoa
Upon this I refolved to discover myselfto them, and learn
sorflething of their condition: immediately I marched in
the figure above, my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable' for his arms as I, but not mak-
mg quite fo staring a spectre-like sigure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then,
besore any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, What are ye, Gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure
that I made r they made no answer at all, but I thought
I perceived them lust going to fly from me, when I spoke
to them in English. Gentlemen, said I, do not be surprised
at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you when
you did not expect it: he must be sent directly from
heaven then, said one of them very gravely to me, and
pulling off his hat at the same time, for our condition is
past the help of man. All help is from heaven, Sir,
said I: but can you put a stranger in the way how to
help you? For you seam to me to be in fome great dis-
tress: I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that, came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his sace,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, Am
1 talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?
Be in no sear about that, Sir, said I: if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner, than you see
me in: pray lay aside your sears; I am a m n, an Eng-
lishman, and disposed to assist you, you see; I have one
iervant only; we have arms and ammunition? Tell us
freely, can we serve you? What is your case?
Our case, said he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are fo near} but, in short, Sir, t was com-
mander of that ship; my men' having mutined against
me, they having been hardly prevailed on not to murder rrfe,
and at last have set me on shore in this des'olat'; place, with
these two men with pie, one my .mute, the cither a passen-
ger, where we expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it.
Where are those brutes, ycur enemies? said I l do
yoii
you know where they are gone? There they are, sir, said
he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart trembles sar
sear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have,
they will certainly murder us all.
Have they any fire-arms? said I: he answered they
had only two pieces, and one which they lest in the boat.
Well then, said I, leave the rest to me; 1 see they are all
asleep; it is an ealy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prifoners? He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that it was.scarce sase to
shew any mercy too; but if they were secured, he believ-
ed all the rest would return to tutir duty, i asked him,
which they were I lie toUl me, he could not at that dis-
tance describe them; but he would obey my orders in
any thing I would direct. Well, said 1, let us retreat out
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will
resolve sarther: so they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.
Look you, sir, said I, if I ver.ture'upon your delive-
rance, are. you willing to make two conditions with me?
He anticipated my propofals by telling me, that both
'he and the ship, if recovered,' should.be wholly directed
and commanded by me in everything-; and if the fliip
was not recovered, he would live and die with me in
what part of the world soever 1 would send him; and
the other two men said the same.
Well, said I, my conditions are but two: V. That
while you stay on this ifland with me, you "will not pre-
tend to any authority here"; and if I put arms into your
hands, you will upon all occasions give them up to me,
and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this ifland,
aid in the mean time to be governed by my orders.
2. That if the shin is or may be recovered, you will
carry me and my man to England, passage free;
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
saith oi a man could devife, that he would comply with
these moil reasonable demands, and besides would owe
his lise, to me, and acknowledge it upon all occalions as
long as he lived.
. Well then, said I, here are three musquetS sor you,
with powder and ball: tell me next what you think is
proper to be done; he shewed all the testimony of Bis
gratitude-
gratitude that he was able; but offered to be wholly
guided by me: I told him I thought it was hard ven-
turing any thing, but the best method I could think of,
was to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any
were not killed at the first volley, and offered to submit,
we might save them, and fo put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot.
He said very modestly that he was loth to kill them,
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship; and if they escaped we should be undone still;
for they would go on board, and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all; well then, said 1, necessity
legitimates my advice; for it Is the only way to save our
lives. However seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him they should go themselves, and ma-
iiage as they found convenient.
Jn the middle of this discourse we heard fome of them
awake, and foon after we saw two of them on their feet:
I asked him if either of them were the men who he had
said were the heads of the mutiny? He said, no. Well
then, said I, you may let them escape, and Providence
seems to have wakened them on purpose to save them-
selves: now, said T, is the rest escape you, it is yoursault.
Animated with this, he took the mufquet I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men, who were with him going first, made fome
noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake,
turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the
rest, but it was too late then; for the moment he cried
out, they fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece; they had fo well aimed their
Ihot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his seet, and called eagerly
for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help; he should call
upon God to forgive his villany; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his mufquet, fo
that he never spoke more: there were three more in the
company, and one of them was alfo slightly wounded.
B7
By this time I was come; and when they saw their dan*
ger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy: the captain told them, he would spare their
lives, if they would give him any assurance of their ab-
horrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be saithsul to him in recovering the ship,
and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from,
whence they came: they gave him all the protestations
of their smcerity that could be desired, and he was wil-
ling to believe them, and spjre their lives which I was
not against; only I obliged them to keep them, bound
hand and foot while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's;
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by,
three straggling men, that were (happily for them) part-
ed from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired; and feeing their captain, who besore was their
prifoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound alfo, and fo our victory was complete.
It now remained, that the captain and I should enquire
into on>; another's circumstances. 1 began sirst, and told
him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
even to amazement, and particularly at the wondersul
manner of my being surnished with provisions and am-.
munition; and indeed, as my story is a whole collection
of wonders, it assected him deeply; but when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been
preserved there on purpose to save his lise, the tears ran
<lown his sace, and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartments, leading them
in just where I came out, viz; at the top of the house;
where I resreshed them with such provisions as 1 had,
and shewed them all the contrivances I had made during
my long, long inhabiting that place.
All 1 shewed them, all I said to them, was persectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how persectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which having now been. planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much saster
than in England, was become a little wood, and fo
thick
thick, that it was unpassable in any part of it, but at
that one side where I had reserved my little Winding
passage into it: this I told him was my castle, and my
residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as molt
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and
I would shew him that too another time; but at present
our business was to consi er how to recover the ship:
he agreed with me as to that; but told mi, he was per- «
sectly at a lofs what measure to take; sor that there
were still six and twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all
sorseited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it
now by desperation; and would carry it on, knowing
that if they were reduced, they should be brought to the
fallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the
Inglifo colonies; and that theresore there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were.
I mused sor some time upon what he had said, and
sound it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
sore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as'
well to draw the men on board into some snare sor their
surprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
stroying us: upon this it presently occurred to me, that
in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat to see sor them;
and that then perhaps they might; come armed, and be too
strong sor. us: this he allowed was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to do,
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off; and, taking every thing
out of her, leave her so sar useless as not to be fit to swim.;
accordingly we went on board, took the arms which
were lest on board out of her, a,nd whatever else we sound
there, which was ar-bottle of bsandy, and another of rum,
"a sew bifcuit cakes, ar^horn of powder, and a great lump
'of sugar in a piece of canvas: the sugar was five or six
pounds; all which was very welcome to me, especially
the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none lest soy
many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
, away
away besore, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to maikr
us, yet they could not carry osf the boat.
Indeed it was not much ,in my thoughts that we
could be capable to recover the ship , but my view was,
that if they went away without the boat, 1 did not much
question to make her fit again to carry us away to the
Leeward islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
W hile we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the
beach Ib high that the tide would not float her off at
high-water mark, and, besides, had broken an hole in
her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat
down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a sig-
nal for the boat to come onboard; but no boat stirred, and
they fired several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and sirings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them
(by the help of our glasses) hoist another boat out, and
row towards the shore ; and we found as they approached,
that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had sire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a sull view of them as they came, and a plain
fight of the men, even of their saces; because the tide
havmg set them a little to the east of the other boat, they
roue 1 up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay. J
By this means, I say, we had a sull view of them,
and the captain knew the perfons and characters of all the
men in the boat ; of whom, he said, there were three very
'honest sellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
lpiiacy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted.
But that for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chies officer amongst them, and all the rest, they were as
'outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and were, no
-doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise; and ter-
ribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too power-
ful for us.
5. I smiled
I smiled at him, and told, him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of seatt: that seeing
almost every condition that could be was better than that
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the con-
sequence, whether death or lise, would be sure to be a de-
liverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstan-
ces of my lise, and whether a deliverance were not worth
venturing for. And where, fir, said I, is your belies of my
being preserved here on purpose to save your lise, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part, said I, there
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.
What's that? says he. Why, said I, *tis that, as you say,
there are three or four honest sellows among them, which
fliould be spared; had they been all of the wicked part of
the crew, I should have thought God's providence had
smgled them out to deliver them into your hands; for
depend upon it, every man of them that comes ashore,
are our own, and shall die or five, as they behave to us.
As I spoke this with a raised voice and chearsul coun-
tenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; fo we set
vigorously to our busmess: we had, upon the first ap-
pearance of the boat's coming from the ship, considered
of separating our prifoners, and had indeed secured them
esfectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain, was less assured than
ordinary, 1 sent with Friday, and oneof the three delivered
men, to my cave, where they were remote enough, and
out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of sinding
their way out of the woods, if they could have delivered
themselves : here they lest 'em bound, but gave 'em provi-
sions, and promised 'em, if they continued there quietly,
to give 'em their liberty in a day or two; but that, if they
attempted their escape, they fliould be put to death with-
out mercy. They promised saithsully to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thanksul that they
had such good usage as to have provisions, and a light left
'cm; for Friday gave 'em candles (such as we made our-
selves) for their comsort; and they did not know but that
he stood centinel over 'em at the entrance.
The other prifoners had better usage: two of. them
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was not
free to trust them; but the other two were taken into my
'vol. i. m service
service upon their captain's recommendation, and upon
(heir folemnly engaging to live and die with us; fo
with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we mould be able to
deal well enough with the ten that were a coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said, there were three or four
honest men among them alfo.
'As foon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was
glad to see; for 1 was afraid they would rather have lest
the boat at an anchor, fome distance from the shore,
with fome hands in her to guard her; and fo we should
not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all
to the other boat ; and it was easy to see they were under
a great surprise, to find her stripped, as above, of all that
was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. «
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two
or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to
try is they could make their companions hear; but all was
to no purpose; the)' then came all close in a ring, and
fired a volley of their small arms, which indeed we
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was
all one; those in the cave we were sure could not hear;
and those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were fo astonished at the surprise of this, that, as
they told us afterwards, they refolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know there that the
men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved; ac-
cordingly, they immediately launched the boat again,
and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confound-
ed at this, believing they would go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and
fo he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes
we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off' with the boat, but we
perceived them all coming cp more again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they con-
sulted
suited together upon, viz. to leave three men in the hoat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country
to look for their sellows.
This was a great disappointment to us; for now we
were at a lose what to do;' for our seizing those seven
men' on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the
boat escape, because they would then row away to the
ship ;' and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and fo our recovering the ship would be loft.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present: the seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her off to a good distance from the shore, and came to.
an anchor to wait for them, fo that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on more kept close together, march-
ing towards the top os the little hill, under which my
habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us: we could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, fo that we might
have fired at them; or that they would have gone sarther
osf', that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way in the valley and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the issand lay lowcst, they shouted and hallooed till
they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to ven-
ture sar from the shore, nor sar from one another, they
sat down together under a tree, to consider of it: had
they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other
party of them had done, they had done the job for.us.;
hut they were too sull of apprehensions of danger, to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tesl what
the danger was they had to sear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this' consultation of theirs; viz, that perhaps they
would al! tire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their sellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
•should have them without bloodshed: I liked the pro-
posal, provided it was done while we were near enougfi
m 2 to
I v
to come up to them, besore they could load their pieces
again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a lonr*
time, very irrefolute what course to take; at length I
told them, there would be nothing to be done in my
opinion till night; and then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and fo might use fome stratagem with
them in the boat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient, for
their removing, and were very uneasy: when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down
towards the sea: it seems, they had such dreadsul appre-
hensions.upon them of the danger of the place, that they
refolved to go on board the ship again, give their compa-
nions over for lost, and fo go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As foon as I perceived them go towards the ihore, I
imagined it to be as it really was; that they had given
over th'e search, and were for going back again; and the
captain, as foon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to
sink at the apprehension' of it; but I presently thought of
a stratagem to setch them back again, and which an-
lwered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate, to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued; and as
foon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half
a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as thev
could, and wait till they foundthe seamen heard them ; that
as foon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again, and then keeping out of tight, take
a round, always answering when the other hallooed, to
draw them assarintotheistand, and among the woods, as
foffible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways
directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallcoed, and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
the ^otce ihey heard, when they were presently stopped
by the creek, where, the waser being up, they could not
»et over, and called for the boat to come up, and set
lk*m over, as indeed I expected. When
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the
boat being gone up a good way up into the creek, and as
it were in an harbour within the land, they took one of'
the three men out of her to go along with them, and left
only two in the boat, having sastened her to the stump of
a little tree on the shore.
This was what I. wished for, and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took
the rest with me, and, crossing the creek out of their
fight, we surprised the two men besore they were aware,
one of them lying on shore, and the other being in the
boat; the sellow on shore was between sleeping and
waking, and going to start up: the captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man. 'i
There needed very sew arguments to persuade a single
man to yield, when he ,saw five men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not fo hearty in the mutiny as the
'rest of the crew, and theresore was easily persuaded not
'only to yield, but afterwards to join very smcerely with us.
in the mean time, Friday and the captain s mate 4©
well managed their business with the rest, that they drew
them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to an-
other, and from one wood to another, till they not only
heartily tired them, but lest them where they were very
sure'they could not reach back to the boat besore it was
dark; and indeed tHey were heartily tired themselves also
by the time they came back to us>
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to sall upon them, fo as to make sure work
•with them.
It was several hours after Friday came. back to me
besore they came back to their boat; and we could hear
Ihe foremost of them, long besore they came quite up,
callmg to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not being able to come any saster, which
was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; hut it is impossible
to express their confusion when they found the boat salt
, m 3 a-ground.
a ground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their
two men gone; we could hear them call to one another
in the moil lamentable manner, telling one another they
were gotten into anenchanted island ; that eitherthcre were
inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else
there were devils or spirits in it, and they should all be
carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer; after
some time we could see them, by the little light there
was, run! about wringing their hands, like men in despair;.
and that sometimes they would go and fit down in the
boat to rest themselves, then come ashore, and walk
about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would sain have had me given them leave tot
sall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing ta
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill
as sew of them as I could; and especially I was un-
willing to hazard the killing of any of our men, knowing
the others were very well armed : I resolved to wait to see
if they did not separate; and theresore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday
aad the captain to creep upon their hands and seet as
clofe to the ground as they could, that they might not be
difcovered, and get as near them as they pofsibly could,
besore they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, but that the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mu-
tiny, and had now shewn himself the most dejected and
difpirited of all the rest, came walking towards them with
two more of the crew; the captain was ib eager, at
having the principal rogue so much in his power, that he
could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to
be sure of him; sor they only heard his tongue besore :.
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday4
starting up on their seet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man
was shot in the body, and sell just by him, though he did
not die till an hour or two after; and the third run sor it.
At the noife of the tire, 1 immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was .now eight men, viz. my-
self generalissimo; Friday roy lieutenant-general; thq
''" captaia
captain and his two men, and the three prifoners of war,
whom he had trusted with arras.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they"
cnuldnot see our number; and I made-the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so
might perhaps reduce them to terms; which sell out just
as we desired: sor indeed it was easy to think, as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu-
late; so he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
Tom Smith, Tom Smith. Tqrn Smith answered imme-
diately, Who's that? Robinson! For it seems he knew
his voice. The other answered, Ay, ay ; sor God's sake,
Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you
are all dead men this moment.
Who must we yield to? Where are they? says Smith
again. Here they are, says he; here is our captain and
fifty men with him, have been hunting these two hours;
the boatswain is killed; Will Frye is wounded, and 1 am
a prifoner; and if you do not yield, you are all'
lost.
Will they give us quarter then? says Tom Smith, and
we will yield. I'll go and ask, if you promife to yield,
says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the caps-
tain himself then calls out, .You, Smith, you know my
voice, if you lay down your arms immediately, and suh,-
mit," you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins. . .
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, cap-
tain,give me quarter: what have 1 done? they have beep
all as bad as 1; which by the way was not true, neither;
for it seems this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain when they first mutined, and used hjrn
barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language: however, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at difcretion, and trust to the gover-
nor's mer«y, by which he meant me, sor they all cailed
me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and 1 sent the man that had parlied with
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
. great army of fifty men, which, particularly with thote
three, were all but eight, came upiand seiied upon them
m 4 all,
r
all, and upon their boat, only that 1 kept myself and one
more out of sight, for reafons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the vilsany of their practices with him, and at
length, upon the sarther wickedness of their design; and
how certainly it muit bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives: as for that, he told them they were none of
his prifoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore in a barren unin-
habited island ; but it had pleased God fo to direct them,
that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was
an Englishman; that he might hang them all there if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he sup-
posed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for
death; for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins sell upon his knees to beg the
captain to intercede with the governor for his lise; and
al! the rest begged him for God's sake, that they might
pot be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these sellows in to be hearty in getting possesfion
of the ship; fo I retired in the dark from them, that they
Blight not see what kind of a governor they had, and
«alled the captain to me; when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and
say to the captain, Captain, the commander calls for
you: and presently the captain replied, Tell his excel-
lency I am just a coming. This more persectly amused
them; and they all believed, that the commander was
just by, with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my pro-
ject for seizing the ship, wh|ch he liked wondersully
well, aud refolved to put it in execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure
secure of success, I told him we must divide the prison-
ers, and that he should go and take Atkins, and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave
where the others lay : this was committed to Friday, and
the two men who came on shore with the captain. v
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and
it was indeed a difmal place, especially to rnen in their
condition.
The other I ordered to my bower, as 1 called it, of
which 1 have given a sull description; and as it was
senced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning 1 sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try them,
and tell me, whether he thought they might be trusted
or no, to <ro on board, and surprife the ship: he talked
to them of the injury done him, of the condition they
were brought to, and that though the governor had
given them quarter sor their lives, as to the present action,
yet if they were sent to England, they would all be
hanged in chains to be sure; but that if they would join
in such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have
the governor's engagement sor their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a propofal would
he accepted by men in their condition: they sell down
on their knees to the captain, and promifed with the
deepest imprecations, that they would be saithsul to him.
.to the lalt drop, and that they should owe their lives to
him, and would go with him all over the world; that
they would own him sor a sather to them as long as they
lived.
Well, says the captain, I must go and tell the gover-
nor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him tc»
consent to it-: so he brought me an account of the temper
he sound them in: and that he verily believed they
would be saithsul.
'However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again, and chonse out sive of them, and
tell them, that they should see that they did not want men;
but that he would take out of thofe five to^be his assist-
ants, and that the governor would keep the other two,
And the three that were sent prifoners to the castle, (my
M 4 cave,
cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those five; and that
if they proved unfaithsul in the execution, the five hos-
tages should be handed in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and'convinced them, that the go-
vernor was in earnest; however, they had no way lest
them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the
prifoners, as much as that of the captain, to persuade the
other sive to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the
two prifoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, 1 had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. 3. The other two whom I
kept in my bower till now pinioned, but, upon the cap-
tain's motion, had now released. 4. These five released
at last; fo that they were twelve in all, besides five we
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the lhip: for, as to me, and my
man Friday, 1 did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men lest behind; and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them.
with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I refolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I mr.de the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, 1 was the perfon the
governor had ordeied to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure that they should not stir any
where but by my direction; that if they did, they should
be setched into the castle, and be laid in irons; fo that
as we never sufsered them to see me as governor,' fo I
now appeared to another perfon, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrifon, the cattie, and the like, upon all.
occasions.
The captain had now no difficulty besore him,, but
to surnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
and man them : he made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men; and himself, and his mate, and sive
more,.
more, went in the other: and they contrived their busi-
ness very well; for they came up to the ship about mid-
night: as foon as they came within call of the ship, he
made Robinfon hail them, and tell them he had brought
off the men and the boat, but that it was a long timebe-
- fore they had found them, and the like; holding them.
in a chat, tisl they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate, entering first with their arms, im-
mediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with the butt end of their muskets, being very saithsully
seconded by their men; they secured as! the rest that
were upon the main and quarter-decks, and began to
fasten the hatches to keep them down who were below,
when the other boat and thtir men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle oi the ship, and the Ikuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prifoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, the
captain ordered the mate with three men to break into the
round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, and,
having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and with two
men and a boy had gotten sire-arms in their hands; and
when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new
captain .and his men fired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musleet ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody.
The mate calling for help, rustsed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullets entering at
his moirth, and came out again behind one of his ears;'
fo that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any
more lives lost.
As foon as the ship was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be sired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice of his success; which
you may be sure 1 was very glad to hear, having sat
watching upon the shore for it, till, near two of the clock
in the morning. ,
Having thus heard the signal plainly, 1 laid me down;
and it having, been a day of great satigue to me, I slept
M 6 very.
very found. till 1 was fomething surprised with the noise
of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call
me by the name of governor, governor; and ^presently
I knew the captain's voice, when climbing up tothetop
of the hill. there he fsood; and pointing to the ship, he
'embiaced me in his arms. My dear friend and deliverer,
says he, there's your ship, for she is all your's, andfoa*e
we, and all that belong to her. J cast my eyes to tfie
ship, and there she rode within a little more than half a.
mile of the shore ; for they had weighed her anchor as
foon as they were masters of her; and the weather being
sair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth
of a little creek, and the tide being tip, the captain had
brought the pinnace in nearthe place where I first landed
my rasts, and so landed just at my door.
I was, at sirst, ready to sink down with the surprise:
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a huge snip just ready to carry me
away whither 1 pleased to go: at first, for fome time, I
•was not able to answer one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held sast by him, or I should have
sallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me: after I drank
it, I sat down upon the ground, and though it brought
me to myself, yet it was a gcod while besore I could
speak a word tc him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ec-
stasy as I, only not under any surprise, as 1 was; and he
said a thousand kind tender things to me, to compose
and bring me to myself; but such was the flood of joy.
in my breast, that it put all my spirits into consusion ; at
last it broke into tears, and in a little while after I re-
covered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de-
liverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him 1 looked
upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me,
and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chaia
of wonders; that such things, as these were the tes-
timonies we had of a secret hand of Providence go-
verning the world, and an evidence that the eyes of
b an
,
an infinite power could search into the remotest corner
of the world, and send help to the miferable whenever
he pleased.
I sorgot not to lift tip my heart in thanksulness to
heaven; and what heart could sorbear to bless him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided sor
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condi-
tion, but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed?
When we bad talked awhile, the captain told me he
had brought me some little resreshments, such as the
ftip afforded, and such as the wretches, who had been
so long his masters, had not plundered him of:' upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid bis men bring
the things ashore that were sor the governor ; and indeed
it was a present, as if I had been one, not that was to be
carried along with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still, and they were to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles sull of ex-
cellent cordial waters} six large bottles of Madeira wine;
the bottles held two quarts a-piece; two pounds of ex-
cellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
bees, and stx pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and
about an hundred weight of bifcuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar,a box of flour, a
bag sull of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things: but besides these, and what
was a thousand times more usesul to me, he brought me
six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, an hat, and one pair of
stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he
clothed me from head to soot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awk-
ward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at
* their first putting on.
After these ceremonies part, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prifoners we
had; sor it was worth considering whether we might
venture
venture to take them away with us or no, especially two
of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and resrac-
tory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no obliging them;
and it he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malesactors, to be delivered over to justice at the first:
'English colony he could come at; and I sound that the
captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that is he desired it, I durst under-
take to bring the two men he spoke of, to make it their own.
request that he should leave them upon the ifland: 1 should
be very glad of that, says the captain, with all my heart.
Well, laid I, I will send sor them, and talk with them
sor you: so 1 caused Friday and the two hostages, sor
they were now difcharged, their comrades having per-
sormed their promife; I say, I caused them to go to the
cave and bring up the sive men, pinioned as they were,
to the bower, and keep them there till I came.
After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with nie, 1 caused the men to be
brought besore me, and I told them I had had a sull ac-
cost of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and
how they had run away with the ship-, and were prepar-
ing to commit sarther robberies; but that providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were
sallen into the pit which they had digged sor others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship bad
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might
see by and by that their new captain had received the
reward of his villainy; for that they might see him;
hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as parties taken in
the sact, as by my commission they could not doubt I
had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say hut this, That when they were *
taken, the captain promifed them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy; but I told them I knew
not what mercy to thew them; sor, as sor myself, I had'
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had.
taken
ADVENTITHES OF ROBTNSON CRUSOE. '255
for the captain, he could not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
fo that I could not tell which was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their sate in the island, if they
desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it;
1 had ibme inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very.
thankful for it, said they would much rather venture to
stay there than to be carried to England to be hanged:
fo I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make fome difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this, 1
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that thev were my prifoners, not his; and that seeing I
had offered them ib much savour, 1 would be as good as
my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to
it,- I would set them at liberty as I found them; and if
he did not like that, he might take them again, if he
could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thanksul, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into
the woods, to the place whence they came, and 1 would'
leave them fome lire-arms, fome ammunition, and fome
directions how they should live very well, if they
thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on•board the ship, but told
the captain, that I would itay that night to prepare ray
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all ri^htin the ship, and send the boat on shore
the next day for me ; ordermg him, in the meantime, to'
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at
the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
,. . When the captain was gone, 1 sent for the men up to
me to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse
with them of their circumstances: I told them I thought
they had made a right choice; and if the captain earned
them away, they would certainly be hanged. I shewed
them their captam hanging at the yard-arm of the. ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
told them, 1 would let them into the story of my living-
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them: accordingly I gave them the whole history of the
place, and of my coming to it ; shewed them my sorti-
fications, the way 1 made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes, and, in a word, all that was neceisary
to make them easy. I told them the story also of the six-
teen Spaniards that were to be expected; sor whom I
lest a letter, and made them promife to treat them in
common with themselves.
I lest them my fire-arms, viz. five musquets, three
sowling pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel
of powder lest ; sor after the first year or two 1 used but
little, and wasted none: I gave them a description of the
way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
satten them, to make both butter and cheese. .
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and told them, I would prevail with the captain to leave.
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-
seed, which I told them the bag of peas which the cap-
tain had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to
sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I lest them the next day, and
went on board the ship; we prepared immediately to sail,
but did not weigh that night : the next morning, early,
two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side,
and, making a most lamentable complaint of the other
three, begged to be taken into the ship, sor God's sake,
sor they should be murdered; and begged the captain to
take them on board, tho* he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power with-
out me ;' but aster some difficulty, and after their solemn
promife of amendment, they were taken on board, and
were some time after soundly whipped and pickled j after
which they proved very honest and quiet sellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promifed to the
men, to which the captain, at my intercession, caused
their chest and clothes to be added, which they took,
and were very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by
teJlwg
telling them, that if it lay in my way to send a vessel to
take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried onboard
for reliques the great goat's skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; alfo I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me fo long useless, that it was grown rusty, or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been
a little rubbed and handled; and alfo the money I found
in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I lest the island the nineteenth of December,
as 1 found by the ship's account, in the year 16'86', after I
had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months,
and nineteen days, being delivered from the second cap-
tivity the same day of the month that I first made my
escape inv the Barco-lango, from among the Moors of
Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 16*87, having
been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was a persect stranger to
all the world, as if I had never been knowiuthere: my
benefactor, and saithsul steward, whom 1 had lest in
trust with my money, was alive, hut had had great mis-
fortunes in the world, was become a widow the second
time, and very low in the world: I made her easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no
trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her for-
mer care and saithsulness to me, 1 relieved her as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would in-
deed allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her
I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did
I forget her, when I had sufficient to help her, as shall
be observed in its place.
1 went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my sather
was dead, and my mother, and all the samily extinct,
except that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers: and as I had long ago been given.
over for dead, there had been no provision made for me,
fo that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist
me; and that little money 1 had, would not do so much
for me, as to settling in the world.
I met
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship,
whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same means
saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved
the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to
meet them, and some other merchants concerned, and
all together made me a very handsome compliment upon
that subject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds
sterling.
But after making several reslections upon the circum-
stances of my lise, and how little way this would go to-
ward settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lifbon,
and see if 1 might not come by some insormation of the
Hate of my plantations in the Brafils, and what was be-
come of my partner, who, I had reason to suppofe, had
some years now given me over sor dead.
With this view I took shipping sor Lisbon, where I ar-
rived in April sollowing, my man Friday accompanying
me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a
most saithsul servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I sound out by enquiry, and
to my particular satissaction, my old friend the captain
of the ship, who sirst took me up at sea, off the shore of
-Africa: he was now grown old, and had lest off the
sea, having put his son, who was sar from a young man,
into his ship, and who still used the Brasil trade. The
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew
him; but I soon brought- myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old acquaint-
ance, 1 enquired, you may be sure, aster my plantation,
and my partner: the old man told me he had not
been in the Brasils sor about nine years; but that he
could assure me, that when he came away, my partner
was living ; but the trustees whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I would have a very good
account of the improvement of the plantation ; sor
that, upon the general belies of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation* to the procurator
Fifcal;
^
Fifcal; who had appropriated it, in case I never came to
claim it, one third to the King, anal two thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended sor the benefit
of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic saith; but that if I appeared, or any one sor me,
to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that
the improvement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured
me, that the steward of the king's revenue (from lands]
and the provedore, or steward of the monastry, had
taken great care all along, that the incumbent, that is
to say, my partner, gave every year a saithsul account of
the produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him, if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had brought the plantation; and whether he
thought it might be worth looking after: or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
. He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved : but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one half of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance
he had heard, that the king's third of my part, which.
was, it seems, granted away to some other monastry,
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred
moidores a year; that, as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made
of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and
my name being alsoinrolled in the register of the country.
Also he told me, that the survivors of my two trustees
were very sair honest people, and very wealthy, and he
believed I would not only have their assistance sor put-
ting me in possession, but would sind a very considerable
sum of money in their hands, sor my account, being the
produce of the sarm, while their sathers held the trust
and besore it was given up, as above, which, as he re-
membered, was about twelve years.
1 shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and enquired of the old captain, how it came
to pass, that the trustees should thus difpofe of my eftects,
'when he knew, that I had made my will, had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He
260
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSI
He told me, that was true; but that, as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor,
until fome certain account should come of my death;
and that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with
a thing fo remote: that it was true, he had registered my
will, and put in his claim; and could he have given
any account os* my being dead or alive, he would have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio,
(fo they called the sugar-house) and had given his fon,
who was now at the Brasils, order to do it.
But, says the old man, I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps may not be fo acceptable to you
as the rest; and that is, that believing you were lost, and
all the world believing (0 alfo, your partner and trustees
did offer to account to me in your name, for six or eight
of the first years of profit, which I received; but there
being at that time, says he, great disbunements for in-
creating the works, building an ingenio, and buying
staves, it did not amduilt to near fo much as afterwards
jt produced: however, says the old man, I shall give
you a true account of what I have received in all, and
how I have disposed of it.
After a sew days sarther conserence with this antient
friend, he brought me an account of the six fiist years
income of my plantation, signed by my partner, and the
ynerchant's trustees, being always desivered in goods,
viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum,
melasses, &c. which is the consequence of a sugar-work;
and I found by this account, that cvefy year the income
consideraWy increased: but, as above, the disbursement
being large, the sum at first was small: however, the
old man let me see, that he was debtor to me 470 moi-
doresofgold, besides 90 chests of sugar, and 15 double
rolls of tobacco, which were 1ost in his ship, he hav-
ing been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfor-
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a
new ship: however, my old friend, says he, you shall
not want a supply in your necessity; and as foen as my
ion returns, you shall be sully satisfied.
Upon.
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me two
hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and giving me the
writings of his title to the ship which his son was gone to
the Brasils in, of which he was a quarter part owner. and
his son another, he put them both in my hands sor secu-
rity of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this; and remem-
bering what he had done sor me, how he had taken me'
up at sea, and how generously he had used me on all oc-
casions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was
now to me, 1 could hardly resrain weeping at what he
said to me: Theresore first I asked him if his circum-
stances admitted him to spare so much money at that
time, and if it would not streighten him? He told me
he could not say but it might streighten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man said was sull of afsection,
and I could hardly resrain from tears while he spoke. In
short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called sor
a pen and ink to give him a receipt sor them; then I
returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had possession
of the plantation, 1 would return the other to him also,
as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as to the bill of
sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I sound he
was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but
came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me,
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to
my plantation. I told him, 1 thought to go over to it
myself: He said I might do so if I pleased; but that if I
did not, there were ways enough to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use; and
as there were ihips in the river of Lisoon, just ready to go
away to Brasil, he maiie me enter my name in a public
register, with his afsidavit, affirming upon oath that
I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land sor the planting of the laid plantation
at first.
This
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation arfixejd, he directed me to send it with a letter of
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the
place ; and then proposed my staying with him till an ac-
count came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors ot'
my trustees, the-merchants, for whose account I went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters and
papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the produce
of my sarm, or plantation, from the year when there
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, be-
ing for six years; the balance appeared to be in 1174
moidores in mv savour.
Secondly, 'I here was the account of four years more
while they kept the effects in their hands, besore the
government claimed the administration, as being the
effects of a perfon not to be found, which they call Ci-
vil Death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to cruisadoes, which
made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augusiines ac-
count, who had received the profits for above fourteen
years; but not being able to account for what was dis-
posed to the hospital, very honestly \leclared he had 8T2
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to
my account: as to the king's part, that resunded
nothing.
There was alfo a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive; giving me
an account how the estate was improved, and what it
produced a year, with a particular of the number of -
squares or acres that it contained; how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it; and making two and
twenty crosses for blessings, told me, he had said fo
many Ave Maria's to thank the Blessed Virgin that I
was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own, and in the mean time
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my
effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with an
hearty
hearty tender of his friendship, and that of. his sami-
ly; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards' skins,
which he had, it seems, received from Africa by some
other ship which he had .sent thither, and who, it
seems, had' made a better voyage than 1: He sent'
me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and an
hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
moidores.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped me
1200 chests os sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest
of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
^ob was better than the beginning: It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart, when 1 looked
over these letters, and especially when I sound all my
wealth about me; sor as the Brafil ships come all in
fleets, the same Imps which brought my letters brought
my goods; and the effects were sase in the Tagus besore
the letter came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale,
and grew sick; and had not the old man ran and setched
me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprife of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, aster that, I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of
the real canse of my illnels being known, he ordered
me to be let blood, after which I had relies, and grew
well; but I verily believe, if it had not been eased by
the vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died.
1 was now master, all on a sudden, of above 50,0001.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well
call it, in the Bratils, of above a thousand pounds a
year, as sure as an estate of lands in England; and, in
a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how
to understand, or how to compose myself sor the enjoy-
ment of.
The first thing I did, was to recompence my original
benesactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the be-'
ginning, and honest to me at the end: I shewed him
ail that was sent ma; I-told hi|rii that, next to the
pro-
providence of heaven, which difpofes all things, it was
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him,
which I would do an hundred sold: So I first returned to
him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then
1 sent sor a notary, and caused him to draw up a gene-
ral release or difcharge sor the 470 moidores, which he
had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest
manner possible; after which, 1 caused a procuration to
be drawn, impowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my. plantation, and appointing my
partner to account to him, and make the returns by
the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause ia
the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to him,
during his lise, out of the ersects; and 50 moidores a
year to his'son after him, sor his lise: and thus I re-
quited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now than 1 had in my silent state
of lise in the island, where I wanted nothiiig but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it: I had never cave to hide my money
in, nor a place where it might lie without lock or key
till it grew mouldy and tarnished besore any body would
meddle with it: on the contrary, 1 knew not .where to
put it, or whom to trust with it; my old patron, the
captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only re-
suge I had.
In the next place,' my interest in the Brasils seemed to
summon me thither; but now I could not tell how to
think of going thither till 1 had settled my afsairs, and
lest my effects in some sase hands behind me: at first I
thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was
ljonest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and, sor aught I knew, might be
in debt; so that, in a word, 1 had no way but to go back
to England myself, and take my effects with me.
I was some months, however,i besore 1 resolved upon
this; and theresore as I had rewarded the old captain
sully,
fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my former
benesactor, fo I began to think of my poor widow, whose
husband had been my first benesactor, and she, while it'
was in her power, my saithsul steward and instructor:
So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to
write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay
a bill, but to go sind her out, and carry her in money
an hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her, she should, if
I liv'd, have a sarther supply: At the same time I sent
my two sisters in the country, each of them, an hundred
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married and
lest a widow, and the other having an husband ' not fo
kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances I could
not yet pitch upon one to whom 1 durst commit the
gross of my stock, that I might go away to the Brafils,
and leave things sase behind me: and this greatly per-
plexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brasils, and have
settled myself there; for I was, as it were, naturalized
to the place; but I had fome little scruple in my mind .
about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which
I shall say more presently. However, it was not religion
that kept me from going thither for the present; and as
I had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of
the country, all the while I was among them, fo neither
did I yet; only that now and then having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of liv-
ing and dying among them, I began to regret my hav-
ing profese'd myselt a papist, and thought it might not
be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept
me from going to the Brasils, but that really I did not
know with whom to leave my esfects behind me; fo I re«
folv'd at last to go to England with them, where, if I ar-
riv'd, I concluded I should make fome acquaintance, or
find fome relations, that would be saithful to me; and ac-
cordingly I prepar'd to go forEngland with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brasil fleet being just going away) resolved to give.
vol i, w , answers
answers suitable to the jnst and saithsul account of
things I had from thence; and sirst to the prior os St.
Augustine I wrote a letter sull of thanks for his just
dealings, and the oster of the 872 moidores, which was
undisposed of, which I desired might be given, 500 to
the monastery, and 37" to the poor, as the prior should
direct, desiring the good Padres prayers for me, and the
like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that fo much justice andi
honesty called for; as for sending them any present,
they were sar above having any occasion for it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in-
dustry m the. improving the plantation, and his inte-
grity in increasing the stock or the works, giving him
instructions sor his suture government of my part, ac-
cording to the powers I had lest with my old patron, to
whom I desired him to send whatever become due to
me, till he should hear from me more particularly; as-
suring him, that it was my intention, not only to come
to him, but to settle mysesf there for the remainder. of
my lise: To this I added a very handfome present of
some Italian silks for his wise and two daughters, for
such the captain's fon lnform'd me he had; with two
pieces of fme English broad-cloth, the best I could get
in Lisbon, five pieces of black bays, and fome Flanders
lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, fold my cargo, and
turn'd all my effects in good bills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England: I had
been' .accustomed enough to the sea, and yet' I had a
strange aversion to go to England by sea^.at that time;
and though Ecould give no reafon for it, yet the diffi-
culty increased upon me fo much, that though I had
once shipp'd my baggage in order to go, ye,t I alter'd
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
.1tis true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reafons: But let no man
•flight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
of such moment: two of the ships which 1 had tingled
eut to go in, I mean, more particularly singled out than
any other, that is to say, fo as in one of them to put my
things
things on board, and in the other to have agreed with
the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried; viz.
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; fo that in either of these vessels I
had been made miserable, and in which most, it was.
hard to fay.
Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom 1 communicated every thing, pressed me
earnestly not to go to sea; but either to go by land to
the Groyne, and erase over the bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land
to Paris, and fo to Calais and Dover; or to go up to
Madrid, and fo all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was fo prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that 1 refolved
to travel all the way by land; which, as 1 was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way; and to make it more fo, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the fon of a merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me: after
which, we picked up two who were English and mer-
chants alfo, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the
last going to Paris only; Ib that we were in all fix of us,
and sive servants, the two merchants, and the two Portu-
guese, contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an Eng-
lish sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable os
supplying the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner I set out for Lisbon: and our compa-
ny being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call mu .
captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be-
cause I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.
As 1 have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
fo shall I trouble you with none of my land journals: but
fome adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us stran-
gers to Spain, were willing to stay fome time to see the
N 2 COUit
266
£***
?"*«
iD*i.
'.""able
I
me I
'J?0"**
--
If* "sri»
To,.•^,c
•ft."?:
I
i o sAe„„ sj
ti
/...
r0r"e It.
n"C'' *
cor,;.. r;,"!s/-0r , ?'.'ie «,-.'««
„„u:n".* «*a
oswar:'^A.
heJ. "'tieii,;!.<*ttf
J'cA
6'^s
PU/s
to
*'#.
?af/
J^f tA
"'iicA
»i
0Ai
W****,
<*«£*
er
ar, so
as
'«
«« was taken b7th AU -thde sl»>™ifca°rri«I; vf
'as X^i^S"-J -tJ
?°™ whence it was but ?n n *' t0 Roch^,
Madrid, and so at) the w ™ "°Ts. or to go up to
,;. 1n a word, 1 was so br^LfLr"Sh Fran«.
sea at all, excepflomclf dA8^n{imy Soi"S by
. to trav el all the Say by land s°, ^' that j^ed
hffte, and did not ffi J"/ 'Jh:ch. as i was not in
Pleasanter wav- »„,? it f S"' was ty mu«b the
bought -, Sglff^Si* TV*' "7 °W "**
» Ufcon, who" was "wl£ ' he s°n of a "^W
which, we picked ,,„ lS ° travel with ine: after
chants' also, ImciT wo "Z t° Were EnS^ ^ —
1>st going to Paris only so\h3tnUgUCsc S="^'-". the
*nd five servants »!, /' at we were iri al] llJ£: of in
fese, cS^ÆS^g-^d the two P0rtu:
^o, to save the charge-Tml "e servaat betlVe«
P. sailor to travel w?th'me ""^ * §2' M %
Friday, who wa, too m™ch a str *' "f" ^
supplying the place of?f nger ro be ca/«& «
1n this ml, t ,- ervant uP°n tnc roa*
iv he;nJ IIiCt °Ut sor Li<b°n: *>*»"' com*
V being all very well mo , Ara.<re "J*
Sti r°OP' W^seort^y did me the h?/b j£**'
;apain, as well because'I was the o^ ?7/*8-
-ante I had two servam and. inde>e ^ *-
of the whole journey. 2"'/te/
so stall IhtrVoC ,?UWe'd 7°U with **:%/>'"""
some adventures that happened , *'""«"" A
d.fficult journey, 1 milstPnPot 0£SH *»-«„„. <*
AV hen we came to huwidit a* Cee the ,
g" to Spsdn, were wUW t *** * **

court of Spain, and to see what was worth observing;
but it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened'
away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of Oc-
tober: but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we.
wear alarmed at several towns on the way, with an ac-
count that so much snow was sallen on the French side of
the mountains, that several travellers were obliged to
come back to Pampeluna, aster having attempted, at an
extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pamcluna itself, we sound it so in-
deed; and to me that had been always used to an hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was unsofr'erable; nor,
indeed, was it more plentisul than it was surprising, to
come but ten days besore out of the Old Castile, where
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im-
mediately to seel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains,
so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and
to endanger benumbing and perishing of our singers and
toes, was very strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and selt cold weather,
'which he had never seen or selt besore in his lise.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so long,
that the people said winter was come besore its time,
and the roads which were difficult besore, were now
quite impassable: in a word, the show lay in seme
places too thick sor us to travel; and being not hard
frozen, as is.tbe case in northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive
every step: we staid no less than twenty days at Pampe-
luna; when (seeing the winter coming on, and no like-
lihood of its being better, sor it was the severest winter
all over Europe that had been known in many years)
I proposed that we should all go away to Fontarabia,
and there taking shipping sor Bourdeaux, which was a
very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
sour French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
sound out a guide, who, travelling the country near the
head
head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by such ways, that they were not much incommoded
with the snow; and where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear
them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the
snow, provided we were armed sufficiently .to protect us
from wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows,
it was frequent for fome wolves to shew themselves at the
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of
food, the ground being covered with snow: we told him
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two legged
•wolves, which we were told we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
He satissied us there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go; fo we readily agreed to follow
him, as did alfo twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants,' fome French, fome Spanish, who, as I said,
had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back
again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed, I
was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he c?.mc
directly back with us, on the same road that we came
from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was
pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turn-
ing to the lest, he approached the mountains another
way; and though it is true, the hills and the precipices
looked dreadfully, yet he made fo many tours, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we insen-
sibly passed the height of the mountains, without being
much incumbeYed with the snow; and all on a sudden
he shewed us the pleasant fruitsul provinces of Langue-
doc and Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though
indeed they were at a great distance, and we had fome
rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and a night, so fast, that we
n 3 could
could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon
be past it all: we sound, indeed, that we began <o de-
scend every day, and to come more north than besore;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours besore night, when our guide
being something besore us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three n.«onstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out of an hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two os
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half a
mile besore us, he had been devoured indeed, besore*we
could have helped him: one of them sastened upon his,
horlV, and the other attacked the man with that violence,
that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough,
to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily: my man Friday being next to me, I bade him ride
up, and see what was the matter: as soon a& Friday came
in sight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, O
master! O master! But like a bold sellow, rode directly
up to the man, and with his piftol shot the wolf that at-
tacked him into the head.
It was happy sor the poor man that it was my man
Friday; sor he, having been used to that kind of crea-
ture in his country, had no sear upon him, but went
clofe up to him, and shot him, as above; whereas any
of us would have fired, at a sarther distance, and have
perhaps either missed the Wolf, or endangered shooting
the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bokler man than
I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with
the noile of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the
difruallest howlir.gs of wolves, and the noife redoubled
by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there
had been a prodigious multitude 'of them; and perhaps
indeed there was not such a sew, as that we had no cause
of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had sastened upon the horse, lest him immediately,
and fled, having happily sastened upon his head, where
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him mCich hurt: the man, indeed, was
most hurt: sor the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee j
knee; and he was just as it were tumbling down by the
diforder of the horse, when Friday came up, and shot
the wolf.
It is easy to suppofe, that at the noife of Friday's pif-
tol we all mended our pace, and rid up as sall as the
way (which was very difficult) would give us leave, to
see what was the matter: as soon as we came clear of the
trees, which blinded us besore, we saw plainly what had
been the case, and how Friday had difengaged the poor
guide; though we did not presently difcern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.
But never was a sight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprising manner, as that which sollowed between
Friday aud the bear, which gave us all (though at first
we were surprifed and afraid sor him) the greatest di-
version imaginable: as the bear is an heavy, clumsy
creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, which is
swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, which
generally are the rule of his actions; sirst, as-to men,
who are not his proper prey, 1 say not his proper prey,
because, though 1 cannot say what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their case, the ground being all co-
vered with snow; yet as to men, he does not usually at-
tempt them, unless they first attack him: on the contra-
ry, if you meet him in the woods, if you do not meddle
with him, he won't meddle with you; yet then you must
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the road;
sor he is a very nice gentleman, he will not go a step out
of the way sor a prince; nay, if you are really afraid,
your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on; sor sometimes, if you stop, and stand still, and look
stedsastly at him, he takes it sor an affront; and if ypu
throw or tofs any thing at him, and it bitshim, though
it were but a bit of stick as big as your singer, he takes it
sor an affront, and sets all other.business aside to pursue
hisirevenge; sor he will have satissaction in point of hq-
noyr, and this is his first quality: the next is, that if be
be otlce affronted, he will never leave. you night or day,
till he has his: revenge, but sollow at a good round rate
till heiOY.ertakes you. ' . , <' . < '7
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when.we
came up to him, he was helping liiri\pstj from his host"e;
.. « s 4 sor
for the man was both hurt and frighted, and indeed the
]ast more than the sirst; when, on a sudden we espied
the bear come out of the wood, and a very monstrous one
it was, the biggest by sar that ever I saw: we were all
a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the sel-
low's countenance : O ! O ! O ! fays Friday, three times,
pointing to him, O master! you give me te leave, me
shakec te hand with him, mt makee you good laugh.
I was surprised to see the sellow fo pleased: You fool,
you, said I, he will eat you up. Eatee me up! eatee me
up! says Friday, twice over again; me eatee him up:
me makee you good laugh: you all stay here, me shew
you good laugh: fo down he sits, and gets his boots off
in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call
the flat shoes they wear) and which he had in his poc-
ket, gives my other servant his horse, and, with his gun,
away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking foftly on, and offered to meddle
with' nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to
him, as if the bear could understand him : Hark ye! hark
ye! says Friday, me fpeakee wit you. We followed at a
distance; for now being come down to the Gascoigneside
of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country was plain, and pretty open, though
many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone,
and throws at him, and hit him just on the head; but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against
a wall; but it answered Friday's end; for the rogue
was fo void of sear, that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and shew us fome laugh, as he
called it. •
As foon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, 'arid comes after him, taking devilish''long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, fo as would
put an horse a middling gallop; away runs Friday,
find takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help;
fo we all refolved to fire at once upon the bear, and de-
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about
about his own business another way; and especially I
was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then
run away; and I called out, \ou dog, said I, is this
your making us laugh? Come away, and take your,
horse, that we may shoot the creature. He hears me,
and cries out, No shoot, no shoot, stand still, you get
much laugh: and as the nimble creature ran two seet
for the beast's one, he turned on a sudden on one side
of us, and seeing a great oak.tree, sit for his purpose,
he beckoned^ us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he
gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about five or six yards from the bottpm of
the tree.
The bear foon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance; the first thing he did, he stopt at the gun,
smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
tree, climbing like a cat, though fo monstrous heavy:
1 was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, ot my man,
and could not for my lise fee any thing to laugh at yet,
till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer
to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got
about half way to him: as foon as the bear got out to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker. Ha,
fays he to us, now you see me teachee the bear dance;
fo he falls a jumping, and shaking the bough, at which
the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look
behind him, to see how he should get back; then indeed
we did laugh heartily : but Friday had not done with him
by a great deal; when he sees him stand still, he calls
put to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could
speak English, What, you come no sarther? Pray you
Come sarther! So he left jumping and shaking the
hough; and the bear, just as if he understood what h#
said, did come a little sarther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again. <
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and we
•would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, O pray 1
O pray ! no shoot, me shoot, by and then; he would have
said, by and by. However, to shortest the story, Friday
ni danced
danced fo much, and the bear stood fo ticklish, that we
had laughing enough indeed,'but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do; for first we thought he de-
pended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the.
bear was too cunning for that too; for he would not get
out sar enough to be thrown down, but clings sast with
his great broad claws and seet, fo that we could not ima-
gine what would be the end of it, and .where the jeft
would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for seeing the
bear cling sast to the bough, and that he would not be
persuaded to come any sarther; Well, well, said'Friday %,
you no come sarther, me go, me go ; you no come to
me, me come to you: and upon this he goes out to the
'smallest end of'the bough where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down
the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on.
his seet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it up and
stands still.
Well, said I to him, Friday, what will you do now?
Why do not you shoot him? No shoot, says Friday, no
yet, me shoot now me no kill; me stay, give you one
more laugh; and indeed fo he did, as you will see pre-
sently; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes
back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and coming
backward till he got into the body of the tree: then,
with the same hinder end foremost, he came down the
tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at
a time very leisurely; at this juncture, and just besore he
could set his hind seet upon the ground, Friday'stepped'
close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his
ear, and shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did' not
Jaugh; and when he saw we were pleased hy our looks,
he salls a laughing himself very loud: fo we kill bear in
our country, says Friday. So you kill them said I, why
you have no guns: No, fays he, no guns, but shoot great
much long arrow.
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; hut we
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves
lan
ran much in my head; and indeed, except the noise I
once heard on the shore of Africa; of which I have said
fomething already, I never heard any thing that filled
me with fo much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday would haVe trad, us we mould cer-
tainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had three leagues
to go; and our guide hastened .us; fo we left him, and
went forward on our journey. ,
The ground was still covered with show, though not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ra-
venotis creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest, and plain country, pressed by.
hunger, to seek for food; and had done a great deal of
mischies in the villages, where they surprised the coun-
try people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses,
and fome people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
country, we should find them there; andf this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on' every side, and
a long narrow desile or lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of fun-set when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sun-set when we
'came into the plain. We met with nothing in the first
wood, except that, in a little plain within the wood,~
which was not above two surlongs over, we saw sive
great wolves cross the road, sull speed one after ano-
ther, as if they had been in chase of fome prey, and
had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were
gone, and out of sight, in a sew moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched
faint-hearted sellow, baii us keep in a ready posture; for
he believed there were more wolves a coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
hut we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain; as foon as we came into the plain, we bad oc-
casion enough to look about us. The sirst object we met
i with
with was a dead horse ; that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work; we could not say eating of him, bat
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us; Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not susfer him by any
means; for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. . We were
not half gone over the plain, but we began to hear the
wolves howl in the woods, on our lest, in a frightsul
manner; and presently aster we saw about an hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most
of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up
by experienced officers: I scarce knew in what man-
ner to receive 'them; but found, to draw ourselves
in a close line, was the only way: fo we formed in
a moment: but, that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered, that only every other man should
fire; and that the others, who had not fired, should
stand ready to give them a second volley immediately,
if they continued to .advance upon us; and that then
those who had sired at first, should not pretend to load
their susils again, but stand ready, with every one a
pistol, for we were all armed with a susil, and a pair
of pistols, each man; fo we were by this method able
tq lire six volleys, half of us at a time: however, at
prescut we had no necessity; for, upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a sull stop, being terrisied, as
well with the noise, as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the
snow: 1 found they stopped, but did not immediately
retreat; whereupon remembering that 1 had been told,
that the siercest creatures were,, terrisied at the voice of
a m3n, 1 caused all our company to halloo as loud as
we could, and found the notion not altogether mis-
taken,; for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and
turn about; then I ordered a second volley to be fired
in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away
they went to the woods.
This
This gave us leifure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lnse no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our sulils, and put our-
selves into readiness, when we heard a terrible noife
in the same wood, on our lest; only that it was sarther
onward the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the night began to
he dusky, which made it the worse on our side; but,
the noife increasing, we could easily perceive, that it
'was the howling and yelling -of thofe hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
'wolves, on our lest, one behind us, and one on our
front; so that we seemed to be surrounded with them;
however, as they did not sall upon us, we kept our
'way sorward, as sast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good
large trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were
to pass, at the sarther side of the plain; but we were
greatly surprifed, when, coming near the lane, or pass,
we saw a consused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noite of a gun; and looking that way, out
rushed an horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, fly-
ing like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after
him sull speed; indeed the horse had the heels of them;
but as we suppofe, that he could not hold it at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him at last;
and no question but they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; sor, riding up to
the entrance where the horse came out, we sound the
carcase of another horse, and of two men devoured by
these ravenous creatures, and of one the man was no
doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun; sor there
lay a gun just by him fired off, but, as to the man, his
head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten up.
. This silled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon; sor
they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and
1 verily believe there were three hundred of them: It
happened very much to our advantage, that at the
'entrance
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay fome large timber-trees, which had been cut dowa
the summer besore, and I suppose lay there for carriage:
1 drew my little troop in among these trees, and pla-
cing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and, keeping that tree besore us, for
a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did fo, and it was well we did; for never was a
more surious charge than .the creatures made upon us in
this place: they came on us with a growling kind of a
noise, and mounted the piece of timber (which, as I
said, was our breast-work,) as if they were only rushing
upon their prey; and this sury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind
us, which was the prey they aimed at:.1 ordered our
men to fire as besore, every other mast; and they took
their aim fo sure, that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the sirst volley; but there was a necessity to
keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those besore.
W hen we had fired our second volley of our susilsv
we thought they slopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone ofs', but it was but a moment, for others came
forward again; fo we sired our volleys of our pistols,
and I believe, in these four sixings, we killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet they
came on again. :i
I was loth to spend our last foot too hastily; fo I called
my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better em-
,plojfed;,for, with the greatest..dexterity imaginable, he
• charged my susil, and his owdj while we were en-
gaged; but, as I said, I called my.other man, and, giv-
mg him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train, all
along the piece .of timber, and let it be a large train,;
he did fo, and had but time to get away, when the
wolves came up to it, and fome were got up upon 4$,
when, I, snapping an uncharged pistol, close to the pow-
der, set it on fire; and those that were upon-the timber
were scorched with it, and six or seven of them sell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and frigllt
of the fire; we dispatched these in an instant, and. the
'rest
rest were so frighted with the light, which the night,
sor now it was very near dark, made more terrible,
that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired offin
one volley, and after that we gave a sbout; upon this,
the wolves turned tail, and we tallied immediately upon
near twenty lame ones, which we sound struggling on
the ground, and sell a cutting them with our swords,
which answered our expectation; sor the crying and
howling they made were better understood by their sel-
lows; so that they sled, and lest us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore os
them; and had it been day-light, we had killed many-
more: the field of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward again; sor we had still near a league to gos
we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling;
our eyes, we were not certain; so in about an hour
more, we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
-which we sound in a terrible fright, and all in arms; sor
it seems, that, the night besore, the wolves and some
bears had broken into that village, and put them i'n a
terrible fright; and they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in the night to preserve
their cattle, .and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he
could go no sarther; so we were obliged to take a neiy
guide there, and go to .Tholouse, where we sound H
'warm climate, a fruitsul, pleasant country, and no snow,
no wolves, or any. thing like them: but when we told
our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but
'what. was ordinary in the great sorest at the soot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground .
but they inquired much what kind of a guide we had
gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such
a severe season; and told us, it was very well we
were not all devoured: when we told them how we
placed ourselves, andi the. horses. in the. middle* they
blamed us exceedingly, and told us, it was .fifty to one
but we had been all destroyed; sor it was the, sight of
the.
the horses that made the wolves fo surious, seeing their
prey; and that at other times they are really afraid of a
gun; but they being excessive hungry, and raging on
that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
•made them senseless of danger; and that if we had not
by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of
.the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great
odds but that we had been torn to pieces: whereas, had
we been content to have lat still on horseback, and fired
as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses
fo much for their own, when men were on their
backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at
last, if we had stood altogether, and lest our horses,
they would have been fo eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come off sase, especially having
our fire-arms in our hands, and being sb many in
number.
For my part, I was never fo sensible of danger in my
lise; for seeing above three hundred devils come roar-
ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and as it was, I believe, 1 shall never care to cross thole
mountains again; 1 think I would much rather go a
thousand leagues, by sea, though 1 were sure to meet
'With a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of, in roy
passage through France; nothing but what our travel-
lers have given an account of, with much more advantage
than I can: I travelled from Tholouse to Paris, and
'without any considerable slay came to Calais, anct landed
sase at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having
•had a severe cold seafon to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new discovered estate sase about
me, the bills of exchange, which I brought with me,
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide, and privy counsellor, was my
good antient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her fo entirely
with every thing, that I was persectly easy as to the se-
curity of my effects; and indeed I was very happy from
my
my beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted in»
tegrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think ot' leaving my effects with
this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and fo to the
Brasils: but now another scruple came in the way, and
that was religion: for as I had entertained fome doubts
about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad,
especially in my slate of folitude, fo I knew there was
no going to the Brasils for me, much less going to settle
there, unless I refolved to embrace the Roman Catholic
religion, without any reserve; except on the other hand
I refolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr
for religion, and die in the inquisition; fo I refolved to
stay at home, and, if I could find means for it, to dispose
of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily dis-
pose of it there; but that if 1 thought fit to give him
leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the
survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brasils, who
must fully understand the value of it, who lived just upon
the spot, and who I knew to be very rich, fo that he be-
lieved they would be fond of buying it; he did not
doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces of eight the
more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did fo; and, in about eight months more,
the (hip being then returned, he sent me an account, that
they had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to
pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the bills of exchange for 33,800 pieces
of eight for the estate; reserving the payment of 100
moidores a year, to him, the old man, during his lise,
and 50 moidores afterwards to his fon for his lise, which
I had promised them; and which the plantation was to'
make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a
lite of providence's chequer-work, and of a variety
'4' which
i .which the world will seldom be able to shew the like*
off: beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily
than any part of it ever gave me leave fo much as .r»
hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state,of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards;
and fo indeed I had been, if other circumstances had
concurred ; but I was inured to a wandering lise, had no
samily, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and though I had fold
my estate in the Brasils, yet 1 could not keep that country.
out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the
wing again; especially I could not resist the strong in-
clination 1 had to see my island, and to know jf the poor
Spaniards were in being there; and how the rogues I
lest there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestlv dissuaded me
from it, and fo sar prevailed with me, that almost for
seven years she prevented my running abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest, having
fomething of his own, 1 bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement of fome addition to his estate,
after my decease; the other I put out to a captain of a
ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible, bold,
enterprismg young sellow, I put him into a good ship,
and sent him to sea, and this young sellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as 1 was, to sarther adventure my-
self.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for,
nrst of all I married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatissaction; and had three children, two
ions and one daughter: but my wise dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu-
nity, prevailed and engaged me to go in his ship as a
private trader to the tatt-lndies: this was in the year
16.94. '• •-:
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of
their lives, and of the villains 1 lest there; how at rirst
< they
toey insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards
lgreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them; how
thXy were subjected to the Spaniards; how honestly the
Spaniards used them; an history, if it were entered into,
is sull of variety and wondersul accidents as my own
part; particularly alfo as to their battles with the Cartb-
beans, who landed several times upon the island, and as
to the improvement they made upon the island itself;
and how five of them made an attempt upon the main
land, and brought away eleven men and five women
prifoners; by which, at my coming, I found about
twenty young children on the island.
Here 1 stayed about twenty days; lest themsupplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes, tools, and two 'workmen, which I
brought from England with me; viz. a carpenter, and
a smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with them,
resei ved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and,
having settled all things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the place, 1 lest them there.
From thence 1 touched at the Brasils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people, to
the island; and in it, betides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them : as to the Englishmen,
1 promised them to send them fome women from Eng-
land, with a good cargo of neceisaries, if they would ap-
ply themselves to planting which I afterwards could not r
persorm: the sellows proved very honest and diligent,
after they were mastered, and had their properties set
apart for them. 1 sent them alfo from the Brasils five
cows, three of them being big with calf, fome theep,
and fome hogs, which, when I came again, were con-
siderably increased.
But asl these things, with an account how 300 Carib-
bees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations,
"pd how they fought with that whole number twice,
td we're at sirst deseated, and one of them killed; but
S/ - at
'83l-'. adventures OP ROBIHSON CRUSOE.
at last a storm destroyed their enemies' canoes, they sa-
mished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and
recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived
upon the island. >
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, sor ten years more,
I may, perhaps, give a sarther account of hereafter.
THE END or THE FIRST VOLUME,
i •- t, StlfeltTA.MSt*, LlABSI)HAl.I.-$T«ZXT.
II.
«,*
sii-
IT;'


LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
lane, minerva-press, leadenhall-stree.u
TW NEW YORt
PU3LI7.. UBRARY
ASTOFt, LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
R L

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
BY
DANIEL DEFOE.
a. nrtn ŒWtion,
bunched with esegant Psates descriptive of the Susrlect.
'j *• * .•
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED AT THE
FOR LANE AND NEWMAN,
LEADENH ALL-STREET.
1805.
M:
pm
m
•V YORK
J3R
I^SS
AND
iwia
»N3
A'
HE merit and esteem in which this
admired work of the truly celebrated
Daniel de Foe has been held, will need no
other encomium than the numerous editions
through which it has passed. At this period
the work is read .with avidity, desire, and
pleasure: the younger branches may be said
to read it from their cradle, and the more
advanced can find amusement for their leisure
hours in these events; the circumstances it
contains engage the mind, and its principles
of instruction are founded on Virtue and
3$ Religion; yet they are conveyed in such a
uipleasing manner, that you are imperceptibly
gjled through a wonderful history to a system
wof morality.
3' •
Among the many editions presented the
Public, some are too extravagant a pur-
chase i
chase; others printed in a manner inconsist-
ent with the liberality which should have
supported a work of this kind.
It is therefore presumed this edition, which
is well printed, on good paper, enriched and
embellilhed with curious descriptive plates,
and offered for sale at a very moderate price,
will be supported by a generous and discern-
ing Public.
DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THE CUTS.
I
VOL. I.
Pobinson Crusoe climbing the clisf—Frontispiece,
Robinson Crusoe's Difappointment in launching
his Boat — — — — — — Facing Page %\9
Robinson Crusoe surprifed at the Print of a Foot 142
Robinson Crusoe rescuing and protecting Friday 190
VOL. It.
Friday meeting his Father — Frontispiece.
Robinson Crusoe's Inhabitants Dispute and Fight 45
Robinson Crusoe's viewing Will Atkins's Basket *j
'House — >. — — — __ — — 52
Robinson Crusoe's passing the great Chinese Wall 230

\
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good samily, though not of that country, my
sather being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled sirst at
Hull.—He got a good estate by merchandise; and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinfon, a very good samily in that
county, and from whom I was called Robinfon Kreutz-
naer; but, bf the usual corruption of words in Eng-
land, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and
write our name, Crufoe; and fo my companions always
called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was a lieute-
nant-colonel in an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
vol. i. a formerly
sormerly commanded by the samous Colonel Loekhart,
and was killed at a battle near Dunkirk, against the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I
never knew, any more than my sather or mother did
know what was become of me.
Being the third son of the samily, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My sather, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent share of learning, as sar as
house education, and a country free-school generally
goes, and designed me sor the law ; but I would be sa-
tisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my inclina-
tion to this led me so strongly against the will, nay,
the commands of my sather, and against all the intreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that
there ieemed to be something satal in that propentioii
of nature, tending directly to the lise of mifery" which
was to besal me.
My sather, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he soresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was consined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me on this subject. He asked me,
'what reasons, more than a mere.wandcring inclination,
1 had sor leaving my sather's house and my native coun-
try, where I might be well introduced, and had a pros-
pect of raising my sortune by application and industry,
with a lise of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
men of desperate sortunes on one hand, or of aspiring
superior sortunes on the other, and who went abroad
upon adventures, to rise by enterprife, and make them-
selves samous in undertakings of a nature out of the
common road; that these things were all either too sar
above me, or too sar below me; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper station
of low lise, which he had sound, by long experience,
was the best state in the world; the most suited to hu-
man happiness; not expofed to the miferies and hard-
ships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part
of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, lux-
ury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind.
He
.^^X
He told me I might judge of the happiness of this state
by this one thing, viz. that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have fre-
quently lamented the miserable consequences of being
born to great things, and wished they had been placed
in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean
and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony to
this, as the just standard of true selicity, when he prayed
tb have neither poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe it, and 1 snould always find, that
the calamities of lise were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station
had the sewest disasters, and was not exposed to fo many
vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ;—
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who,
by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies on one
hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean
or insufficient diet on the other hand, bring distempers
upon themselves by the natural consequences of their
way of living; that the middle station of lite was cal-
culated for all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoy-
ments; that peace and plenty were the hand-maids of
a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
ness, health, fociety, al] agreeable diversions, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of lise ; that this way men went silently and
smoothly through the world, and comsortably out of it;
not embarrassed with the labours of the hands, or of the
head; not fold to a lise of slavery for daily bread, or
harrassed with perpsexed circumstances, which rcb the
foul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged with the
passion of envy, or the secret burning lust os ambition for
great things ', but in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sentibly tasting the sweets of liv-
ing without the bitter ; seeling that they are happy, and
learning, by every day's experience, to know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most af-
sectionate manner, not to play the young man, or to
precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and the
station of lise 1 was born in, seemed to have provided
against; that I.was under no necessity of seeking my
b 2 bread:
'bread; that he would do well for.me, and endeavour to
enter roe sairly into the station of lise which he had
been just recommending to me; and that if I was not
very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere
sate, or sault, that must hinder it; and that he shfiuld
have nothmg to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me, if I would stay and settle at
home, as he directed, fo he would not have fo much
hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away: and, to close,all, he told me I had my
elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into
the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and though he said he would not cease to
pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me, that is
I did take this foolish step,,God would not bless me;
and I would have leisure hereafter to reslect upon having
neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. v
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my sather did not
know it to be fo himself; I say, I observed the tears run
down his sace very plentisully, especially when he spoke
of my brother who was killed; and that when he spoke
of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he
was fo moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told
me his heart was fo sull, he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely afflicted with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and 1 refolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but. to settle at home according
to my sather's desire: but, alas! a sew days wore it all
off; and, in short, to prevent any of my sather's sarther
importunities, in a sew weeks after 1 refolved to run
quite away from him. However, I did not act fo
hastily neither as the first heat of my refolution prompt-
ed; but I took my mother, at a time when I thought
her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that
my .thoughts were fo entirely bent upon seeing the
world, that 1 should never settle to any thing with refo-
lution
lution enough to go through with it; and my sather had
better give me his consent, than force me to go without
it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too
late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my
time, but I should certainly run away from my master
besore my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
•would speak to my sather to let me go one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I
would go no more, and I wousd promise, by a double
diligence, to recover the time that I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she told
me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my
sather upon any such subject; that he knew too well
'what was my interest to give his consent to any thing fo
much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I could
think of any such thing after the discourse I had had with
roy sather, and such kind and tender expressions as she
knew my sather had used to me; and that, in short, if I
would ruin myself, there was no help for me, but I
might depend I mould never have their consent to it;
that, for her part, she would not have fo much hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say that
my mother was willing, when my sather was not. ,
Though my mother resused to move it to my sather,,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse
to him; and that my sather, after shewing a great con-
cern at it, said to her, with a sigh, that boy might be
happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad,
he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born;
I can give no Consent to it.
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to busmess, andfrequently
expostulating with my sather and mother about their
bemg fo positively determmed against what they knew
my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whither I went casualsy, and without any pur-
pose of making an elopement that time; but 1 say,
being there, and one of my companions being going
by sea to London in. his sather's ship, and prompting
me to go with him, with the common allurement of a.
B i seasaring
^
seasaring man, that it should cost me nothing sor my
passage, I consulted neither sather nor mother any more,
nor so much as sent them word of it, but leaving them
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's bless-
ing, or my sather's, without any consideration of cir-
cumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1751, I went on board
aship bound sor London. Never any young adventurer's
missortunes I believe began sooner, or continued longer,
than mine; the ship was no sooner got out of the Hum-
ber, but the wind began to blow, and the sea to rife in a
most frightsul manner; and, as 1 had never been at sea
besore, 1 was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified
in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judg-
ment of Heaven sor my wicked leaving my sather s>
house, and abandoning my duty; all the good counsel
of my parents, my sather's tears, and my mother's entrea-
ties, came now stem into my mind ; and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardiness which it
has been since, reproached me with the contempt of ad-
vice, and the breach of my duty to God and my sather.
All this while the storm increased, and the lea went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many
times liiice, no nor what 1 saw a sew days after; but it
was enough to affect. me then, who was but a young iai-
1ot, and had never known any thing of the matter. I
expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and
that every time the ship sell down, as Ithought it did, in
the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise
more. In this agony of mind ( made many vows and
resolutions that, if it would please God to spare my lite
in this one voyage, if ever I got once my soot upon dry
land again, I would go directly home to my sather, and
never set it into a 'ship again while 1 lived; that 1 would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miferies
ss these any more. Now I sarw plainly the goodness of
his observations about the middle station of lise, how
easy, how comsortably he had lived all his days, and
never had been expofed to tempests at sea, or troubles on
shore' and, in short, I resolved that I would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my sather.
These
These wise and fober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and indeed fome time after; but
the next day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer,
and I began to be a little inured to it. However, I was
very grave for all that day, being alfo a little sea-fick
still; but towards night the weather cleared tip, the
wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening fol-
lowed; the fun went down persectly clear, and rose fo
the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the light was, as 1
thought, the mof| delightsul that ever 1 saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-
sick, but very cheersul; looking with wonder upon the
sea, that was fo rough and terrible the day besore, and
could be fo calm and fo pleasant in fo little a time after.
And now, lest mv good refolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to
me, Well, Bob, says he, clapping me upon the shoulder,
how do you do after it? I warrant you were frighted,
were not you, last night when it blew but a' cap sull of
wind? A cap sull, do you call it? said I, 'twas a ter-
rible storm. A storm, you tool you! replies he; do
you call that a storm? Why it was nothing at all: give
us but a good ship, and sea room, and we think nothing
of such a squall of wind as that; but you are but a fresh
water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of punch,
and we'll forget all that ; do you see what charming wea-
ther it is now? To make short this sad part of my story,
we went the way of all sailors; the punch was made, and
I was made half drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, all my refolutions for the
suture. In a word, as the sea was returned to its smooth-
ness of sursace, and settled calmness, by the abatement
of that storm, fo the hurry of my thoughts being over,
my sears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotton, and the current of my former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I
made in my distress. I found indeed fome intervals of
reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again fometimes; but I shook them
off, and roused myself from them, as it were from a
B 4 distemper;
distemper; and applying myself to drinking and com-
pany, foon mastered the return of those fits (for fo I
called them); and I had, in five or fix days, got as
complete a victory over my conscience as any young
fellow that refolved not to be troubled with it could
desire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases it generally does, refolved
to leave me entirely without excuse; for I would not
take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such, an,
one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us
would consess both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yar-
mouth roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we
lay, the wmd continuing contrary, viz. at fouth-west,
for seven or eight days; during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads,
as the common harbour where the ships might wait for
a wind for the river.
We had not however, rid here fo long but we should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and after we had lain four or five days, blew very
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good as
an harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not the
least apprehensive of danger, but iperTtthejrtirne in rest
and mirth, after the manner ©f the sea; '%Ms the eighth
day in the morning, the vrihd,increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike our fopAiails, and make every
thing snug and close, that the mipinighr ride as easy as
.•possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and
our ship rid forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we
thought once or twice our anchor had come home;
upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor.;
fo that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables
veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the saces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in
the busmess of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him, foftly to
self, say several times, Lord me mexcisul to us! we shall
be
be all loft, we shall be all undone, and the like. During
these first hurries, I was stupid, lying still in my cabin,
which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my tem-
per. I could ill resume the first penitence which I had so
apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against;
I thought the bitterness of death had been past, and that
this would be nothing too, like the first. But when the
master himself came by me, as 1 said just now, and said
we mould be all lost, 1 was dreadsully frighted: I got
up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a difmal
light I never saw; the sea went mountains high, and
broke upon us every three or sour minutes: when Icould
look about, I could see nothing but distress round us;
two ships that rid near us we sound had cut their masts
by the board, being deep laden; and our men cried out,
that a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us; was
foundered. Two more mips, being driven from their an-
chors, were run out of the roads to sea at all adventures,
and that not with a malt standing. The light ships-
fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea, but
two or three of them drove, and came clofe by us, run-
ning away with only their spritl'ail out, besore the wind.
Towards-the evening, the mate and boatswain begged
the matter of our ship to let them cut away the soremast,
which he was very unwi ling to do; but the boatswain
protesting to him that, if he did not, the ship would
sounder, he consented; and whenthey had cut.away the
soremast, the mainmast stood so loofe, and shook the
ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away also,
and make a clear deck.
Any one must judge what a condition Imust'be in at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been
in such a fright besore at but a little. But if I can express'
at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time,.
I was in tensold more horror of mind upon account of
my sormer convictions, and the having returned from
them to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first,.than
I was at death itself; and these, added to the terror of
the storm, put me into such a condition, that Iican by
no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet:
the storm continued with such sury, that'the seamen
themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse.
b 5 We
We had a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wal-"
lowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
criedout,she would sounder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by sounder,
till I enquired. However, the storm was so violent, that
I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain,
\and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment that the ship would
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest- of our distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpofe to see, cried out we had sprung a
leak; another said, there was sour seet water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that
very word, my heart, as I thought, died within me; and
I sell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the m$} roused me, and told
me, that I that was able to do nothing besore, was as well
able to pump as another; at which I stirred up, and went
to the pump, and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who,notable
to ride out the storm, were obliged to flip and run away
to the sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun
as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing of what they
meant, was'so surprifed, that I thought the the ship had
broke, or some dreadsul thing happened. In a word, I
was so surprifed, that 1 sell down in a swoon. As this was
a time when every body had his. own lise to think of,
nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but
another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his soot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead;
and it was a great while besore I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would sounder; and though
the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not pos-
sible she could swim till we might run into any port, so
the master continued firing guns sor help; and a light
ship, who had rid it out just a head of us, ventured a
boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the'
"boat came near us; but it was impossible sor us to get
on board, or sor the boat to lie near the ship's side; till;
at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
-**_ stern,
stern, with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after much labour and hazard, took
hold of, and we hawled them close under our stern, and
got all into their boat. It was to ne purpose for them
or us, after we were in the boat, to think of reaching
to their own ship; fo all agreed to let her drive, and only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could: and
our master promised them, that if the boat was staved
upon shore, lie would make it good to their master: fo
partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away
to the northward, sloping towards the shore, almost as
sar as Wintertonnesse.
We were not much' more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, when we saw her smk; and then I under-
stood, for the first time, what was meant by a ship foun-
dering in the sea. I must acknowledge 1 had hardly eyes
to look up, when the seamen told me she was sinking;
for, from that moment they rather put me into the boat,,
than that I might be said to go in; my heart was as it
were dead within me, partly with fright, partly with
horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet»besore
me.
While we were in.this condition, the men yet labour-
ing at the oar to bring the boat near the more, we could
see (when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able
to see the shore) a great many people Joining along the
strand, to assist us when we should come near: but we
made but stow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach the shore, till being past the light-house at
Winterton, the shore salls off to the westward towards
Cromer; and fo the land broke ossa little the violence os'
the wind. Here we got in; and, though not without
much difficulty, got all sase on shore, and walked after-
wards on foot to \ armouth, where, as unfortunate m'en,
we were used with great humanity, as well by the ma-
gistrates of the town, who assigned us good quarters, as
by particular merchants and owners of ships; and had
money given us sufficient to carry us either to London,
or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy ; and my sather,
an emblem of our blessed. Saviour's parable, had even
S si killad
killed the satted calf for me; for, hearing the ship I went
away in was cast away in Yarmouth road, it was a great
while besore he had anyassuranccs thatl was not drowned.
But my ill sate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several times
loud calls from my reafon, and my more composed judg-
ment to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know
not what to call this; nor will I urge that it is a secret
over-ruling decree that hurries us on to be the instru-
ments of our own destruction, even though it.be besore
us, and that we push upon it with our eyes open. Cer-
tainly nothing but fome such decreed, unavoidable mi-
sery attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reafonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts,
and agamst two such visible instructions as I had met
with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me besore,
and who was the master's fon, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were at
Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for we
•were separated in the town to several quarters; 1 say,
the firlt time he law me, it appeared his tone was
altered; and looking very melancholy, and shaking his
head, asked me how I did? and telling his sather who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go sarther abroad; his sather, turning to me,
with a very grave and concerned tone, Young man, says
he, you ought never to'go to fea any more; you ought
to take this for a plain and visible token, that you are
not to be a seasaring man. Why, Sir, said I, will you
go to sea no more? That is another, case, said he ; it is
my calling, and theresore my duty: but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect if you persist: per-
haps all this has besallen us on your account, like Jonah
hsthe ship of Tarshish. Pray, continues he, what are you?
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon that I
told him fome of my story; at the end of which he burst
out with a strange kind of passion ; What have I done,
says he,.that such an unhappy wretch should come into
my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship with
'' thee
thee again for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as
1 said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agi-
tated by the sense of his loss, and was surther than he
could have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to
my sathar, and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told
me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against, me.
And, young man, said he, depend upon it, if you do
not go back, wherever you go, you will imeet with
nothing but disasters and disappointments, till yout
father's words are sulfilled upon you.
'We parted foon aster, for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more; which way he went 1 know
not. As for me, having fome money in my pocket, 1 tra-
velled to London by land, and there,as well as on the road,
had many struggles with myself what course of lise I
should take, and whether 1 should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
cured to me how I should be laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my sather
and mother only, but even every body else ; from whence
1 have since often observed how incongruous and irra-
tional the common temper of maekind is, especially of
youth, to that reafon that ought to guide them in such
cases; viz. that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are
ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for which
they ought justly to be esteemed fcols; b\it are ashamed
of the returning, which only can make them esteemed
'wise men.'
In this' state of lise, however, I remained fome time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of lise
to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to gping
home: and as I staid awhile, the remembrance of the
distress 1 had been in wore off; and as that abated, the
little motion I had in my desires to return, wore off with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and
looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence, which carried me first away from,
my sather's house, which hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and ,that im-
pressed those conceits fo forcibly upon me as to make me
deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even
the
the commands of my sather;—I say, the same insluence,
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all
enterprises to mv view; and I went on board a vefTel
bound to the coast ot' Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly
call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though
1 might indeed have worked a little harder than ordi^.
nary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and
osfice of a foremastman, and in time might have qualified
myself for a mate or lieutenant, is not fora master. But
as it was always my sate to chuse for the worse, fo I did
here; for, having money in my pocket, and good cjothes
on my back, I would always go on board in the habit of
a gentleman; and fo 1 neither had any business in the
ship, nor learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to sall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which docs not always happen ro such
loose and anguided young sellows as I then was, the devil
generally not omitting to lay fome snare for them very.
early; but it was not fo with me. 1 first sell acquainted
with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea, and who, having had very good success there,
was resolved to go.again: this captain, taking a sancy to>
my conversation, which was not disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say 1 had a mind to see the world,,
told me, if I would go the voyage with him, Ishoiild be
• at no expence, 1 should be his messmate, and his compa-
nion; and if I would carry any thing with me, 1 should,
have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit;
and perhaps I might meet with fome encouragement...
I embraced the osfer; and, entering into a strict;
.friendship with this captain, who was an, honest, plain
dealing man, went the voyage with him, and carried a
small adventure with me, which, by the dismterested
honesty of my friend, the captain, I increased very con-
siderably; for 1 carried about 40h, in such toys and
trifles as the captain directed me to buy: this 401.1 had
mustered together by the assistance of fome of my rela-
tions, whom 1 corresponded with, and who, 1 believe,
got my sather, or at least my mother, to contribute fo
much as that to my first adventure.
This
This was the only voyage which I may say was suc-N
cesssul in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and honesty of my. friend, the captain; under
whom I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics,
and the rules of navigation; learned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and,
in short, to understand fome things that were needsul to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to
introduce me, I took delight to learn: and, in a word,
this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant; for
1 brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my re-
turn, almost 3001.; and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.'
Yet, even in this voyage, I had misfortunes too ; par-
ticularly that I was continually sick, being thrown into
a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate;
our principal trading being upon the coast, from the.
latitude of 15 degrees north, even to the line itself.
I was now set up fora Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great.misfortune, dying foon after his arrival, 1
refolved to go the same voyage again; and I embarked
in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man
made; for though 1 did not carry quite 1001. of my
new gained wealth, fo that I had 2001. lest, and which
I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to
me, yet I sell mto terrible misfortunes in this voyage;
and the first was this, viz. Our ship, making her,course
towards the Canary islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised in the grey
of the morning by a Moorish rover of Sallee, who gave
chace to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded alfoas much canvass as our yards would spread,
or our rpasts carry, to have got clear: but finding the
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a sew hours, we prepared to fight, our ship
having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us; and, bring-
ing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of
athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of
our
#
our guns to bear on that side, ami poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer osf again, after return-
ing our fire, and pouring in alib hissmallshot from near
two hundred men which he had on board. However, we
had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to desend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quar-
ter, he entered ninety men upon our decks, who imme-
diately sell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging.
We plied them with small shot, half pikes, powderchefts,
and such like, and cleared ourdeck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our
shipbeing disabled, and three of our men killed and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried all
prifoners'to Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usuage 1 had there was not fo dreadsul as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the country, to the
Emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being voung and nimble, and fit for his
business. At this surprising change of my circumstances,
from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was persectly
overwhelmed; and now 1 looked back upon my sather's
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable,
and have none to relieve me; which 1 thought was now
fo effectually brought to pats, that I could not be worse;
and now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I
was undone without redemption. But, alas! this was
but a taste of the misery 1 was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to
his house, fo I was in hopes that he would take me with,
him when he went to sea again, believing that it would
be fome time or other his sate to be taken by a Spanish or
Portugal man of war, and that then I should be set at
liberty. But this hope of mine was foon taken away; for
when he went to sea, he lest me on shore to look after
his little garden, and do the drudgery of staves about his
house; and when he came home again from his cruize,
he ordered me to lie.in the cabin, to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method 1 might take to effect it; but found no way that
had
had the least probability in it; nothing presented to make
the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to, that would embark with me; no sellow
slave, no Englishman, Irishmen, or Scotsman there, but
myself; fo that for two years, though 1 often pleased
myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thoughts of making fome
attempt for my liberty again in my head: my patron
lying at home longer than usual, without fitting out his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used
constantly once or twice a week, fometimes oftener, if
the weather was sair, to take the ship's pinnace and go
out into the road a fishing; and as he always took me
and a young Maresco with him, to row the boat,we made
him very merry, and I proved very dextrous in catching
filh; infomuch that fometimes he would send me with
a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth Maresco, as
they called him, to catch a dim of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing with him in
a calm morning, a fog rose fo thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither, or which way, we
laboured all day, and the next night; and when the
morning came, we found we had pulled off' to sea,
instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at
least two leagues from the land, However, we got well
in again, though with a great deal of labour, and fome
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, refolved to
take more care of himself for the suture; and having.
lying by'him the long-boat of our English ship which
he had taken, he refolved he would not go a fishing any
more without a compass and fome provision. ho he
ordered the carpenter of his ship, who was alfo an Eng-
lish slave, to build a little state room, or cabin, in the
middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer, and hawl home the
main sheet; and room besore for an hand or two to
stand and work the sails. tshe sailed with what we
call a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom jjbbed over
the
the top of the cabin, which lay very mug and low, and
had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a
table to eat on, with fome small lockers to put in fome
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; parti-
cularly his bread, rice, and cosfee.
We were frequently out with his boat a fishing, and
as I was most dexterous to catch sish for him, he never
went without me. It happened one day that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moors of fome distinction,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily ; and had
theresore seht on board the boat over night a larger store
of provisions than usual; and had ordered me to get
ready three susils with powder and shot, which were on
board his ship, for that they designed fome sport of
fowling as well as fishing.
I got al! things ready a« he had directed, and waited
the next mornmg with the boat washed clean, her an-
cients and pendants out, and every thing to accommo-
date his guests; when by and by my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put osf going,
upon fome business that sell out; and ordered me, with
the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and
catch them fome fish, for that his friends were to sup at
bis house: he commanded me too, that as foon as I had
got fome fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.'
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone,
I prepared to surnish myself, not forfishmg business, but
for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did 1 fo much
as consider whither 1 would steer; for any where to get
out of that place was my way.
Mj first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor to ,get fomething for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our
patron's bread; he iakl that was true: fo he brought a
large basket of rusk, or biscuit of their kind, and three
jars with freshwater, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident by the
make were taken out of fome English prize, and I con-
veyed
veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore>
as if they had been there besore sor our master. I con-
veyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the boat, which
weighed about half an hundred weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all
which were of great use to us afterwards, especially
the wax to make randies. Another trick I tried upon
him, which he innoc,Yitly came into also: his name was
Ilmael, whom they cairMuley, orMoloy; so 1 called to
him, Moloy, said I, our patron's guns are all on board
the boat, can you not get a little powder and shot? it
may be we may-kill some aleamies (a sowl like our cur-
lew), sor ourselves; sor I know he keeps the gunner's
stores in the ship. Yes, said he,I'll bring some; accord-
ingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat : at the liime time I
had sound some powder of my master's in the great
cabin, with which I filied one ot' the large bottles in the
Case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it
into another; and thus surnished with every thing need-
sul, we tailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which
was at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no Viotice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port besore we hawled in our sail, and sat us down
to fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E, which was
contrary to my desire; sor had it blown southerly, I had
been sufe^t^have made the coast of Spain, and at least
reached tb .toe bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that
horrid place whese 1 was, and leave the rest to sate.
After we had mlied some time and catched nothing
(sor when I had fish on my hook 1 would not pull them
up, that he might not see them), I said to the Moor,
This will not do, our master will not bethus served; we
must stanjl sarther off: he, thinking no harm, agreed;
and being in the head of the boat, set the sails ;. and as I
had the helm, I ran the boat out near a league sarther,
and then brought her to as if 1 would fish; when, giving
the boy the* helm, I stepped sorward to where, the Moor
was, and making as if 1 stooped sor something behind
him;
him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his twist,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea: he rose
immediately, for he swam like a cork, and culled to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he.would go all over the
world with me. He. swam fo strong after the boat,
that he would have reached me very quickly, there being
but little wind; upon which 1 stepped into the cabin,
and setching one of the fowling-pMces, 1 presented it at
him, and told him 1 had done him' no hurt, and if he
would be quiet, I would do him none. But, said I,
you swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm; make the besl of your way to the shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I
•will shoot you through the head; for I am refolved to
have my liberty. So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
•with me, and' have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone, 1 turned to
the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, Xury,
if you will be saithsul to me, I will make you a great
man; but if youi will not stroke your sace to be true to
me, that is, swear by Mahomet, and his sather's beard,
I must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in
my sace, and spoke fo innocently, that Ipould not mis-
trust him, and (wore to be saithsul to me, and go all
over the world with me.
While I was in, the view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea, with the boat rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Strcight-mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits must have been supposed to do), for
who would have supl,osed we were sailed on to the fouth-
ward, to 'he truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations
of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes,
aud destroy us; where we could never once go one shore,
but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind!
But as foon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly fouth and by east, bend-
ing my course towards the east, that I might keep
in with the shore; and having a sair fresh gale of wind,
and a smooth quiet sea', I made such sail, that I believe
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
1 first made the land, I could not be less than one hun-
dred and fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any
other King thereabouts, sor we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and
the dreadsul apprehensions I had of salling into their
hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to
an anchor, the wind continuing sair, till 1 had sailed in
that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the
southward, 1 concluded also, that if any of our vessels
were in chace of me, they also would now give over ; so
1 ventured to make the coast, and came to an anchor in
the mouth of a little river, 1 knew not what or where,
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see any people;
the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We
came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim
on shore as soon as it was dark, and difcover the coun-
try: but as ibon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadsul noifes of the barking, roaring, and howling of
wild preatures of we knew not what kinds, that the.
poor boy was ready to die with sear, and begged of me
not to go on shore till day. Well, Xury, said I, then I
won't; but it may be we may see men by day, who will
be as bad to us as thofe lions. Then we may give them
the shoot gun, says Xury, laughing, make them run
away: such English Xury spoke by conversing among
us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy ib cheer-
sul, and I gave him a dram out of our patron's case of
bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was
good, and 1 took it. We dropped our little anchor,
and lay still all night—I say still, sor we slept none;
sor in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures,
we knew not what to call them, of many sorts, come
down to the sea shore, and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves, sor the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury
Xury was dreadsully frighted, and indeed fo was I
too. But we were both worse frighted when we heard
one mighty creature come swimming towards-our boat;
we could not see him, but we might hear him by his
blowing, to be a monstrous, huge, and surious beast;
Xury said it w?.s a lion, and it might be for ought I
know. Poor Xury cried out to me to weigh the anchor,
and row away No, says I, Xury, we can flip our cable
wifst a buoy to it, and go to sea, they cannot follow us
sar. I had no fooner said fo, but I perceived the crea-
ture, whatever, it was, within two oars length, which
fomething surprised me. However, 1 immediately
stepped to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired
at him ; upon which he immediately turned about, and
swam towards the shore again.
But it was not possible to describe the horrible noises
and hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well
upon the edge ot'the shore as higher within the coun-
try, upon the noise or report of a gun, a thing I have
fome reafon to believe those creatures had never heard
besore. This convinced me that there was no going on
ihore for us in the night upon that coast; and how to
venture on shore in the day, was another question too;
for to have sallen into the hands of any of the savages,
had been as bad as to have sallen into the. paws of lions
and tigers; at least wewere equally apprehensive of the
danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
left in the boat; when or where to get to it' was the
point. Xury said if I would let'him go on shore with,
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water;,
and bring fome to me. 1 asked him why he would go,
why 1 should not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
answered with fo much affection, that made me love
him ever after. Says he, if wild mans come, they eat
me, you go away. Well, Xury, said 1, we will both
go, and if the wisd mans come, we will kill them; they
shall eat neither of us. So I gave Xury a piece of rusk-
bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of
bottles, which I mentioned besore, and we hawled the
boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper,
i and
and waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.
1 did not care to go out of sight of th^boat, searing
the corning of the canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw him coma
running towards me. I thought he was pursued by fome
savage, or frighted by fome wild bef.st, and 1 ran for-
ward towards him to help him; but when ! came neirrer
to him, I law fomething hanging over bis shoulders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, but
different in colour, and longer legs: however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat: but the great
joy that poor Xury came with, was so tell me he had
found good water, and had seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such ,
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the.water fresh when the tide was
out, which flows but a little way up; so we silled our
jars,'and seasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human
creature in that part of the country.
. As I had been one voyage to this coast besore, I knew
very .well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
de Verd itlands alfo, lay not sar off from the coast; but
as I had no instruments to take an observation to know
what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, prat
least not remember wha^ latitude they were in, 1 knew
not where to look for them, or when to stand off'to sea
towards them, otherwise 1 might now east!}' have found
fome of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till 1 came to that part where the Eng-
lish traded, 1 mould find fome of their vessels upon their
usual design of trade, that arould relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was, must be that country which, lying between the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, lies
waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the ne-
groes having abandoned it, 'and gone surther fouth for
iear of the Moers; and the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting by reafon of its barrenness; and indeed both
forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers oi tigers,
lions,
lions, leopards, and other surious creatures which har-
bour there; fo that the Moors use it for their hunting
only, where they go like an army, two or three thou-
sand men at a time: and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing
but howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day time 1 thought 1 saw the
Pico of Tencriffc, being the high top of the mountain
Ter.eriffe, in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, 1 was sorced in again by contrary winds, the
sea alfo going too high for my little vessel; fo I refolved
to pursue my first design, and kept along the shore.
Several times we were obliged to land forfresh water,
after we had lest this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under
a little point of land, whicti was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go sarther in.
Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems
mine were, calls foftly to me, and tells me, that we had
best go sarther off the shore; For, says he, look yonder
'lies a dreadsul monster, on the side of that hillock, sast
asleep. I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadsul
monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion, that lay
on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the
hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xury, said
I, you shall go on shore and kill him. Xury looked
frighted, and said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth; one
mouthsul he meant. However, I said no more to the
boy, but bade him be still, and took our biggest gun,
which was almost musket bore, and loaded it with a
good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it
down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets, and
the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim 1 could with the
sirst piece to have shot him in she head; but he lay fo,
with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the slug
hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He
started up, growled at first; but finding bis leg broke,
sell down again, and then got up upon three legs, and
gave the most hideous roar that 1 ever heard. 1 was a
little
little surprised that I had not hit him on the head: how-
ever I took up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop; and, making
but little noise, he lay struggling for lise. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore.
Well go, said I. So the boy jumped into the water, and
taking the little gun in one hand, swam to the shore with
the other hand; and coming close to the creature, put
the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into the
head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no fo»d;
and I was very forry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would have fome of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet.
For what, Xury? said I. Me cut osf his head, said he^
However, Xury could not cut osf'his head, but he cut osf
a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of fome value to us ; and
I refolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it; for I knew very ill how to do it. 'Indeed
it took us up both the whole day: but at last we got off
the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin,
the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and it after-
wards served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the fouthward continu-
ally for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our
provitions, which began to abate very much, and going
no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for
fresh water. My design in this was to make the river
Gambia, or Senegal; that is to say, any where about the
Cape de Verd, where [ was in hopes to meet with fome
European' ship.; and If I did not, I knew not what course
I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there
among the, negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the cotiff of Guinea, or
to Brasil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those
islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune
vos.. i, c upqa.
upon this single point, either that I must meet with some
iliip, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I laid, I began to see that the land was inha-
bited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore, to look at us ; we could
also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I
was once inclined to have gone on shore to them ; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me,.No go,
no go. However, I hawled in nearer the shore, that I
might talk to them; and I sound they ran along the shore
by me a good way. I observed they had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick,
which Xury said was a lance, and that they could throw
them a great way with good aim ; ib I kept at a distance,
but talked with them by signs as well as I could, and
particularly made signs sor something to eat. They
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would setch
me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my sail,
and lay by; and two of them ran up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back, and brought
with them two pieces of dried flesh, and some corn, iuch
as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew
what the one nor the other was; however, we were wil-
ling to accept it. But how to come at it was our next
difpute; sor I was not sor venturing op shore to them, and
they were as much asraid of us; but they took a sase way
sor us all; sor they brought it to the shore, and laid it
down, and went and stood a great way oft", till we setched
it on board, and then came clofe to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, sor we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wondersully; sor while we
were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one
pursuing the other, as we took it, with great sury, from
the mountains towards the sea'; whether it was the male
pursuing the semale, or whether they were in sport, or in
: rage, we could. not tell, any more than we could tell
whether it was usual or strange; but I believe it was the
latter, because, in the first place, thofe ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second place,
we sound the people terribly affrighted, especially the
women.
V
'.
•women. The man that had the lance to dart did not fly
from them, but the rest did. However, as the two crea-
tures ran directly into the water, they did not seem to osfer
to sall upon Ae negroes,but plunged themselves into the sea,
and swam about as if they, had come for their diversion.
At last one of them began to come nearer our. boat than
I first expected; but I lay ready for him; for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade
Xury load both the others. As foon as he came sairly
within my reach, I fired, and diet him directly into the
head: immediately he sunk down into the water, but
rose instantly, and plunged up and down as struggling for
lise, and fo indeed he was: he immediately made to the
shore; but between the wound which was his mortal
hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just besore
he reached shore.
1t is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; fome of
them were ready even to die with sear, and sell down
as dead with the very terror. But when they law the
creature dead, and sunk into the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart,
and came to the shore, and began to search for the crea-
ture, f found him by his blood staining the water, and
by the help of a rope which I flung round him, and
gave the negroes to hawl; they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and
sine to an admirable degree; and the negroes held up their
hands with admiration to think what it was I killed him
with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran
up directly to.the mountains from which they came,
nor could I at that distance know what it was. i sound
quickly the negroes were for eating the ftc.sh of this
creature; fo 1 was willing to have them take it as a
iavour from me; which, when 1 made signs to them
that they might take it, they, were very thanksul for.
Immediately they sell.to work wish him , and though they
had no knise, yet, with 'a. sharpened piece of wood they
took off his skin as readily, nay much more readily than
we would have done with a knise; they ofsered me fome
c 2 os
of the flesh, which I declined, tnaking as if I would give
it them, but made signs for the skin, which they gave
me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their
provision, which, though I did not understand, yet I
accepted. Then I made signs to them for fome water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning its bottom
upward, to shew that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it silled. They called immediately to fome of
theit friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as 1 suppose, in the
sun; this they set down for me, as besore, and I sent
Xuryon shore with my jars, and filled them all three.—
The women were as stark naked as the men.
I was now surnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without offer-
ing to go near the shore, till 1 saw the land run out a great
length into the sea, at about the distance of four'or five
leagues besore me; and the sea being very calm, I kept
a large offing to make this point. At length, doubling
the point, at about two leagues from the land, 1 saw
plainly land on the other fide, to sea-wards; then I con-
cluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence
• Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were ata great
distance, and 1 could not well tell what I had best to do;
for if I should be taken with a fresh gale of wind, I might
neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin, and set me down, Xury having the helm ;—
when on a sudden the boy cried out, Master, master, a
ship was a sail! and the foolish boy was frighted out of
his wits, thinking it must needs be fome of his master's
ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten sar
enougft out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was,
'viz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was
bound to the coast of Guinea for negroes. But when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was foon convinced they
were bound fome other way, and did not design to go any
nearer the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, refolving to speak with them, if possible.
With
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone
by besore I could make any signal to them; but after I
had crouded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-glafies,
and that it was fome European boat, which they sup-
posed must belong to fome ship that was lost; fo they
shortened sail to let me come up. 1 was encouraged with
this ; and as I had my patron's ensign on board, I made
a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a
gun, both of which they saw; for they told me they saw
the smoke, though they did not hear the gun ; upon these
signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me,
and in about three hours time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but at
last a Scots sailor, who was on board, called to me, and
I answered him, and tolcshim I was an Englishman, that
had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at
Salee; then they bid me come on board, and very kindly
took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, any one will believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a
miserable, and almost hopeless condition as I was in; t
immediately osfered all 1 had to the captain of the ship,
as a return for my deliverance; but he generously told
me he would take nothing from me, but that all 1 had
should be delivered sase to me when I came to the Brasils;
for, says he, I have saved your lise on no other terms,
than as I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may
one time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. Besides, when I carry you to the Brasils, fo
great a way from your own country, if I should take from
you what little you have, you will be starved there, and
then I only take away that lise I have given. No, no,
Signior Inglese (Mr. Englishman) I would carry you
there in charity; and these things will help you to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.
As he was charitable in this proposal, fo he was just in
the persormance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen,
that none should offer to touch any thing I had; then he
took every thing into his own possession, and gave me
c 3 back
. i
back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them
again, even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me sor the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have sor it. I told him
he had been so generous to me in every thing, that I could
not ofser to make any price of the boat, but lest it entirely
to him; upon which he told me he would give me a
note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight sor it at
Brasil; and when it came there, if any one offered to
give more, he would make it up. He ossered me also
sixty pieces of eight more sor my boy Xury, which I
was loath to take; not that 1 was unwilling to let the
Captain. have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so saithsully in pro-
curing my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this me-
dium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian. Upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the
Captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and arrived
in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in
about twenty-two days after. And now 1 was once more
delivered from the most miferable of all conditions of lise,
and what to do next with myself I was to consider.
The generous treatment the Captain gave me I can
never susficiently remember; he would take nothing of
me sor my passage, gave me twenty ducats sor the leopard's
skin, and sorty sor the lion's skin, which I had in the
boat; and caused every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered me; and what I was willing to sell
he bought ; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns,
and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, sor I had made
candies of the rest. In a word, I made about two hun-
dred and thirty pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with
this stock 1 went on shore in the Brasils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to
the house of a good honest man like himself, who .had an
jngenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation, and a sugar-
house, I lived with him some time, and acquainted
myself, by that means, with the manner os their plant-
ing and making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
.' lived,
31
lived, and how they grew rich suddenly, I refolved, if I
could get a licence to settle there, I would turn planter
among them; refolving, in the mean time, to find out
fome way to get my money, which I had lest in London,
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a
letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land, that
was uncured, as my money would reach; and formed a
plan for my plantation and settlement, and such an one
as might be suitable to the stock which I proposed to my-
self to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of Lnglish parents, whose name was Wells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. 1 call him neighbour, be-
cause his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very fociably together; my stock was but low, as well
as nis; and we rather planted for food than any thing
.else, for about two years. However,we began to increase,
and our land began to come into order; so that the third
year we planted fome tobacco, and made each of us a
large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the
year to come; but we both wanted help; and now I
found more than besore, I had done wrong in parting
with my boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was
no great wonder; I had no remedy but to go on; 1 was
gotten into an employment quite remote to my genius,
and directly contrary to the lise I delighted in, and for
which I forfook my sather's house, and broke through all
his good advice. Nay, I was coming into the very mid-
dle station, or upper degree of low lise, which my sather
advised me to before, and which, if I refolved to go on
with, I might as well have staid at home, and never sa-
tigued myself in the world, as I have done; and 1 used
often to fay to myself, \ could have done this as well in
England among my friends, as have gone five thousand
miles off', to do it among strangers and savages, in a wil-
derncss, and at such a distance as never to hear from any
part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with but
now and then this neighbour; no work to be done but
by the labour of my hands; and I used to say, I lived
c 4 just
just like a man cast away upon fome defolate island, that
had nobody there but himself: but how just has it been,
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare
their present condition with others that are worse, heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be con-
vinced of their former selicity, by their experience! I
saw how just it has been, that the truly folitary lise I re-
flected on in an island, or mere defolation, should be my
lot, who had fo often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had, in.
all probability, been exceeding prosperous and rich!
I was in fome degree settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, besore my kind friend the Captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the
strip remained there in providing her loading, and pre-
paring for her voyage, near three months; when telling
him what little stock 1 had lest behind me in London,
•he gave me this friendly and sincere advice :—Signior
Inglese, says he (for fo he always called me), if you will
give me letters, and a procuration here, in form to me,
with orders to the perfon who has your money in Lon-
•don, to send your effects to'Lisbon, to such perfons as I
shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, 1 will bring you the produce of them, God will-
ing, at my return; but since human affairs are all sub-
ject to changes and disasters, 1 would have you give
orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which you
say is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; fo that if it comes sase, you may order the rest the
same way; and if it miscarries, you may have the other
half to have recourse to for your supply.
This was such wholefome advice, and looked fo friend-
ly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best
'course. I could take; fo I accordingly prepared letters to
the gentlewoman with.whom I had lest my money, and
a procuration to the Portuguese Captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English Captain's widow a sull account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portugal Captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with
asl other necessary directions for my supply; and when
this honest Captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by
fome
fome of the English merchants there, to send over not
the order only, but a sull account of my story to a mer-
chant at London, who presented it effectually to her ;—
whereupon , she not only delivered the money, but out
of her own pocket sent the Portugal Captain a very hand-
fome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the Captain had written for; sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all
sase to me to the Brasils: among which, without my
direction (for I was too young in my business to think of
them), he had taken care to have all forts of tools, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and
which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made,,
for I was surprized with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the Captain, had laid out the sive pounds which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to.
purchase, and bring me over a servant, under bond
for six vears service, and would not accept of any consi-
deration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own prodnc?..
Neither was this all; but my goods, being all English
manusactures, such.as cloth, stusf, bays, and things par-
ticularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found.
means to sell them to a very great advantage; fo that I
may say 1 had more than four times the value of mv first
cargo, and was now insinitely beyond my poor neigh-
bour, T mean in the advancement of my plantation; for
for the first thing 1 did, I bought me a Negro slave, and.
an European servant alfo; I mean another besides that
which the Captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greatest adversity, fo was it with me. L
went on the next year with great success in my planta-
tion; I raised sifty great rolls of tobacco, on my own,:
ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries among
my neighbours; and these sifty rolls being each of above
one hundred pounds weight, were well cured, and laid
by, against the return os'the fleet from Lisoon. And now
increasing in business and wealth , my head began to be
sull of projects and undertakings beyond my reach;—•'
c 5 such.
such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in
business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet besallen me, for
which my sather fo earnestly recommended a quiet re-
tired lise, and which he had fo sensibly described the
middle station of lise to be sull of; but other things at-
tended me; and I was still to be the wilsul agent of all
my own miseries; and particularly to increase my saults,
and double the reflections upon myself, which in my su-
ture forrows I should have leisure to make: all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate
adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad;
and pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a sair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of lise.,
which nature and Providence concurred to present roe
with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done this in breaking away from my
parents, fo I could not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view 1 had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising saster than the na-
ture of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself dowa
again into the deepest gulph of human misery that ever
man sell into, or perhaps could be consistent with lise, and
a state of health in the world.
To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
this part of my story; you may suppose, that having
.now lived almost four years in the Brasils, and beginning
to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I
had not only learned the language, but had contracted
acquaintance and friendship among my sellow planters,
as well as among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which
was our port; and that, in my discourse among them, I
had frequently given them an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the
coast, for trifles (such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hat-
chets, bits of glass, and the like) not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants teeth, &c. but negroes for the
service of the Brasils, in great numbers.
They
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on those heads, but especially to that part which related
to the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not
only not sar entered into, but, as sar as it was, had been
carried on by the Assientos, or permission of the king of
.Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock;
fo that sew negroes were bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company one day with fome
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to me
the next morning, and told me, they had been musing
very much upon what I had discoursed of with them the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to
me; and, after enjoining me secrecy, they told me that
they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that
they had all plantations as well as I, and were streight-
cned for nothing fo much as servants; that as it was a
trade that could not publicly sell the negroes when they
came home, fo they desired to make but one voyage,
to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the ques-
tion was, whether I would go their supercargo in the
stiip, to manage the trading part upon the coast of
Guiuea? And they offered me, that 1 should have my
equal share of the negroes, without providing any part
of the stock.
This was a sair proposal, it must be consessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and'
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a sair
way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But sor me, that was thus established, and
had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for three or
four years more, and to have sent for the other hundred •
pounds from England, and whoin that time, and with that
little addition^ could scarce have sailed of being worth'
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing
too; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most
preposterous thing that ever man, in such circumstances,
could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer than 1 could restrain my first
rambling designs, when mv sather's good counsel was
c6' lost
lost upon me. In a word, I told them 1 would go with
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such
as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they all en-
gaged to do, and entered into writings, or covenants, to
do fo; and I made a formal will, disposing of my plan-
tation and effects, in case of my death, making the Cap-
tain of the ship that had saved my lise, as besore, my uni-
versal hejr, but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will; one half of the produce being
to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my ef-
sects, and to keep up my plantation. Had I used half as
much prudence to have looked into my own interest , and
have made a judgment of what 1 ought to hav& done,
and not to 'have done, I had certainly never gone away
from fo prosperous an undertaking; leaving all the pro-
bable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a
voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards ;—
to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular
misfortunes to myself.
But 1 was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my sancy, rather than my reafon; and accordingly
the ship being fitted out, and the cargo finished, and all
things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voy-
age; I went on board in an evil hour again, the 1st of
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that I
went from my sather and mother at Hull, in oruer to act
the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own,
interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons bur-
then, carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the mas-
ter, his boy, and myself. We had on board no large
cargo of goods, except such toys as were fit for our trade
with the negroes; such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and
odd trifles; especially little looking-glasses, knives, scis-
sors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coasts, with design
to stretch over for the African coast, when they came in
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which,
it seems, was the manner of their course in those days.—
3 We
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the
way upon our own coast, till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keeping sarther off
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were
bound for the isle Fernand de Tyoronba, holding our
course N. E. by N. and leaving those isses on the East.
In this course we passed the line in about twelve day's
time, and were, by our last observation, in seven degrees
twenty-two min. northern latitude, when a violent tor-
nado or hurricane took us quite out of our knowledge; it
began from the fouth-east, came about to the north-west,
and then settled in the north-east, from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together
we could do nothing but drive; and scudding away be-
fore it, let it carry us wherever sate, and the sury of the
winds, directed; and during these twelve days 1 need not
say that I expected every day to be swallowed up; nor
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
1n this distress we had, besides the terror of a storm,.
one of our men died of the calenture, and a man and a'
boy washed over-board. About the twelfth day, the'
weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees of north latitude, but that he was twenty-two
degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St. Au-
gustinp, fo that he found he was gotten upon the coast
of Guiana, or the north part of Brasil, beyond the river
Amazones, towards that of the river Ortionoque, com-
monly called the Great River; and now he began to
consult with me what course he should take, for the ship
was leaky, and very much disabled; 'and he was for
going directly back to the coast of Brasil.
I was positively against that, and, looking over the
charts of the sea coast of America with him, we concluded
there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to,
till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and
theresore reiolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which,
by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraught of the bay
or gulph of Mexico, we might eatily persorm, as we
hoped, in about fifteen days sail; whereas we could not
possibly make our voyage to the coiist of Africa without
fome assistance both to our ship and to ourselves.
With v
With this design we changed our course, and steered
away N. W. by W. in order to reach fome of our Eng-
lish islands, where I hoped for relies; but our voyage was>
otherwise determined ; tor, being in the latitude of twelve
deg. eighteen min. a second storm came upon us, which
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,,
and drove us fo out of the very way of all human com-
merce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we
were rather in danger of being devoured by savages, than
ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early one morning cried out land; and we
had no fooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes
of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being
ib stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately;
and we were even driven into our close quarters, to shel..
ter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation
of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing where
we were, or upon what land it was we were driven;
whether an island or the main,.whether inhabited or
not inhabited ; and, as the rage of the wind was still
great, though rather less than at first, we could not fo
much as hope to have the ship hold out many minutes
without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word,
we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as'
preparing for another world; for there was little or
nothing, more for us to do in this. That which was'
our present corn'ort, and als the comsort we had, was,
that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not
break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship, having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too sart for us to expect her getting, off, we
were in a dreadsul condition indeed, and had nothing to
do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could.—
We
We had a boat at our stern just besore the storm; but
'she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder,
and, in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk,
or was driven off to sea; fo there was no hope from her:
we had another boat on board, but how to get her off' into
the sea was a doubtsul thing. However, there was no
room to debate; for we sancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute; and fome told us me was actually
broken already.
'In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got
her flung over the ship's side ; and getting all into her, let'
go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to
God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadsully high
upon the shore, and might well be called Den wild Zee,
as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went fo high, that the boat
could not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail we had none, nor, if we
had, could we have done any thing with it: fo we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy
hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew that
when the boat came near the shore, she would be dashed
in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our fouls to God in the most earnest man-
ner; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling, as
well as we could, towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was,
if we might happen into fome bay or gulph, or the mouth
of fome river, where by great chance we might have run
our boats in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps
made smooth water. But there was nothing of this
appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the more,
the land looked more frightsul than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bid us expect
the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such a
sury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating us as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say, O God! for we were all swallowed up in
a moment.
Nothing can describe the consusion of thought which
I selt when I sunk into the water; for though 1 swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
fo as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or
rather carried me a vast way on towards the shore, and
having spent itself, went back, and lest me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I.
had fo much presence of mind, as well as breath lest,
that, seeing myself nearer the main land than 1 expected,
I got upon my seet, and endeavoured to make on to-
wards the land as sast as I could, besore another wave
should return and take me up again. But I foon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after
me as high as a great hill, and as surious as an enemy,
which I had no means or strength to contend with: my
business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon:
the water, if I could, and fo by swimming to preserve my
breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when ft
came on, might not carry me back again with it, when it
gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
twenty or thirty seet deep in its own body, and I could
seel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore a very gteat way; but I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my'
breath, when, as 1 found myself rising up, fo, to my
immediate relies, I found my head and hands shoot
out above the sursace of the water; and though it was
not two seGonds of time that I could keep myself fo,
yet it relieved me greatly; gave me breath and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not fo long but I held it out: and finding the
water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck
forward
sorward against the return of the waves, and selt
ground again with my seet. I stood still a sew moments
to recover breath, and till the waters went from me, and
then I took to my heels, and ran with what strength I
had sarther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the sury of the sea, which came pouring
after me again, and twice more 1 was lifted up by the
waves, and carried sorwards as besore, the shore being
very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been satal
to me; sor the sea, having hurried me along as besore,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and that with such sorce, as it lcit me senseless, and
indeed helpless, as to mine own deliverances; sor the
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it
were quite out of my body; and had r.t returned again
immediately, 1 must have been strangled in the water;
but I recovered a little besore the return of the waves;
and seeing 1 should be covered again with the water, I
resolved to hold sast by a piece of the rock, and so to
bold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back.
Now as the waves were not so high as at first, being
near land, I kept my hold till the waves ab'ated; and
fhen setched another run, which brought me so near the
stiore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet
did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took I got to the main land, where, to my
great comsort, I clambered up the clrfts of the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite
out of she reach of the water.
I was now landed, and sase on shore, and began to
look up and thank God, 'that my lise was saved in a
case wherein there was, some minutes besore, scarce any
room to hope. 1 believe it is impossible to express to the''
lise what the extasies and transports of the soul are
when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave;
and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz. that
when a malesactor, who has the halter about his neck,
is tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a
reprieve brought to him; I say 1 do not wonder that
they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that. very
'moment they tell him of it, that the surprife may not
drive
drive the animal spirits from the heart, a:.d overwhelm*
him.
For sudden loys, sike griefs, confound at first.
1 walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may lay, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting,
upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
should not be one foul saved but myself; for as for them
I never siw them afterwards, or anysign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two (hoes that were not
fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being fo big, I could hardly see it, it
lay fo sar off'; ami considered, Lord, how was it possible
1 could get on shore!
After I had folaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me to sec
what kind of place I was m, and what was the next to
be done; and I foon found my comforts abate, and that,
in a word, I had a dreadsul deliverance; for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing eithertoeat or
drink to comsort me; neither did I see any prospect be-
fore me but that of perishing with hunger, or being de-
voured by wild beasts. And that which was particu-
larly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon either to
hunt or kill any creature for my sustenance, or to desend
myself against any other creature that might desire to kill
me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knise, a tobacco pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this
was all my provision, and this threw me into terrible
f.gonies of mind, that for a while I ran about like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, I began, with an heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot, if there were
any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but
thorny, which grew near me, and where I refolved to fit
all night, and consider the next day what death I should
die; for as yet I saw no prospect of lise. I walked
about a surlong from the shore, to see if I could find any
fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great joy;
and having drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth,
to prevent hunger, I went to the tree; and, getting up
into it, endeavoured to place myself'fo as that, if I
should sleep, I might not sail; and, having cut me
a short stick like a truncheon for my desence, I took up
my lodging; and having been excessively satigued, I sell
fail asleep, and flept as comsortably as I believe sew
could have done in my condition; and found myself the
most resreshed with it, that I think I ever was on such an
occasion.
When I awaked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, fo that the sea did not rage and
swell as besore. But that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand
where she lay, ,by the swelling of the tide, and was
driven up almost as sar a3 the rock, which I first men-
tioned, where I had been fo bruised by the dashing me
against it: this being within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up still, I
wished myself on board, that at least I might have fome
necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again; and the first thing I found was
the boat, which lay as the wind and the Tea had tossed
her upon the land, about two miles to my right hand. I
walked as sar as I could upon the shore to have got to
her; but found a neck or inlet of water between me and
the bo.1t, which was about half a mile broad; fo I came
back for the present, being more intent upon getting at
the ship, where 1 hoped to find fomething for my present
subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed fo sar out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship. And here i found a fresti
renewing of my gries; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all sase; that is to say,
we had all got sase on shore, and I had not been fo mi-
serable as to be lest entirely destitute of all comsort and
company as I how was. This forced tears from my
eyes
eyes again; but as there was little relies in that, I re-
folved, if possible, to get to the ship; fo I pulled off my
clothes (for the weather was hot to an extreme) and took
to the water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty
was still greater to know how to get on board; as she
j lay aground and high out of the water, there was no-
thing within my reach, to lay hold of. 1 swam round
her twice, and the second time I espied a small piece of
rope, which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down
by the fore-chains, fo low, as with great difficulty I got
hold of it; and, by the help of that rope, got up into
the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bilged, and a great deal of water in the hold; but
that she lay fo on the side of a bank of hard sand, or
rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank,
and her head low almost to the water; by this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part was
dry; for you may be sure my work was to search, and
to see what was spoiled, and what was free. And first I
found that all the ship's provisions were, dry, and un-
touched by the water; and, being very well disposed to
eat, I went to the bread-room, and filled my pockets with,
biscuit, and eat it as I went about other thmgs, for I had
no time to lose. I alfo found fome rum in the great cabin,
of which I took a large dram, and which I nad indeed
need enough of, to spirit me for what was besore me.
Now! wanted nothing but a boat to surnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be very necessary to
me.
It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was not
to be had; and this extremely roused my application.
We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship; I refolved to sall to work with these, and stung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for their
weight, tying every one with a rope, that they might
not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them sast together at both ends as well as I could, in
the form of a raft; and laying two or three short
pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any
any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I went
to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-
mast into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
a great deal of labour and pains; but the hope of sur-
nishing myself with neceflaries, encouraged me to go be-
yond what I should have been able to have done upon
another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reafon-
able weight; my next care wiis what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surge
of the sea. But I was not long considering this; I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get;
and having considered well what I most wanted, 1 first
got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft; the first of these I filled with provisions, viz..
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's stem, which we lived much upon, and a little
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by
for fome fowls which we brought to sea with us, but
the sowls were killed; there had been fome barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disappointment, I
found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it
all. As for liquors, 1 found several cases of bottles
belonging to our skipper, in which were fome cordial
waters, and in all about five or six gallons of arrack;
these 1 stowed by themselves, there being no need to
put.them into the chest,, or any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though
very calm; and I had the mortification to see my coat,
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on Ihore upon
. the sand, swim away: as for my breeches, which were
only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them
and my stockings. However, this put me upon rum-
maging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took
no more than I wanted for the preient use, for I had other
things which my eye was more upon; as first, tools
to work with on shore; and it was after long search-
ing that I found out the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very usesul prize to me, and.much more valu-
able than a ship laden with gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in gene-
ral what it contained.
My next care was for fome ammunition and arms:
there were two very good fowling pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these 1 secured first, with fome
powder horns, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords'. I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water; these two I
got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I
should get to shore With them, having neither sail, oar,
nor rudder; and the least capsull of wind would have
overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: first, a smooth and calm
sea; second, the tide rising and setting ir/to the shore;
third, what little wind there was blew me towards the
land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat, and betides the tools which were
in the chest, 1 found two saws, an axe, and a hammer;
and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there-
abouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive
a litile distant from t':e place where I had landed besore;
by which 1 perceived that there was fome indraught of
the water, and consequently I hoped to find fome creek of
the river there, which 1 might make use of as a port to
get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, fo it was. There appeared besore me
a little opening of the land; I found a strong current of
the tide set into it, fo I guided my raft as well as I
could to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I
had like to have susfered a second shipwreck, which, if
I had, I think verily would have broken my heart; for,
knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end os it upon a shoal, and not being aground at
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo
had flipped ots'towards that end that was afloat, and so
sallen into the water. I did my utmost by setting my
back against the chests to keep them in their places,
but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength;
neither durst I stir from the posture 1 was in, but holding
up
.up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner
near half an hour; in which time the rising of the water
brought me a little more upon a level: and a little after,
the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel; and then
driving up higher, lat length found myself in the mouth
'of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong
current of tide running up. I looked on both fides for a
proper place to get to shore; for I was not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping in time to see fome ,
ship at sea, and theresore refolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.
At length 1 espied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and disficulty, I
guided my raft; and at last got fo near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in.
But here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the
sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
say, Hoping, there was no place to land, but where one
end of the Boat, if it ran on shore, would lie fo high, and
the other fink lower, as besore, that it would endanger
my .cargo again. All that I could do was to wait till
the tide was at the highest,, keeping 'the raft with my
oar, like an anchor, to hold the fide of it sast to the
stiore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would slow over, and fo it did. As foon as I found
water enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water),
I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened, or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars
into the ground; one on one side near one end, and one
on the other side near the other end: and thus I lay till
the water ebbed away, and lest my raft and all my cargo
sase on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitarion, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the conti-
nent, or on an island; whetherinhabited,or not inhabited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop fome other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northwird. I took out
one
one of the fowling pieces, and one of the pistols, and a
horn of of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for dis-
covery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with
great labour and difficulty got up, I immediately saw my
sate, to my great affliction; viz. that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen ex-
cept fome rocks, which lay a, great way ofs', and two
small islands less than this, which lay about three leagues
to the west.
I found alfo that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none; yet I saw abun-
dance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither when I
killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what
not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird which
I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a large wood: I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there smce
the creation of the world. I had no fooner fired, but
from all the parts of the wood there arose an extraordi-
nary number of fowls of many forts, making a consused
screaming and crying, every one according to his usual
note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew: as
for that creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a
hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common; its flesh was carrion,
and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and sell to work to bring my cargo onshore, which took
me up the rest of the day. What to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but fome
wild beast might devour me; though I afterwards found
there was really no need for those sears'.
However, as well as I could I barricadoed myself round
with the chests and boards that 1 had brought on shore,
and made a kind of an hut for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, ex-
cept that I had seen two or three creatures like hares run
out of the wood where I shot the fowl.
. I now began to consider that 1 might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be usesul
to me, and particularly fome of the rigging and sails,
and
and such other things as might come to hand; and I re-
solved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if pos-
sible: and as 1 knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all
other things apart, till I gat every thing out of the ship
that I could get. Then 1 called a council, that is to sov,
in my thoughts, whether 1 mould take back the raft; but
this appeared impracticable; so I resolved to go as besore
when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped besore I went from my hut, having nothing on
but a chequered shirt, a pair or linen drawers, and a pair
of pumps on my seet.
I <rot on board the ship as besore, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, 1 neither
made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard; but yet I
brought away several things very usesul to me; as first,
in the carpenter's store I sound two or three bags sull of
nails and spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that moil usesul thing called a
grindstone. All these I secured, together with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, aud two barrels of musket bullets, seven
muskets, and another sowling piece, with some small
quantity of powder more, a large bag sull of small shot,
and a great roll ef sheet of lead; but this last was so heavy
I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Betides these things, I took all the men's clothes that
I could sind, and'a spare sore-top sail, hammock, and
some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and brought them also all sate on shore, to my very great
comsort.
1 was under some apprehensions, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be de-
voured on shore; but when 1 came back, I sound no sign
of any viliter, only there sat a creature like a-wild cat,
upon one of the chests, which, when I carne towards if,
ran away to a little distance, and then stood stii!; she sat
very compofed and unconcerned, and looked sull in my
face, as ir the had a mind to be acquainted with me. I
presented my gun at her, but she did.not understand it;
she was persectly unconcerned at it, nor did me ofser to
stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of bifcuit,
vol. i. d thcu<:h
'though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and
fise went to it, smelled of it, and eat it, and looked (as
pleased) for more;' but 1 thanked her, and. could spare no
more, fo she marched osf'.
Having got my second cargo on shore (though I was
sain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large castes), I
went to work to make a little tent with the sail and fome
poles which I cut for. that purpose; and into this tent I
brought every thing that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun: I piled all the empty chests and casks up in
a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden
attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with fome boards within, and an empty chest set up
an end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
gun at length by me, I wenbto bed for the first time, and
il'ept very quietly all night: I was very weary and heavy,
for the night besore I had slept but little, and had laboured
very hard all day, as well to setch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.
1 had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
were laid up, I believe for one man. But I was not satis-
fied still; for while the ship sat upright in that posture,
I thought 1 ought to get every thing out of her that I
«culd. So every day at low water I went on board, and
brought away fomething or other: but particularly the
third time I went, I brought away as much of the rig-
ging as I could; as alfo all the small ropes and rope-
twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the' barrels of
wet gunpowder; in a word, I brought away all the
fails first and last, only that I was sain to cut thorn in
pieces, and bring as much at a time as 1 could; tor they
were no more usesul to me sor sails, but as mere canvas
only.
But that which comsorted me more still was, that at
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that' was worth meddling with; I say, after
all
all this, I-sound a great hogshead of bread, three large
iundlets of rum, or spirits, a box of fine sugar, and a
barrel of sine flour; this was surprising to me, be-
cause I had given over expecting any rstore provisions,
except what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied
the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails which I cut out; and, in a
word, I got all this sase on shore also, though at several
times.
- The next day I made another voyage; and now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable, and fit to
hand out, I began with the cables, and cutting the great
cables into pieces, such as I could move, 1 got two cables
and an hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could
get; and having cut down the spritsail yard and the
mizen-yard, and every thing I could to makea'large raft,
I loaded it with all thnse heavy goods, and came away:
but my good luck began to leave me; sor this raft was
so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered
the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods,
not being able to guide it so handily as 1 did the other,
it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water: as sor myself, it was no great harm, sor I was near
the shore; but as to-mycargo, it was great part of it loft,
especially the iron, which 1 expected would have been of
great use to me. However, when the tide was out, I got
molt of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
though with insinite labour, sor I was sain to dip sor it
into the water, a work which satigued me very much.
After this, 1 went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.
I had been tffirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
times on board the ship; in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed
capable to bring; though I believe verily, had the calm
weather held, I should have brought away the whole
ship, piece by piece: but preparing the twelfth time
to go on board, 1 sound the wind began to rife. How-
ever, at low water 1 went on board; and though I
thought I had rummaged the cabin so essectually as that
nothing more could be sound, yet I difcovered a locker with
drawers ia it, in one of which I sound two or three
b 2 ^ razors,
'
Tazors, and one pair of large scissars, with ten ot a
dozen good knives and forks, in another I found about
thirty-six pounds value in money, fome European coin,
fome Braiil, fome pieces of eight, fome gold, and fome
silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. Oh
drug! said I aloud, what art thou good for? Thou art
not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground; one.
of those knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner
of use for thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to
'the bottom, as a creature whose lise is not worth saving.
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think
of making another raft; but while I was preparing this,
I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and
in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the
shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain
to pretend to make a raft, with the wind offshore; and
that it was my business to be gone besore the tide of flood
• began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore
.at all; accordingly 1 let myself down into the water, and
swam across the channel which lay between the ship and
the sand, and even that with difficulty enough, partly
with the weight of the things 1 had about me, and
partly the roughness of the water, for the wind rose very
hastily, and besore it was quite high water, it blew a
storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay,
with all my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very
hard all that night; and in the morning, when I looked
out, behold no more ship was to be seen. I was a
little surprised, but recovered myself with this satissac-
tory reflection, viz. that I had loft no time, nor abated
any diligence to get every thing out of her that could
be usesul to me; and that indeed there was little left
in her that I was able to bring away, if I had yet
more time. I now gave over any more thought of
the ship, or of any thing out of her, except what might
drive on shore from her wreck; as indeed divers pieces of
her afterwards did, but those things were of small use to
me.
My
'My thoughts were now wholly employed about secur-
ing myself against either savages, if any mould appear, or
wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many
thoughts of a method how to do this, and what kind of
dwelling to make, whether I should make me a cave in
the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I re-
solved upon both, the manner and description of whichHt
may not be improper to give an account of.
I loon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorilh
ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whol-
sorne, and more particularly because there was no water
near it; fo I re blved to find a more healthy and more
convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me; first, health, and fresh water, as
I just now mentioned; secondly, fljelter from the heat o£
the sun; thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whe-
ther man or beast; fourthly a view to the sea, that if
God sent any ship in fight, I might not lose any advan-
tage of my deliverance, for which I was not willing to
banish my expectation yet.
In search of a psace proper for this, I found a little
plain on the tide of a rising hill, whose form towards
this little plain was as steep as an house tide, fo that
nothing could come down upon me from the top. On
the side of this rock there was an hoslow place, worn a
little. way in, like the entrance or door of a cave, but
there was not really any cave or way into the rock at
all.
On the flat of the green, just besore this hollow place,
I refolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and
lay like a green besore the door, and at the end of it de-
scended irregularly every way down into the low grounds
by the sea-iide. It was on the N. N. W. tide of the hill,
fo that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by Si sun, or thereabouts, which in
those countries is near the setting.
Besore 1 set up my tent; I drew an half circle besore
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
D 3 semi-diameter
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its dia-
meter, from its beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, .the biggest end being out of the ground above five
feet and an half, and sharpened on the top; the two rows
jid not stand above fix inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows upon one another with-
in the circle, between those two rows of stakes, up to the
top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against
them, about two seet and a half high, like a spur to a
post; and t.'is sence was fo strong, that neither man nor
beast could get into it, or over it. This cost me a great.
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the
wood, bring them to the place, and drive them into the
earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I listed over after me: and fo
I was completely senced in and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I could not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution from the enemies 1 had apprehended danger
from.
Into this sence, or fortress, with insinite labour I car-
ried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and
stores, of which you have the account above: and I made
me a large tent alfo, to preserve me from the rains, that
in one part of the year are very violent there; I made it
double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one larger tent
above it; and covered the uppermost part of it with a
large tarpaulin, which 1 had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had brought on shore, but in an hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the
ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus in-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
.. . '' now
now I had lest open, and fo passed and repassed, as I said,
by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that 1 dug
down out through my tent, I laid them up within my
sence in the nature of a terrace, fo that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus 1 made
a cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, besore all
these things were brought to persection; and theresore I
must go back to fome other things which took up fome
of my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I
had laid my scheme for sotting up the tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain sidling from a thick dark
cToud, a sudden flaso of lightning happened, and after
that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect
of it. I was not fo much surprised with the lightning,
as I was with the thought which darted into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself.—Oh my powder! My very
heart funk within me, when I thought that at one blast
all my powder might be destroyed, on which, not my de-
sence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, en-
tirely depended; I was nothing near fo anxious about my
own danger, though, had the powder took fire, I had
never known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my work, my build-
ing, and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags
and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in hopes that, whatever might
come, it might not all take sire at once, and to keep fo
apart, that it should not be possible to make one part sire
another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and
1 think my powder, which in all was about one hundred
and forty pounds weight, was divided into less than an
hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I
did not apprehend any danger from that, fo I placed it in
my new cave, which in my sancy I called my kitchen;
and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks ,
fo that no wet rnight come to it, marking very caresully
where I laid it.
d 4 In
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out at lcast once every day with my gun, as well to di-
vert mysels, as to see if I could kill anything fit for
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out, I
presently discovered that there were goats in the island,
which was a great satissaction to me; but then it was
attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they
were fo shy, fo subtle, and fo swift a foot, that it was
she most difficult thing in the world to come at them;
but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I
might now and then shoot one, as it foon happened; for
after I had found their haunts a little, 1 laid wait in this
manner for them:—I observed, if they saw me in the
valleys, though thev were unon the rocks, they would
run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were seed-
ing in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of sne: from whence I concluded, that by the
position of their optics, their sight was fo directed down-
ward, that tb«ey did not readily see objects that were
above them. So afterwards I took this method; I al-
ways climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and
then had frequently a sair mark. The sirst shot I made
among these creatures, I killed a she goat which had a
little kid by her which she gave suck to, which grieved
me heartily; but when the old one sell, the kid stood
stock still by her till I came and took her up; and not
only fo, but when I carried the old one with me upon
my shoulders the kid followed me quite to my inclo-
sure; upon which 1 laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat; fo I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied
me with iiesh a great while, for 1 eat sparingly, and saved
my provisions, my bread especially, as much as possibly I
could.
Having now sixed my habitation, I found it abfo-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and
suel to burn; and what I did for that, as alfo how I
enlarged my cave, and what conveniencies 1 made, I
shall give a sull account of in its place; but I must sirst
give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts
about
abiut living, which it may be well suppofed were not a
sew.
I had a difmal profpect os my condition; sor as I was
not castaway upon that island, without being driven, as
is said, by a violent ilorm, quite out of the'course of our
intended voyage, and a great way, viz. some hundreds of
leagues out of the ordinary course of the trade of man-
kind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination
otTIeaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my lise. The tuars would run plen-
tisully down my sace when 1 made these reslections; and
sometimes I would expoftulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and ren-
der them so absolutely miferable, so without help aban-
doned, and so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thanksul sor such a lise..
But something always returned swift upon me to check
'these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one
day, walking, with my gun in my hand, by the sea side,
lwas very pensive upon the subject of my present condi-
tion, when reason, as it were, put in, expostulating with
me t'other way, thus:—Well, you are in a desolate
condition 'tistrue; but pray remember where are the rest
of you? Did not there come eleven ot'.you into the boat?
AVhere are the ten? Why were not they saved, and you
lost? Vv hy are you singled out? Is it better to be here or
there? And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in them, and with what
worse attended them*
Than it occurred to me again how well I was furnished
sor my subsiftence, and what i would have been my case
if it had not happened, which was an hundred thousand
to one that the ship floated from the place where sir'fc she
struck, and was driven lo near to the shore, that I had
time to get all these things out of her !. .What'would
have been my case, if I had been to have lived in the
condition in which I first came on shore, without ne-
cessaries of lise, or any msans to supply and procure
them? Particularly said I aloud, though to myself, what
would I have done without a gun, without ammunition,
with.outany tools to make any thing, or to work with?
d 5' Without
:-U

Without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of co-
vering? And that now I had all these to a sufficient quan-
tity, and was in a sair way to provide myself in such a
manner, as to live without my gun when my ammuni-
tion was spent; fo that 1 had a tolerable view of subsisting
without any want as long as I lived; for I considered,
from the beginning, how I should provide for the acci-
dents that might happen, and for the time that was to
come, even not only after my ammunition should be spent,
but alfo after my health or strength mould decay.
I consess I had not then entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my
powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thoughts of it surprizing to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.
.And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of silent lise, such perhaps as was never heard of
in the world besore; I shall take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the
30th of September, when, in the manner as above said,
I first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being
to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head; for 1 reckoned myself, by observation, to be
in the lotitude of 9 degrees and 22 minutes fouth of the
line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my fhoughtsthat I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books, and pen, 'and ink, and should even
forget the sabbath days from the working days: but .to
prevent this, I cut it with my knise upon a large post in
capital letters, and making it into a great cross, I set it
up on theshore where I first landed, viz. I came on shore
here, the 30th of September, 1659.' Upon the sides of
this square post I cut every day a notch with my knise,
and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long
one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things that 1 brought from the ship in the seve-
ral voyages ,which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I
X
got several things of less value, but not at all less usesul
to me, which 1 omitted setting down besore; as in par-
ticular pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the cap-
tain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three
or four compafles, fome mathematical instruments, dials,
perspectives, charts, and books of navigation, all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them'or ndt.
I alfo found three very good bibles, which came to me
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things; fome ,Portuguese books alfo, and
among them two or three popish prayer-books, and seve-
ral other books, all which I caresully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two
cats, of whose eminent history I must have occasion to say
fomething in its place; for I carried both the cats with
me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after Iwent on
more with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me
many years. I wanted nothing that he could setch me,
nor any company that he cousd make up to me; I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that he cousd not do.
As I observed besore, I found pens, ink, and paper, and
I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall shew that,.
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact, but after
that was gone, I could not; for I could not make any.
ink by any means that I could geti
And this put me in mind that I wanted many thing3,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and of
these, this of ink is one; as alfo a spade, pick-axe, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I foon learned to want that .without
much difficulty..
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily; and it was near a whole year "besore I had en-
tirely smithed my little pale, or surrounded habitation.
The piles, or stakes; which were as heavy as lcould
Well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more by sar in bringing home; fo that
I spent fometimes two days in cutting and bringing home
one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into.the
ground; for which purpose 1 got;a heavy piece of
wood at first, but at last bethought myself os one of the
D. 6 iron.'
iron crows; which, however, though I found, it yet
made driving those posts, or piles, very laborious and
tedious work.
But what need T to have been concerned at thetediouf-
nel's of any thing I had to do, seeing 1 had time enough
to do it in? Nor had 1 any other employment, is that had
been over, at least that I could foresee, except the rang-
ing the island to seek for food, which I did more or lefe
every day.
I now began seriously to consider my condition, and
the circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing; not fo much to leave them
to any that were to come after me, for I was like to have
but sew heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily por-
ing upon them, and afflicting my mind. And as my
reafon began now to master my despondency, I began to>
comsort myself as well as I could, and to set the good
against the evil, that I might have fomething to distin-
guish my case from worse; and I stated it very impartially,
like debtor and creditor, the comsort I enjoyed agamit
the miseries I suffered, thus :—
* I am cast upon an horri- But I am alive, and not
lible, defolate island—void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company were.
I am singled out and sepa- But I am singled out too
rated, as it were, from all from all the ship's crew, to
the world, to be miserable. be spared from death; and
he that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from man- But I am not starved, and
kind, a folitary, one banished perishing on a barren place,
from human fociety. affording no sustenance.
J have no clothes to cover But I am in an hot cli-
me'. ' mate,where, if I had clothes,
I could hardly wear them.
1 am
lam without any desence, But I am cast on an ifland
or means to resill any vio- where I see no wild beasts to>
lence of man or beast. hurt me, as I saw on the
coast of Africa: and what
if I had been shipwrecked
there?
I have no soul to speak But God wondersully sent
to, or relieve me. the ship in near enough the
shore, that I have gotten out
so many necessary things as
will either supply my wants*
or enable me to supply my-
self, even as long as I-live.
Upon the whole, here Was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so mi-
serable, but there was something negative, or something
politive, to be thanksul in it; and: let this stand as a
direction from the experience of the most miserabla of all
conditions in this world, that we may always sind in it
something to comsort ourselves from, and to set in the
description of good and evil, on the credit side of the
account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my con-
dition, and giving over looking out to sea, to see if I could
spy a ship; 1 say, giving over these things, I began to -
apply myself to accommodate my way of living, and to
make things as easy as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of pofts and cables, but I might now rather call it
a wall; sor I raifed a kind of wall up against it of turt"s,
about two seet thick on the outside; and after some time,
I think it was a year and a half, I raifed rafters from
it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with
boughs or trees, and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I sound at some times of the year very
violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I must observe too, that at sirst this was
3 a consused
a consused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no ordery
fo they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
myself; fo I set myself to enlarge my cave, and worked
sarther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it. And
fo, when I found I was pretty sase as to beasts of prey,
I worked sideways to the right-hand into the rock, and
then turning to the right-hand again, worked quite out,
and made my door to come out on the outside of my pa';.?.
or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a
back ,way to my tent, and to my store-house, but gave
me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make suchneces-
sary things at I found I most wanted, particularly a chair
and a table; for without these I was not able to enjoy
the sew comsorts I had in the world ; I could not write, ,
or eat, or do several things with fo much pleasure, with-
out a table.
So I went to work: and here I must needs observe,.
that as reafon is the substance and origin of the mathe-
matics, fo, by stating and squaring every thing by rea-
fon; and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be, in time, master of every me-
chanic art. I had never handled a tool in my lise, and!
yet in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I
found at last that I wanted nothing but I could have
made it, especially if 1 had had tools. However, I made
abundance of things even without tools, and fome with'
no more toolsthan an adze and an hatchet, which per-
haps were never made that way besore, and that with
insinite labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had
no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
besore me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till
I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub
it'smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I
could make but one board out of a whole tree.; but thi3 ~
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had
for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took
me up to make a plank or board. But my time or labour
was little worth, and fo it was as well employed one way
as another.
> However,,
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this 1 did out of the short
pieces of boards thatl brought on my ra:t from the ship.
But when I had wrought out fome boards as above, I
made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and an half,
one over another, all along on one side of my cave, to
lay all my tools, nails, and iron work; and, in a word,
to separate every thing at large in their places, that I might
easily come at them: I alfo knocked pieces into the wall
of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a
general magazine of all necessary things; and I had every
thing fo ready at hand, that it was a great pleasure to me
to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find
my stock of all necessaries fo great.
And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for indeed at first 1 was in too
much hurry, and not only an hurry as to labour, but in
too much discomposure of mind, and my journal would
have been sull of many dull things. For example, I
must have said thus: Sept. the 30th, after I got to shore,
and had escaped drowning, instead of being thanksul to
God'for my deliverance, having first vomited with a great
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach,
and recovering myself a little, 1 ran about the more,
wringing my hands, and beating my head and sace, ex-
claiming at my misery, and crying out I was undone,
undone! till tired and saint, I was forced to lie down on
the ground for repose, but durst not sleep for sear of being
devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been onboard the
ship, and had got all I could out of her, yet I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship; then sancy
at a vast distance I espied a sail, please myself with the
hopes of it, and then, after looking steadily till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and fit down and weep like a
child and thus increase my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in fome mea-
sure, and having settled my household stuff and habita-
tion, made me a table and a chair, and all as handfome
about
about me as I could, I began, I say, to keep my journal,
'of which I shall here here give you the copy, though in it
'will be told all these particulars over again, as long as it
lasted; sor at last, having no more ink, I was sorced to
leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30, T659. 1, poor miferable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadsul storm in
the offing, came on shore on this difmal and unsortunate
island, which I call the island of Despair, all the rest of
the ship's company being drowned, and myself almost
dead.
All the rest of the day 1 spent in afflicting mysels at the
difmal circumstances I was brought to, viz. 1 had neither
sood, house, clothes, ntapon, or place to fly to; and, in
despair of any relies, saw nothing but death beiore me,
either that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered
by savages, or starved to death sor want of sood. .At the
approach of night, 1 slept in a tree, sor sear of wild crea-
tures but slept soundly, though it rained all night.'
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my groat surprife,
the ship had floated with the high.tide, and, was driven on
shore again much nearer the island; which, as it was
some comsort, on. one hand, sor seeing her lit up-right,
and not broken in pieces, i hoped, if the wind abated, I
might get on board, and get some sood and necessaries
out of her sor my relies; ib, on the other hand, it renewed
my gries, at the lofs of my comrades, who, I imagined,
if we had all staid on board, might have saved the ship,
or at least that they would not have been all drowned as
they were; and that, had the men been saved, we might,
perhaps, have built us a boat uut of the ruins of the ship,
to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
things: but at length, seting the ship almost dry, I went
on the sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
'ibis
<
This day also continued raining, though with no wind at
all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in making several voyages to get all 1 could
out of the ship, which I brought on shore every tide of
flood upon rafts. Much rain also on these days, though
with some intervals of sair weather. But it seems this
was the rainy season.
Oct. 24. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, 1 recovered many of theih when the
tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces,
the.wind blowing a little harder than besore, and was no
iTioro to bs Iccn, except the wreck of her, and that only
at low water. I spent this day in covering and securing
the goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil
them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to
find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned
to secure myself from any attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper
place under a rock, and marked out a semi-circle sor my
encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work,
wall, or sortification, made of double piles, lined within
with cable, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in car-
rying all my goods to iny new habitation, though some
part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, 1 went out into the ifland
with my gun, to see sor some sood, and difcover the coun-
try, when I killed a'she goat, and her kid sollowed me
home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would
not seed.
November.I. I set up my tent underarock, and lay
there sor the first night, making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 5. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rait, and with them
sormed a sence round me; a little within the place 1 had
marked out sor my sortification.
Nov.
/
"Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls.
like ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon-
went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then employed myself at work till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two
I 133- down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot,
and then in the evening to work again. The working
part of this day and the next were wholly employed in
making this table, for I was but yet a very forry work-
man, though time and necessity made me a complete na-
tural mechanic foon after, as I believe it Would do any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day I went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty foft, but her
flesh good for nothing: every creature I killed I took oft'
the skins, and preserved them. Coming back by the sea
shore, 1 saw many forts of sea fowls which I did not un-
derstand; but was surprised, and almost affrighted with
two or three seals, which while I was gazing at, not well'
knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped
me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, 1 went to work witht
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking j
nor was it long besore I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled sair weather. The
7th, 8th, ,9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th
was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly
ur>to make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to
a tolerable shape, but never to please me; and even in
the making 1 pulled it to pieces several times.—Note, I
foon neglected keeping Sundays; for omitting my mark
for them on my posl, 1 forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which resreshed me ex-
ceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied
with terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me
dreadsully for sear of my powder. As foon as it was over,
I refolved to separate my stock of powder into as many
little parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which, might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder; and fo put-
ting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
remote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but
1 knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my sarther conve-
niency.—Note, three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel,' and a wheel-barrow,
or basket; fo 1 deiisted from my work, and began to
consider how to supply that want, and make me fome
tools. As for the pick-axe, I made use of the iron
crows, .which were proper enough, though heavy; but
the next thing was a shovel, or spade; this was fo ab-
folutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing esfec-
tually without it; but what kind of one to make lknew
not. "'
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that.wood, or like it, which in the Bra(i!»
they call the iron tree, for* its exceeding hardness ; of this,
with great labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home with difficulty enough, for it
was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of,the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine ; for
I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the "form,
of a shovel, or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me fo long; how-
ever, it served well enough for the uses which I had occa-
sion to pot it to: but never was a shovel, I believe, made
after that sashion, or fo long a making.
I was still desicient, for I wanted a basket, or wheel-
barrow; a basket I could not make by any means, hav-
ing no such things as twigs that would bend to make
wicker-ware, at least none yet found out: and as to the
wheel-barrow, I sancied I could make all but the wheel, .
but that I had no notion of, neither did 1 know how to
go about it: besides, I had no possible way to make iron
gudgeons for the spindle, or axis, of the wheel to run in.;
so
fo I gave it over: and fo, for carrying away the eartFl
which I dug out of the cave, !• made me a thing like a
'* 4iod, which the labourers carry mortar in when they serve
the bricklayers.
This was not fo difficult to me as the making of tire
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took roe
up no less than four days; I mean always, excepting my
morning's walk with my gun, which I seldom sailed;
and very seldom sailed alfo of bringing home fomething
sit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having stood still, because
of my making these tools; wheln they were finished, 1
went on, and working every day as my strength and time
allowed, 1 spent eighteen days entirely in widening and
deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods com-
modiouily.
Note.—During all this time I worked to make this
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehouse or magazine, a kirchen, a dining-room, and
'a cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, except that
fometimes, in the wet seafon of theyear, it rained so
hard, that I could not keep myself dry ; which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock,
and load them with flags, and large leaves of trees, like
thatch.
Dec. 10. I began now to think my cave, or vault,
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth sell down from the top
and one side, fo much, that in short it frightened me, and
not without reafon to; for if I had been under it, I had
never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster 1 had a
great deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose
earth to carry out, and, which was of more importance,
J had the cieling to prop up, fo that I might be sure no
more would come down.'
Dec. 11. This day 1 went to work with it accordingly,
and got two shoars, or potts, pitched upright to the top,
with two pieces of board across over.each post; this I
finished the next day; and setting up more posts with
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured,
and
and the posts standing in rows, served me sor partitions
to part of the house.
Dec. 1 7. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves,
and knocked up noils in the posts, to hang every thing
on that coukl be hung up: and now I began to be in
some order within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the cave, and
hegan to surnistl my house, and set up some pieces of board
. like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but board began
to be very scarce with me: I also-made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 2a. Rain all day.
Dec. 26'. No rain, and the earth much cooler than
besore, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat,'and lamed another, so
that I catched, and led it home in a string: when I had
it home, I bound and splintered up its leg which was
broke. — N. B. I took such care of it that it lived, and
the leg grew well, and as strong as ever: but by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and sed upon the green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time
that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that 1 might have sood when my powder and
shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 2y, 30. Great heats,and no breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, sor
sood. This time I spent in putting all my things in order
within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day.
This evening, going surther into the valleys, which lay
towards the center of the island, I sound there was plenty
of goats, though exceedingly shv, and hard to come at:
however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to
hunt them down.
Jan. 2, Accordingly the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him at the goats; but I was miftaken,
sor they all saced about upon the dog, and he knew his
danger too well, sor he would not go near them.
Jan. 3. I began my sence, or wall, which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N.B. This
N. B. This wall being described besore, I purposely
omit what was laid in the Journal; it is sufficient
to observe, that 1 was no less time than from the
3d of January to the 14th of April, working, finish-
ing, and persecting this wall, though it was no more
than about twenty-four yards in length, being an half
circle, from one place in the rock to another place
about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the center behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, fometimes weeks together; but I
thought I should never be persectly secure till this wall
was finished; and it is scarcely credible what inexpres-
sible labour every thing was done with, especially the
bringing piles out of the wood,. and driving them into the
ground, for I made them much bigger than 1 needed to
have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
senced with a turs wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself, that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not perceive any thing like an habitation:
and it is very well I did fo, as may be observed hereafter,
upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time, 1 made rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in those walks of fomething or other to
my advantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeons, which build not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and
taking fome young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up
tame, and did fo; but when they grew older, they all
flew away, which perhaps was at first for want of seed-
ing them, for 1 had nothing to give them. However, I
frequently found their nests, and got their young ones,
which was very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could never make a
cask to be hooped; I had a small rundlet or iwo, as i'ob-
ferved besore, but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though 1 spent many v^eeks about
it:
I could neither put in the heads, nor join the staves fo
true to one another as to make them hold water; so I
gave that alfo over.
In the next place I was at a great loss for candles;
fo that as foon as it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remem-
hered the lump of bees-wax with which. I made candles
m my African adventure; but i hid none of that now:
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a
goat, I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made
of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a
wick of fome oakum, I made me a lamp; and this
gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it happened,
that rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which,
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the seed-
mg of poultry, not for this voyage, but besore, as I sup-
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little re-
mamder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured by
the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust;
and being willing to have the bag for fome other use (I
think it was to pat powder in, when I divided it for sear
of the lightning, or fome such use), I shook the husks
of corn nut of it on one iide of my fortification under the
rock.
1t was a little besore the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of
any thing, and not fo much as remembering that I had
thrown any thing there; when about a month after, or
thereabouts, I saw' fome sew ib.lks of fomething green
mooting upon the ground, which I fancied might be
fome plant 1 had not seen; but I was surprised, and per-
sectly astonished, when after a little longer time, I saw
about ten or twelve ears come out, which were persect
green barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as
our EngHsh barley. , .
It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had hitherto
acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I
had' very sew notions of religion in my heed, nor
had entertained any sense of any thing that had befallen
me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say,
what
what pleases God, without fo much as enquiring into the
end ot' Providence in these things, or his order in govern-
ing events in the world. But after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew wiis not proper for corn,
and especially as I knew not how it came there, it startled
me strangely; and 1 began to suggest, that God had mi-
raculously caused this grain to grow without any help of
seed fown, and that it was fo directed, purely for my
sustenance in that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out
of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a pro-
digy of nature mould happen, on m)r account; and this
was the more strange to me, because I saw near it still,
all along by the tide of the rock, fome other straggling
stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I
knew, because 1 had seen it grow in Africa when I was
ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Pro-
vidence for my support, but not doubting but that there
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the
island where I had been besore, peeping into every cor-
• ner, and under every rock, to see for more of it, but £
could not sind any. At last it occured to my thoughts
tnat I had shaken the bag; of chicken's meat out in that
place, and the wonder began to cease; and I must con-
sess my religious thanksulness to God's providence began
to abate upon discovering that all this was nothing but
what was common; though 1 ought to have been as
thanksul for fo strange and unforeseen a Providence as if
it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order to appoint, that
ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled,
when the rats'had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been
dropped from heaven: as alfo, that I should throw it out
into that particular place, where, it being in the shade of
an high rock, sprang up immediately: whereas, if 1 had
thrown it any where else at that time, it had been burnt
top and destroyed.
I caresully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their seafon, which was about the end of June; and
laying up every grain, I refolved to fow them all again,
hoping in time to have fome quantity, sufficient to supply
me
me with bread; but it was not till the fourth year that I
would allow myself the least grairl of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its
order; for I lost all I sowed the first seafon, by not ob-
serving the proper time; for I fowed it just besore the dry
seafon, fo that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care,
and whose use was of the same kind, or to the same
purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
tor I found ways to cook it up without baking, though
I did that alfo after fome time. But to return to my
journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over a wall by
a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of my .
habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; fo I went up with it
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it
down ois the inside. This was a complete inclosure to.
me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me from without, unless it could first mount my
wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and my-
self killed; the cause was thus: as I was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into
my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadsul
surprising thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the
earth came tumbling down from the roof of my cave,
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two
of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a fright-
sul manner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing
of what really was the cause; only thinking that the top
of my cave was salling in, as fome of it had done besore;
and for sear I should be buried in it, I ran forwards to
my ladder, and not thinking myself sase there neither,
I got over piy wall for sear of the pieces of the hill;
which I expected might roll down upon me. I was no
fooner stepped down upon the firm ground,' but I plainly
vol. i. e saw
saw it was a terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood
on snook three times, at about eight minutes distance,
with three such fhocks as would have overturned the
strongest buildings that could be supposed to have stood
upon the earth; and a great piece os the top ot' the rock,
which stood at about half a mile from me, next the sea,
sell down with such a terrible noise as 1 never heard in all
my lise. I perceived alfo the very sea was put into a
violent motion by it; and I believed the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.
I was fo amazed with the thing itself, having never selt
the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was
like one dead or stupified; and the motion of the earth
made my stomach sick, like one that is tossed at sea: but
the noise os the salling os the rock awaked me, as it were,
and rousing mefrom the stupified condition I was in, filled
me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the
hill salling upon my tent, and all my household goods,
and burying all at once; and this sunk my veiy foul
within me a second time.
After spe third shock was over, and I selt no more for
fome tirpe, I began to take courage; and yet I had not
heart enough to get over my wall again, for sear of being
buried alive; but still sat on the ground, greatly cast
down, and disconfolate, not knowing what to do. Asl
this while I had not the least serious religious thought,
nothing but the common, Lord,' having have mercy upon
me! and when it was over, that went away too.
While 1 sat thus, 1 found the air over-cast, and it grew
cloudy, as if it would rain; and in less than half an hour
it blew a most dreadsul hurricane of wind. The sea all
'on a sudden was covered with foam and froth, the shore
was covered with the breach of the water, the trees were
torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm it was; and
this held about three hours, and then began to abate;
and then in two hours more it was calm, and began to
rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much terri-
fied and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts that these winds and rain being the consequence
of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and
over, and I might venture into my cave again. With
this
this thought my spirits began to revive, and the rain
helping alfo to persuade me, I went in, and sat me down
in my tent; but the rain was fo violent, that my tent was
ready to be beaten down with it, and I was forced to go
into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy tor
sear it should sall on my head. ". ,
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut
a hole through my new fortification, like a fink, to let th'i
water out, which would else have drowned my cave.
Aster I had been in my cave fome time, and found still no
more shock of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed. And now, to compose my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store,
and took a small sup of rum, which however I did thrn,
and always very sparingly, knowing I could have no
more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, fo that I could not stir abroad; bat my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best to do; concluding, that if the island was sub-
ject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for
me in a cave, but I must think of building me fome
little hut in an open place, which I might surround with
a wall, as I had done here, and fo make myself secure
from wild beasts or men; but concluded if I staid where
I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried
alive.
With these thoughts, I refolved to move my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should bo
shaken again, would certainly sall upon my tent: and
I spent the two next days, being the 1.9th and 20th of
April, in contriving where and how to remove my habi-
tation.
The sear of being swallowed up alive affected, me fo,
that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehensions of
lying abroad, without any sence, were almost equal to
it. But still, when I looked about and saw how every
thing was put in order, how persectly concealed I
was, and how sase from danger, it made me loth to
remove'.
e 2 In
-
In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would re-
quire a vast deal os time sor me to do this, and that I must
be contented to run the venture where 1 was, till I had
sormed a camp sor myself, and had secured it so as to re-
move to it. So with this resolution I compofed myself
sor a time; and resolved that I would go to work with all
speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a
circle, as besore, and set my tent up in it when it was
sinished ; but that 1 would venture to stay where I was till
it was sinished and fit to remove to.—This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution; but I was at a
great lofs about my tools: I had three large axes, and
abundance of .hatchets (sor we carried the hatchets sor
traffic with the Indians) but with.much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all sull of notches,
and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. This cost me as much thought
as a statesman would have bestowed on a grand point
of politics, Or a judge upon the lise and death of a-cri-
minal. At length I contrived a wheel, with a string to
turn it with my soot, that I might have both my hands
at liberty. - Note, I had not seen any such thing in Eng-
land, or at least not to take notice how it was done;
though since I have observed it was very common there:
besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a sull week's work to bring it to
persection.
April 28, 20. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools; my machine sor turning my grind-
stone persorming very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced
myself to one bifcuit-cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side,-
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask: when I
came to it, I sound a small barrel, and two or three
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore bv the late hurricane: and looking towards the
wreck itself, I thought it seemed to. lie higher out of the
5 water
water than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and foon found it to be a barrel of
gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone. However, I rolled it sar-
ther on the shore for the prerent, and went on upon the
sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look
for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed; the fore-castle, which lay besore buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six seet; r.nd the item, which
was broken to pieces, and pai ted from the rest by the
force of the sea, foon after I had lest rummaging hei,
was tossed as it were up, and cast on one .fide; aud the
ftud was thrown Ib high on that side next the stern, that
whereas there was a great place of water besore, fo that
I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck
without swimming, I could now wask quite up to her
when the tide was out. I was surprised at this at first,
but foon concluded it must be done by the earthquake;
and as by this violence the ship was more broke open
than formerly, fo many things came daily on shore which
the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether 1 could make
any way into the ship; but I found nothing was to be'
expected of the kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choaked up with sand. However, as I had learned not.
to despair of any thing, I refolved to pull every thing to
pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that every
thing I could get from her would be of fome use or other
to me. <
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held fome of the upper
part, or quarter deck together; and when I had cut it
through, I cleared away the sand as well as 1 could from
the side whisA lay highest: but the tide coming in, 1 wa»
obliged to give it over for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught but one fish that
I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just
going to leave osf, I caught a young dolphin.' I had
£ 3 made
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no
hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I
cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and eat them ,
dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asun-
der, and brought three great fir planks off from the decks,
which I tied together, and made swim on shore when the
tide of flood came on.
Ma}' 6". Workdd on the wreck,.got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked very
hard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over.
May 7- Went to the wreck again, but with an intent
not to work; .but sound the weight of the wreck had
broker, itself down, the beams being cut, that several'
pieces of the ship teemed to lie loofe, and the inside of the
hold lay so open, that I could Yee into it, but almost sull
of water and sand.
May S. Went to. the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wieuch up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
water^or ssncl. I wrenched open two planks, and brought
them on shore also with the tide. I lest the iron crow in
t.ie wreck sor the next day. /'
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
Way into the; body of-the wreck, and selt- several casks,
and loofened them with the crow, but could not break
them up; 1 selt also a roll of Englifh lead, and could stir
it, but it was too heavy to remove.
Ma}' 10, 11, 12, 13, l'f. Went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber and boards, or
planks, and two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15. I earned two hatchets, to try if I could not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about'
a soot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow i
to drive the hatchet.
May 16". It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appearedfmore broken by the sorce of the water;
but 1 staid so long in the woods to get pigeons sor sood,
that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore at a great diftance, two miles off me, but resolved
to
X
to fee what they were, and found a piece of the head, but
too heavy.forme to bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck; and with much labour I loosened fome things fo
much with the crow, that the first flowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests. But the
wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that
day but pieces of timber, and an hogshead which had
fome Braiil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the loth of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always ap-
pointed, during this part of my employ ment, to be when
the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed
out; and by this time had gotten timber and plank, and
iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had
known how: and I alfo got, at several times, and in.
several pieces, near one hundred weight of the meet lead.
June 16'. Going down to the sea-tide, I found a larger
tortoise, or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which, it
seems, was only my misfortune, not any desect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other
side of the island, 1 might have had hundreds of them
everyday, as 1 found afterwards; but perhaps have paid
dear enough for them.
June 17, I spent in cooking-the turtle; I found in her
threescore eggs; and her Sdh .was to me, at that timer
the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my lise,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrible place.
June 18. Rained all the day, and I staid within; I
thought at this time the rain selt cold, and I was fome-.
what chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill and soivering, as if the weather had.
been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and severish.
June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition—to be sick, and no
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the storm oft'
Hull; but scarce knew what I said or why, my thoughts
bsing all consused..
£ 4, Jun*.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadsul appre-
hensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering', and
then a violent head-ach.
June 24. Much better-
June 25. An ague, very violent; the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit and hot, with saint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, butsound myself very weak. However, I killed
a she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and
broiled some of it, and eat: I would- sain have stewed it,
and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay a-bed
all day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to pe-
rish with thirst, but so weak 1 had no strength to stand
up, or get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God
again, but was light-headed; and when 1 was not, I
was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; 1 only lay
and cried, Lord lcok upon me! Lord pity me! Lord
have mercy upon me! 1 suppofe I dM nothing else sor
two or three hours, till the fit wearing off, 1 sell asleep,
and did not awake till sar in the night. When I awaked,
I sound myself much resreshed, but weak, and exceed-
ingly thirsty: however, as I had no v>ater in my whole
habitation, I was sorced to lie till meaning, and went
to sleep again, in this second sleep L/had this terrible
dream:— '. -
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where 1 sat wheri the storm blew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from
a great black cloud, in a bright flame cvf fire, and light
upon the ground. He was all ov.fr a's fright as a flame,
so that I could but just bear to look towards him; his
countenance was most inexpressibly dre&dsuli, impossible
sor words to describe. When he stepped upon the ground
with his seet j I thought the earth tremblfedijust as it had
done besore in the earthquake; and {rrffrle air looked, to
my -apprehension, as if it had been silled with flashes of
fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
sorwards towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me ; and when he came to a rising ground at.
some
fome distance, he spoke to me, or I he^rd a voice fo ter-
rible, that it is impoffibleto express the terror of it; all
that I can say I understood was this. Seeing ali'thcie
things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die! At which words, I thought he listed up tiv:
spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever, read this account, will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my foul
at this terrible vision; I mean, that erven while it was a
dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any
more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked and found it was but a
dream. ''
I had, alas 1 no divine knowledge; what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my sather, was then
worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of
sea-saring wickedness, and a constant conversation with
none but such as were like myself, wicked and prosane
to the last degree. 1 do not remember that J had in asl
that time one thought that fo much as tended either to
looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a re-
flection upon my own ways; but a certain stupidity cf
foul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil, had
entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most
hardened, unthinking, wieked creature among; our com-
mon sailors can be supposed to be, not having. the least
sense of the sear of God in dangers, or of thanksulness to.
God iiTdeliverances.
In relating what is already past of my story, this wisl
he the more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through,
all the variety of miseries that had to this day befassen.
me, I never had fo much as once thought of.its being the
hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sins,
my rebellious behaviour against my sather, or my present
sms, which were great; or fo much as a punishment ttjr
the general course of my wicked lise. When I was oh
the desperate ex;>edition on the desert shores of Asrica, I
never had fo much as one thought cf what would become
of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither l siiouiii
go, or to keep me from the danger which apparentsy
surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures,, as cruel
swages: .but 1 was merely thoughtless of Go;!, or a
t » providence;
providence; I acted like a meie brute, from the prin-
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only,
and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at lea by the Por- ..
tugal captain, well used and dealt justly and honourably
ivith, as well as charitable, I had not the least thanksul-
ness in my thoughts. \Vher> again I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was
as sar from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I
only said to myself often, that 1 was an unfortunate dog,
and born to be always miserable. N
It is true, :\hen F got onshore first here, and found all
my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstacy, and fome transports of foul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have came up
to true thanksulness; but it ended where it began, in a
mere common flight of 30}.; or, as I may say, being glad
I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guishing goodness of the hand which had preserved me,
and smgled me out to be preserved, when all the rest were
destroyed; or an enquiry why Providen,ce had been thus
mercisul to me; even just the same common fort of joy
which seamen generally have, after they have got safe
ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as foon as it is
over, aud all the rest of my lise was like it.
Eve.i when I was afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of ray condition, how I was cast on this
dreadsul place, out of the reach of human kind, out of
aH hope of relies, or prospect of redemption; as foon as
I saw a probability of living, and that I should not starve
.and perish for hunger, all the sense of my asfliction wore
off, and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the
works proper for my preservation and supply, and was
sar enough from being asflicted at my condition, as a
j udgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against me:
these were thoughts that very seldom entered into my
head. •'
'1 he growing up of the' corn, as is hinted in my jour-
nal, had at sirst fome little insluence upon me, and be-,
gan to asfect me with seriousness, as long as I thought
it
it had fomething miraculous in it; but as foon as ever
that part of thought was remoyed, all the impression
which was raised from it, wore off. alfo, as I have noted
already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to the
Invisible Power which alone directs such things; yet no
fooner was the first fright over, but the impreflion it had
made went off alfo. I had no more sense os God, or his
judgment, much less of the present affliction of my cir-
cumstances being from his hand, than if I had been in the.
mosl prosperous condition in lise.
But now, when 1 began to be sick, and a leisurely view
of the miseries of death came to place itself besore me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burtheni of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the vio-.
lence of the sever; conscience, that ha% slept fo long,
began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my
past lise, in which I had fo evidently, by uncommon.,
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me info vindictive a*
manner.
These reflections oppressed me from the second or thinls
day of my distemper, and Ln a violence, as well of the.
sever, as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience^ ex-.
torted fome words from me, like praying to God, though,:
I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with:
desires, or with hopes ;. it was rather the voice of mere.
fright and distress: my thoughts were consused, the con-.
victions great upon, my mind, and the horror of, dying ini
such a miserable condition, raised vapours.into, my head'
with the mere apprehensions; and in these hurries of my
foul,. I knew not what my tongue might express :. but. it:
was rather exclamation, such as,.Lord what a miserable
creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die.
for want of help, and what will become of me? Then the:
tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more a good,
while.
In this interval, the good advice of my sather came to«
my mind, aud presently his prediction, which I men-.
tioned in the beginning of this story, viz. That if I did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me* and liwould.
s b' have:
have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might he none to assist me in my
recovery. Now, snidl aloud, my dear sather's words
are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me, and
I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of
Providence, which had mercisully put me in a posture
or station of lise wherein 1 might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to
know the blessing of it from my parents; I lest them to
mourn over my folly, and now I am lest to mourn under
the consequences of it. I resused their help and assist-
ance, who would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me; End now I have dif-
ficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature itself
to support, and no assistance, no help, no comsort, no
advice. Then I cried out, Lord be my help, for I am in
great distress! - .
This was the sirst prayer, if I might call it fo, that I
had made for many years. But I return to my Journal.
June 28. Having been fomething resreshed with the
steep I had taken, and the fit being entirely off', I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream was very.
great, yet I considered that the sit of the ague would re-
turn again the next day, and now was my time to get
fomething to refresh snd support myself when I should
be ill: and the first thing 1 did, I filled a large square cafe
bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of
my bed : and to take off the chill or aquish disposition of the
water, I put aboufa quarter of a pint of rum into it, and
mixed them together; then I got me a piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little-
I walked about, but was very weak, and withal, very
sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
At night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs^
which I roasted in the assies, and eat, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked
God's blessing to, even, as I could remember,, in my
whole lise.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went
out
out without that), fo I went out but a little way, and
sat down upon the ground, looking out ,upon the sea,
which was just besore me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, fome thoughts, such as these, occurred to
me.
.What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen fo
much? Whence is it produced? And what am 1, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal,
whence are we?
Sure we are all made by fome secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is
that?
Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made it all. Well, but then it came on strongly, if God
has made all these things, he guides and governs them all,
and all things that concern them ; for the Being that could
make all things, must certainly have power to guide and
direct them.
If fo, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and in a dreadsul condition; and
if nothing happens without his appointment, he has ap-
pointed all this to besal me. ,
Nothing occured to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and theresore it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it must needs be that God
had appointed all this to besal me; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he
having the fole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it fol-
lowed,
• Why has God done this to me? What have I done to
be thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that enquiry,
as if 1 had blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me
like a voice, Wretch ! dolt thou ask what thou halt done?
look back upon a dreadsul mis-spent lise, and ask thy-
self what thou hast not done? Ask, why it is that thou
wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou n.ot
drownexl in Yarmouth Reads?' .Killed in the sight when
the strip was taken by the Sallee man of war? Devoured
by the wild beasts of the coast of Africa? Or drowned
here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou
aik, What have 1 done?
I was struck dumb with these.reslections as one asto-
.nishcd, and had not a word to say, no, not to.answer to
myself; but rofe up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been goinc
to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and 1 had
no inclination to steep; so I sat down in my chair, and
lighted my lamp, sor it began to be dark: Now, as the
apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Bratilians
take no physic but their tobacco sor almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests,
which was quite cured, and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; sor in this
chest I sound a cure both sor stool and body. I opened
the chest, and sound what 1 looked sor, viz. the to-
bacco: and as the sew books I had saved lay there to,.
I took out one of the bibles which 1 mentioned besore,
and which, to this time, I had not sound leifure, or so
much as inclination, to look into; I say I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with. me to the
table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew n»t,. as to.
my diftemper, or whether it was good sor it or no; but-
I tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved
it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a
leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first
almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being green and
strong, and that 1 had not been much used to it; then I
took some, and steeped it an hour or two in rum, and re--
solved to take a dofe of it when I lay down; and lastly,.
I burnt sorne upon a pan of coals, and held my nofe clofe
over the smoke. of it, as long as I could bear it, as well
sor the heat as the virtue of it, and 1 held almost to suftb-
cation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible,.
and began to read; but my head was too much. difturbed.
with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time, only.
having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred
\
occured to me were these, Call op me in the day of Irauhle,
and I mil deliver, and shoujlials glorify me.
The words were very apt to my case, and made fome
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not fo much as they did afterwards; for
as for being delivered: the word had no found, as 1 may
fay, to me; the thing was fo remote, fo impossible in
my apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the
children of Israel did, when they were promised flesh to
eat, Can Godspread a table in the wilderness? So I began
to say, can God himself deliver me from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any hope ap-
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts:
but however, the words made a very great impression
upon me, and 1 mused upon them very often. It grew
now late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head
so much, that I inclined to ileep; fo I lest my lamp
burning in the cave, lest 1 should want any thing in the
night, aud went to bed; but besore I lay down, I did
what I never had done in all my lise; I kneeled down
and prayed to God to sulsil the promise to me, that if I
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver
me. Alter my broken and impersect prayer was over, I
drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco,
which was fo strong and rank of the tobacco, that in-
deed I could scarce get it down. Immediately upon this
I went to bed, and I found presently it flew up into my
head violently; but I sell into a found lleep, and waked
no more, till by the sun it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay, to this hour
1 am partly of the opinion, that 1 Uept all the next day
and night, and till almost three the next day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day put of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared fome
years after 1 had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and
re-crosiing the line, I should have lost more than a day;
but in my account it was lost, and 1 never knew which
way.
Be that however one way or other, when I awaked,
I found myself exceedingly resreshed, and my. spirits
lively and cheersul; when 1 got up, I was stronger than
\ was the day besore, and my stomach better; for I
6 was
was hungry,; and, in short, I had no sit the next day,
but continued much altered sor the better: this was the
2;:th.
The 30th was "my well day os course. and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too sar.
I killed a sea sowl or two, something like a brand goofe,
and brought them home, but was not very sorward to
eat them; so 1 eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine
which 1 had suppofed did me good the day besore, viz.
the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as besore, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold
my head over the smoke. However, I was not to well
the next day, which was the lit of July, as 1 hoped I
mould have been; sor I had a little spice of the cold sit,.
but it was not much.;
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dozed myself with it at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3- I missed the fit sor good and all, though I did
not recover my suit strength sor some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, I will deliver thee; and
the impofsibility of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was dif-
couraging myself with/iich thoughts, it occurred to my
mind, that I pored so much upon my-deliverance from
the main asfliction, that I difregarded the deliverance I
had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself
such questions as these; viz. Have I net been deliver*;!,
and wondersully too, from sickness ?. from the most dif-
tressed condition that could be, and that was'so frightsul
to nje? and wjiat notice had I taken of it? had 1 done
my part? God had delivered me, but 1 had not glorisied
him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thanksul
sor that as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immediate!}r I
kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud sor my reco-
very from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning 1 took the Bible, and begin-
ning at the New Testament, 1 began seriously to read it;
and
and impofed upon myself to read a while every morn-
ing and every night, not tying myself to the number of
chapters, but as long as my thoughts mould engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I
sound my heart most deeply and sincerely affected with
the wickedness of my past lise; the impression of my
dream revived, and the words All these things have not
brought thee lo repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts.
I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentally the very day, that,
reading the scripture, I came to these words. He is ex-
alted a Prince, and a Saviour, to give repentance, and lo
five remiffion. I threw down the book, and with my
eart as well as my hand lifted up to Heaven, in a kind
of ecstacy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, thou son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance!
This was the first time that I could say in the true sense
of the words, that I prayed in all my lise; for now I
prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true'
icripture view of hope, sounded on the encouragement of
the word of God: and from this time, I may say, I began
to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
Call on me, and I will deliver thee, in a different sense
from what I had ever done besore; sor then I had no
notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my be-
ing delivered from the captivity I was in; sor though I
was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was cer-
tainty a prifon to me, and that in the worst sense in the
world; but now 1 learned to take it in another sense.
Now I looked back upon my past life with such horror,
and my sins appeared so dreadsul, that my soul sought
nothing of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt'
that bore down all my comsort. As sor my solitary lise,
it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be deli-
vered from it, or think of it; it was all of no considera-
tionjn comparifon of this: and 1 added this part here,
to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they
come to a true sense of things, they will Cud deliverance
from sin a much greater blessing, than deliverance from
affliction.
But
But leaving; this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miser-
able as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind;
and my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading
the scripture, and praying to God, to things of a higher
nature, I had a great deal of comfort within., which till
now I knew nothing of. Asfo as my health and strength
returned, 1 bestirred myself to surnish myself with every
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as regu-
lar as 1 could.
From the 4th ctf July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little
and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be ima-
gined, how low 1 was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. The application which I made use of, was per-
sectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
besore; neither can I recommend it to any one to prac-
tise by this experiment; and though it did carry off the
fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some
. time.
I learnt from it alfo this in particular, that being abroad
in the rainy seafon was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came
attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as
the ram which came in a dry seafon was always most
accompanied with such storms, fo I found this rain was
much more dangerous than the rain which sell in Sep-
tember and October. >
1 had been now in this unhappy island above ten
, months; all possibility of deliverance from this condi-
tion seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly
believed that no human shape had ever set foot upon
that place. Having now secured my habitation, as I
thought, sully to my mind, I had a great de/ire to make
a more persect discovery of the island, and to see what
other productions I might find, which yet I knew nothing
of.
It
It was the 15th of July that I began to make a more .
particular survey of the island,itself; I went up the creek
first, where as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and Very fresh and good; but
this being the dry seafon, there was hardly any water in
in fome parts of it, at least not enough to run into any
stream, fo as it could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savan-
nas, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass;
and on the rismg parts of them next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as.it might be supposed, never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and grow-
ing to a great and very strong stalk : there were divers
other plants which I had no notion of, or understanding
about; and might perhaps have virtues of their own
which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava root* which the Indians in
all that climate make their bread of, but 1 could find none.
I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then understand
them . 1 iaw several sugar-canes, I "t wild, and, for want
of cultivation, impersect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back, musing with roy-
self what course I might take to know the virtue and
goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should
discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in
short, I had made fo little observation while 1 was in the
Brafils, that I knew little of the plants of the field, at least
very little that might serve me to any purpose, now in my
distress.
The next day, the lsith, I went up the same way
again; and, after going fomething sarther than I had
done the day besore, I found the brook and the savannas
began to cease, and the country became more woody
then besore. In this part I found different fruits, and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great
abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the vines had
spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes
were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding
glad of them; but 1 was warned by my experience
to
to eat sparingly of them, remembering that-, whea I
was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed seve-
ral of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by throw-
ing them into fluxes and severs. But 1 found an excel-
lent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or dry
them in the fun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins
are kept; which I thought would be, as indeed they
Were, as wholefome, and as agreeable to eat, when no
grapes might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as I
might say, I had lain from Borne. In the night I took my
first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well, and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery,
travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills
on the fouth and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the weff; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the tide of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the
country appeared fo s • sh, fo green, fo flourishing, every
thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring,
that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed
with other afflicting thoughts) to think that this was all
my own, that 1 was king and lord of this country inde-
seaSbly, and had a right of possession; and if I could.,
convey it, ] might have it in inheritance as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. 1 saw here abundance
of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon, and citron trees; but
all wild, and sew bearing any fruit, at least not then:
however, the green limes that i gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholefome; and 1 mixed their'
ju:ce afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
fome, and very cool and resreshing.
I found now 1 had business enough to gather and carry
home; and refolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes
as limes and lemons, to surnish mj self for the wet seafon,
which I knew was approaching,
In
In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in
one place,.and a lesser heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking
a sew of each with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved
to come again, and brin<r a bag or sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave);
but besore I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the rich-
ness of the fruit, and the weight of the juice, having
broken them, and bruifed them, they were good sor little
or nothing; as to the limes they were good, but I could
bring but a sew.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But
I was 'surprifed, when coming to my heap of grapes,
which were so rich and rine when 1 gathered them", I
sound them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged
about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and
devoured: by this I concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts, which had done this, but what
they were I knew not.
However, as I sound there was no laying them up on
heaps, and no carrying them away in alack, but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, 1 took another
course; sorl gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as sor the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, 1 contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms
on that side of the water and the wood; and con-
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode,
which was by sar the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, 1 began to consider of removing my habitation,
and to look out sor a place equally sase as where I now
was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitsul part of
the ifland.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding sond of it sor some time, the pleasantness of the
place
on my post, and found ! had been on shore three hundred
and sixty-five days. 1 kept this day as a folemn sast, setting
it apart to a religious exercise, prostrating myself to the
ground with the most serious humiliation, consessing my-
self to God, acknowledging his righteous judgment upon
me, and praying him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and having not tailed the least resresoment for
twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then
eat a biscuit-cake, and a bunch of grapes, and went to
bed, finishing the day as 1 be^an it.
1 had all this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at
first 1 had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after
fometime omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and fo
did not really known what any of the days were; but
now having cast up the days as above, I found 1 had
been there a year; fo 1 divided it into weeks, and set
apart every seventh day for a sabbath; though I found
at the end of my acco'unt I had lost a day or two of my
reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and fo I
contented mj'self to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events ot my lise, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things. .
The rainy seafon, and the dry seafon, began now to ap-
pear regular to me, and I learned to divide them fo as to
provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my ex-
perience before 1 had it; and this 1 am. going to relate,
was one of the most discouraging experiments that 1 made
•at all. 1 have mentioned that 1 had saved the sew ears of
barley and rice which I had fo surprisingly found spring
up, as 1 thought of themselves, and believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley;
and now I thought it a proper time to fow it after the
rains, the sun being in its fouthern position going from me.
Accordingly 1 dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into' two
parts, I fowed my grain; but as I was sewing, it casully
occurred to my thoughts, that I would not fow it. all at
first, because 1 did not know when was the proper time
for it; fol fowed about two-thirds of the feeds, leaving
an handful of each.
It
Tt was a great cornfort to me afterwards that I did fo,
'for not one .grain of that I fowed this time came to any
'thing; for the dry months following, the earth having
had no rain after the seed was fown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet
seafon had come again, and then it grew as if it had beea
newly fown.
Finding my first seed did not grow^ which I easily
•imagined was by the drought, 1 fought for a moistef
piece of ground, to mr.ke another trial in; and I dug up
'a piece of ground near my iiew bower, and sowed the
tell of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox; and this, having the rainy month's of March
and April 'to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and
yielded a very good crbp$ but having part of the seed
left only, and not daring to fow all that I had yet, .I had
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amount-
ing to above half a peck of each kind.
Hut by this experience I was made master of my busi-
ness, and knew exactly when the proper seafon was to
fow; and that 1 might expect two seed times and two
harvests every yeas.
While this corn was growing, I made a little disco-
very, which was of use to me afterwards. As' foon as
the rains were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, I made a
visit up the country to my bower, where, though I had
not been fome months, yet I found all things just as i lest
them. The circle or double hedge that 1 had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which. I had
cut off of fome trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot
out, and grown with long branches, as much as a wil-
low tree usually moots the first year after lopping its
head. 1 could not tell what tree to call it, that theie
stakes were cut from. I was- surprised, and yet very well
pleased to see the young trees grow; and I pruned them,
and led them up to grow as much alike as I could; and
it issearce credible, how beautisul a sigure they grew into
in three years; fo that, though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, sor
such I might now call them, foon covered it, and it was a
compleat ihade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry seafon.
vol, i, F This
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me ah hedge like this in a semicircle round my
wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I did; —
and, placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at above
eight yards diftance from my first sence, they grew pre-
sently, and were at first a sine cover to my habitation,
and afterwards served sor a desence also, as I shall ob-
serve in its order.
I sound now that the seasons of the year might general-
ly be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe,
but in the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus :—
A-, 7' t Rainy, the sun beinir then on, or near,
Match, >'" . =,.: .''
Half April,) theequmox.
Half April,'
, J ' T Dry, the fun being then to the north.
July,
Half August',,
of the line.
Half August, )
September, >
Half October, )
eptember, VRain, the sun being then corne back.
Half October,'
t^ , 'f Dry, the sun being then to the south
December, > --' ',.v8,.
. '/ of the line.
January, »
Half February,)
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as
the winds happened to blow; but this was the general
observation 1 made. After 1 had sound, by experience,
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, i took
care to surniih myself with provisions besorehand, that I
might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I sound much employment (and very
suitable also to the time), sor I sound great occasion of
many things which I had no way to surnish myself
with, but by hard labour, and constant application ;—
particularly, I tried mary ways to make myself a
basket;
basket; but all the twigs I could get sor the purpose
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved
of excellent advantage to me now, that, when 1 was a
hoy, 1 used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
"maker's in the town where my sather lived, to see them.
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually
are, very officious to help^^and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lent an hand, I had b- this means so sull knowledge of
the methods of it, th* I wanted nothing but the mate-
rials; when it ca . 'ijto my mind, that the twigs of that
tree from whence 1 ejrmy stakes that grew, might pos-
sibly be as tough as she sallows, and willows, and osiers,
in England; and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, next day, I went to my country-
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, I sound them to my purpofe as much as I could
tlelirc; whereupon 1 came the next time prepared with
an hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I loon sound,
for there was a great plenty of them: these I set up to
'dry within my circle or hedges; and when they were
sit sor use, I carried them to my cave; and here, durin"-
the next season, 1 employed myself in making (as well
"as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay tip anything, as 1 had occasion; and
though 1 did not smith them very handsomely, yet I
made them sufficiently serviceable sor my purpofe; and
thus afterwaYds I took care never to be without them;
and as my wicker-ware decayed, 1 made more; espe-
cially I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when -I inould come to have any quan-
tity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see, if pof-
sible, how to supply two wants. 1 had no vessels to
hold any thing that was liquid, except two ruiidlets,
-which were almost sull of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common fize, and others which were case-
bottles, square, sor the holding of waters, spirits, &e*
I had not so much as a pot to boil any thine in, except
a great kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and which
'was too big sor such uses as I desired it sor, viz. to
r 2 make
758786

make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself.' The se-
cond thing i would sain have had was a tobacco pipe,
but it was impossible for me to make one; however, I
found a contrivance for that too at last.
'I employed myself in planting my second rows offtakes
of piles, and in this wicker work, all the summer, or
dry seafon; when another business took me up more
time than it could be imagined I could spare'.
1 mentioned besore, that I had a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and
fo on to where I built my bower, and where I had an
opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island:
] now refolved to travel quite across to the sea shore oft
that side; Ib taking my gun and hatchet, and my dog,
and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
with two biscuit-cukes, and a great bunch of raisins in
my pouch, form}' store, I began my journey. When I
had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I
came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a
very clear day, I sairly descried land, whether an island
or continent 1 could not tell; but it lay very high, ex-
tending from the west to the W.S.W. at a very great dis-
tance; by my guess it could not be less than sifteen or
twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as 1 concluded by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, tmd perhaps was all inhabited
by savages, where, if 1 should have landed, I had been
in a worse condition than I was now; and theresore 1 ac-
quiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which 1' began
now to own, and to believe, ordered every thing for the
best; I say, I quieted my mind with this, and lest afflict-
ing myself with fruitless wisb;es of bemg there.
Besides, after fome pause upon this affair, I considered,
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
on» time or other, see some vtssels pass'or repass one way
or other; but snot, then it was the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brasil, which were indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men eaters,
and' fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies
that tall into their hand*.
With
With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward; I found that side of the island where I now was
much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields
sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very
sine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and tain would
I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after fome pains-
taking, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down
with a slick, and having recovered it, brought it home,
but it was fome years besore I could make him speak. —
However, at last I taught him to call me by my name very
samiliarly; but the accident that followed, though it be
a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
1 was exceedingly diverted with this lourney: I found,
in the low grounds, hares, as 1 thought them to be,
and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other
kinds I had met with; nor could 1 satisfy my felt' to eat
them, though I killed several; but I had no need to be
venturous, for 1 had no want of food, and of that which
was very good too; especially these three forts, viz.
goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise; which, added to
my grapes, Leadenhall-market could not have surnished
a better table than 1, in proportion to the company.—.
And though my case was deplorable enough, yet 1 had
great cause for thanksulness, that I was not driven to
any extremities for food; but rather plenty, even to
dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took fo many
turns and returns to see what discoveries I could make,
that I came weary enough to the place where I refolved
to sit down for all night; and then either reposal my-
selt in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes
set upright in the ground, either from one tree to ano-
ther, or fo as no wild creature could come at me without
waking me.
As foon as I came to the sea fliore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island; for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles.; whereas, on the other side, 1 had
found but three in a year and a half. Here was alfo an
infinite cumber of fowls of many kinds, fome of which
F3 lhad
I had not seen besore, and many of them very good
meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those
called penguins.
I could have shot as many as 1 pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and theresore had more
mind to kill a she goat, if I could, which I could better
seed on; and though there were many goats here, more
than on the other iide os the island, yet it was with much
more difficulty than I could come near them; the coun-
try being flat and even, and they saw me much fooner
than/when 1 was on the hills.
I consess this fide of the country was much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to re-
move, for as I was sixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed, all the while I was here, to
be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home. How-
ever, I travelled along the more of the sea towards the
casl, I suppose about twelve mile?, and then setting up
a great pole upon the shore for a mark, i concluded I
would go home again; and the next jouuey I took
should be on the ether iide of the Hland, east from my
dwellmg, and fo round tiil I came to my post again: of
which injts place.
1 took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island fo much in
say view, that 1 could not miss finding my first dwelling
\>y \iewing the country, but I found myself mistaken;
for being come abort two or three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley; but fo surrounded
with hills, and those hills covered with woods, that I
could not see which was the way by any direction but
that of the sun, nor even then, unless 1 knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the day.
Is happened to my surther misfortune, that the wea-
ther proved hazy for three or sour days, while I was in
this valley, and not being able to see the sun, 1 wan-
dered about very uncomsortably, and at last was obliged
to find out *he sea-side, look for my, post, and come
back the lame way I went; and then, by easy journieg,
I turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot;
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things,
very heavy.
la
..
la this journey my dog surprised a young kid,' and
seized upon it; and I, running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and sa*ed it alive from the dog. I had a great
mind to bring it home, if I could, for I had often been
musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and fo raise a breed of tame goats, which might
supply me when my powder and shot should he spent.
1 made a collar to this little creature, and with a string,
which I made of fome rope yarn, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with fome difficulty,
till I came to my bower, and there I inclosed him, and
lest him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satissaction it was to me to
come to my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without a fettled
place of abode, had been fo unpleasant to me, that my
own house, as I called it to myself, was a persect settle-
ment to me compared to that; and it rendered 'every
thing about me fo comsortable, that I refolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest aad regale my-
self aster my long journey; during which, most of the
time .was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my poll, who began now to be a mere domestic,
and to be pretty well acquainted with me. Then Jt
began to think of the poor kid, which I had pent in
within my little circle, and refolved to go and setch ifi
home, ami give it fome food. .Accordingly 1 went, and
found itVhere 1 lest it, for indeed it could not get out,
but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could
find, and threw it over, and having sed it, 1 tied it as I
did besore, to lead it away; but it was fo tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it; for it
followed me like a dog; and as I constantly sed it, the>
creature became fo loving, fo gentle, and fo fond, that it
became from that time one of my domestics alfo, and
would never leave me afterwards.
The ramy seafon of the autumnal equinox was now?
Come, aud I kept the 30th of September in the same
f 4 folemn
solemn manner as besore, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island, having now been there two years,.
and no more profpect of being delivered than the first
day I came there. I spent the whole day ia humble and
thanksul acknowledgments of the many wondersul mercies
which my solitary condition was "attended with, and
without which it might have been insinitely more mifer-
able. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God had
been pleased to difcover to me, even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in-a liberty os society, and in all the
pleasures of the world.. That he could sully'make up
to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want
of human society, by his presence, and the communica-
tion of his grace to my soul, supporting, comsorting, and
encouraging me to depend upon his providence here, and
hope sor his eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that 1 began sensibly to seel- how much
more happy the lise I now led was, with all its miferable
circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life
1 led all the past part of my days; and now having
changed both my sorrows and my joys, my very desires
altered, my affections changed their gust, and my de-
-lr*hts were persectly new from what they were at first
comtnei, or indeed lor the two years past.
Besore, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
sor viewing the country, the anguish of my soul, at my
condition, would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the desarts I was in; and how I
'was a prifoner locked up, with the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without re-
demption. In the midst of the greatest compofures of
my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm,;
and make me wring my hands, and weep like a child.—
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately fit down and sigh, and look
upon the ground sor an hour or two together, and this
wassstill worse to me; sor if I could burst out into tears,
or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief
having exhausted itself, would abate*
But
'-">
:
But now I began to exercise myself with new.
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied alt
the comsorts of it to my present state. One morning,,
being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words,.
"I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Im-
mediately^ occurred that these words were to me; why
else should they be directed in such a manner, just at the
moment when 1 was mourning over my condition, as
one forsaken of God and man? Well, then, said 1, if
God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should all for-
sake me; seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and should lose the favour and bleffing of God*
there would be no comparifon in the loss?
from this moment I began to conclude in my mind,
that it was poffible for me to be more happy in this for-
saken, folitary condition, than it was probable L should
have ever been in any other particular state in the world ^
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to»
God for bringing me to this place
I know not what it was, but fomething shocked my:
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words.
How canst thou be such a hypocrite, said I,, even au-
dibly, to pretend to be thanksul for a condition, which,
however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with,thoa
wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered srom? So I
stopped there; but though 1 could not say 1 thanked God.
for being there, yet 1 sincerely gave thanks to God for
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting Providences, to
see the former condition of my lise, and to mourn for
my wickedness, and repent.. I never opened the Bible
or shut it, but my very foul within me blessed God for
directing my friend in England, without any order of
mme, to pack it up among my goods; and sor assisting;
me afterwards to lave it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year ;• and though 1 have not given the reader the
trouble of fo particular an account of my works this
year as the first, yet in general it may be observed, that
I wasvery seldom idle; having regularly divided my
time, according to the several daily employments
that were besore me; such as—First, My duty to God,
e 5 and
and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart
fome time for, thrice every day.—Secondly, The going
abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me
up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain.
Thirds, '1 he ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking
what 1 had killed or catched for my supply—these took
up great part os the day.—Alfo, it is to be considered,
that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out,
fo that about four hours in the evening was all the time I
could be supposed to work in, with this exception, that
fometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working,
and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my
gun in the evening.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
rie added, the exceeding laboriousnes's of my work; the
many hours, which, for want of tools, want of help,
want of skill, every thing that I did took up out of
my time. For example, I was sull two and forty days
snaking me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in
my cave ; whereas two sawyers, with their tools and
iaw-pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame tree
in half a day.
My case was this—It was to be a large tree which
was to be cut down, because my board was to be at
broad one. The tree I was three days in cutting down,
and two more cutting osf the boughs, and reducing it
to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hack-
ing and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips,
till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one side of it smooth and Hat, as a board,
from end to end. Then turning that side downward,
cut the other side till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge of the labour of my hands in such a piece of
work; but labour and patience carried me through that
and many other things. I only observe this in particu-
lar to (hew the reafon why fo ranch of my time went
away with fo little work, viz. That what might be a
little to be done with help and tools, wr.s a vast labour,
and required a prodigious time to do alone, and by
hand.
But
But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour t
went through many things, anil indeed everything that
my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will
appear by what follows.
1 was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I
had manured or dug up for theni was not great; for, a*
I observed, my. seed of edch was not above the quantity'
of half a peck; for I had loft one whole crop by fowing
in the dry seafon; but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found 1 was in danger of losing it
all again by enemies of several forts, which it was scarce
possible to keep from it. As, sirst, the goats, and wild
creatures, which 1 called hares, who, tasting the sweet-
ness of the blade, lay in it all night and day, as foon as
it came up, and eat it Co close, that it could get no time.
to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and the more, because it required a great deal of
speed; the creatures daily spoiling my corn. However,
as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got
it totally well senced in about three .weeks time; and
shooting fome of the creatures in the day time, 1 set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at.
the gate, where he could stand and bark all night long;
so in a little time the enemies forfook the place, and the
corn grew very strong, and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me besore, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me.now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place, to
see how it throve, 1 saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls of I know not how many forts, which stood as it
were watching till I, should.be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for 1 had always my gun with roe.—
I had no sooner shpt t,han,there arose u.p a little cloud os
fowjs, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn
itself!'' , '.*.'.. r..
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw, that in a sew-
days they would devour als my hopes: thgt I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and
what to do I could.'not tejl. However, 1 refolved not t'tv
i 6 lose
lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night
and day. In the first place, 1 went among it to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled
a good deal of it; but that, as it was yet too green for
them, the loss was not fo great, but the remainder was
like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I staid by it, to load my gun, and then, coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all ths trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be fo; for as I walked off as
if I was gone, I was no fooner out of their sight, bat they
dropt down, one by one, into the corn again. I was fo
provoked, that I could not have patience to stay till more
came on, knowing that every grain that they eat now
•was, as might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
quence; but coming up to the hedge, I fired a^ain, and
killed three of them. This was what 1 wished for; fo I
took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains for a
terror to others. It is almost impossible to imaging, that
this should have such an esfect as it had; for the.fowls
•would not only not come at the corn, but in short they
forfook that part of the island, and I could never see a
tird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second har-
vest in the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could, out of one of the broad swords, or cutlasses,.
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my crop wiis small, I had. no great disficulty
to cut it down. In short, I reaped it my way, for 1 cut'
nothing ofs but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and fo rubbed it out with my
hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, 1 found,
that out of my half peck of seed, I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley,
that is to fay, by my guess, for I .had no measure at that
time. - ,
However, .this was a great encouragement .to me ;—
and I foresaw, that in time it would please God to sup-
ply me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed again,
for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part It; nor if made
into rheal, how to make bread of it; and, if how to
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These things
being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I refolved not to
taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
'gainst the next seafon, and in the mean time to employ
all my study, and hours ot working, 10 accomplish this
great work of supplying myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that I now worked for my
bread. It is a little wondersul, and what I believe sew
people have thought much upon, viz. the strange multi-
tude of little things necessary in the providing, produc-
ing, curing, dressing, making and sinishing this one
article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to be my daily discouragement, and was made more
and more sensible of it every hour, even after I got the
sirst handsul of seed corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to my surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn up the earth, no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a
wooden spade, as I observed besore; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a
great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not
only wore out the fooner, but made my work the harder,
and made it be persormed much worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of
the persormance. When the corn was fowed, I had no
harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a
great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth,
as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things ] wanted—to sence it, secure it,
mow, or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh, part it
srom the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to
grind it, sieves to dress it, yest and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it in; and all these things
1 did without, as shall be observed; and yet the com
was
\vas an inestimable comsort and advantage to me too;
but all this, as I said, made every thing laborious arfci
tedious to me, but that there was no help for; neither
was my time fo much loss to me, because I had divided
it; p certain part of it was every day appointed to these
works; and as I refolved to use none of the corn for
bread, till 1 had a greater quantity by me, I had the next
six months to apply myself wholly by labour and inven-
tion, to surnish myself with uteniils proper for the per-
forming all the operations necessary for the making the
corn, when 1 had it, fit for my use.
But first I had to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to fow above an acre of ground. Besore I
did this, I had above a week's work to m-ake me a spade,
which, when it was done, was a very forry qne indeed,
and very heavy, and required double labour to work
with it; however, 1 went through that, and fowed my
seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house
as I could find them to my mind, and senced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut oflr
that wood which I had set besore, which I knew would
grow, fo that in one year's time I knew I mould have a
quick, or living hedge, that would want but little re-
pair. This work was not fo little as to take me up less
than three months, because great part of that time was
the wet "-afon, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occasion:
.Always observing, that all the while I was at work I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching
him to speak, and 1 quickly learned him to know his
own name; and at last to speak it pretty loud, Poll;
which was the first: word I eves heard spoken in the island,
by any mouth but my own. This theresore was not my.
work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said,
1 had a great employment upon my hands, as follows,
viz. I had long studied, by fome means or other, to
make myself fome earthen vessels, which indeed I want-
ed forely, but knew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I might
botch up fome such pot as might, being dried by the
fun,
fan, be.hard enough, and strong enough, to bear hand-*
ling, and lo hold any thing that was dry, and required
to be kept, fo; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, Sec. which was the thing I was upon, I re-
folved to make fome as large as I could, and fit only to
stand like jars, to hold what I should put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many aukward ways 1 took to raise this
paste, what odd mis-shapen ugly things I made, how
many of them sell in, and how many sell out, the clay
not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many sell to pieces with only re-
moving, as well besore as after they were dry ed; and, in
a word, how, after having laboured hard to nnd the clay,
to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I
could not make above two large earthen ugly things, I
cannot call them jars, in about two months labour.
However, as' the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which 1 had made on
purpose for them, that they might not break; and, as
between^the pot and the basket, there was a little room
to spare, I stuffed it sull of the rice and barley straw :—
and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was bruited.
Though I miscarried fo much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dithes, pitchers, and
pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and the
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the
fire, which none of these could do. it happened, aster
fome time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when 1 went to put it out, after 1 had done with.
it, I sbund a broken piece of one of my earthen ware
.vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a
tile. ) was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to
myself, that certainly they might be made to burn whole,
if they would burn broken.
3 This
This set me to study how to order my fire, fo as to
make it burn me fome pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had fome lead to do it with;. but I
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a
pile one upon another, and placed my sire-wood all
round it, with a great heap of embers under them: I
plied the fire with fresh suel round the outside, and upon
the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot quite
through, and observed that they did not crack at all :—
when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
about five or six hours, tils I found one of them, though,
it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand which,
was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the.
heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on j
fo I slackened my fire gradually, till the pots began to-
, abate of the red colour; and watching them all night,
that I might not let the fire abate too sast, in the morn-
ing I had three very good, 1 will not say handfome, pip-
kins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could
be desired; and one of them persectly glazed with the
running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
fort of earthen ware for my use; but 1 must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any-
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them,
but es the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would
make pies that never learnt to raise paste.
No joy, at a thing of fo mean a nature, was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that
would bear the fire, and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold, besore 1 set one upon the, fire again,
with fome water in it, to boil me fome meat, which I
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
fome very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it fo good as I
would have had it.
. My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat fome corn in.; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that persection os' art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want, I was
at a great loss; for of all trades in the world I was as
periectly
perfectly unqualisied for a stone-cutter as for any what-
ever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. I spent
many a day to sind out a great ttone, big enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could fmd none
at all, except what was in the folid rock, and which I
had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks
iji the island of hardness sufficient, but were alL of a sandy
crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight
of a heavy pestle, nor wousd break the corn without
filling it with land: fo, after a great deal of time lost in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and refolved to look
out a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to,
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with my
axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire and in-
finite labour, made an hollow place in it, as the Indians
in Brasjl make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood,
and this 1 prepared and laid by against I had my next
crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grinds or ra-
ther pound, my corn or meal to make wiy bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve ot fierce, to
dress my meal, and part it from the bran and the hulls,
without which I did not see it possibse 1 could have any
bread. This was a. most difficult thing, fo much as but
to think on; for to be sure 1 had nothing like the ne-
cessary things to make it 'with; I mean fine thin canvass,
or stuff to fierce the meal through. And here I was at
a sull stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do; linen 1 had none lest but what was mere
rags; I had goat's hair, bat neither knew I how to,
weave or spin it; and had I known how, here were no
tools to work it with; all the remedy that I found for
this was, that at last I did remember 1 had among the
seamen's clothes, which were saved out of the thip, fome
neckcloths of callico or muslin; and with fomepieces of
these I made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
work; and thus I made shift for fome years; how I
did afterwards, I shall shew in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how 1 should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, sirst, I had no yest; as to that part, as.
there
there was no supplying the want, fo I did not concern
myself much about it. But for an oven, I was indeed in
great pain. At length I found out an experiment for
that alfo, which was this; I made fome earthen vessels
very broad, but not deep; that is to say, about two seet
diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I burnt
in the sire as I had done the other, and laid them by ; —
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great sire upon
the hearth, which I had paved with fome square tiles of
my own making and burning alfo; but I mould not call
them square.*
When the sire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, fo as to cover it all over; and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all
the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves; and whelm-
ing down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers
all round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and add to
the heat: and thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little
time a mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made
myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed I
made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into them,
supposing I had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered' at, if all these things took
me up most part, of the third year of my abode here ;—.
for it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these
things I had my new harvest and husbandry to ma-
nage; fpr I reaped my corn in its seafon, and carried
it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear,
in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it oat; for
1 had no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it
with.
And now indeed my slock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to.
lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me
fo much, that 1 had of the barley about twenty bushels,
and of the rice as much, or more; infomuch that I now
refolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been
quite gone a great while: alfo I refolved to see what
quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to
sow but once a year.
Upon
Upon the whole, I sound that the sorty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than T could consume ia
a year; so I resolved to ibw just the same quantity every
year that I sowed the last, in hopes.that such a quantity-
would suVly provide me with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you maybe sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the profpect; of the
land which I had seen from the other side of the ifland;
and I was not without secret wishes, that I was on shore
there, sancying, that seeing the main land, and an inha-
bited country, I might sind some way or other to convey .
myself sarther, and perhaps at last sind some means os
escape.
But all this while I made no allowance sor the clangers
of such a condition, and how 1 might sall into the ham's
of savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to-
think sar worse than the lions and tigers of Africa: that
if I once came into their power, 1 sliauld run an hazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed, and per-
haps of being eaten; sor 1 had heard that the people of
the Caribean coalis were cannibals, or men-eaters; and
I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be sar oft" from
that shore: that, suppose they were not cannibals, yet
they might kill me, as many Europeans, who had sallen
into their hands, had been served, even when they had
been ten or twenty together, much more 1 that was but
one, and could make little or no desence. All these
things, I say, which 1 ought to have considered well
of, and I did cast up my thoughts afterwards,- yet
took none of my apprehensions at first; and my head
ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that
lhore.
Now I wished sor my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
'with the shoulder of mutton sail, with which 1 sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain. Tien I thought .1 would gc and look on
our ship's boat, which, as 1 have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way in the storm, when vve were
first cast away. She lay almost where she did at first,
but not quite, and was turned by the sorce of the waves
and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against the
high ridge of beachy rough sanely but no water about her
as bet'orei, .
u
If I had had hands to have resitted her, and have.
launched her into the water, the boat would have don*
•well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brafils
with her easy enough; but I might have easily. foreseen,
that I could no more turn her, and set her upright upoa
her bottom, than 1 could remove the island. However,
I went to the wood, and cut leaves and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, refolved: to try what I could
do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had re-
ceived, and she would be a very good boat, and I might
go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed. in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, 1 think* three or four weeks about iti At last,
sinding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength,
1 sell to digging away the sand to undermine it; and so
to make it sall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust
and guide it right in the sall.
But when I had done this,' I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get,under it, much less.to move it forwards.
towards the water; fo I was forced to give it over; and
yet, though 1 gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire
to venture over for the main increased,, rather than de-
creased, as the means for it seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as
the natives of those dimates make, even without tools,
or, as 1 might say, without hands, viz. of the trunk
of a great tree. This 1 not only thought possible, but
easy; and pleased myself extremely with my thoughts
of making it, and with my having much more conve-
nience for it than any of the negroes or Indians; but not
at' all considering the particular inconveniencies which
1 lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want of
hands to move it into the water, when it was'made ;—
a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all
the consequences of want of tools cousd be to them :.—•
fur. what was it to me,, that when I had chosen a vast
tree in the woods, 1 might with great trouble cut it
down,, if, after I'might be able with my tools to hew
and dub the outside into a proper shape of a boat, and
burn or cut the inside to make it hollow, fo to make
a boat of it, ift after all this, I must leave it just thers
where
sphere I found it, aud was not able to launch it into the
water.
One would have thought I could not have had the
least reflection upon my mind of my circumitance, while
I was making this boat, but I should have immediately
thought how 1 could get it into the sea; but my thoughts
were fo intent upon my voyage over the .ea in it, that
I never once considered how I should get it off' of the
land; and it was really in its own nature more easy fof
me to guide it over foity-sive miles of sea, than about
forty-five sathom of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in
the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake >
1 pleased myself with the design,.without determming
whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came oiten into my
head; but 1 put. a stop to my own inquiries into it by
this foosisli answer, which I gave myself; Let me first
make it; I'll warrant I'll sind fome way or othqr to get
it along, when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eager-
ness of my sancy prevailed, and to work I went, and
selled a cedar.tree; 1 question much whether Solomon
ever had such an one for the budding the temple at
Jerusalem; it was sive seet ten inches diameter at the
lower part next the stump, and four seet eleven inches
diameter at the end of twenty-two seet, after which-i*
lessened for a while, and then parted mto branches.—-
It was not without insinite labour that 1 selled this
tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it. at
the bottom; 1 was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cutoff,
.which i hacked and hewed throt.gh with my axe and
hatchet, with inexpressible labour: Aster this it colt me
a month to shape it, and dub it to a proportion, and to
fomething like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it ought to do> It cost me near three
months more to char the inside, and work it out fo
as to make an exact boat of it. This 1 did indeed with-
out fire, by mere mallet and chissel, and by the dint of
hard labour j till I had brought it to be a very hand*
fome
some periagua, and big enough to have carried fix and
twenty men, aud consequently big enough to have car.«
Tied me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this Work, I Was extremely.
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
1 ever saw a canocor pcriagua, that was made of.one tree,
in my lise ; many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure, for there remained nothing but to get it into the wa-
ter; and had I gotten it into the water, 1 make no ques-
tion but I should have begun the madest voyage, and the
molt unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But alljmy devices to get it into the water sailed me,
though they cost insinite labour too; it lay about one
hundred yards, from the water, and not more ; but the
sirst inconvenience was, it was up.hill towards the creek.
Well', to take away this, discouragement, I refolvedtto
tlig into the sursace of the earth, and fo make a decli-
vity; this J began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of
pains : but who'grudge pains that have their deliverance
in view? But when this was worked through* and this
difficulty managed, it was still much as one; for 1 could
no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the riiisance of the ground, and re-
folved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, feeing I could not'bring the icanoe down to
the water: Well, I bet an this work; and when I began
to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be
dug, how broad, how the stufftobe thrown out, 1 found,
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my
own, it mult have been ten or twelve years besore I
(hould have gone through with it; for the shore lay
high, fo that at the upper end it must have been at lead
tyventy seet deep; fo at length, though with great reluc-
tancy, I gave this attempt over alfo..
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, ithc folly of beginning a work besore we count the
cost, and besore we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it. :'
In the middle of this work I finislled my fourth yea*
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comtort, as ever besore 5
for by a constant study, and serious application of the
word
i
PUBLIC LIBBAB^
ASTOH, LENOX AND
££* FOUNDATIONS -
word of God, and, by the 'assistance of his grace, I
sained a different knowledge sr. m what 1 had besore;
entertained different notions of things; I looked now
upon the world as a thmg remote, which i had nothing
to do with, no expecta irn from, and indeed no desiics
about: In a word, 1 had nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever like to have; fo 1 thought it looked as we
may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well 1 n.ight
say, as sather Abraham to Dives, between me and thee
there is a great guJph fixed.
1n the sirst place, I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world here: 1 had neither the lust of the
flesh, the sust of the eye, or the pride of lise: 1 hais no-
thing to covet, for 1 had all I was now capable of enjoy-
ing: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if 1 pleased, I
m.ght casl myself king or emperor over the whole coun-
try which I had pesiession of: There were no mals; —
1 had no competitor, none to dispute fovereignty or com-
mand with me. I might have raited ship loadings of
corn, but 1 had no use for it; fo 1 let as little grow as I
thought enough for my occasion; I had tortoises or tur-
tles enough; but now and then one was as much as I
could put to any use: 1 had timber enough to have built
a fleet of ships; I had grapes enough to have made
wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that
fleet when they had been built.
But all 1 couU: make use of was all that was valuable:
I had enough to cat, and to supply my wants, and what
\yas all the rest to me? If 1 killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin: if 1 fowed
more corn than 1 could eat, it must be spoiled: The trees
that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground, 1 could
make no more use of them than for suel, and that I had
no occasion for, b it to dress my sood.
1n a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me upon just reflection, that i'!! I he good
things of this world are no sarther good to us than
they are for our use; and that whatever we may heap
up indeed to give to others, we. enjoy as much as we can
use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser in
the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness,
tovetoufncss, if he had been in my case; for I postered
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for defise, except it was of things which 1 had not,
and they were but trifles, though indeed of great use to
me. I had, as I hinted besore, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas!
there the nasty, forry, Useless stuff lay. I had no roan1*
Tier of business for it; and I often thought with myself,
that I would have given an handsul of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay,
1 would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnep
ami carrot seed out of England, or for an handsul of
pease and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had
not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but there
it lay in, a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of
the cave, in.the wet seafon; and if 1 had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case ; and they had
been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my state of lise to be much easier
in itself thanit was at first, and much easier to my snindj
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my.
meat with thanksulness, and admired the hand of God's
providence, which had thus spread my table in the
wilderness: I learned to look more upon the bright side
of my condition, and less upon the dark side; and to
consider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted;
and this gave me fometimes such secret comsorts, that I
cannot express them; and which I take notice pf here*
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comsortably what God hath given them, be-
cause they see and covet fomething that he has not given,
them. All our discontents about what we want, ap.*
'pearedto me to spring from, the want of thanksulness for
What we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less would be fo to any one that should sall into such.
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my pre-
sent condition with what I at first expected it should be j
nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good
providence o/God had not wondersully ordered the ship
to he cast up nearer to the shore, where 1 not only
could come at her, but could bring whalt I got out of
her
her to the shore for my relies and comsort; without
which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for desence,
or gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
1 spent whole hours, I may say, Whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the molt lively colours, how I must
have acted, if I had got nothing out of the ship; how I
could not have fo much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that, as it was long besore I found any of
them, 1 must have perished first: that I should have lived,
if 1 had not perished, like a mere savage: that if 1 had
killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I hail no way
to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin and
th^ bowels, or to cut it up, but must gnaw it with my
teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible os the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thanksul for my pre-
sent condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes:
and this part alfo I cannot but recommend to the reflec-
tion of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is any
affliction like mine? Let them consider how much worse
the cases of fome people are, and what their case might
have been, if Providence had thought fit.
1 had another reflection which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes, and this was, comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
theresore reafon to expect from the hand of Providence:'
I had lived a dreadsul lise, persectly destitute of the
knowledge and sear of God: I had been well instruc-
ted by my sather and mother; neither had.they been,
wanting to me in their early endeavours, to insuse a
religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my
duty, and of what the nature and end of my being
required of me: but alas! salling early into the sea-
saring lise, which of all the sives is the most destitute
os the sear of God, though his terrors are always besore
them; I say, salling early into the sea-saring lise, and
into sea-saring company, all that little sense of teligion
which I had entertained, was laughed out of me by my
messmates; by an hardening despising of dangers, and
the views of death, which grew habitual to me; by
my long absence from all manner of opportunities to
converse with any thing but what was like myself,
vol. i. e or
or to hear any thing of what was good, or tended to*
wards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good; or of the
least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my escape from
Salee, my being taken up by the Portuguese master of
the ship, my being planted fo well in Bralil, my receiv-
ing the cargo from England, and the like, I never once
had the word thank God, so much as on my mind, or in
my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much
thought as to pray to him; nor fo much as to say, Lord
have mercy upon me! No, not to mention the name of
Cod, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of
my wicked and hardened lise past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences
had attended me, smce my coming into this place, and
h w God had dealt bountisully with me; had not only
punished me less than my iniquity deserved, but had ib
plentisully provided for ine; this gave me great hopes
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet
mercies in store for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only
to resignation to the will of God in the present ditpo-
'fition of my circumstances, but even to a tincere thank-
sulness of my condition ; and that 1, who was yet a living
man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my fins; that I enjoyed fo many mercies,
which I had no reafon to have expected in that place;
that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but
to rejoice, and to give daily thanks sor that daily
bread, which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have
brought: that I ought to consider I had been sed even
by a miracle, even as great as that of seeding Esijah by
ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I
could hardly have named a place in the uninhabited part
of the world where I could have been cast more to my
advantage: a place, where, as I had no fociety, which
was my affliction on one hand, fo 1 found no ravenous
beasts, no surious wolves or tygers, to threaten my
lise; no venomous creatures, or poifonous, which I might
~ .•„ hav«
riave sed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and de-
vour me.
In a word, as my lise was a lise of forrow one way, fo
Jt was a lise of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to
make it a lise of comsort, but to be able to make my
sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me .in this
condition, be my daily confolation; and after I made a
lust improvement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad.
I had now been here fo long, that my things, which I
brought pn shore for my help, were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for*fome time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water a
little and a little, till it was fo pale it scarce sest anv ap-
pearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted,
I made use of it to minute down the days of the mojnth
on which any remarkable thing happened to me; and
first by casting uptimes past, I remember that there was).
a strange concurrence of days, in the various providences
which besel me, and which, if I had b'-en sirperstitioufly
inclined to observe days as satal or fortunate, I might
have had reafon to have looked upon with a great deal
of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my sather and my friends, an I tan away to
Huls in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards 1 was
taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped outosthe wreck
of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz. the
20th of September, the same day I had my lise fo mira-
culously saved cwenty-six years after, when I was cast:
ashore in this island; fo that my wicked lise, and foli-
tary lise, both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink's bein£ wasted was that of
my bread, I mean the bisouit which I brought out ot' the
ship: this I had husbanded to the lait degree, allowing
mysels but one cake of bread a day, for above a year;
and yet I was quite without bread for a year besore I
got any corn of my own; and great reafon I had to be
g 2 thankful
thanksul that I had any at all, the getting it b_ing, as.ha*
teen already observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. As to linen,
I had none a god vvlule, except some checquereel shirts
which 1 sound in the chests of the other teamen, and
which I carefully preserved, because many times I could
"bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very-
great help to rherihat I had, among all the men's clothes
of the ship, almostjhree dozen of shirts. There were also
i'everal thick watch-coats of the seamen, which were lest
xiehind, but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is
true, that the weather was so violent hot, that there was
no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; no,
-though I had been inclined to it, which I was not; nor
"tould I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked was, I
"could not bear the heat of the sun so Well when- quite
naked, as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat fre-
quently blistered my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the
* air itself made some motion, and whiftling under the
shirt, was twosold cooler than without it : no more could
I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun with-
out a cap or an hat; the heat of the sun beating with
such violence as it does in that place, would give me the
head-ach presently, by darting so directly on my head,
'without a cap or hat on, so tliat 1 could not bear it:—
whereas, if 1 put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting
the sew rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my
business was now to try if I could not make jackets out.
of the great watch-coats which 1 had by me, and with
such other materials as I had; so I set to work a taylor-
ing, or rather indeed a botching; sor I made most pite-
ous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or
three waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great
while: as sor breeches or drawers, I made but sorry shift
indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that 1 killed; I mean sour-sooted ones; and I
had hung them up, stretched out with sticks in the sun;
by which means some of them were so dry and hard, that
they
V
fhey were fit sor little; but others, it seems, were very"
usesul. The firlt thing I made of these was a great cap
sor my head, with the hair on the outride to shoot off'the
rain ; and this I persormed so well, that after this I made
a suit of clothes wholly of thofe skins; that is to say, a
waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, and both
loofe; sor they were rather "wanting to keep me cool,
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge, that they were wretchedly made; sor if 1 was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse taylor. However, they
"were such as 1 made a very good shift with; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make me
an umbrella': I-was indeed in great want of one, and
had a great mind to make one. 1 had seen them made in
the Brasils, where they are very usesul in the great heats
-which are there; and I selt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox. Besides,.
as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most use-
sul thing tome, as well sor the rains as sor. heats. I
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before
I could make any thing likely to hold. Nay, after I
thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three besore
J made one to my mind; but at last I made one that an-
swered indisserently well: the main difficulty I sound
was to make it to let down. 1 could make it to spread;
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not
be portable sor me any way, but just over my head,
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made
one to auswer; I covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
ib that it Cast osf the rain like a penthouse, and kept osf
the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the hot-
est of the weather, with greater advantage than I couM
besore in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, I -
could clofe it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comsortably, my mind being
entirely compofed, by resigning to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon.the difpofal Of his provi-
dence. This made my lise better than sociable; sor
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
would ask myself, whether thus converting mutually
G 3 with
With my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may say, wit$K
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was not
better than the utmost enjoyment of human fociety in
the world?
1 cannot say, that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the>
same cpurt'e, in the fame posture and place, just as be-
fore. The chies thing I was employed in, besides my
yearly labour of planting my barley and ,rice, and
curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just
enough, to have sufficient stock, of the year's provision/8
^besorehand: I say, besides this yearly labour, and my
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had one la-
bour to make rne a canoe, which at last I finished. So
that by digging a canal to it six seet wide, and four seet
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile.—r
As for the first, that was fo vastly big, as I made i£
without considering besorehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be able to launch it; fo never being able r.9
bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, I wap
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiftr next time. Indeed the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in &
place where I could not get the water to it, at any lefe
distance than, as I have said, of near half a mile; yet as
J saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over; and
though I was near two years about it, yet J never grudged
ray labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to lea 3t
last.
However, though my little pariagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view, when I made the first; 1 mean of
.•venturing over to the Terra Firma, where it was above
rjfarty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I
thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next de-
sign was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
teen on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, fo the discoveries.!
made in that journey made me very eager to see the other
parts of the coast; and now I had. a boat, I thought of
. nothing but failing rpun<J th$ island.
For
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing with
discretion and consideration, I iitted up a little mast to
my boat, and made a sail to it out of fome of the pieces
o(the sliip's sails, which lay in store, and of which I
had a great store by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I
found she would sail very well. Then 1 made little
lockers and boxes at either end of my Boat, to put pro-
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c. into, to be kept
dry, either tYgm rain, or the spray of the sea; and a little
long hollow place'I cut in the inside of the boat, where
I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it to keep it dry.
I sixed my umbrella alfo in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun off me like ai* awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went
sar out, nor sar from the little creek: but at last, being
eager to view the circumserence of my little kingdom, I
resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled my
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves
.(cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread; an
earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal
of, a little bottle of rum, hals a goat, and powder with,
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned besore, 1 had saved out of
the seamen's cherts: these I took, one to lie upon, and
the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set out
on this voyage and I found it much longer than I ex-
pected; for though the island itlelf was not very large,
yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea,
fome above water, fome under it; and beyond this a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more; fo that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that
point.
Vv hen I first discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprize, and come back again, not knowing
how tar it might oblige me to go out to sea, and above
all, doubting how I should get back again; fo I came
a 4 to
to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anchor*
with a piece of broken grappling, whrch.1 got out of the
ship. V
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
onshore, climbing up an hill, which seemed to over-
look that point, where I saw the sull extent of it, and
refolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong, and indeed a moil surious current,
which ran to the east, even came close to the point; and
1 took the more notice of it, because I law there might be
fome danger, that when I came into it, I might be car-
ried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
.make the island again. And indeed, had I not gotten
inst upon this hill,. I believe it would have been fo; for
there was the same current on the other side of the island,
only that it set off at a sarther distance; and I saw there
was a strong eddy under the shore; fo I had nothing to
'do but to get out of the first current, and I should pre-
sently be in an eddy. .
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind,
blowing pretty _fresh (E. at S. £. and that.being just
contrary to the said current), made a great breach of the
sea upon the point; fo that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too
sar off because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having
abated overnight, the sea was calm, and 1 ventured;
hut I am a warning-piece again to all rath and ignorant
pilots; for no fooner was I come to the poin.t, when
even I was not my boat's length from the shore, but
1 found myself in a great depth of water, and a cur-
rent sike a sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could
not keep.her fo much as on the edge of it; but I found
it hurried me sarther and sarther out from the eddy,
which was on the lest hand. There was no wind stir-
. ring to help me, and all that I could do with my pad-
dles signified nothing; and I now began to give my-
self over for lost; for, as the current was on both sides
the island, I knew. in a sew leagues distance, they
mull join again/ and then I was irrecoverably gone;
nor
not did I see any possibility of avoiding it; fo that I had
no prospect besore me but of perishing; not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunjreT. I
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as
I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and 1 had a;
great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen
pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main;
land or island for a thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make the most miserable condition that man-
kind could be in, worse. Now I looked back upon my
defolate folitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for
was to be there again. 1 stretched out my hands to it
with eager wishes. Oh happy desart,'said I, I shall
never see thee more. Oh miserable creature, said I, whi-
ther am I going! Then 1 reproached myself with my un-
thanksul temper, and how 1 had repined* at my folitary.
condition; and now what would 1 give to be on shore
there again? Thus we never see the true state of our
condition, till it is illustrated to' us by its contraries;
nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want
of it; it is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for.
fo it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the
side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly
I could; when about noon, as the sun passed the me-
ridian, I thought I selt a little breeze of wind in my
sace, iptinging up from the S. S. E. This cheered, my
heart a little, and especially when in about half an hour
more it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By thistime
1 was gotten at a frightsul distance from the islimd ;'— ,
and, had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I'
had been undone another way too; for I had no crem~
pass on board, and should never have known how to
have steered towards the island, if 1 had but once lost
fight of it; bat the weather continuing clear, I applied
e 5 '• loyiel?
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sall»
standing away to the north as much as possible, to get
out of. the current.
Just as 1 had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness of the wa?
ter, fome alteration of the current was near; for where
the current was fo strong, the water was foul; but per,-.
Reiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and
presently 1 found to the east, at about half a mile, a
preach os the sea upon fome rocks: these rocks I found
caused the current to part again; and as th,e main stress:
of it ran away more foutherly, leaving the rocks to the
north-e:ist, fo the other returned by the repulse of the
lock, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to
the north-west with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in such
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise of
jgy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream
of this eddy; and the wind alfo freshening, how gladly I
spread my sail to it, running cheersully besore the wind,
and with a strong tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried roe about a league in my way back
again directsy towards the island, but about two leagues
more towards the northward than the current lay, which,
carried me away at first; so that when I came near th*
island, I found myself open to the.northern shore of it,
that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to
that which I went out from.
When I had made fomething more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent, and saved me no sarther. However, I found that
being 'between the two great currents, viz. that onHh*
fouth-side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay about two leagues on the other fide; I
fay, between these two, in the west of the island, I fou»c>
the water at least still, and running no way; and haying
still a breeze of wind sair for me, I kept on steering di-
rectly for the island, though not making such fiesta way
as i did besore.
Aboucfour o'clock in the evening, being then within
3 . . about
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this distance stretching out as is
described before, to the'fouthward, and, casting ofF tne.
current roore foutherly, had of course made another
eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, but not
ciirectly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost sull north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north west, and
in about an hour came within about a mile shot of the
shore, where, it bemg smooth water, 1 foon got to land.
VV hen 1 was on ihore, 1 sell oil my knees, and gave
God thanks sor my deliverance, refolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and resresh-
ing myself with such things as 1 had, 1 brought my boat
close to the shore, in a littse cove that 1 had espied under
fome trees, and said me down to sleep, being quite spent
with the labour and satigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat; I had ran fo much hazard, and knew too
much the case to thmk of attempting it by the way I
went out; and what .might beat the other tide (I mean
the west-side) 1 knew not, nor had I any mind to run,
any more ventures: fo 1 only refolved in the morning to
make my way westward along the shore, and to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate iu«
sasety, fo as to have her again it I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed tiil it came to a very little rivulet, or brook*
where I found a convenient harbour for my boat, and
where she lav as if the had been in a sittle dock, made on,
purpose for her. Here 1 put in.; and having stowed my'
boat very sase, I went on shore to.look about me, and
see where I was.
I foon found I had but a little passed by the place.
where 1 had been besore, when I travesled on toot to that
shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun,
and my umbrelsa, for it was exceeding hot, J began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a
voyage as 1 had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where 1 found every thing standing as I
lest it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as L
said before, my country-house. I got
&6
I got over the sence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs, sor I was very weary, and sell asleep:
but judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a
surprize I must be in, when I was awaked out of my
sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times,
Robin, Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robinson Crusoe!
W here are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where
have you been r
I was so dead asleep at sirst, being satigued with row-
ing or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day,
and walking the latter part, that I did not awake tho-
roughly; and dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me: but as
the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe, at last I began to awake more persectly, and was
at first dreadsully frighted, and started up in the utmost
consternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and imme-
diately knew that this was be that spoke to me; sor just
in such bemoaning language I had used.to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so persectly, that
he would sit upon my singer, and lay his bill clofe to my
sace, and cry, Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you ?—
Where have you been? How came you here? and fuch
things as 1 had taught him.
However, even though 1 knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
besore 1 could comp'ose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither, and then how he should just
keep about the place, and no where else; but as I was
'well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it
over; and holding out my hand, and calling him by his
name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me,
Poor Robin Crusoe, and, how did I come here? and,
where had 1 been? just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again; and so I carried him home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea sor some
time, and had enough to do sor many days to sit still,
and reflect upon the danger I had been in. 1 would
have been very glad to have had my boat again on
jny side of the riland, but I knew not how it was
practicable
practicable to get it about. As to the east Tide of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart would
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of k:
and to the other side of the island 1 did not know how
it might be there.; but supposing the current ran with
the same force against the shore at the east, as it passed
by it on she other, I might run the same risque of being
driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as
I had been besore of being carried away from it; fo
with these thoughts I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of many
months' labour to make it, and of fo many more to get
it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate retired lise, as you may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and sully comforted in reisigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought 1 lived
really very happily in all things, except that of fociety.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering how.
sew tools 1 had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected persection in
my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found insinitely easier and
better, because 1 made things round and shapeable, which
besore were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think
I never was more vain of my own persormance, or more
joysul for any thing I found out, than for my being able
to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red like
other earthen ware, yet as it was hard and sirm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comsorted with it;
for 1 had always been used to smoke, and there were pipes
in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing there
was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when I iearch-
ed the ship again, 1 could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware 1 alfo improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets as well as my invention
fliewcd
shewed me, though not very handsome, yet convenient
for my laying things up in, or setching things home in.
P'or example, if) killed a goat abroad, 1 could hang it up
in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and
bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle; I
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two
of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a busiest, and leave the rest behind me. Also
large deep baskets were nty receivers for my corn, which
I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured;
and kept it in great beflets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated consider-
ably; and this was a want which it was impossible for
me to supply, and 1 began seriously to consider what. I
must do when I,should have no more powder; that is to
say, how 1 thould do to kils any goats. 1 had., as I ob-
served in the third year of my being here, kept a young
kid, and bred her up tame. I was in hopes of getting
a he kid, but I could not by any means bring it to
pass, till my kid grew'an old goat;' and i could never
find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere
age-'
But being pow in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as 1 have said, my ammunition growing low, 1 set
myself to study fome art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I could not catch fome of them alive,' and
particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them; and
believe they were more than once taken in them; but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and always,
found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I refolved to try a pit-sall ; fo. I dug several
large pits in the earth, ,in places where I had observed
the goats used to seed, and o\er these pits I placed hurdles
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them,
and several times i put ears ai barley, and dry rice, with-
out setting the trap; and 1 could easily perceive that the
goats had gone in, and eaten up the corn, that I could
see the mark of their seet. At length i set three traps
in one night, and goinrj the next morning, 1 found them
all Handing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was
very discouraging ; however, 1 altered my trap ; and, not
'to
to (trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see
my traps, I sound in one of them a large old he goat; and,
in one of the other, three kids, a male and two semales.
As to the old one, 1 knew not what to do with him ; he
was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is
to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was
what I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was
pot rny business, nor would it answer my end; so I e'en
let him out, and he ran away as if he had been fright*
eued out of his wits; but I did not then know what {
afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a lion. If
) had let him stay there three or sour days without sood,
and then have carried him some water to drink, and then.
a little .corn, he would have been as tame as one of the
kids; sor they are mighty sagacious tractable creatures,
'where they are well used.
However, sor the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; theh 1 went to the three kids; and,
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings toge-
ther; and with sortie difriculty brought them all home.
It was a good while besore they would seed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and.
they began to be tame: and now 1 sound, that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goats' flesh, when I had no-
powder or shot lest, breeding some up tame was my only
way, when perhaps I might have them about my house
like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep
(the tame from. the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up; and the only way sor this was
.to have some inclofed piece of ground, well senced either
with hedge or pale, to keep them up so essectually, that
'those within might not break out, or those. without .
break in.'
This was a great undertaking sor one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute neceffity of doing it,
niy first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, Al. where there was likely to be herbuge sor
jthem to e.at, water sor .them to drink, and cover to keep
them from she sun.
Those who understand such inclofures, will think J
had very little contrivance when 1 pitched upon a.
place very proper sor ali these, being a plain open piece
''of
shewed me, though hot very handsome, y** " i *lt :„ tt.e
sor my laying things up in, or setching f 'i dr;.u nf
I or example, if 1 killed a goat abroad, 1 wo"dv . , "soJ
in a tree, flay it, and drels it, and c- {hy[ t f, ', *
bring it home in a basket; and the „„3 ?" l°™ f
, „ ij , , grouno in luch a
could cut it up, take out the egg i u„ „ u . i n.
„f ,i,„fl n ',' u i u¥ ."' "ave been at least
ottneriesh, which was enough j„„r„ „f :f
t. _' , n . . . a jdnels ot it .o great as
home m a basket, and eaire' ,„„ „,;.„„ 0. t° ,
i„ i , n '-- ,en miles about, I was
large deep baskets were aiy,' i '*' i „ i V , I
I .fl„.„ ii j .. Y- .to do it in; but 1 did not
1 always rubbed out as 1' , -i , .,, . <. .
,m, i ;, -,. „, „ ii-ould be as wild insomuch
and kept it in great bas*- .-", i a L i n , , T
(i' ° """ / ftad the whole llland: and I
1 began now to"pe . , u lL - ' . r
i . ° , -.. ^.. /iiom to chace them in, that I
abiy; and this was ..:.;-'' *
me to supply, 'ar ^>"!' , ', T , ,.
must do when r .'.-^? ™d «"™* on. I believe, about
/' . T ,i :,i <,„5 thought occurred to me; so I pre-
scrv'ecTin t' :>,:U and sor the ^^Z^mg 1 resolved
kid, and" '.;**> l^1'4 15° *"* in lenStl1' and 10(>
a he Is J*'/'?1 ltb» 'as il wou,cl maintain as many
pass '' ff^Crc'0 my realonable time, so, as my flock
rin l' '''IS*'*"''/ c0"'d add more ground to my inclofure.
a(r' ^/^ acting with some prudence, and I went to
r ^J'JwVt courage. 1 was about three months hedging
ft/fk-fst piece; and, till 1 had done it, 1 tethered the
p&Ltfg'm the best part of it, and used them to seed as
tW* ,e as possible, to make them samiliar; and very
His j lVouW g° i'nd carry them some ears of barley, or
handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand; so
*", after my inclofure was sinished, and I let them lonse,
£*„ virould sollow me up and down, bleating after me
<&%„ handsul of corn.
'/'hi* answered my end, and in about a year ami a
.alr I had-a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
as"d in two years more I had three and sorty, besides
several that 1 took and killed sor my sood; and after
that I inclofed five several pieces of ground to seed them
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as
j wanted them, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another.
Rut this was not all; sor now I only had goat's
flesh to seed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which indeed in my beginning 1 did not lo much as think
of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, was
really
x
\
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137
agreeable surprife, , sor now I set up my dairy,
., Vietimes a gallon or two of milk in a day.—
^'£. .e, who gives supplies of sood to every crea-
'^, \ven naturally how to make use of it; so J,
'1 a cow, much less a coat, or saw butter
cry readily and handily, though aster a
c' and mifcarriages, made me beth butter
.ili, and never wanted it afterwards.
* crcisully can our great Creator treat his crea-
even in thofe conditions in which they seem to
overwhelmed in destruction! I low can he sweeten
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praife him
for dungeons and prifons! What a table was here spread
sor me in a wilderness, where 1 saw nothing at sirst but
to perish sor hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and
my little samily fit down to dinner. There was my ma-
jesty, the prince and lord of the" whole ifland; I had the
lives of all my subjects at absolute command; I could
hang, draw, give lise and liberty, and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me.—
My dog, which was now grown very old and crazy, and
sound no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always
at my right hand; and two cats, one on one fide the
table, a-nd one on the other, expecting now and then a
bit from my hand, as a mark of special savour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at iirst; sor they were both of"them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hands ; but
one of them having multiplied by 1 know not what kind
of creature, these were two which 1 preserved tame;
whereas the rest ran wild into the woods, and became
indeed troublesome to me at last : sor they would often
come into my houle and plunder me too, till at laic I
was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many.-i-
At length they lest me with this attendance, and in this
plentisul manner 1 lived; neither could I be said to want
any thing but society, and of that, in some time after
this, I was like to have too much.
I wag
I was fomething impatient, as I had observed, to have?
the use of my boat, though very loth to run any more
hazard: and theresore fometimes I lat contriving ways
to get her about the ifland, and at other times 1 sat my-
self down contented enough without her. But I had a
strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of
the island, where, as 1 have said in my last ramble, I
went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the
current set, that I might see what I had to do. This in-
clination increased upon me every day, and at length I
refolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge
of the shore, I did fo: but had any one in England been
to meet such a man as 1 was, it must either have,frighted
them, or raised a great deal of laughter; and as 1 fre-
quently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile
at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to
take a sketch of my figure, as follows :—
1 had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to .keep the
sun from me, as to shoot the rain osf from running into
my neck; nothing being fo hurtsul in these climates as
the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middse of my thighs; and a pair of
open-kneed breeches pf the fame. The breeches were
made of a skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs. Stockmgs and shoes
I had none; but I had made me a pair of fomething, I
scarce knew what to call them, like buskins, to flap over
my legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes; but
of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of
this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw
and a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I
had another belt not fo broad, and sastened in the same
manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made
made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot. At my back 1 carried
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy ugly goat's-skin umbrella, but which,
after all, was the molt necessary thing 1 had about me,
next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was
really not fo Mullato-like as one might expect from a
man not at all caresul of it, and living withm nine or
ten degrees of the Equinox. My beard I had once suf-
fered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as 1 had both seissars and razors sufficient, L had cut
it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which
I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by fome Turks, whom 1 law at
Sallee : for the Moors did not wear such, though the
Turks dick Of these mustachios, or whiskers, 1 wisl not
say they were long enough to hang ray hat upon them;
but they were of length and shape monstrous enough, and
such as in England would have passed for frightsul.
But all this is by the bye; for as to rny sigure, I had
ib sew to observe me, that it was of no manner of con-
sequence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or fix,
'days. I travelled first asong the sea-shore, directly to the
'place where 1 first brought my boat to anchor, to get up
upon the rocks; and, having no boat now to take care
of, I wept over the land a nearer way, to the same
height that 1 was upon besore; when, looking sorward to
.the point of the rock which lay out, and which 1 was to
double with my bfcat, as 1 said above, I was surprized to
see the sea all smooth and quiet; no ripling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in other psaces.
1 .was at a strange loss to understand this, and refolved
•to spend fome time in the observing of it, to see if nothing.
from the sets of the tide had occasioned it: but 1 was
presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of
ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current
of waters from fome great river in the shore, must be
the occasion of this current; and that, according as the
jvind blew more forcible from the west, or from the
north, this current came near, or went sarther from
the more: for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being
made, I plainly saw the current again as besore, only
that it ran sarther off, being near half a league from the
ihore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the shore,
and hurried me in my canoe along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that 1 had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again: but when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spiiits at the
remembrance of the danger i had been in, that I could
not think of it again with any patience ; but, en the con-
trary, I took up another refolution, which was more
sase, thougltmore laborious; and this was, that I would
build, or rather make me another periagua, or canoe;
and fo have one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may ca}I
it, two plantations in the island; one my little fortisica-
tion or tent, with the wall about it under the rock, with
the cave behind me, which by this time I had enlarged
into several apartments or caves, one within another.
One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had
a door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to
say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all
filled up with the large earthen pots, of which I have
given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great,
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provisions, especially my
corn, fome in the ear cut offshort from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as besore, with long stakes or
piles; those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown fo big, and spread fo very much, that there
was not the least appearance, .to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little sarther within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn-ground, which I kept duly cultivated and fowed,
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its seafon;
and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I bad more
land adjoining as fit as that. Besides
Besides tl>i=, I hud my country-ftat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also: For first, I had my little
bower, as I ceiled it, which I kept in repair; that is to
say, 1 kept the hedge which circled it inconstantly fit-
ted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in
the inside. 1 kept the trees, which at sirst were no more
.than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall;
I kept them always fo cut, that they might spread and
grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade, which they did essectually to my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this 1 had made me a fcluab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft
things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our
sea-bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat
to cover me; and here, whenever! had occasion to be ab-
sent srommy chies seat, 1 took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle;
that is to say, my goats. And as 1 had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to sence and inclose this ground, I
was fo uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats .should
break through, that 1 never lest ots', till with insinite la-
bour! had stuck the outside of the hedge fo sull os small
stakes, and fo near to one another, that it was rather a
pale than an hedge, and there was scarce room to put
an hand through between them, which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they asl did in the next rainy seafon,
made the inclosure strong, like a wall; indeed stronger
than any wall.
This, will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
1 spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared ne-
cessary' for my comsortable support; for I considered the
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me; as long as I lived in the place, is it were
to be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach
depended entirely upon my persecting my inclosures to
such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them
together; which, by this method, indeed 1 fo eisectually
secured, that when these httie stakes began to grow, I
had
had planted them so very thick, I was sorced to pull some
of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on sor my winter store- of raifins,
and which 1 never Failed to preserve very caresully, us the
best and most agreeable dainty of my whole <diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only, but phytical, whole-
some, nourishing, and resrelhing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other ha-
bitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I
generally staid and lay here in my way thither; sor I
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order. Some-
times 1 went out in her to divert myself, but no more:
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a
stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive
of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the cur-
rents, or winds, or any other accident; but now I come
to a new scene of my lise.
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprized with the print of a
man's naked soot on the shore, which was very plain to
beseen in the land. I stood like one thunderstruck, or
as if 1 had seen an apparition; I listened, 1 looked round
me, 1 could hear nothing, nor see any thing; I went up
to a rising ground, to look sarther. I went up the shore,
and down the shore, but it was all one, I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it again to see
if there were any more, and to observe if it might not be
my sancy ; but there was no room sor that, sor there was
exactly the very print of a soot, toes, heel, and every
part of a soot. How it came thither I knew not, nor
could in the least imagine. But after innumerable flutter-
ing thoughts, lite a man persectly consused, and out of
myself, 1 came home to my sortirication, not seeling, as
we say, the ground 1 went on, but terrified to the last de-
gree, looking behind me• at every two or three steps, mif-
taking every bush 'and tree, and sancying every stump
at a distance to be a man; nor is it possible to describe
bow many various shapes an affrighted imagination re-
presented things to me in; how many wild ideas were
sormed every moment in my sancy, and what strange
unaccountable
M ®BUy8@Æ CM ITsSOE
) '>zurAv'i-*ea sr///// /'/'////o/e '/'curf.
W
Onaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the
way.
When I came to my callle, sor so I think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued : whether 1 went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the
hole in the rock, which 1 called a door, I cannot remem-
ber; sor never frighted hare-fled to cover, or sox to earth,
with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I had no steep that night; the sarther 1 was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were, which is tamething contrary to the nature of such
things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures
in sear. But I was so embarrassed with my own fright-
sul ideas of the thing, that I sormed nothing but difmal
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great
way offit. Sometimes 1 sancied it must be the devil;
and reason j-oined in with me upon this supposition. For
how should any other thing in human shape come into
the -place? W here was the vessel that brought them ?—*
What marks were there of any other sootsteps? And
how was it possible a man mould come there? But then
to think that Satan should take human shape upon him,
in such a place,. where there could be no manner of occa-
sion sor it, but to leave the print of his soot behind him,
and that even sor no purpofe too (sor he could not be
sure I should see it), this was an amazement the other
way. I considered that the devil might have sound out
abundance of other ways to have terrisied me than this
of the single print of a soot. That as I lived quite on
the other tide dt the island, he would never have been so
simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thou-
sand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in
the sand too, which the first surge 'of the sea upon an high
wine! would have desaced entirely. All this seemed in-
consistent with the thing itself, and with all notions we
usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil. And
I presently concluded, then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz. That it must be some of the
savages of the main land over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either thriven.
by
by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made the
island; and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have staid in this deso-
late island, as I would have been to have had them.
V\ hiie these reslections were rolling upon my mind,
1 was very thanksul in my thought, that I was fo happy
as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did
not fee my boat, by which they would have concluded
that fome inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps
have searched sarther for me: then terrible thoughts
Tacked my imaginations about their having found my
boat, and that there were' people here; and that if fo,
I should certainly have them come again in greater num-
bers, and devour me: that if it should happen fo that
they should not find me, yet they would find my inclo-
sure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of
tame goats, and I Ihould perish at last for mere want.
Thus my sear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God, which was founded wpoa
such wondersul experience, as 1 had had of his good-
ness, now vanished; as if he that had sed me by miracle
hitherto, could not preserve, by his power, the provision
which he. had made for me by his goodness. 1 re-
proached myself with my easmess, that J would not fow
any more corn one year, than would just serve me till
the next seafon, as if no accident could intervene to pre-
vent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground:
and this I thought fo just a reproof, that I refolved, for
the suture, to have two or three years' corn before-hand,
fo that whatever might come, I might not perish for
want of bread..
How strange a chequer-work of providence is the
lise of man! And by what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-
day we seek wi:at to-morrow we shun; to-day we de-
sire what to-morrow we sear; nay, even tremble at The
apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at this
time in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was, that 1 seemed banished from
human fociety, that I was alone, circumscribed by the
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned
,' to
in what I call a silent lise.; that I was as one whom
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures; that
to have seen one of my own species would have seemed
to me a raising me from death to lise, and the greatest
Westmg that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing
of salvation, could bestow: I say, that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and
was ready to sink into the ground, at but the shadow, or
silent appearance of a man's having set his foot on the
island.
Such is the uneven state of human lise; and it asford-
ed me a great many curious speculations afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I consi-
dered that this was the station of lise the insinitely wife
and good providence of God had determined for me ;—
that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom
might be in all this, fo I was not to dispute his fove- .
reignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted
right by creation to govern and dispose of me abfolutely
as he thought sit: and who, as I was a creature who had
offended him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn
me to what punishment he thought fit; and that it was
my part to submit to bear his indignation, because I had
sinned against.him.
I then reslected, that God, who was not only right-
eous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
punish and afflict me, fo he was able to deliver me; that
if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself abfolutely and entirely to his will.
And, on the other hand, it was my duty asfo to hope in
him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and
directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular esfect of
my cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz. one
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts
about my danger fromthe appearance of savages, I found
it discomposed me very much; upon which those words
of the Scripture came into ray thoughts—Call upon me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thoujhalt
glorify me.
VOL. I. H UdO»
Upon thisi rising cheersully out of my bed, my heart
'was not only comsorted, but I was guided and encou-
raged to pray earnelily to God sor deliverance. When
I had done praying, 1 took up my Bible, and opening it
to read, the rirft words that presented to me were—Wait
on the JLord, and he of good cheer, and heJliallstrengthen
thy heart: Wait, Isay, on the Lord. It is impossible to
express the comsort this gave me; and, in return, I
thanksully laid down (he book, and was no more'sad, at
least not on that occasion.
Jn the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
resiections, it came into my thoughts one day, that ail
this might be a mere chimera of my own, and thi'.t this
soot might b the print or my own soot,.when 1 came on
shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ;—
that it was nothing else but my own soot: and why
might 1 not come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that way to the boat? Again, 1 considered
also, that i'could by no means tell ror certain where I
had trod, and where I had not; and that if at last this
was only the print of my own soot, I had played the part
of thole sools who strive to make stories of spectres
and apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at
them more than any body else.
Now 1 began to take coinage, and to peep abroad
again; sor i had not stirred out of my Castle sor three.
days and nights, so that 1 began to starve sor provision;
sor 1 had little or nothing within doors, but some barley-
cakes and water. Then 1 knew that my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and in-
convenience sor want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled
some of them, and almoit dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, theresore, with the belies that this
'was nothing but the print of one of my own seet (and
so I might be truly said to start at my own shadow),
I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-.
bouse to milk my flock; but to see with what sear
I went sorward, how orten 1 looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then, to lay down my bai-
led, and run sor my lise, it would ha\e made any one
feave.
,
have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or
that I had been lately most terriby frighted; and fo in-
deed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination; but I could not persuade myself sully of
this, till 1 should go down to the shore again, and see
this print of a root, and measure it by my own, and see
if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot. Fiut when I carae to the
place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid
up my boat, I could n;.t poflibly be on shore any where
thereabouts. Secondly, when 1 came to measure the
mark with my own foot, 1 found my foot not fo large by
a great deal. Both these things sisird my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapour* again to the
highest degree; fo that I shook mrith cold, like one in an
ague, and 1 went home again, filsed with the belies, that
fome man or men had been on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and I might be' surprised
besore I was aware; and what course to take for my se-,
curity 1 knew not/
O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! 1c deprives them of the use of those
means which reason esters for their relies. The first
thing ! proposed to myself was, to throw down my in-
closures,, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods,.
thai. the enemy might not rind them, and then frequent
the island in prospect os the same, or the like booty ;—.
then to the simple thing of digging up my two corn-
fields, that they might not find such a grain there, and
still to be prompted to frequent the island; th..n to deino-
lish my bower and tent, that they might not see any ves-
tiges of my habitation, and bi prompted to look sait her,
in order, to find out the perfons inhabiting.
These were the subjecis of the first night's cogitation,
after ! was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had fo over-run my mind were fresh upon me, and
ray head was sull of vapours, as above. '1 hus tear of
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger
itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden.
. '.] h2 of
of anxiety greater by much than the evil which we are
anxious about; but, which was worse than all this, I
had not that relies in this trouble for the resignation I
used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I
thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken
him; for I did not now take due ways to compose my
mind, by crj'ing to God in my distress, and resting upon
bis providence, as I had done before, for my desence and
deliverance; which, if I had done, 1 had, at least, been •
more cheersully supported under this new surprise, and
perhaps tarried through it with rrtore resolution.
This consulion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the mornmg I sell asleep; and having, by
the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and
my spirits exhausted, 1 slept very foundly, and awaked
much better composed than I had ever been besore. And
now I began to thmk sedately: and, upon the utmost
debate with myself, I concluded, that this island, which
was fo exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no sarther from
the main land than as I had seen, was not fo entirely
abandoned as I might imagine. That although there
were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that-
there might fometimes come boats off from the more,
who, either with design, or perhaps never but when they
were driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That 1 had lived here fifteen years now, and had not.
met with the least shadow or figures of any people be-
fore; and that, if at any time they should be driven here,
it was probable they went away again as foon as ever
they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there
upon any occasion, to this time.
That the most 1 could suggest any danger from, was
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were
driven hither, were here against their wills; fo they
made no stay here, but went off again with all possible
speed, seldom staying one night on more, lest they should
not have the help of the tides and day-light back again;
and that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider of
some sase retreat, in case I should see any savages land
upon the spot.
Now
Now I began forely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large, as to bring a door through again, which door,
»s I said, came out beyond where my fortification loined
to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, theresore,
I refolved to draw me a second fortification, in the same
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just
where I had planted a double row of trevs about twelve
years besore, of which I made mention. These trees
having been planted fo thick besore, there wanted but a
sew piles to be driven between them, that they mould be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be foon finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wali
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every thing 1 cotdd think of to ma*ke it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about as big as i might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to
about ten seet thick, continually bringing earth out of
my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walk-
ing upon it; and through the seven holes 1 contrived to
plant the muikets, of which I took notice that I got
seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held
them like a carriage, that so 1 could fire allthe seven
guns in two minutes time. This wall I was many a
weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself
sase till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as sull with stake*
or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found fo apt to
grow, as they could well stand; infomuch that I believe
I might set in it near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I
might have room to see an enemy, and they might have
no shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to ap-
proach my outer wall.•
Thtis, in two years time, I had a thick grove; and fa
sive or six years time I had a wood besore nay dwelling,
grown fo monstrous thick and strong, that it was in-
deed persectly impassable; and no man, of what kind
foever, would ever imagine that there was any thing,
beyond it, much less an habitation. As for the way I
proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue),,
a a k
it was by setting two ladders; one to a part of tise
rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room
to place another ladder tipen that ; fo when the two
ladders were taken down, no man. living could come
down to me without mischiefing himself; and if they
had come down, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall.
Thus i took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen at
length, that they were not altogether without just rea-
fon; though I foresaw nothing at that time more than
my mere tear suggested.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other assairs; forl had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats; they were not only a present
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be suf-
ficient to me, without the exprnce ot' powder and shot,
but alto abated the fatigue of my hunting a.ter the w,ld•
ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think but of two ways to preserve them ; one was to find
another convenient place to dig a cave under ground,
and to drive them into it every night; and the other
was to inclose two or three little bits of land, remote
from one another, and as much concealed as I could,
where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in
each place , fo that, if any disaster happened to the flock,
in general, I mi^ht be able to raise them again with
little trouble and time; and this, though it would re- •
quire a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.'
Accordingly I spent fome time to find out the most
retired parrs of the island, and 1 pitched upon one, which
was as private indeed as my heart could wish; for it was
a little damp piece cf ground in the middle of the hol-
low and thick woods, where it is observed, I almost
lost myself once besore, endeavouring to come back
that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I
fouiid a clear piece of land of near three acres, fo sur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an inclosure by
nature; at least it did not want near .fo much labour to
; make
make it fo as the other pieces of ground I had worked fo
hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so senced it round,
that my flock or herd, call it which you please, which
were not fo wild now as at first they might be supposed
to be, were well enough secured in it. So without any
sarther delay, 1 removed ten (he-goats and two he-goats
t>> this piece; and when tiit.re, 1 continued to persect
the sence, till 1 had made it as secure as the other, which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more
time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expence of purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the prmt of a man's
foot, which 1 had seen; for as yet, 1 never saw any hu-
man creature come near the island, and I bad now lived
two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed made
my lise much less comfortable than it was besore; as
'may weli be imagined, by any who know what it
is to live in the constant snare of the sear of man; and
this 1 must observe with gries, too, that the discomposure
of my mind had too great impressions alfo upon the reli-
gious part of my thoughts; for the dread aud terror of
salling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay fo
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due
temper for application to my Maker; at least, not with
the sedate calmness and resignation of foul which I was
wont to do.. 1 rather prayed to God as under great af-
fliction and pressure o'f mind, surrounded with danger,
and in expectation every night os being murdered and de-
voured before the morning; and I must testify, from my
experience, that a temper of peace, thanksulness, love,
and affection, as much more the proper frame for. prayer
than that of terror and discomposure; and that, under
the dread os rcischies impending, a man is no more fit
for a comsorting persormance of the duty of praying to
God., than he is for repentance on a tick bed; for these
(iiscomposures.afsect the mind as the Others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater,
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body. .'
,...'' * h 4 But
But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such ano-
ther deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to
sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great dis^-
tance; 1 had found a perspective glass or two in one of
the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship; but
I had it not about me, and this was fo remote, that I
could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to look any longer; whether
it wa? a boat or not, I do not know; but as I descended
srom the hill, I could see no more of it, fo I gave it over %
only 1 refolved to go no more without a perspective glass
in my pocket.
V\ hen I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been besore, I was pre-
sently convinced, that the seeing the print of a man's
foot, was net such a strange thing in the island as 1 ima-i
gined; and, but that it was a special Providence that I
.was cast upon the side of the island, where the savages
never came, 1 should easily have known, that nothing
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main,
when they happened to be a little too sar out at sea,~to
moot over to that fide of the island for harbour; like-
wise, as they often met, and fought in their canoes, the
victors, having taken any prifoners, would bring them
ov<>r to this shore, where, according to their dreadsul
customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat
them; of which hereafter.
When 1 was come down the hill to the ihore, as 1 said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was per-
fectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me
to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, seet, and other bones of hu.*
man bodies; and particularly I observed a place where
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth,
like a cock-pit, where it is supposed the savage wretches
had sat down to their inhuman seastings upon the bodies
of their sellow-creatures.
I was fo astonished with the sight of these things, that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from
it.
it, for a long while; all my apprehensions were burled:
• in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish bru-
tality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human na-
ture; which, though I had heard of often, yet I never.
had fo. near a view of before ,' in short, I turned away
my sace from the horrid spectacle; my stomach' grew
sick, and I was juft at the point of sainting, when nature
discharged the diforder from my stomach, and, having
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little.
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a mo-
ment; fo I got me up the hill again, with all the speed;
I could, 'and walked on towards my ownliabitation..
When I came a little out of that part of the island*
I stood still awhile as amazed; and then recovering*
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
foul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks,, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world?
where 1 was distinguished from such dreadsul creatures,
as these; and that though 1 had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet given me fo many
comsorts in it, that I had still more to give thanks foe.
than to complain of; and this above all, that I had,,
even in this miserable condition, been comsorted with,
the knowledge of'himself* and the hope of his bless-
ing, which was a selicity more than sufficiently equi-
valent to all the misery which I had suffered,, or could
suffer.
In. this fr.ame of thanksulness* I went home to my
Castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the.
&sety of my circumstances, than, ever I was besore; for
I observed, that these wretches never came to this
island in' search of what >they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding any thing to their
purpose: I knew I had been, here now almost eighteen?
years, and never saw the least footsteps ^f a. huroarL
creature there besore; and might be here eighteen
more as entirely concealed as 1 was now, if I did not
discover myself to them,.which I had no manner of
occasion to do, it being my only business so keep my-
self entirely concealed where I was, unless I found &.
u4 bettec
better fort of creatures than cannibals to make myself.
known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating
one another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and
kept close within my own circle for almost two years
after this ; -when I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, viz. my Castle, my country-seat,
which i called my bower, and my inclosure in the
woods; nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion which
nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
I was as searsul of seeing them, as of seeing the devil
himself; nor did I fo much as go to look after my boat
in all this time, but began rather to think.of making
me another; for I could not think of ever making any
more attempts to bring the other boat round the island
to me, lest I should meet with fome of those creatures at
sea, in which, if I had happened to have sallen into their
hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satissaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, began
to wear off my uneasiness about them; and 1 began to
live justin the same composed manner as besore; only
with this difserence, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me than I did besore, lest I should
happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly, I
was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them
on the island should happen to hear it; and it was there-
fore a very good providence to me, that I had surnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, that 1 had no need
to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was
by traps and snares, as I had done besore; fo that for
two years after this, I believe, I never fired my gun
once off, though. I never went out without it; and,
which was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the
ship, I always carried them out with me, or at least
two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt; 1 like-
wise burnished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
oijt of the ship, and made me a belt to put it in alfo;
* fo
fo that I was now a mod: formidable sellow to look at,
when I went abroad, if you add to the former descrip-
tion of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broad sword, hanging at my side in a belt, but without
a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for fome time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living; all these things tended
to shew me more and more how sar my condition was
from being miserable, compared to fome others; nay,
to many other particulars of lise which it might have
pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon,
reflecting, how little repining there would be among
mankind, at any condition with those that are worse in
order to be thanksul, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, fo indeed I thought that
the frights I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern 1 had been in for my own preservation
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own con-
veniences, and I had dropped a good design, which I had
once bent my thoughts upon; and that was, to try if I
could not make fome of my barley into malt, and then
try to brew myself fome beer; this was really a whim-
sical thought, and.l reproved myself often tor the sim-
plicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the
want of several things necessary to. the makmg my beer,
that it would be impossible for me to supply; as suit,
casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have
observed already, 1 could never compass; no, though
I spent not manv days but weeks, nay months m at-
tempting it, but' to no purpose. In the next place I,
had no hopes to make it keep, no yeast to make it work
no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet had not all
these things mtervened, 1 m<pn the frights and terrors
lwas in Ibout the savage*; I had undertaken it, and
peThaps brought it to pase too; lor 1 seldom gave any
£ over without accomplishmg *, when I once had
it inDmy head enough to begm it, ^
But my invention now ran quite another way; for'
night and day I coutd think of nothing but how 1 might
destroy fome of these monsters in their cruel bloody
entertainment; and if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to
set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded,
upon in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures,
or at least frightening them, fo as to prevent their com-
ing hither any more; but all was abortive, nothing
could be possible to take efsect, unless I was to be there
to do it myself; and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of
them together, with their darts, or their bows and ar-
rows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as
I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the'place
•where they made their fire, and put in five or fix pounds
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but, as in the first place I should be very loath-
to waste fo much poSvder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of a barrel; fo neither could I
be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, et best, that it would little more
than just blow the fire about their ears, and fright them,,
'but not sufficient to make them forsake the place; fo I
laid it aside, and then proposed, that I would place my-
self in ambush, in fome convenient place, with my three
guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let fly at them, when 1 should be sure to kill
or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and thea:
salling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, 1 make no doubt but that, if there were twenty,
I should kill them all; this sancy pleased my thoughts
sor fome weeks, and I was fo full of it that I often,
dreamt of it; and semetidses, that I was just going to>
let fly at them in my sleep.''
I went fo sar with it in my indignation, that I em-
ployed myself several days to sind out proper places to.
put myself in ambuscade as I said, to watch for them ;.
and 1 went frequently to the place itself, which was
tow
now grown more samiliar to me; and especially while
my mind was thus filled with thoughts os' revenge, and
of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the
sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had at the
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches de-
vouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I sound a place in the fide of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till 1 saw any
of the boats coming, and might then, even besore they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen
into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a
hollow large enough to conceal me. entirely; and where
I might sit, and observe all their bloody doings, and
take my sull aim at their heads, when they were so closo
together, as that it would be next to impossible that I
should mifs my shot, or that I could sail wounding three
or sour of them at the first shot.
In this place then I resolved to fir my design; and!
accordingly I prepared two muskets, and my ordinary-
fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and sour or five smaller bullets, about
thefize of pistol bullets, and the sowling-piece I loaded
with near a handsul of swan-shot, of the largest size -r
I also loaded my pistols with about sour bullets eaeh;
and in this posture, well provided with ammunition sor
% second and third charge, I prepared myself sor my
expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme sor my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually made-
my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, w.Richj
was from my Castle, as I called it, about three miles or
more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the iea,.
coming near the island, or standing over towards it; but
I began to tire of this hard duty, alter I had sor two or
three months constantly kept my watch j but came al-
ways back without any difcovery, there having not in all
that time been-she least appearance, not only on or. near
the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so sar as roy eyes
or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour, to the hill to
lookout, so long also I kept up the vigour of my de-
sign, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suit-
abk
able frame, for fo outrageous an execation, as the kill-
ing twenty or thirty naked savages for an osfence, which
I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts,
an)r further than my passions' were at first fired by the
horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the
people of that country, who, it seems., had been suffered
by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable
and vitiated passions; and consequently were lest, and
perhaps had been for fome ages, to act such horrid
things, and receive such dreadsul customs* as nothing
but nature, entirely abandoned of Heaven, and actuated
by fome hellish degeneracy, could have run them into;
but now, when, as I have said, 1 began to be wea*y of
the fruitless excuriion which I had made ib long, and
fo sar, every morning in vain; fo my opinion of the
action itself began to alter, and I began with cooler
and calmer thoughts to consider what it was 1 was go-
ing to engage in; what authority or call I had, to pre-
tend to be judge and executioner upon these men as
criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for fo many
ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioners of his judgments upon one an-
other; alfo how sar these people were offenders against
me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of
that blood which they shed promiscuously one upon an^
other; 1 debated this very often with myself thus: how
do I know what God himself judges in this particular
case? It' is certain these people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their light reproaching them. They do not know it
to be an offence, and then commit it,in desiance of di-
vine justice, as we do in almost asl the sins we commit.
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken
in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat human
flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When 1 had considered this a little, it followed necessa-
rily, that 1 was certainly in the wrong in it; that theie
people were not murderers in the sense that 1 had be-
fore, condemned them in my thoughts, any more than
those Christians were murderers, who often put to
death the prifoners taken in battle, or more frequently,
up jn
upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to the
sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms and submitted.
In the next place it occurred to me that albeit the
usage they gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing tome; these people
had done me no injury; that it' they attempted me, or
1 saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to sall
upon them, fomething might be said for it; but that
I was yet out of their power, and they had really no
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me;
and theresore it could not be just for me to sall upon
them; that this would justify the conduct of the Spa-
niards, in all their barbarities practised in America,
where they destroyed millions of these people, who,
however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had
several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such
as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as
to the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the
rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the
utmost abhorrence and detestation even by the Spani-
ards themselves, at this time, and by all other Christian
nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God
or man; and such, as for which the very name of a
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightsul and terrible to all
people of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if
the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the
product of a race of men, who were without principles
of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous
temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to
a kind of a sull stop; and 1 began by little and little to
be off of my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong
measures in my refolutions to attack the savages; that
it was not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me, and this it was my business, if possible,
to prevent; but that, if I were discovered and attacked,
then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this
really was the way not to deliver mysesf, but entirely
to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill
every
.* J
-aniards
-Jiem ou
'horrenc
'selves, i
f Europ
piece o
and suc
.is rcckoi
r humanii
•orn or Sp
Df a race c
™=se, or
which is
th= rninc
coni'iderat
f a rull stQ
a my defig
in my r"
-ot my bus
"M V \3\lt
-TCV^w Tt\y
as \.\\e
every one that not only should be on shore at that time*,
but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one
of them escaped to tell their country-people what had
happened, they would come over again by thousands to.
revenge the death of their sellows; and I should only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present
1 had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole I concluded, that neither in principle*
nor in pelicy, I ought one way or other to concern myself
in this affair; that my business was, by all possible means
to conceal myself from them, and not to leave.the least;
signal to them to guess by, that there were any living,
creatures upon the island; I mean of human shape-
Religion joined in with this prudential,, and I was cow-
winced now many ways, that 1 was persectly out of my
duty, when 1 was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures; I mean innocent as
to me; as to the crimes they were guilty of towards
one another, I had nothing to do with them; they were
national punishments to make' a just retribution for
national offences; and t<f bring public judgments upon,
those who ost'end in a public manner, by such ways a*
best please God.
This apeared to me fo clear now, that nothing was %
greater satisfaction to me, than that I had not been suf-
sered to do a thing, which I now saw fo much reafon'
to believe would have been no less a sin than, that o£
wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most
humble thanks on my knees to God that had thus de-
livered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to.
grant me the protection of his providence, that I might
not' fall into the hands of barbarians; or that I might
not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear
call from Heaven to do it, in desence of my own lise.
lid this disposition I continued for near a year, after
this; and fo sar, was I from desiring an occasion for sall-
ing upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there, or not; that I might not be tempted toi
renew any of my contrivances against them, or be pro-
voked by any advantage which might present itself, to
fall
fall upon them; only this I did, I went and removed
my.boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where
I ran it into a little cove, which I found under fome high
rocks, and where I knew, by reafon of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not come with their
boats, upon any account whatfoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for the
bare going thither; viz. a mast and sail, which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which
could not be called either anchor or grappling; however,
it was the best I could make of its kind. All these I re-
moved, that there might not be the least shadow of any
discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any
habitation upon the isand.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever; and seldom went from my cell, other than upon
my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood; which, as it
was quite on the other part of she island, was quite out
of danger; for certain it is, that these savage people,
who sometimes haunted this island, ncer came with any
thoughts of finding any thing here, and consequently
never wandered oft from the coast; and 1 doubt not, but
they might have been several times on shore, after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well
as besore; and indeed, 1 looked back with ibme horror
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been, if 1 had chopped upon them, and been discovered
before that, when naked and unarmed, except with one
gun, and that loaded often only with smasl shot. I
walked every where, peeping and peering about the
island, to see what 1 could get; what a surprise should
I have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's
scot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of
their running, no possibility of my escaping them 1
The thoughts of this fometimes sunk my very foul
within me, and distressed my mind fo much, that 1 could
not foon recover it; to think what 1 should have done,
end haw I not only should not have been able to resist
them.
them,.but even should not have had. presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done; much less, what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might
be able to do. Indeed, afeer serious thinking of these
things, I would be very melancholy, and fometimes it
would last a great while; but I refolved it at last all into
thankfulness to that providence which had delivered mt
from fo many unseen dangers, and had kept me from
those.mischiess, which I could no way hive been the
agent in delivering myself from; because 1 had not the
least notion ot' any such thing depending, or the least
supposition os its being possibse.
This renewed contemplation, which often had come
to my thoughts in former time, when first I began
to see the mercisul dispositions of Heaven, in the dan-
gers we run through in this lise; how wondersully we
are delivered when we know nothing of it; how when
we are ist a quandary, as we call it, a doubt or hesita-
tion, whether to go this way, or that way, a secret,
hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to go>
another way; nay when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has called to go the other way, yet 'a
iirange impression upon the mind, from we know not
what spring, and by we know not what power, shafl
over-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way, which we would have
gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone,
we should have been ruined and loft; upon these, and
many like reflections, 1 afterwards made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever 1 found those secret hints,
or pressings of my mind, to doing or not doing any-
thing that presented, or to going this way or that way,
I never sailed .to obey the secret dictate; though 1 knew
no other reafon for it, than that such a pressure, or. such a
hint, hung upon ray mind; I could give many exam-
ples of the success of this conduct in the course'of my
life; but more especialsy in the latter part of my inha-
biting this unhappy island; betides many occasions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if
I had seen with the same eyes then,.lhat I saw with now;
but it is never too late to be wise; and 1 cannot but ad-
vise all considering men, whole lives, are attended with
....; such
such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though
not fo extraordinary, not to slight such secret intima-
tions of Providence, let them come from what invisible
intelligence they will; that I shall not discuss, and per-
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof
of the converse of spirits, and the secret communica-
tion between those embodied and those unembodied;
and such a proof as can never be withstood; of which I
shall have occasion to give fome very remarkable in-
stances, in the remainder of my folitary residence iss
this dismal place. /
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if
1 consess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I
lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances
that 1 had laid for my suture accommodations and
conveniences. I had the cure of my safety more now
upon my hands, than that of my food. 1 cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for sear
the noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reafon; and above
all, I was very uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me; and for this reafon I removed that
part of my business, which required sire, such as burn-
ing of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in
the wood; where, after I had been fome time, 1 found,
to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave
in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I
dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it,
would be fo hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing
fo much as a sase retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident, I would say, iff
1 did not see an abundant reafon to ascribe all such
things now to Providence, I was cutting down fome.
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and besore
1 go on, I must observe the reafon of my making this
charcoal which was thus':
1 was afraid of making a smoke about my habita-
tion, as I said besore; and yet 'i could not live there
Hvithout baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. fo I
, contrived
contrived to burn some wo id here, as 1 had seen done in
England under turs, till it became chark, or dry coal;
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
carry home, and persorm the other services, which sire
was wanting for at home, without danger of smoke.
But this by the bye; while I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch
of low brush-wood, or underwood, there was a kind
of hollow place; I was curious to look into it, and
getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for me to
Hand upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but
I must consess to you, I made more hafte out than I did in;
when looking surther into the place, which was persectly
dark, 1 saw two broad shining eyes of fome creature,
whether devil or man, I knew not, which twinkled like
two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in and making the reflection.
However, after fome pause, 1 recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself,
that he that was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to
live twenty years in an island all alone, and that I durst
to believe there was nothing in this cave that was m«re
frightsul than myself; upon this plucking up my cou-
rage, I took up a large firebrand, and in 1 ruflied again,
with the stick flaming in my hand; I had not gone
three steps in, but 1 was almost as much frightened as
I was besore; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in fome pain; and it was.followed by a brokeil
noise, as if of words half expressed, and then a deep
sigh again; 1 stepped back, and was indeed struck with
such a surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat;
and if I bad had a hat on.my head, I will not answer tor
it, that my hair might not have listed it off. But still
plucking up my spirits as well as 1 could, and encou-
raging myself a little, with considering that the power
and presence of God was every where, and was able to
protect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a litlc over
my head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous
frightsul old he-goat, just making his will, as we say,
gasping for lise, and dyin^.indeed of a mere old age.
I stirred
I stirred him a little, to see if I could get him out, and
heassayed to get up, but was not able to raife himself;
and I thought with myself, he might e'en lie there; sor
if he had frightened me so, he would certainly fright any
os the savages, if any of fhem should be so hardy as to
come in there, while he had any lise in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I sound the cave was but very'
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve seet over,
but in no manner of thape, either round or square, no
bands having ever been employed in making it bnt thofe
of mere nature. I observed also, that there was a place
at the sarther tide of it that went in sarther, but so low,
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to
get into it, and whither it went I knew not; so having
no candle, 1 gave it over sor some time, but resolved to
come again the next day, provided with candles and a
tinder-box, which 1 had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six
large candles of my own making,. sor I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and, going. into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all sours, as I have
seid, almoii ten yards; which, by the way, I thought
was a venture bold enough, considering that 1 knew not
how sar it might go, or what was beyond it. When 1
was got through the streight, I sound the roof *ofe higher
up, [believe near twenty seet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the ifland, I dare say, as it was, to
look round the fides and roof of this vault or cave. The
walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles. W hat it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather sup-
posed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightsul cavity, or
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though per-
sectly dark. The sloor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loofe gravel upon it; so that there was no nau-
seous creature to be seen; neither was there any damp
*ir wet on the sides of the roof. The only difficulty iii
rt was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place
of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thpughj
6 that
that was a convenience; so that 1 was really rejoiced at
the difcovery, anil resolved, without any delay, to bring
some of thofe things, which I was moll anxious about,
to this place; particularly, 1 resolved to bring hither my
magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two
sowling-pieces (lor 1 had three in all) and three muskets
(sor of them 1 had eight in all) ; so I kept at my Castle
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of
cannon, on my outmost sence; and were ready also to
take out upon an)' expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing mr ammunition, I
'was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I sound
that the water had penetrated about three or sour inches
into the powder on every side, which, caking and grow-
ing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell;
so that I had near sixty pounds ot very goed powder in
the centre of the cask; and this was an agreeable disco-
very to me at that time; so I carried all away thither,
never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with
rue in my Castle, sor sear of a surprife of any kind. I
also carried thither all the lead 1 had left sor bullets.
1 sancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
who were said to live in caves and holes in the recks,
where none could come at them; sor I persuaded myself,
while I was here, if live hundred savages were to hunt
me, they couid never sind me out; or if they did, they
yfou'.d not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, which I sound expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave, the next day after 1 made this difco-
very; and I sound it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent os-
sense to my nose..
1 was now in my twenty third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place, and to the
manner of living, that could I hare but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, 1 could have been content to have capitulated sor
spending the reft of my time there, even to the last mo-
ment, till 1 had laid me down and died, like the.old goat
in the cave, t had also arrived to some little diversions.
aud
and amusefnents, which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did besore; as, first, I
had taught my Poll, as I noted besore, to speak; and he
did it fo samiliarly, and' talked fo articulately and plain, ,
tli it it was very plea'ant to me; and he lived with me no
less than fix and twenty years. How lone; he might live
afterwards, [ knew not; though I know they have a no-
tion in the Brasils, that they live an hundred years; per-
haps fome of my Polls may be alive there still, calling
after poor Robin Crusoe to this day. I wish no Fnglish-
man the ill luck to come there ami hear them; but if he
did, he would certainly believe it was the devil. My
dog was a very pleasant ^nd loving companion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of
mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have,
observed, to that degree, that 1 was obliged to shoot seve-
ral of them at first, to keep them from devouring me, and;
all 1 had; but at length, when the two old ones t
brought with me were gone, and after fome time conti-
nuasly drivmg them from me, and letting them have no
provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, ex-
cept two or three savourites, which 1 kept tame, and
whose young, when they had any, i always drowned, and
these were part of my family. Betides these, 1 always
kept two or three houiehold kids about me,'which I taught,
to seed out of my hand; and I had alfo more parrots,
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Cru-.
foe, but noue like my sirst: nor, indeed, did 1 take the.
pains with any of them that I had done with him. 1 had
a'.io several tame sea-fowls, whose names 1 know net,
which.1 caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and(
the little stakes, which I had planted besore my castle..
Wall, being now groxn up to a good .thick grove, these:
sowls all li.cd among these low trees, c.iid bred there,
which was very agreeable to me ; io that, as 1 said above,
1 began to be very well contented with the lise I led, if if
might but have been secured from the dread of savages. • ,
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not be
amiss for all people who (hals meet with my story, .to
make this just observation from it4 viz. How frequently,
mthe course os our lives, the evil, which in itself »c
seek most to fliun, and which, when we are falsen into,
is
is the most dreadsul to us, is oftentimes the very mean*
or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be
raised again from the affliction we are sallen into. I
could give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable lise; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my last
years of folitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the fouthern
folstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when, going out pretty early in the
morning, even besore it was thorough day-light, I was
surprised with seeing a light of fome fire upon the shore,
at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the
end of the island, where I had observed fome savages had
been, as besore, but not on the other side; but, to my
great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest 1 might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had, that if these savages, in ramb-
ling over the island, should find my corn standing, or
cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would
immediately conclude, that there were people in the
place, and would then never give over til) they found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my Castle,
and pulled up the ladder after me, having made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of desence. I loaded all my cannon, as 1 called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortisication, and all my pistols, and re-
folved to desend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to recommend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians; and in this' posture I continued
about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance
ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of
the hill, where there was a fiat place, as I observed be-
sore, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up
again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling
out my perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpofe,
I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground, and be-
gan to look sor the place; I presently sound there were
no less than nine naked savages fitting round a small sire
they had made ; not to warm them, sor they .had no need
of that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I sup-
pofed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether alive
or dead, I could not know. i
They had two canoes with them, which they had haul-
ed up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb,
they seemed to me to wait the return of the flood to go<
away again. It is not easy to imagine what consusion
this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on
my side the ifland, and so near me too: but when I
observed their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my
mind, being satissied that I might go abroad with sasety
all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on shore
besore; and having tnade this observation I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more compofure.
As I expected, so it proved; sor as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take. boat, and row
(or paddle as we call it) all away; I should have ob-.
served, that sor an hour and more besore they went orf,
they went to dancing, and I could easily difcern th^ir
postures and gestures by my glasses; I could not perceive,
by myiiidcst observation, but that they were stark-naked,
and had not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not diftinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, i took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard;
and with all the speed I was able to make, 1 went away to
the hill, where 1 had difcovered the first appearance of all.
As soon as I got thither, which was not less than two hours
(sor I could not go' apace, being so loaded with arms as
I was), Ipeceived there had been three canoes more of
vol. i. . .1 savages
savages on that place; and looking out surther, I saw
they were all at sea together, making over sor the main.
This was a dreadsul sight to me, especially when going
down to the shore, 1 could fee the marks of horror, which
the difmal work they had been about had lest behind it,
viz. the blood, the bone?, and part of the flesh of hamr.ii
bodies, eaten and devoured by thofe wretches, with mer-
riment and spoit. I was so filled with indignation at the
light, that 1 began now to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the vitits which they
thus made to this island, were not very frequent; for it
was above fifteen months besore any more of them came
on shore there again; that is to say, I never saw them, or
an* sootsteps or signals of them, in all that time; fo'r as
to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come
abroad, at least not ib sar; yet all this while I lived un-
comsortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I
'was in of their coming upon me by surprife ; from whence
I observe that the expectation of evil is more bitter than
the sufsering, especially if there is no room to shake oft*
that expectation or thofe apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering humour;
and took up most of my hours, which should have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
sall upon them the very next time I should see them;
especially if they mould be divided, as they were the last
time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if
1 killed one party, suppofe ten or a dozen, I was still the
next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so
another, even ad insmitiun, till 1 should be at length no
less a murderer than they were in being men-eaters, and
perhaps mach more so.
1 spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I thould one day or other sall
into the hands of thofe merciless? creatures; if 1 did at
any time venture abroad, it was not without looking
rouud me with the greatest care and caution imagina-
ble; and now I sound to my great comfort, how happy
it was that 1 had provided a tame. flock or herd of
goats; tor I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun,
especially near that side of the iiiand where they usually
came,
vame, lest I should alarra the savages; and if they had
fled from me nmv, I was fine to have them come back
again, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with.
them, in a sew days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, 1 wore out a year and three months more
besore I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
sound them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true,
they might have been there once or twice, but either
they made no stay, or, at least,. 1 did not hear them;
but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my sour-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange
encounter with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months interval, was very great; 1 slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightsul dreams, and often started out
of my steep in the night; in the day great troubles
overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often
of killing the savages, and the reasons why I might
justify the doing of it; but to wave all this sor a while,
it was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth da}', I'
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would rec-
kon; sor 1 marked all upon the post still; 1 say it was on
the sixteenth of May, that it blew a great storm of wind
all day, with a great "deal of lightning and thunder, and
a very soul night was aftor it; I know not what was the
particular -occasion of it; but as 1 was reading in the
Bible, and taken up with serious thoughts about my
present condition, I was surprifed with the noife of a
gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
. This was to be sure-a surprise of a quite different na-
ture from any I had met with besore; sor the notions
tnis put into my thoughts were quite of another kind j (
started up in the greatest haste imaginable; and in a trice
clapped tip my ladder to the middle place of the rocli",
and pulled it aster me, and mounting ic the second time,
got to the top of the hill; that very moment a flash of
fire bade me listen sor a second gun, which accordingly
in about half a moment I heard, and by the sound knew
that it was from that part of the sea where I was drivea
out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered, that this must be some ship in
diftress, aud that they had some con.rade., or some other
i 2 ship
ship in company, and sired these guns sor signals of dis-
tress, and to obtain help; I had this presence of mind
at that minute, as to think, that though I could not help
them, it may be they might help me; so I brought to-
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and makin»
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill; the'
wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt sairly out, so that I was certain
if there was any such thing as a ship, they mull need
see it, and no doubt they did; sor as soon as ever my sire
blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all
night long, till day broke; and when it was broad day,
and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great dif-
tance at sea, sull east of the ifland, whether a sail, or a
hull, I could not diftinguifh, no not with my gliisses,
the distance was so great, and the weather still some-
thing hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the south-east side of the ifland, to the rocks *
'where I had been sormerly carried away with the cur-
Tent; and getting up there, the weather by this time'
beino' persectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sor-
row, the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon thofe
concealed rocks which 1 sound when I was out in my boat;
and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were
the occasion of my recovering then from the most del'perate
hopeless condition that ever 1 had been in all my lise.
Thus, what is one man's salety is another man's
destruction; sor it seems, these men, whoever they
were, being out of their "knowledge, and the rocks be-
ing wholly under water, had been driven upon them in
the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E.
Had tiny teen the island, as I must necessarily suppofe
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their siring of their guns sor help, especi-
ally when they saw, as I imagined, my sire, silled ine
's with
with my thoughts; first I imagined, that, upon seeing
my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore; but that
the sea going very high, they mi^ht have been cast
away; other times I imagined; that they might have lost
their boat besore, as might be the case many ways; as
particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship,
which many times obliges men to stave, or take in pieces
their boat, and sometimes to throw it over-board with
their own hands; other times I imagined, they had
some other ship or ships in company, who upon the sig-
nals of distress they had made, had taken them up, and
carried them off; other whiles I sancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away br
the current that I had been sormerly in, were carried
out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but
mifery and perishing; and that perhaps they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition.
to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I-could do no more than look upon
the mifery of the poor men. and pity them; which "had
still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so hap-
pily and comsortably provided sor me in my desolate
condition; and that of two ships' companies wao were
now cast away upon this part os the world, not one life
should be spared but mine. I learnt here again to ob-
serve, thac it is very rare that the providence of God
casts us into any condition of lise so low, or any misery so
.gr#at,but we may see something or other to be thanksul sor,
and may see others in worse circumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I
could not so much as see room to suppofe any of them were
saved; nothing could make it rations, so much as to wish
or expect that they did not all perifh there, except the
possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in
company; and this was but mere possibility indeed; sor
I saw not the least lignal or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing, or hankering of delire, I selt
in my soul" upon this sight; breaking out sometimes
. 1 3 * thus:
thus : Oh that there had been but one or two, nay, or but
one soul saved out of the dip, to have escaped to me,
that I might but have had one companion, one sellow-
creature, so have spoken to me, and to have conversed
with! in all the time of my solitary lise, 1 never selt so
earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my sellow-
creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going by some object
in view, or be it some object though not in view, yet
rendered present to the mind by the power of imagina-
tion, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuofity
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that
the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, that but one man
lad been saved! Oh that it had been but one! I believe I
repeated the words, Oh that it had been but one ! a thou-
sand times; and my desires were so moved by it, that
when I spoke the words, my hands would clinch together,
and my singers press the palms of my hands, that if I
had had any soft thing in my hand, it would have cruffi-
_ ed it involuntarily; and my-teeth in my head would
strike together, and set against one another so strong,
that sor some time I could not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them; all 1 can say of them is, to describe
the sact which was ever surprising to me when I sound it;
tho' I knew not from what it mould proceed; itwasdoubt-
'less the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas sormed
in my mind, realizing'the comsort which the conversation.
of one of my sellow-christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their sale, or mine, or
both, sorbad it; sor till the last year of my being on this
jsiand, I never knew whether any were saved out of that
ship or no;_ and had only the affliction some days after,
to see the corpse of a drowned boy come en shore, at
the end of the island, which was next the shipwreck:
he had on no clothes, but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but
nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation. he
was of: he had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of
eight, and a tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten
times more value than the first.
It
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find fomething on board that might be usesul to me ;—
but that did not altogether press me fo much, as the possi-
bility that there might be yet fome living creature on
board, whose lise I might not only save, but might, by
saving that lise, comsort my own to the last degree.—
And this thought clung fo to my heart, that i could not
be quiet night nor day, but 1 must venture out in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest^to
God's providence, I thought the impression was fo strong
upon my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must
corne from fome invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage, took,
a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a com-
pass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great
deal of that lest), a basket sull of raisins. And thus load-
ing myself with every thing necessary, I went down to
my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo m her, and then went home again
for more. My iecond cargo was a great bag sull of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot sull of fresh water, and about two dozen of my
small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than besore, with a
bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, with great
labour and sweat, I brought to my boat; and praying
to God.to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or
paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to the
utmost point of the island, on that side, viz. N. E.—
And now 1 was to launch out into the ocean, and either
to venture, or not to venture, I looked on the rapid cur-
rents, which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at
a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from
the remembrance of the hazard I had been in besore,
and my heart began to sail me; for I foresaw, that if I
was driven into either of those currents, 1 should be car-
ried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach,
or sight ot the island agam; and that then, as my boat
w:is but small, if any sittle gale of wind should rise, I
shousd be mevitably sost.
14 These
These thoughts fo oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterpriie; and having hauled my boat
into a little creek on tbe Ihore, I stepped out, and sat me
down upon a little spot of rising ground, very pensive and
anxious, between sear and desire, about my voyage ;—
'when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide
was turned, and the flood came on, upon which my
going was for fo many hours impracticable. Upon this
it presently occurred to me, that I fliould go up. to the
highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I
could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay, when the
flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven
another way home, with the same rapidnefs of the cur-
Tents. This thought was no fooner in my head, but I
<ast my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the sea both ways, and from whence I had a clear
-view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and 'which way
J was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that
as the current of the ebb set out close by the fouth point
of the island, fo the current of the flood set in dose by
the shore of the north-side; and that 1 had nothing to do
but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and
1 mould do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I refolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and re-
posing myself for that night in the canoe, under the great
•watch-coat 1 mentioned, I launched out: 1 made first a
little out to sea sull north, till I began to seel the benefit
of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me
at a great rate, and yet did not fo hurry me as the
fouthern fide current had done besore, and fo as to take
from me all government of the boat; but having a
strong steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours 1
came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at. Thesotp, which, by
itj building, was Spanish, stuck sast, jambed in between
tworocks: All the stern and quarter of her was beaten
te pieces with the tea.; and as her forecastle, which
flfuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence,
her main-mast and fore-mast were brought by the.board,
that
that is to say, broken short osf'; but her bow-sprit was
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. When I
came clofe to her, a dog appeared upon her, which, see-
ing nv coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into, the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, but sound him almnst dead sor hun-
ger and thirst. J gave him a cake of my bread, and he
eat like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a sortr
night in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some
frelh water, with which, if I would have let him, he
would have burst himself.
After this I wrnt on board: the first fight I met with
was two men drowned in the cock-room, or sorecastle,
of the ship, with their arms sast about one another. I
concluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship
struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and
so continually over her, that the men were not able to
bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water.—
Besides the dog, there was nothing lest in the ship that
had lise, nor any goods that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in
the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I
could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the
seamen, and I got two of them into the boat, without
examining what was in them.
Had the stern of theship been sixed, and the sore part
broken off, i am persuaded 1 might have made a good
voyage; sor by what I sound in these two chests, 1 had
room-to suppofe the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board ', and if I may guess, by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the
Rio de la Plata, in the South part os America, beyond
the Brasils, to the Havannah, in the gulph of Mexico,
and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great trea-
fure in her, but of no use, at that time, to any body; and
what became of the rest of her people I then knew- not.
I sound, besides these chests, a little cask sull of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much disficulty. . There were several muskets
i 5 in
y
in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about sour
pounds of powder in it. As sor the muskets, I had no
occasion sor them, so I lest them, but took the powder-
horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongK, which 1 wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot
to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo,
and the dog, 1 came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, about an -hour
'within night, I reached the ifland again, weary aud sa-
tigued to the last degree.
1 reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new cave,
not to carry it home to my castle. After resreshing my-
ielf, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine
the particulars. The cask of liquor I sound to be a kind
of rum, but not such as we had at the Brasils; and, in a.
'word, not at all good; but when 1 came to open the
chests, I sound several things which I wanted. For ex-
ample, I sound in one a fine case of bottles, of au extra-
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, sine, and
very good: the bottles held about three pints each, and
were tipped with silver. I sound two pots of very good
succatles, or sweetmeats, so sastened also on the top, that
the salt water hall not hurt-them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. 1 sound some very
good shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about
u dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiess, and
coloured neckcloths. The sormer were also very welcome i
being exceeding resreshing to wipe my sace in a hot
day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the chests,
1 sound there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapped tip in a paper, fix doubloons of gold, and
fume small bars, or wedges of gold. I suppofe they
niight all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I sound had some clothes in it, but os
little value; but, by the circumstances, it must have be-
longed to the gunner's mate, though there was no pow-
der in it, iiut about two pounds of glazed powder, in the
three flasks, kept, I suppnse, sor charging their sowling-
pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by
ttiis voyage that was of much use to me; sor, as to tha
money,
money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me
as the dirt under my seet; and I would have given it
all for three or four pair ot English shoes and stockings,.
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had ois
iny seet now for many years. I had, indeed, gotten two.
pair of shoes now, which I took osf the seet of the two
drowned men, whom 1 saw in the wreck: and I found
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very wel-
come to me; but they were not like our English shoes,.
either for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps
than (hoes. I found in the seaman's chest about fifty
pieces of eight in rials, but no gold. I suppose this
belonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to besong to fome officer.
Well, however, 1 lugged the money home to my cave,
and laid it up, as I had done that besore, which I
brought from our own snip; but it was great pity, as I
said, that the other part of the (hip had not come to my
share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money, which, if I had ever
escaped to England, would have lain here sase enough,
till I might have come again and setched it.
Having now brought ass my things onshore, and se-
cured them, 1 went back to my boat, and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old habita-
tion, where I found every thing sase and quiet; fo I be-
gan to repose myself, live after my old sashion., and take.
care of my samily affairs: and for awhile I lived easy
enough; only that I was more vigilant than I uled ta
be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad fo much:
And if at any time 1 did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the issand, where I was pretty.
well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could
go without fo many precautions, and such a load of arms
and ammunition, as Ialways carried with me, if I went,
the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it.
was born to make my body miserable, was asl those two.
years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were:
•possible, I might get away from this island; for fome-
i. (i times
times I was for making another voyage to' the wreck,
though my reafon told me, that there was nothing lest
there worth the hazard of my voyage: fometimes for a
ramble one way, fometimes another: and 1 believe ve-
rily, if I had had the boat that 1 went from Sallee.in, I
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I knew
not whither.
I have been, jn all my circumstances, a memento to
those who are touched with that general plague of man-
kind, whence, for aught I know, one half of their mise-
ries flow; 1 mean that of not being satisfied with the sta-
tion wherein God and Nature hath placed them; for, not
to look back upon my primitive condition, and the ex-
cellent advice of my father, the opposition to which was,
as I may call it, my.origmal sin,, my subsequent mistakes
of the fame kind have been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for, had that Providence,
which fo happijy had seated me at the Brazils as a plant-
er, blefied me with confined desires; and could 1 have
been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have
been by this time, I mean in the time of my being on,
this island, one of the most comfortable planters in the
Brazils : nay, I am persuaded, that, by the improvements
I had made in the little time I lived there, and the in-
crease I should probably have made, if I had stayed, I
might have been worth an hundred thousand nioidores;
and what business had I to leave 3 settled fortune, well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn su-
percargo to Guinea, to setch negroes, when patience and
time would have fo increased our stock at home, that we
could have bought them a.t our own doors, from those
•whose business it was to setch them. And though it had
cost us fomething more, yet the difference of that price
wes by no means worth saving at fo great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the sate of young heads, fo re-
flection' upon the folly of it is as ordinarisy the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time;
and so it was with me now ; and yet fo deep had the mis-
take taken root in my temper, that 1 ponld not satisfy
myself in my station, but was continually poring upon,
the means and possibility of my escape from this place;
and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
6 bring
tringon the remaining part of my story, it may not be
improper to give some account of my first conceptions on
the-fubject of this sooliih scheme sor my escape; and
how, and upon what soundation, [ acted.
I am now to be suppofed to be retired into my castle,
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up,
and secured under water as usual, and my condition re-
stored to. what it was besore. 1 had more wealth indeed
than I had besore, but was not at all the richer; sor I
had no more use sor it than the Indians of Peru had be-
sore the Spaniards came thither.
'It was one of the nights, in the rainy season in March,
the sour-and-twenti-th year of my first setting soot in this
ifland of solitariness, I was lying in my bed or ham-
mock, awake, and very well in health, had no pain. no
distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness
of mind more than ordinary, but could by no means
clofe my eyes; that is, Ib as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long, otherwife than as sollows : —
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughsare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time. I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, to my
coining to this island; and also of that part of my lise
since 1 came to this island; in my reflections upon the
state of my case, since I came on shore on this island,
I was comparing the happy posture of asfairs, in the
first years of my habitation here, to that course of
anxiety, sear, and care, which I had lived in ever since
I had seen the print of a soot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island even,
all the while, and might have been several hundreds of
them ut times on shore there; but as I had never known
it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it,
my satissaction-was persect,' though my danger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger,.
as if 1 had never really been expofed to it; this surnished
my thoughts with many very proritable reslections, and
particularly this one, how insinitely good that Provi-
dence is, which has settled in its government of man-
kind such narrow bounds to his Sight and knowledge
of
of things; and though he walks in the midst of fo many
thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to)
him, would'distract his rnind, and sink his spirits, lie is
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things hid
from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which
surround him.
After these thoughts had for fome time entertained me,
I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger 1 had
been in for fo many years in this very island; and how I
had walked about in the greatest security, and with all
possible tranquillity, even perhaps when nothing but a
brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of
night, had hee.i between me and the worst kind of de-
struction, viz. that of salling into the hands of cannibals
and savages, who would have seiied on me with the
same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more crime to kill and devour me, than I
did of a pigeon or a curlieu. I should unjustly standee
myself, if 1 should say I was not sincerely thanksul to my
great Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknow-
ledged, with great humility, that alt these unknown de-
liverances were due, and without which I mould inevi-
tably have sallen into their merciless hanils.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
fome time taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean the savages: and how it
came to pass in the world,'that the Wise Governor of all
things should give up any of his creatures to such inhu-
manity, nay, to fomething fo much below even brutality
itself, as to devour its own. kind; but as this ended in
fome .(at that time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to
me to enquire what part of the world these wretches
lived in; how sar off the coast was from whence they
came; what they ventured fo sar from home for; what
kind of boats they had; and why 1 might not order my-
self and my business fo, that I might be as able to go
over thither as they were to come to me.
I never fo much as troubled myself to consider what
I should do with myself when I came thither, what should
become of me, is I sell into the hands of the savages, or
how I should escape from them, if they attempted me ^
no, nor fo much as hpw it was possible lor me to reach th*
coast,
coasts and not be attacked by fome or other of thetp,
without any possibility of delivering myself; and if. I
should not sall into their hands, what I should do for pro-
vision, or whither 1 should bend my course; none of these
thoughts, I say, fo much as came in my way; but my
mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing
over in my boat to the main land. I looked back upon
my present condition as the most miserable that could pos-
sibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into any
thing but death that could be called worse; that if I
reached the shore of the main, 1 might, perhaps, meet with
relies; or I might coast along, as I did on the shore of
Africa, till I came to fome inhabited country, and where
I nvght find fome Christian ship that might take me in;
and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which
would put an end to all these miseries at once. Pray
note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind—an im-
patient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the long
continuance of my troubles, and the disappointments 1
had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and where
1 had been fo near the obtaining of what 1 fo earnestly
longed for, viz. fomebody to speak to, and to learn
fome knowledge from, of the place where I was, and of'
the probable means of my deliverance. I say, 1 was
agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my calm of
mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the
issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspend-
ed; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the main,
which came upon me with such force, and such an im-
petuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted.
W hen this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a serment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a sever, merely with the extraordinary ser-
vour of my mind about it, Nature, as if 1 had been,
satigued and exhausted'with the very thought of it,
threw me into a found sleep. One would have thought
I should have dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of any
thing relating to it; butl dreamed, that as I was going
cm in the morning, as usual, from my castle, 1 saw
unoa
upon the shore two canoes, and eleven savages commg
to 'and. and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him ; when,
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his lise; then I thought in my
sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove,
besore my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, fee-
ing him alone, and not perceiving that the others fought
him that wav, shewed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me,
seeming to pray me. to assist him; upon which I mewed
my ladder, made him go up it, and carried him mto my
cave, and he became my servant; and that as foon as I
had gotten this man, 1 said to myself, now i may certain-
ly venture to the main land; for this sellow will serve me
as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go
for provisions, and whither not to go for sear of being de-
voured, what places toventure into, and what to escape.
I waked with this thought, and was under such inex-
pressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which I self upon
coming to myself, and finding it was no more than a
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and
threw me into a very great direction of spirit.
Upon this, however, 1 made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape, was, if
possible, to get a savage in my possession; and, if pos-
sible,.it should be one of their prifoners whom they had
condemned to be eaten, and thould bring hither to kill;
but these thoughtsll still were attended with this dif-
ficulty, that it was impossible to effect this without at-
tacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them all;
and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly
scrupled the lawsulness of it to me, and my heart trem-
bled at the thoughts of shedding fo much blood, though
it was for my d liverance. 1 need not repeat the argu-
ments which occurred to me against this, they being the
same mentioned besore. But though I had other reafons
to osfer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my
lise, and would devour me, if they could; that it was
self-preservation in the highest degree, to deliver myself
lie IB
from this death of a lise, and was acting in my own
desence, as much as is they were actually assaulting me,
and the like; I say, though these things argued for it,
yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliver-
ance were very terrible to me, and such as I could by
no means reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with my-
self, and after great perplexities about it (for all these ar-
guments, one way and another, struggled in my head a
jong time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at
length mastered all the rest, and I refolved, if possible, to
get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it
would. My next thought then was to contrive how to
do it; and this indeed was very difficult to refolve on:
but as 1 could pitch upon no probable means for it, fo I
refolved to put myself upon the witch, to see them when
they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking
such measures as the opportunity should present, let it be
'what it would.
'With these refolutions in my thoughts, 1 set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed fo osten,
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and
a half that 1 waited, and for a great part of that, time
went out to the' west end, and to the fouth-west corner
of the island, almost every day to see the canoes, but
none appeared. This was very discouraging, and be-
gan to .trouble me much; though I can't say that it
did in this case as it had done fome time besore that, viz.
wear off the edge of my 'desire to the thmg; but the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for
it.—In a word, I was not at first more caresul to thun
the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them,
than 1 was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, I sancied myself able to manage one, nay, two
or three savages, iff had them, fo as to make them en-
tirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them,
and to prevent their being able, at (any time, to do me
any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself
•with this affair, but nothing still presented'; all my san-
cies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came
near me for a great while.
About a year and a hals after I had entertained these
notions,' and, by long musing, had, as it were, refolved
them
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution, I was surprised one morning early,
with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together,
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of
them broke all my measures; for seeing fo many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or fome-
times more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of
it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single-handed; fo 1 lay still in my castle, perplexed
and discomsorted: however, I put myself into all the
same postures for an attack that 1 had formerly provided,
and was just ready for action, if any thing had presented.
having waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise; at length, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the
top of the hill by my two stages, as usual; standing fo,
however, that my head did not appear above the hill;
fo that they could not perceive me by any means. Here
I observed, by the help of my perspective-glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number; that they had a fire
kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they
were all dancing in I knew not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the
boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I peiceived one of them,
immediately sall, being knocked down, I suppose, with
a club or wooden sword, for that was their way: and
two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was
left Standing by himself, tisl they should be ready for him.
In that very moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a
little at libe ty, nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness al. ng the sands, dire, tly towards me, I mean to-
wards that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadsully frighted (that 1 must acknowledge)'
when I perceived him to run my way; and especiasly
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the wnoie
twdyj
finch"; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he certainly would take shelter
in my grove; but 1 could not depend, by any means,
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the other sa-
vages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to re-
cover, when 1 found that there were not above three
men that followed him; and still more was I encou-
raged,, when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly
in running, and gained ground of them; fo that, if he
could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
sairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, .
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew he mutt necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch
would be taken there. But when the savage escaping
came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was
then up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed-
ing strength and swiftness. When the thiee pursuers,
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
hut the third could not, and that he, standing on the
other side, looked at the others, but went no sarther; and
foon after went foftly back again, which, as it happened,
was very well for him in the main.
I observed that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
sellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or aiiistant, and that I was called plainly
by Providence to save this poor creature's life. 1 im-
mediately got down the ladders with all possible expe-
dition, setched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladder, as 1 observed above; and getting
up agam with the same hasle to the top os the hill,
I crossed towards the sea; and, having a very snort cut,
and all down hill, clapped mysesf in the way between
the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with
my
buried them both in a quarter of an hour; then calling
him away, 1 carried him not to my castle, but quite away'
to my cave, on the sarther part ol the island; so I did not.
let my dream come to pass in that part, viz. that he came
into my grove sor shelter.
Here 1 gave him bread, and a bunch of raifns to eifl^
and a draught of water, which I sound he was indeed m
great diftress sor, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs sor him to go lie down and sleep,
pointing td a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice' .
straw, and a blanket upon" it, which 1 used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome sellow, persectly well made,
with straight long limbs, not too large, tall, and well-
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix years of age..'!
He had a very good countenar.ee, not a sierce and surly^r
aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in hirf...'
sace, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an'*;!
Kuropean in his countenance, too, especially when he'
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool; his sorehead very high and large, and a great.
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians
Ernd V irginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it some-
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to describe.—
His ftvee was round and plump, his nnse small, not slot
like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his
teeth line, well-set, and white as ivory. After he had
siumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he wak-
etl again, and comes out of the cave to me, sor I had been -
milking my goats, which 1 had in the inclofure just by.
When |ie espied me, he came running to me, laying him-'
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful difposition", making many
antick gestures to shew it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the ground, clofe to my soot, and lets my 'other soot
upon his head, as he had done besore; and after this,
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and sub-
miffion imaginable, to let me know how much Ik- would
-ierve
PUBLIC LIBRARY
ASTOR. T-ENOX AND
TTLDEN FOUNDATIONS
serve me as long as he lived. 1 understood him in many
things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I oegan to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and first, I made him know his nane
iKiuld be Friday, which was the day I saved his'lise;
aSd I called him sor the memory of the time. I likewife
taught him to say master, and then let him know that
was to be my name. 1 likewife taught him to !'ay yes
and no, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me diink it
besore him, and sop my bread in it. ] gave him ''. cake
os bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with,
and made ligns that it was very yood sor him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as-it
was day, 1 beckoned him to come en with n.e, and let
him know I would give him some clothes, at which he
seemed very glad, sor he was stark-naked. As we went
by the place where we had buried the two men, he point-
ed exactly to the spot, and jhewed me the marks that he
had made to sind them iigain, making signs to me that
we should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I
appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made
as if I.would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned
with my hand to him to come away, which he did im-
mediately, with great submission. 1 then led him up to
the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and.
pulling out my "lass, I looked, and saw plainly the place
where they had been, but no appearauce of them, or of
their canoes; to that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
B'it 1 was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curiositv,
I took my man, Friday, with me, giving him the sword in
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry
one gun sor me, and I two sor myselr, and away we
marched to the place where these creatures had been;
sor 1 had a mind now to get some suller intelligence of
th^m. When I came to the place, my very blood ran
chill in my veins, and my he rt sunk within me at the
horror of the lptctacle, Indeed it was a dreadsul sight,
at
at least it was fo to me, though Friday made nothing of
it. 'she lilace was covered with human bones, the ground
died with the blood, great pieces of flesh lest here and
there, baK eaten, mangled, and scorched: and in short,
all the tokens of the triumphant seast they had b..Q\
making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw
three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four
legs and sect, and abundance of other parts of the bodies;
and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prifoners to seast upon; that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth; that there had been a great battle be-
tween them and their next King, whose subjects, it
seems, he had been one of; and that they had taken a
great number of prisoners, all which were carried to
several places by those that had taken them in the sight,
in order to seast upon them, as was done .here by these
wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
nnd whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I found r riday had still a hankering stomach
after fome of the fiesti, and was still a cannibal in his na-
ture; but I discovered fo much abhorrence at the very
thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he
durst not discover it; for I had, by seme means, let him
know, that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our, castle,
and there 1 sell to work for my man Friday; and firstof all,
1 gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I found in
the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him
very well ; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well
ps my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolera-
ble good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had
made of a hare-skin, very convenient, and sashionable
enough; and thus he was dressed, for the present, tolera-
bly well, and mighty well was he pleased to sec himself
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true he went
awkwardly Mn these things at first; wearing the drawers
was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders, and the insideof his arms; but a little
easing
eftsing them, where he complained they hurt him, and
using himself to them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to' my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him; and
that I might.do well for him, and yet be persectly easy
myself. t made a Kttle tent for him in the vacant plaee
between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last,
and in the outside of the first. And as there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in
the passage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; fo that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making fo much noise in getting over, that it must needs
awaken me; for my first wall had now a complete roof
over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the hill, which was agam laid cross with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a
great thickness with the rice straw, which was strong
like reeds; and at the h'ole or place which was left to
go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap
door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside,
would not have opened at all, but would have sallen
down, and made a great noise; and as to weapons, I
took them all in to my fide every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more saithsul, loving, sincere servant, than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenneis, or de*
signs; persectly obliging and engaging; his very/affec-
tions were tied to me, like those of a child to a father';—
and, I.dare say, he would have sacrificed hiiVHfe for thi
saving mine, upon any occasion whatloever: the many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of tloubt; and
foon convinced me, that I needed to use no precautions
as to my sasety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that, 'however it had pleased God in his
providence, and in the government of the works of his
hands, to take front fo great a part of the world of his
creatures, the best uses to which their saculties, and the
powers of their fouls, are adapted; yet that he has
vol. I.. k bestowctl.
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and
obligation, the saine passions and resentments of wrongs,
the same sense of gratitude! sincerity, fidelity, and all
the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to-us; and that, when he pleases to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay,
more ready to apply them to the right uses sor which
they were bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reslecting, as the several
occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all
these, even though we have these powers enlightened by
the great lamp of inltruction, the spirit of God, and by
the knowledge of his word, added to our understanding;
and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving know-
ledge from,so many millions of souls, who, if I might
judge by this poor savage, would make a much better
use,of it than we did.
'-Jronishcnce I sometimes was led too sar to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the
justice of so arbitrary a difpofition of things, that should
hid? that light from some, and reveal it to others, and
yet expect a like duty from both : but I shut it up, and
checked my lthqughts with this conclusion :—First, that
we.do not knesw by what .li<;ht and law these should be
condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and by the
auture-of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could
not be; ibiit that if these creatures were all sentenced to
ab^flcetfrom himself, it was on account of sinning against
thafjig))^ which,' as the scripture says, was a law to
rijemljejVeSj.and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge; .to be just, though the soundation was not
.discovered to .us.—And, secondly, that still, as we are all
clay in the {l.arul of the potter, no vessel could say to him,
Why hast jho.u sormed me thus? .
But to return to my new companion.—I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him usesul,
handy, and helpsul; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I l'poke; and he was the apteli
scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand
•understand me, or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my lise
began to be fo easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could J but have been sase from more savages, I cared not
if. I was never to remove from the place while I lived.' .
After I had been two or three days returned to my cas-
tle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday off from his
horrid way of seeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's
stomach, I ought to let him. taste other flesh; fo I took
him out with me one morning to the woods; I went in-
deed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a
(he-goat lying down in the fliade, and two young kids
fitting by her; I catched hold of Friday, hold, laid I,
stand still; and made signs to him not to stir; immediately
I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage his enemy, but did not know, nor could ima-
gine, how it was .done, was sensibly surprised, trembled,
and shook, and looked fo amazed, that 1 thought he
would have sunk down: he did not sec the kid 1 had
shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to seel if he was not wounded; and, as I found, pre-
sently thought I was refolved to kill him ; for he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand, but I could easily'
see, that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I foon found a way to convince him, that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and, pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and sctchjit, which he did; and
while he was wondering and looking to see how the
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-
b}'e I saw .a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree with-
in shot; fo, to let Friday understand a little what I would
do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,.which
was indeed a parrot, though 1 thought it had been a.
hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and
to'the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would
make him sall, I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly 1 fired, and bid him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot sall: he stood like .
k 2 one"
one frighted again, notwithstanding all that I had said
to him; and 1 found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put anything into the gun ; but thought
there must be fome wondersul sund of death and destruc-
tion in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any-
thing near or sar off; for the astonishment this created in
him, was such as could not wear off for a long time;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun itself, he
would not fo much as touch it for several days after; but
would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered
him, when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards
learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and setch the bird I had shot
which he did, but staid fome time; for the parrot, not
hting quite dead, was fluttered a good way off from the
place where she sell ; however he sound her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and, as I had .perceived his ig-
norance about the gun besore, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time; fo I brought home
the kid; and the same evening I took the skin off, and
cut iticut as well as I could, and having a pot for that
purpose, I boiled or stewed fome of the flesh, and made
fome very good broth; after I had begun to eat fome, L
gave fome to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and
liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me,
that the salt was not gootl to eat, and putting a little into
his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at it,. washing ~his mouth with fresh water
after it; on the other hand, I took fome meat in my
mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt, as fast as, he had done at the salt; but
it would not do, he would never care for salt with meat,
or in. his broth; at least not for a great while, and then
hut.a^ery little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was refolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid; this I did by hanging it before the
fire
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually; this Friday.
admired very much; but when he came to taste the stem,
he took fo many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him; and at last he told
me he would never eat man's flesh any more, which.I
was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating fome com-
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as 1 ob-
served besore; and he foon understood how to do it as
•wels as I, especiajly after he had seen what the meaning
of it was^ and that it was to make bread of; for after
that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work
for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to
seed instead of one,, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used
to do; fo I marked out a larger piece of land, and began
the sence in the same manner as before, in which Friday
.not only worked very willingly, and very hard, but did it
.very cheersully; and when L told him what it was for, that
it was for corn to make more bread, because he was now
with me, and that I might have enough for him and my-
self too, he appeared very sensible of that part, and let
me know, that he thought I had much more labour up-
on me on his account, than I had for myself, and that
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do..
This was the pleasantest year of all the lise I led in this
place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost every thing I had occasion to call
for, and of every place I had to send him to, and talk a
great deal to me; fo that in short, I began now to have
fome use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very
little, occasion for besore; that is to say about speech:
besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the sellow himself; his simple unseigned
honesty appeared to me more and more every day, and I
began really to love the creature; and on his side, I
k 3 believe
believe he loved me more than it was possible for him
ever to love any thing besore.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli-
nation to his own country again; and having learned him
English fo well, that he could answer me almost any ques-
tion; I asked him, whether the nation that he belonged
to never conquered in battle. At which he smiled, and
said, yes, yes, we always sight the better; that is, he
meant, always get the better in sight, and fo we began
the following discourse. You always sight the better,
said I; how came you to be taken prifoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for ail that.
Master. How beat? if your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken? /
Friday. They more than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me. My nation
over-beat them in yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then? ,
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away, and
eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mens too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday, Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, 1 been here [Points to the N. W. fide
of the island, which, it seems, was their fide].
'. By this I understood, that my man^Friday had formerly
been among the savages, who used to come on shoreon the
sarther part of the island, on the said men-eating occasions
that he was brought for; and fome time after, when
1 took the courage to carry him to that side, being the
same I formerly mentioned, he persectly knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty.
men, two women, and one child. He could not telltwenty
in English, but he numbered them by laying.fo many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have
I have told this passage, because it introduces what fol-
lows ;that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked
him how sar it was from our island to the'shore,' and
whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a little
way out to sea, there was a current, and a wind always
one way in the morning the other in the afternoon.
'This I understood to be no more than the 1'ets of the
tide as going out or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and re-
flux of the mighty river Oroonoque; in the mouth of
which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river: I asked Friday a thou-
sand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near; he told me
all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable;
I asked him the names of the several nations of his fort
of people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood,' that these were the
Caribees, which our maps place'on that part of Ame-
rica which reaches from the mouth'of the river Oroono-
ique to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha; he told me
that up a great way beyond the moon, that 'was, beyond
the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
pointed to my great whiskers, which 1 mentioned besore;
and that they had killed much mans, that was his word;
by which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose
cruelties in America had been spread oveY the whole
countries, and were remembered by all. the nations from
sather to fon."''
I enquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island, and get among those white men; he told mt',
Yes, yes, 1 might go in two canoe;''I could not under-
stand what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with
great difficulty, I found he meant;' that it.must be in a
large great boat as big as two canoes. '.'.'
This part of Friday's discourse began to 'relish with
me Very well; and from this time 1 entertained fome
hopes, that one time or other I might find an oppor-
k 4 tunity
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that this
poor savage might be'a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been "with
me, and that he began to speak to me and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a soundation of religious
knowledge in'his mind, particularly, I asked him one
time, -who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, -but thought I had alked whewas his
sather; but-1 took it by another handle, and aiked hinT
\*hojna(le the sea, the ground he walked on, and the
hjlls and woods? He tpld.me, it was one old Benamuckee
th«t lived beyond.all: he could describe nothing of this
great person, but that he was very old; much older, he
said, than the sea, or the land, than the moon or the
stars: I afleed him then, if this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a persect look of innocence said,
all things said O to him: I asked him, if the people who
died in his country, went away any where: he said, yes,
they all went to Benamuckee: then I asked him, whether
thole they eat up went thither too.? He said, yes.
From these things! began to instruct him in the know-
ledge of the true God. I told him, tbattthe great maker
of all things lived there, pointing up towards heaven:
that he governs the world by the fame ,power and pro-
yidence by which he made it: that he was omnipotent,
could do every thing sor us, give every thing to us,-take
every thing from us; and thus by degrees, 1 opened his
eyes-: he listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to re-
deem us, and of the manner of makingiOur prayers.to
God, and his being a.ble to hear us, even jntp heaven:
as he told me one day, that if our God could hear us up
beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than
their Benamuckee, who lived hut a little way off, and yet
could not hear, till they yvept up to the great mountains,
where he,dwelt, to speak to him. I asked him if he ever
went to ilpeak; $9 Benamuckee? He {aid, no, 4hey never
went that were young men; none yrefl* th,ither but the
old men, whom he called their Oowookakee, that is, as I
made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy;
and that they went to say O (so :he called saying prayers)
and
and then cnrne back, and told them what Benamuckee
said: by this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
amongst the most blinded ignorant Pagans in the world;
-and the policy of making a secret religion, in order to
preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not
only to be sound in the Roman, but perhaps among.all re-
ligions in the world, even among the moil brutish and
barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday;
and told him, that the pretence of their old men going up
to the mountains to say O to their god Benamuckee, was
a cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he
said, was much more so; that if they met with any an-
swer, or spoke with any one there, it must be with an
evil spirit: and then I entered into a long difcourse with
him about the devil, the original of him, his rebellion
against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his set-
ting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
"worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their
ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions, and to
our afsections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations,
as to cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run
upon our own destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a
God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to
him even the necessity of a great first cause, and over-
ruling governing power, a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to him
that made us, and the like; but there appeared nothing
of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his original,
his being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination to
do evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a ques-
tion merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew
what to say to him. 1 had been talking a great deal to'
him of the power of God, his omnipotence, his dreadsul
aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire to the workers
of iniquity ; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy
«s, and all the world, in a moment; and he listened with
great seriousness to me all the while.
K 5 Aster
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used. all his ma-
lice and skill to deseat the good designs of Providence,
and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the
like: Well, says Friday, but you say, God is fo strong,
fo great, is he not much strong, much might, as the de-
vil? Yes, yes, laid I, Friday, God is stronger than the
devil, God is above the devil, and therefore we l>ray to
God to tread him under our seet, ami enable us to resist
his temptations, and quench his'fiery darts. But, says he
again, if God much strong, much might, as the devil,
why God not kill the devil, fo make him no more wicked?
I was strangely surprised at his question, and after all,
though I was now an old man, yet I was but a young
doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver
of difficulties: and, at first, 1 could r.ot tell what to say ;.
fo I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said: but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his
question; fo. that he repeated it in the very same broken.
words, as above. But this time I had recovered myself a
little, and I said, God will at last punish him severely, he
is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, t« dwell with everlasting fire: this did
not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me repeating my
words, Reserve at last, me no understand: but why not
kill the devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well
tsk me, said I, why God does not kill you and me, when
we do wicked things here that offend him: we are pre-
served to repent and be pardoned. He muses a while at
this ; Well, well, says he, mighty affectionately, that well,,
fo you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God
pardon all: here I was run down again by him to the
last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how the.mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reafonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship
or homage due to tlic supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature; yet nothing but divine re-
velation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of
a redemption purchased for us; of a mediator ; of a new
covenant; and of an intercessor at the footstool of God's
throne, I say nothing but a revelation from heaven can
form these in the soul, and that theresore the Gospel of
our
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the word os'
God, and the spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of his people, are the abfolutely necessary in-
structors of the fouls, of men in the .saying knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation. ,, tni. >:
J theresore diverted the present discourse between me:
and my man, rismg up hastily, as upon fome sudden oc-'
cation of going out; then sending him for fomething a •
great way off, 1 seriously prayed to God, thathe would'
enable me to instruct savingly this poor; savage,' assisting:
by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature, tow
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ, re-
conciling him to himself, and would guide me to Qieak.
so to him from the word of God, as his. conscience'
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his foul saved:
when he came again to me, I entered into a long.dis-•
course with him upon the subject of the redemption Qf
man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine.ot
the Gospel preached from heaven, viz. of the repent-
ance towards God, and saith in our blessed Lord Jesus:
I then explained to him, as well as 1 could, why our
blessed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels,
but the seed of Abraham, and how for that reafon the
sallen angels had no share in the redemption; that he;
came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the'
like. •:
1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, ini
all the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction :.
and must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon
the same principle wisl find, that in laying things open.
to him, I really informed and instructed myself in many*
things that either I did not know, or had not sully con-
sidered besore; but which occurred naturally to my mind,*
upon my searching into them, for the information's this,
poor savage; and I had more affection in my enquiry
after things upon this occasion, than ever I selt besore.;.
Ib that whether this poor wild wretch was the bette? for
me or no, I had great reafon to be thanksul, .that evetf
he came to me: my gries sat Ughter upon me, my har.
bitation grew comsortable to meibeyond measure: .and'
when I reflected, that in th^.folitary lise which I had;
been consined to, I had not oi>l.y been moved myself to
'.. ra ¥'& '/.' .'i . >' .> l««k
look up to heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought
me thither, but was now to be made an instrument, under
Providence, to save the lise, and, for aught 1 know, the
soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is lise eternal j
I say, when I reflected upon all things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my foul, and I frequently rejoiced,
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had often
thought the most dreadsul of all afflictions that could
-possibly have besallen me.
'In this thanksul frame 1 continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together persectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi-
ness can be found in a sublunary state: the savage was
now .a good Christian, a much better than I; though I
have reafon to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comsorted, restored penitents: we
had here the Word of God to read, and nosarther oft'
from his Spirit to instruct, that if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what
I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries and ques-
tions, made me, as I said besore, a much better scholar in
the scripture knowledge, than I should ever have been
by my own mere private reading: another thing I can-
not resrain from observing here alfo from experience, in
this retired part of my lise; viz. how infinite and inex-
pressible a blessing it is, that the knowledge of God, and
of the doctrine of salvation by Christ JefuS, is fo plainly.
laid down in the WoreVof God, fo easy to be received and
understood, that as the bare reading the scripture made
v me capable of Understanding enough of my duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of sincere repentance
for my fins, and laying hold of a Saviour for lise and
salvation, to a stated resormation in practice, and obe-
dience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor (I mean, human),fo the plain in-
struction susficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian, as I
have known few equal to him in my lise. As
As to the disputes, wranglings, strise, and contention,
which have happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all persectly useless to us, as, for aught I can
yet fee, they have been to all the reft in the world; we
had the sure guide to heaven, via. the Word of God j
and we had, blefled be God, comfortable views of the
Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by his Word,
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his Word.; and I cannot see
the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed
points in religion, which have made such consusions in
the world, would have been to us, if we could have ob-
tained it; but [ must go on with the historical part of
things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and 1 became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all 1 said to hiirt,
and speak fluently, though in broken English, to me; I
acquainted him with my own story, or at least fo much
of it as related tp my coming into the place, how I had
lived there, and how long; I let him into the mystery
(for such it was to him) of gunpowder and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot; I gave him a knise, which he
was .wondersully delighted with, and I made him a belt
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I
gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in fome cases, but much more useful upon many
occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and parti-
cularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one ami
other, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world; I gave him an account of the wreck which I had
been on board of, and shewed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
long besore, and quite gone.
1 shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now sallen almost all to pieces;
upon seeing this boat, Fiday stood mulmg a great while,
and said nothing l I asked him what it was he studied
upon?
4
upon? at last, says he, Me see such boat like conn: to
place at my nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined surther into it, 1 understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore
upon the country where he lived; that is, as he explained
it, was driven thither by stress of weather: I prescntly
imagined, that fome European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was fo dull, that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come; fo I only enquired after a de-
scription of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,,
with fome warmth, We save the white mans from drown:
Then I presently asked him, if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat: Yes, he said, the boat sull
of white mans: I asked him, how many? he told upon
his fingers seventeen: I asked him then what became of
them? he told me, They live, they dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head again ; for I
presently imagined, that these might be the men belong-
ing to the (hip that was cast away in sight of my island,
as I now call it; and who, after the ship was struck on
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild.
sbore among the savages.
Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what was
become , of them; he assured me they lived still there,
that they had been there about four years, that the savages
set them alone, and gave them victuals to live: 1 asked
him* how it came to pass they did not kill them, and
eat them? He said, No, they make brother with them:
that is, as I understood him, a truce : and then he add-
ed, They eat no mans but when make the war sight:
that is to say, they never eat any men, but such as come
to sight with them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this, fome considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east tide of the island,
from whence, as I have said, Lhad in a clear day disco-
vered the main or continent of America; Friday, the wea-
ther
ther being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the
mainland, and in a kind of surprise salls a jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at fome distance
from him; I asked him what was the matter! O joy!
fays he, O glad! there fee my country, there my nation!
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his sace, and his eyes s;>arklcd, and 'his countenance
discovered a strange eagenicss, as if he had a mind to
be in his own country again; and this observation of
mine put a great many thoughts into me, which made
me at first not fo easy about my new mast Friday, as
I was besore; and I'made no doubt, but that if Friday
could get back to his own nation again, he Would not
only forget all his religion, but als .his .obligations to
me; and would be forward enough to give his country-
men an account of me, and come back, perhaps with
an hundred or two of them, and make a seast upon me,
at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very forry afterwards: however,, as my
jealousy increased, and held me fome weeks, I was a>
little more circumspect, and not fo samiliar and kind to.
him as besore; in which I was certainly in the wrong'.
too, the honest gratesul creature havmg no thought
about it, but what consisted ot the best prmciples, both;
as a religious Christian, and as a gratesul friend, as ap-
peared afterwards to my full satissaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him to see if he would discover any
of the new thoughts, which I suspected were in him; buj:
I found every thing he said was fo honest, and fo innocent,
that I could find nothing to nourish nvy suspicion: and,
in spite of all my uneasmess, he made me at last entirely
his own again ; nor did he in the least perceive that I was
uneasy ; and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, fo that we could not see the
continent, 1 called to him, and said, Friday, do not
you wish yourself in your own country, your own na-
tion? Yes, he said, 1 be much O glad to be at my own
nation. What would you do there? said I: would you
turn
*'
turn wild again, eat mens flefli again, and be a savage
as you were besore? He looked sull of concern, and,
shaking his head, said, No, no, Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread,
cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again. Why then, said I to
him, they will kill you : he looked grave at that, and then
said, No, they no kill me, they willing love learn; he
meant by this, they would be willing to learn; he added,
they learned much ot' the bearded mens that came in the
boat: then I asked him, if he would go back to them?
He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim fo sar;
I told him I would make a canoe for him; he told me
he would go if I would go with him. I go! said I,
why they will eat me if I come there; No, no, says he,
me make them no eat you, me make they much love you;
he meant he would tell them how I had killed his ene-
mies and saved his lise, and fo he would make them
love me; then he told me as well as he could, how kind
they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore in distress.
From this time I consess, I had a mind to venture*
over, and see if I could possibly joist.with these bearded
men, who 1 made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu-
guese; not doubting but, is I could, we might find fome
method to escape from thence, being upon the conti-
nent, and a good company together, better than I could
srom an island forty miles off the shore, and alone with-
out help: fo, after fome days, I took Friday to work
again, by way of discourse; and told him, I would give
him a boat to go back to his own nation; and accord-
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island; and having cleared it of water (for I
always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out, shewed
it him, and we both went into it.
J found he was a most dexterous sellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and sast again as I
could ; fo when he was in, I said to him, Well, now
Friday, shall we go to your nation? He looked very
dull at my saying fo, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go fo sar; I told him then
1 had a bigger; fo the next day, I went to the place
where the first boat lay which 1 had made, but which I
could
could not git into the water; he said that was big
enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it
had lam two or three and twenty years there, the sun
had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten,
Friday told me, such a boat would do very well, and
would carry, 'much enough vittle, drink, bread,' that
was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time fo .fixed upon my
design of going over with .him to the continent, that I
told him we would .go and make one as big as that, and
he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was
the matter with him. He asked me again, thus, Why you
angry mad with Friday? what me done? I aslced him
•what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at
'nil: No angry! no angry! says he, repeating the words
several times,.Why send Friday home away to my na-
tion ? Why, said I, Friday, did not you say you wished
you were there ? Yes, yes, says he, wish be both there, no
wish Friday there, no master there. In a word, he
would not think of going there without nre. 1 go there,
.Friday! said I, what should I do there? He turned very
quick upon me at this; You do great deal much good,
fays he, you teach wild mans be good, fober, tame mans;
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new lise.
Alas, Friday, .said I, thou kno welt not what thou sayest;
I am but an ignorant man myself. Yes, yes, says he>
you teechee me :gpod, you teechee them good. No, no,
Friday, said I, you shall go without me; leave me here
.to live by myself, as I did besore. He looked consused
again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives
it me. What must I do with this? said I to him: you
take kill Friday, says be. What must I kill you for?
said I again. He returns very quick, What you send
Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away. This he spoke fo earnestly, that I saw tears
stand in his eyes. In a word^ I to plainly discovered
the utmost afsection in him to me, and a firm refolu-
tion in him, that 1 told him then, and often after, that
I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.'
Upon
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse, a
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, fo I found all the foundation of his de-
sire to go to his. own country, was laid in his ardent af-
fection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them
good; a thing, which as I had no notion of myself, fo
I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of un-
dertaking it; but still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the supposi-
tion gathered from the former discourse: viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and theresore, with-
out any delay, I went to work wiih Friday, to find out
a great tree, proper to sell, and make a large periagua
or canoe, to undertake the voyage: there were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of
periaguas and canoes only, but even of good large ves-
sels; but the main thing 1 looked at, was to get one fo
near the water, that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake 1 committed at first.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
'knew much better than 1, what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree
we call sustick, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the same Colour and smell:
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this
tree out, to make it into a boat: but I shewed him how
rather to cut it out with tools, which after I shewed him
how to use, he did very handily, and in about a month's
hard labour we finished it, and made it very hand-
fome, especially when with our axes, which 1 shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into
the true shape of a boat; after this, however, it cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers into the water: but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
•ease. ''
When she was in the water, and though she was fo big,
it amazed'me to see with what dexterity and how swift
my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and pad-
dle her along; fo I asked him if he would, and if we
might venture over in her: Yes, he said, he venture over
in
in her very well, though great blow wind; however, I had
a sarther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an anchor
and cable: as to a mart, that was easy enough to get;
fo I pitched upon a strait young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, and which there was a great plenty
of in the island: and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and order
it: but as to the sail, that was my particular care; .
I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old. sails
enough; but as 1 had them now twenty-fix years by
me, and had not been very caresul to preserve them,
not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use
for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed most of them were fo; however, I found two
pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awk-
ward tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing,
like what we call in England a shoulder of mutton sail,
to go with a boom at bottom, arid a little short sprit at
the top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with,
and such as I knew best how to manage; because it was
such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my escape
from Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months persorming this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or
foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I sixed a rudder to the
stern of her, to steer with; and though I was but a
bungling' sttipwright, yet as I knew the usesulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with fo
much pains to do it, that at last 1 brought it to pass,
though considering the many dull contrivances I had for
it that sailed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as
making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my iffon Friday to
teach as to what belonged to'the navigation of my boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe,
he knew nothing What belonged to a sail and a rudder,
and was the most amazed when he saw me work the
boat
.. ..J
boat to-and-again in the sea by the rudder, and how (he
sail gybed, and rilled this way or that way, as the course
we sailed changed; 1 say, when he saw this, be stood
like one astonished and amazed: however, with a little
use, I made all these things samiliar to him, and he be-
came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I
could make him understand very little of that: on the
.other band, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was the less
occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the fliore by day, except in the
rainy seafons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad,
either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of
my captivity in this place; though the three last years
that I had this creature with me, ought rather to be
• lest out of the account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept
the anniversary of my landing here with the same thank-
sulness to God for His mercies as at first; and if I had
such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more
fo now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
esfectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was
at hand, and that I should not be another year in this
place: however, I went on with my husbandry, digging,
planting, sencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my
grapes, and did every necessary thing, as before.
The rainy seafon was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
fo I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
for her to float in; and then when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out; and fo ihe lay dry, as to the tide, from
the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees so thick, that flic was as well
thatchsd
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I designed to"
make my adventure.
When the settled seafon began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the sair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first thing
I did was to lay up a certain quantity of provision, being
the stoTe for the voyage; and intended, in a week or k
fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon fomething of this
kind, when I called to Friday, and bidhim go to the sea-
shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing
'which we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my outward
wall, or sence, like one that selt not the ground, or the
steps he set his seet on; and besore I had time to speak
to him, he cried out to me, O master! O master ! O for»
row! Obad! What's the matter, Friday? said I. O
yonder there, says he, one, two, three, canoe! one, two,
three ! By this way of speaking I concluded there were
fix; but on enquiry I found there were but three. Well,
Friday, said I, do not be frighted; fo I heartened him up
as well as I could. However, 1 saw the poor sellow most
terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces,
and eat him. The poor sellow trembled fo, that I scarce
knew what to do with him. I comsorted him as well as
I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would eat me as well as him. But, said I,
Friday, we must refolve to sight them. Can. you fight,
Friday? Me moot, says he, but there come many great
number. No matter for that, said I again; our guns
will fright them that we do not kill. So I asked him,
whether, if I refolved to desend him, he would desend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bade. him? He said,
me die, when you bid die, master; so I went and setched
a good dram of rum, and gave him; for I had been fo
good a husoand of my rum, that I had. a. great deal left.
When he had drank it, I made him take the two fowl-
ing pieces which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small .pistol-bullets; then.1 took'
four
sour muskets, arid loaded them. with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a .
brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspec-
tive glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to sec what
I could difcover; and I sound quickly, by my glass, that
there were one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and
three canoes: and that their whole business seemed to be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies;
a barbarous seast indeed, but nothing more than as I had
observed was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came clofe almnst down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, so-silled me with indignation, that 1 came down
again to Friday, and told him 1 was resolved to go down
to them, and kill them all, and asked him if he would
stand by me. He was now gotten over his fright; and
his spirits being a little raifed with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheersul; and told me, as besore/he
would die when I bid die..
In this fit of sury, I took first and divided the arras
which I had charged, as besore, between us. I gave Fri-
day one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon
his shoulder, and I took one pistol, and the other three
myself, and in this posture we marched out. 1 took a
small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullet; and as to or-
ders, I charged him to keep dole behind me, and not to
stir, ..shoot, or do any thing till I bid him; and in the
mean time, not to speak a word. In this posture I setched
a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek as to get into the wood; so that I might
come within shot of them besore I could be difcovered,
which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my sormer thoughts
returning, 1 began to abate my. resolution. I do not mean
that I entertained any sear of their number; sor as they
werennk,ed, unarmed wretches, 'tis certain I was superior
to
X
to them; nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less
what necessity I was in to go and dip my hands in blood,
to attack people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong, who, as to me, were innocent, and whofe barba-
rous customs were their own difaster, being in them a
token indeed of God's having lest them, with the other
nations os that part of the world, to such stupidity and
to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take
upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his justice; that whenever he thought sit, hs
would take the cause into his own hands, and by nation-
al vengean«e, punifh them sor national crimes; but that
in the mean time it was none of my business. That it
was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular
people, and it was lawsul sor him to attack them; but I
could not say the same with respect to nie. These things
were so warmly prefled upon my thoughts all the way as
I went, that I resolved I would only go place myself near
them, that I might observe their barbarous seast, and
that I would act then as God should direct; but that un-
less something offered that was more a call to me than
yet I knew of, 1 would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday sollowing close
at my heels), I marched till I came to the skirt of the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one corner of the wood lay between me and them.—-
Here 1 palled softly to Friday, and shewing him a great
tree, which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him goto the tree, and bring me word if he could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about the
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prifoners; and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
whom he said they would kill next, and which fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told
me of, who came to their country in the boat. I was
filled with honor at the very naming the white-bearded
rtian, and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass,
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his seet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was an European, and had clothes on.
'There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undifcovered, an 1 that then I should be within
half shot of them; so I with-held my passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree, and then I
came to a little rising ground, which gave me a sull view
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; sor nineteen of the
dreadsul wretches sat upon the ground all clofe huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poorChristian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to
their fire, and they were stooped down to untie the bands
at his seet. I turned to Friday. Now, Friday, said 1, do
as I bid theei Friday said he would. Then Friday, said I,
do exactly as you see me do; sail in nothing. So I set
down one of the muskets and the sowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his ; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the
like. Then asking him if he was ready, he said yes. Then
fire at them, said I, and the same moment Ifired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my side'I kilted one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadsul conster-
nation; and all of them, who were not hurt, jumped up
upon the:r feet immediately, but did not know which way
to run, or which way to look, sor they knew not from
-whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
clofe upon me, that as 1 had bid him, he might observe
what I did; so as soon as the first shot was made, 1 threw
down the piece, and took up the sowling-piece j and
Friday did the like; hesees me cock, and present; he did
the same again. Are you ready, Friday? said I. Yes,
says he. Let fly then, said I, in the name of God; and
-with that I sired again among. the araaied wretches, and
so
fti did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with,
what I called swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found
only two drop; but fo many were wounded, that thev
]ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all
bloody and miserably wounded, most of them; whereof
three more sell quickly aster, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, saidl, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket, which was yet loaden, follow
me, laid I, which he did, with a deal of courage ; upon
'which I rushed out of the wood, and shewed myself, and
Friday, close at my foot. As foon as I perceived they saw
me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do fo
too; and running as sast as I could, which, by the way,
was not very sast, being loaded with arms as 1 was, I made
directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, ly-
ing upon the beach, or shore, between the place where
they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just
going to work with him, had lest him, at the surprise of
our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made
the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step
forwards, and fire at them. He understood me immedi-
ately, and, running about forty yards to be near them, he
fliot at them ; as I thought, he had killed them all; for I
saw them all sall on an heap into the boat; though I saw
•two of them up again quickly. However, he killed two
of them, and wounded the third, fo that he lay down in
the bottom of the boat, its if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knise, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and seet, I lifted him up, and asked him,
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was? He answered,
in Latin, Christianus; but was fo weak and saint, that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of
my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should
drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread,
•which he eat. Then I asked him what countryman he
was? and he said Espagnole; and, being a little re-
covered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly
make, how much he was in debt for his deliverance-
Seignior, said 1, with as much Spanish as I could make
vp, we will talk afterwards, but we must fight now.—
veu a, x. If
If you ha.re any strength lest, take this pistol and sword,
.and lay about you. He took them very thanksully; and
'no fooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murder-
ers like a sury, and had cut two of them in'pieces in an
instant: for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise ta
them, fo the poor rreatures were fo much frighted with
the noise of our pieces, that they sell down for mere
amazement and sear, and had no moie power to attempt
their own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday shot in the
boat; for as three of them sell with the hurt they re-
ceived, fo the other two sell with the fright.
1 kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
^Spaniard my pistol and sword ;—fo I called to Friday, and
'hade him run up to the tfree from whence we first fired,
and setch the arms, which lay there, that had been dis-
charged, which he did with great swiftness; and then
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden swords,
the same weapon that was to have killed him besore, if I
had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold
and as brave as could be imagined, though 'Weak, had
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two
great wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout
lusty sellow, closmg in with him, had thrown him down,
being saint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely (quitting
his sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, besore
I, who was runnmg tQ help, could come near him.
Friday, being now lest at his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet;
and with that he dispatched those three, who, as I laid
hefore, were wounded at first and sallen,' and all the rest
he rcould come up with; and the Spaniard coming to
mt for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with,
swhich he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them
both:
lioth: but as he was not able to run, they both got from
Kim into the wood, where Friday 'pursued them, and
lcilled one of them; but the other was too nimble for
him; and though he was wounded, yet he plunged into
the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to those who
were lest in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with
one wounded, who we know not whether he died or no,
•were all that escaped our hands of one and twenty. The
account of the rest is as follows :—
3 Killed at oar shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot. v
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of theif
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not
dead.
21 in all.
Those that were in the tianoe worked hard to get out
'ef gun-lhot; and though Friday made two or three shots
•at them., I did not sind that he hit any of them. Friday
•would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
'escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back, perhaps, with two or three. hun-
dred 'of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitudes;
so I consented to pursue them by sea; and running to
ione of their canoes, 1 jumped in, and bade Friday fol-
low me; but when I was in the caBoe, I was surprised
•to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and footi as the Spaniard was, fxjr the slaughter,
and almost dead with sear, not knowing what the mat-
ter was; for. he had not been able to look up over the
fide of the boat, he was tied fo hard, neck and heels,
and had bees tkd fo long, that he had really little life in
h 2 I imme«
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
•they had bound him with, and would have helped him up.,
but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned most pite-
ousty, believing, it seems still, that he was only unbound
in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bot-
tle, made him give the poor wretch a dram, which, with
the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat ; but when Friday came to hear him speak,
and looked in his sace, it would have moved any one to
tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own sace and head, and then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature. I was a good while
besore 1 could make him speak to me, ior tell me what
was the matter; but when he came a little to himself,
be told me that it was his sather.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved me, to
fee what extacy and silial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of bis sather, and of his being
delivered from death; nor indeed can I describe half the
extravagancies of bis affection after this; for he went
into the boat and out of the boat a great many times.—
When he went in to him, he would fit down fcy him,
open his breast, and hold his sather's head close to his
bofom, half an hour together, to nourish it. Then he
took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff
with the binding, and chased and rubbed them with his
bands; and.I, perceiving what the case was, gave him
fome rum out of my bottle to rub them with., which did
them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost out
osfiobt; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
Jt blew fo hard within two hours after, and besore they
.could begotten a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing fo hard all night, and that from the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their
pwst coast.
But
But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his sa-
ttier, that I could not sind in my heart to take him off sor
some time; but after 1 thought he could leave him a lit-
tle, I called him to nie, and he came jumping and laugh-
ing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked him.
if he had given his sather any bread? He shook his head,-
and said, none,; ugly dog eat all up self: so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch 1 carried on purpofe.
I also gave him a dram sor himself, but he would not taste
it, but carried it to his sather. I had in my pocket also
two or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a hand-
ful of them sor his sather: He had no sooner given his
sather these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat
and run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at such
a rate (sor he was the swiftest sellow of his seet that ever
I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight
as it were in an instant; and though I called and hallooed
too after him, it was all one; away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so sast as he went; and as he came nearer, I sound his
pace was slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home sor an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his sather some
fresh water; and that He had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water
he carried to his sather. However, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his sa-
ther more than all the rum or spirits• I had given him,
sor he was just sainting with thirst.
'When his sather had drank, I called hint, to know is
there was any water lest. He said yes; and I bade him.
give it to the poor Spaniard, who'was in as much want'
of it as his sather; and I sent one of the cakes, that
Friday brought, to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himsels upon a green place,
under the shade os a tree, and whofe limbs were also
very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage
he had been tied with. When I saw that upon Friday's
coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and
took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave
him an handsul of raisins. He looked sip in my sace with
ail the tokens of gratitude and thanksulness that could
<L 3 appear
y
appear in any countenance; but was so weak-, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the sight, that he
could not stand up upon hi* sect: he tried to do it two
or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were
so swelled and so painsul to him; so 1 bade him sit still,
and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with
rum, as he had done his sather's.
I observed the poor assectionate creature every two mi-
nutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned
his head about, to see if his sather was in the same place
and posture as he kit him sitting; and at last he sound he
was not to be seen; at which he started up, and without
speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that
one could scarce perceive his seet to touch the ground
as he went; but when he came, he only sound he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs : so Friday came back
to me presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let
Uriday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat,
and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I
would take care of him: but Friday, a lusty young sel-
low,'took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and car-
. lied him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon
the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his seet in the in-
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him clofe
to his sather, and presently stepping out again, launched
the boat oss, and paddled it along the shore saster than I
could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so
he brought them both sase into our creek, and leaving
them in the boat, runs away to setch the other canoe.—
As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither
he went? He told me, Go, setch more boat; so away he
went, like the wind, sor sure never man or horse ran
like him, and he-had the other canoe in the creek, almost
as soon as 1 got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so
that poor Friday knew not what to do." ^
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up both together upon. it between us; but when we got
them
'v
V&em to the outside of our wall or fortification, we were
at a worse loss than besore; for it was impossible to get'
'them over; and I was refolved , not to break it down;
/f"o I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about two
liours time, made a very handfome tent, covered' with
old sails, and above that with bough^of trees, being in!
the space without our outward sence, and between .that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted; and
here we made two beiss of such things as 1 had, viz. of
good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and
another to cover them on each bed.
My iftand was now peopled, and I thought myself
•very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection which
I frequently made, how like a king I looked. First, of
all the whole country was my own mere property; fo
that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were persectly subjected. I was abfolute lord
and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were
Teady to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion
for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three
subjects, and they were of three different religions. My
man Friday was a protestant; his sather a pagan and a
cannibal; and the Spaniard was a papist. However, I
allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions;
but this by the way.
As foon as I had secured my two weak rescued prifon-
ers, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making fome provision forthem:
and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a year-
• 'ing goat> betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular
stock, to be killed ; then I cat off the hinder quarter, and,
chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work, to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I
assure you, of flesh and broth; having put fome bar-
ley and rice alfo into the broth, and as I cooked it with-
out doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, fo I
carried it all into the new tent; and having set a table
there for them, I sat down and eat my dinner alfo with
them; and, as well as I could, cheered them and en-
couraged them, Friday being my interpreter, especially
to his sather,. and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the
Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
l V After
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to t:tke one of the canoes, an,d go and setch our musquets
and other fire arms, which sor want of time we had lest
upon the place of battle; and the next day I ordered him.
to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay
open to the sun, s^id would presently be offensive; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous seast, which I knew were pretty much,
and which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I
could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all
which he punctually persormed, and desaced the very ap-
pearance of the savages being there; so that when I went
again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwife than
by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
J then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and first 1 let Friday to enquire of
his sather, what he thought of the escape of the savages
in that canoe, and whether he might expect a return of
them with a power too great sor us to resist? His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live
out the storm, which blew that night they went off,. but
must of necessity be drowned or driven south to thofe
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured, as
they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but as
to what they would do if they came sase on shore, he
said, he knew. not; but it was his opinion, that they were
so dreadsully frighted with the manner of being attacked,
the noife and the sire, that he believed they would tell
their people they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, and not by the hand of man; and that the two
which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly
spirits or suries come down to destroy them, and not men
with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because ha
heard them all cry out so in their language to one ano-
ther; sor it was impossible to them to conceive that a man
should dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a dif-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now.
And this old savage was in the right, sor, as I understood
since by other hands," the savages of that part never at-
tempted to go over to the island afterwards. They were
so terrified with the accounts given by thofe sour men .
(sor it seems they did escape the sea] that they believed,
* whoever
Whoever went to that enchanted island, would be de-
ls gtyed with fire from the gods. . . . .'
^This, however; I knew not, and theresore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, land all my army; for as wa
were now.four of us, I would have ventured upon. aa.
hundred of them sairly in the open field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consi-
deration, being likewise assured by Friday's sather, that
I might depend upon good usage from their nation on his
account, if Lwould go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under-
stood,.that there Were sixteen more of bis countrymen
and*Portuguese, who having .been . cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace in-
deed.with'the savages, but were very fore put to it for
necessaries, and indeed for lise: I asked him all the par-
ticulars of their voyage, and found they Were,a Spanish
ship, bound .from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havanna,
being directed to leave their loading there, which v/as
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what Euro-
pean goods they could meet with there; that they had
five Portuguese seamen'on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned
when first the ship was loft; and that these escaped;
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost
starved on the Cannibal coast, where they, expected td
have been devoured every• moment. •
He told me, they had fome arms with them, but they
.were persectly usesess, for that they had neither powder
nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder but a little which they used at their first landing
to provide themselves fome food. ..
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they.had formed no design of making any
escape? He said, they had'had maixy consultations about
it; but that, having neither vessel, nor tools to bviild one^
nor provisions of any kind, theiv counsels always, ended in
tears and despair,', , ,.k . , ...:
; '.. , . iS . I tasked'
I asked him how he thought they would receive a pro«*
posal from me, which might tend towards an escape, aJTll
•whether, if they were all here, it might not be done? I
told him wkh freedom, 1 seared mostly their treachery
and ill usage of me, if I put my lise in their hands, for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man, nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they had received, fo much as they did by
the advantages they expected: I told him, it would be
very hard that I should be the instrument of their deli-
verance, and that they should afterwards make me their
prifoner in new Spain, where an Englishman was certain
to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or wbat accident,
foever, brought him thither: and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than
sall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried
into the inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was per-
suaded, if they were all here, we might, with fo many
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away.
either to the Brazils fottthward, or to the islands or Spa-
nish coast northward: but that if in requital they should,
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by
force among their own people, I might be ill used for
•my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it
vras besore.
He answered with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was fo miserable, and they
were fo sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor
the thought of using any man. unkindly that should con-
tribute to their deliverance; and that, if I. pleased, he
would go to them with the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their an-
swer: that he would make conditions with thena upon,
their folemn oath, that they would be abfolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and that
they should swear upon the holy sacraments and gospel
to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as I
•should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly
and abfolutely by my orders till they were landed sasely
in such country, as I intended; and that he would bring a
•contract from them under their hands for that purpose.
Then he told me, he would sirst swear to mo .himself,
1 3 that
that he would never stirsrom me as long as he lived, till
I gave him order; and that he would take my side to the
last drop of blood, if there should happen the least
breach of saith among his countrymen.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin-'
able, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any sood,
but at the mercy and difcretion of the savages; out os
all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and
that he was sore, if I would undertake their relies, they
<Would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this *
Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had gotten.
all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one
hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his
advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades sor at least.
half a year. The.case was thus:'
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had pro- -
vided, with the assistance of Providence, sormy support;'
and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had
lain up; which,as it was more than sufficient sor my-
self* so it was not sufficient, at least, without good hus-
bandry, sor my samily, now it was increased to number
sour: but much less would it be sufficient, if his coun-
trymen, who were, as he said, sourteen still alive,
fliould come over; and least of all would it be sufficient -
to victual our vessel, if we should build one, sor a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he told
me, he thought.it would be more adviscable, t6 let him'
and the other two di^ and cultivate some more land, as
much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we should'
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of
corn sor his countrymen when they soould come; sor
want might be a temptation-to them to difagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwife than out of one
difficulty into another: you know, sayshe, the children
ef Israel, though they rejoiced at first at their being deli-
Ttred outyof Egypt, yet rebelled even a^aiast God himself,
lU that
that delivered them, when they came to want bread iii.
the wilderness.
His caution was fo seafonable, and his advice fo good, .
that I could not but be very well pleased with his propo-'
sal, as well as»I was satisfied with his sidelity: fo we sell
to digging, all four of us, as welt as the wooden tools we
were surnished with,permitted ; and in about a month's
time, by the end of which it was sded time, we had got-
ten as much land cured and trimmed up as( we fowed'
twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare; nor
indeed did we leave ourselves barely sufficient for our
own food for the six months that we had to expect our
crop, that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our
seed aside for fowing; for it isnotto be.supposed itis six
months in the ground in that country.
Having now fociety enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of sear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went.
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon, our
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the
means of it out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out
several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his sather to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard,.to whom I imparted my thoughts.
On that affair, to oversee' and direct their works : I shewed
them with what indesatigable pains 1 had hewed a large
tree into single planks, and 1 caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a doz.en large planks of good
Oak, near two seet broad, thirty-sive seet long, and from
two inches tofonr inches thick: what prodigious labour
it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock'
of tame goats asmuch as 1 could; and to this purpose I
.made Friday and she Spaniard to go' out one day, and my-
self, with Friday, the next day, for we took our turn?,'
and by this means we got about twenty young kids to
breed up with the rest; for whenever We shot the dam,
we saved the kids, and added them to our flock; but
, above all, the seafon for curing the grapes coming on, I
caused saoh a prosligious'tjuatitity to b* hiirtg Tip in the
* *' fun,
'fctn, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we should have silled sixty or
eighty barrels; and these with oar bread, . was a great
part of our food, and very good living too^I aslure youj
for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it
was not the most plentisul increase I had seen in the island, .
but, however, it was enough to answer our end ; for from
twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and threshed
out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like
in proportion of the rice, which was store enough for
our food to the next harvest,, though all the sixteen Spa-
niards had been on shore with me; or, if we had been
ready for a voyage, it would very plentisully. have vic-
tualled our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of .America. When we . had thus
housed and secured our magazine of corn, we sell to work
to make more wicker-work, viz. great baskets, in which.
we kept it, and the. Spaniard was very handy and dex-
terous at this part, and often blamed me^ that I did not
make fome things for desence, of this kind of work; but
1 saw no need of it: and now having, a sull supply of
food for all the guestsexpected, Igaye the Spaniard leave
to go overto the main, to see what he could do with those
he sest behind him there: I gav%him a strict charge ia
writing not to bring any man with him, who would
not first swear in the presence of himself and of the old
4'avage, that he would no way injure, sight with,
or attack the' perfon he should find in the island, who was
so kind to send for them in order to their deliverance;
. but that they would standby arid desend him against all
such attempts; and wherever they went, would be en-
tirely tmder, and subjected to his command.; and that
this should be put in writing, and signed with their
hands: how we were to have this done, when I knew
they had neither psa nor ink,'that indeed, was .a ques-
tion which we never asked. .' :i
Under these'instructions, the. Spaniard, and the old
savage (the..sather of Friday.) went away in one of the
canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prifoners to be de-
voured by the savages,
I gave
I gave each of them e musquet with a firelock on It,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to u se
either of them but upon urgent occasion.
This was a chearsul work, being the first measures
used by me in view of my deliverance for now 27 years
and fome days; [ gave them provisions of bread, and of
dried grapes, susficient for themselves for many days, and.
sufficient for their countrymen for about eight days time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go, agree-
ing with them about the signal they should hang out at
•their return, by which I should know them again, when
they came back, at a distance, besore they came on shore.
They went away with a sair gale on the day that the
moon was at the sull, by my account in the month of
October; but as for the exact reckoning of days, after I
had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had
I kept even the number of years fo punctually, as to be
sure that I was right, though, as it proved, when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when *
a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of .which,
the like has not, perhaps, been.heard of in history. I i
was sast asleep in my hatch one morning, when my man
Friday tame running in to me, and calsed aloud, Muster, .
Riastcr, they.at,c come, they are come.
1 jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out'
as foon as 1 could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which (by the way) was. by this.time grown to
be a very thick wood: i say, regardless of danger, ,I
went without my arms, which was not my custom to do:'
but ( was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I
presently saw a boat at about a league and an half's dis-
tance, Handmg in for the shore, with a shoulder of mut-
ton sail, as they ©asl it, and the wind.blowing pretty sair
to bring them in: alfo I observed presently that they
•lid not come, srom that side which the iKoie lay on, but
from the fouthermostend of the island: upon this 1 called
Friday in, and bat'.e him lie close, for these were not the
'people we looked for, and that we did not know yet
whether they were friends ot enemies-.
In
In the next place, I went in to setch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having
takenthe ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill,
as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any thing,
and to take my view the plainer without being dif-
covered.
I had scarce set my soot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a half's distance from me, S. S. E. but
not above a league and an half from the shore. By my
observation it appeared plainly to be an Engliih strip,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the consusion I was in, though the
joy of seeing a strip, and one whom I had reason to
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-.
quently friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet
I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
srom whence' they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. 1n the first place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English strip could have in that part os
the world; since it was not the way to or from any
paVt of the world where the English had any traffick;
and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there, as in distreis ; and that, if they were.really English,
it was most probable,-that they were here upon no good
design ; and that I had better continue as I was, than sall
into the bands of thieves and murderers. -:
Let no man despife the secret hints and notices of
-danger, which sometimes are given him when he mny
think there is no possibility of its being real. That such.
hints and notices are given us, I believe sew that
'have made any observations- of things can deny; that
they are certain difcoveries of an invisible world, and
"a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of dan-
ger, why shbuld we not suppose they are from some
'friendly agent (whether supreme, or inserior and subor-
dinate, is not the question), anil that they are given sor
«ur good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; sor had I not been made cau-
tious. by this secret admonition, come from whence it
will,
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a sarworse
condition than besore, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked sor a
creek to thrust in-at sor the convenience of landing; how«-
ever, as they did not come quite sar enough, they'did
not see the little inlet where 1 sormerly landed my rafts,
but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at-about
half a mile from me, which was very happy sor me;
sor otherwife they would have landed just, as I may
say, at my door, and would have soon beaten me out
of my castle, and, perhaps,- have plundered me of all
1 had.
When they were on' shore, I was sully satisfied' fhey
Were Englishmen, at least most-of them; one or'two I
thought were Dutch, but it'did hot prove so: there
were in all eleven men i whereof three of them I sound
were unarmed, and (as-I thought) bound ; and when the
sirst sour or five of them were jumped on shore, they
took those three out of the boat-as prifoners: one of the
three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures
of intreaty, asfliction, and despair, even to a kind of
extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared. concerned indeed^
but not to such a degree us the first.
I was persectly consounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should-be. Friday called out to
me in English, as well as he could, O master; you -see
English mans eat prifoners as well as savage mans.—
Why, said I, Friday, do you thinkthey are going to eat
them then? Yes, says Friday, they will eat them. No, no,
'said I, Friday; I am afraid they will murder them in-
deed; but you may be sure they will not eat them.
All this while 1 had no thought of what the matter
really" was* but stood trembling with the horror of the
fight, expecting every moment when the three prifoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw-one of the villains
lift up his. arm with a great cutlass (a* the seamen call
it) or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I
expected to see him sall every moments at which all the
blood in my body seemed to run thill in my Veins.
. . I wished
I wished heartily now sor our Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him; or that I had any way,to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that 1 might have
rescued the three men; sor I sow no fire-arms they had
among them; but it sell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usa^e of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the sellows ran
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country: I observed also, that the three other men had'
liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like men
in despair.
This put me in mind of -the first time when I came
on inure, and oegan to look aoout me; now 1 gave my-
lelr over sor lo'.i, how wildly 1 looked round me, what
dreadsul apprehensions I had, and how 1 lodged in the
tree all night sor sear of being devoured by wild beaus.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving os the snip nearer the
land by the storms and tides, by which 1 have sines
been so long nourished and supported, so these thr^e
pdor desolate men knew nothing how certain ot deliver-
ance and supply they were, how near it was to them, and
how essectually and really they were in a condition of
satety, at the same time they thought themselves lost, and
their case desperate.
So little do we see besore us in the world, and so much.
reason have we to depend chearsully upon the great
maker of the world, that he does not leave his creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstances
they have always something- to be thanksul sor, and-
sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine;
nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the
means by which they seem to.be brought to their de-
struction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they n stood
parleying with the prifoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of place they
were in, they had careiesly staid till the tide was spent,
and. the water had ebbed considerably away,. leaving
their boat aground. They
They had lest two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, sell
asleep; however, one of them waking fooner than the
other, and finding the boat too sast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest who were straggling about,
tipon which they all foon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a foft ousy sand,,
almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave
it over, and away they Urolled about the country again;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another (calling
them offfrom the boat), Why let her alone, Jack, can't
ye? ctie'll.float next tide : by which 1 wassully confirmed,
m the main enquiry, of wtiat countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any sarther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad.
I was, to think bow well it was fortified : I knew it was
no less than ten hours besore .the boat could be on stoat
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might
be more at liberty to lee their motions, and to hear their
discourse, if they had any. *
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle, as be-.
sore, tho' with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first; 1 ordered Fri-
day alfo, whom 1 had made an excellent marksman with
his gun', to load himself with arms: I took myself two
. fow!ing-pj( ces, and I gave him three musquets; my sigure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-flrin
coat on, with the great cap I mentioned, a naked sword,
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my dcsign, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, 1 found that in short they
•were all gone straggling into the woods, and,. as' I
thought, were all laid down to sleep; the three poof
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any deep, were however set down under the shelter of
a "Teat tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and
'a...1 thoughtt out of sight of any of the rest.
Upoa
Upon this I refolved to discover myselfto them, and learn
sorflething of their condition: immediately I marched in
the figure above, my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable' for his arms as I, but not mak-
mg quite fo staring a spectre-like sigure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then,
besore any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, What are ye, Gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure
that I made r they made no answer at all, but I thought
I perceived them lust going to fly from me, when I spoke
to them in English. Gentlemen, said I, do not be surprised
at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you when
you did not expect it: he must be sent directly from
heaven then, said one of them very gravely to me, and
pulling off his hat at the same time, for our condition is
past the help of man. All help is from heaven, Sir,
said I: but can you put a stranger in the way how to
help you? For you seam to me to be in fome great dis-
tress: I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that, came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his sace,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, Am
1 talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?
Be in no sear about that, Sir, said I: if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner, than you see
me in: pray lay aside your sears; I am a m n, an Eng-
lishman, and disposed to assist you, you see; I have one
iervant only; we have arms and ammunition? Tell us
freely, can we serve you? What is your case?
Our case, said he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are fo near} but, in short, Sir, t was com-
mander of that ship; my men' having mutined against
me, they having been hardly prevailed on not to murder rrfe,
and at last have set me on shore in this des'olat'; place, with
these two men with pie, one my .mute, the cither a passen-
ger, where we expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it.
Where are those brutes, ycur enemies? said I l do
yoii
you know where they are gone? There they are, sir, said
he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart trembles sar
sear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have,
they will certainly murder us all.
Have they any fire-arms? said I: he answered they
had only two pieces, and one which they lest in the boat.
Well then, said I, leave the rest to me; 1 see they are all
asleep; it is an ealy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prifoners? He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that it was.scarce sase to
shew any mercy too; but if they were secured, he believ-
ed all the rest would return to tutir duty, i asked him,
which they were I lie toUl me, he could not at that dis-
tance describe them; but he would obey my orders in
any thing I would direct. Well, said 1, let us retreat out
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will
resolve sarther: so they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.
Look you, sir, said I, if I ver.ture'upon your delive-
rance, are. you willing to make two conditions with me?
He anticipated my propofals by telling me, that both
'he and the ship, if recovered,' should.be wholly directed
and commanded by me in everything-; and if the fliip
was not recovered, he would live and die with me in
what part of the world soever 1 would send him; and
the other two men said the same.
Well, said I, my conditions are but two: V. That
while you stay on this ifland with me, you "will not pre-
tend to any authority here"; and if I put arms into your
hands, you will upon all occasions give them up to me,
and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this ifland,
aid in the mean time to be governed by my orders.
2. That if the shin is or may be recovered, you will
carry me and my man to England, passage free;
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
saith oi a man could devife, that he would comply with
these moil reasonable demands, and besides would owe
his lise, to me, and acknowledge it upon all occalions as
long as he lived.
. Well then, said I, here are three musquetS sor you,
with powder and ball: tell me next what you think is
proper to be done; he shewed all the testimony of Bis
gratitude-
gratitude that he was able; but offered to be wholly
guided by me: I told him I thought it was hard ven-
turing any thing, but the best method I could think of,
was to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any
were not killed at the first volley, and offered to submit,
we might save them, and fo put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot.
He said very modestly that he was loth to kill them,
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship; and if they escaped we should be undone still;
for they would go on board, and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all; well then, said 1, necessity
legitimates my advice; for it Is the only way to save our
lives. However seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him they should go themselves, and ma-
iiage as they found convenient.
Jn the middle of this discourse we heard fome of them
awake, and foon after we saw two of them on their feet:
I asked him if either of them were the men who he had
said were the heads of the mutiny? He said, no. Well
then, said I, you may let them escape, and Providence
seems to have wakened them on purpose to save them-
selves: now, said T, is the rest escape you, it is yoursault.
Animated with this, he took the mufquet I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men, who were with him going first, made fome
noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake,
turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the
rest, but it was too late then; for the moment he cried
out, they fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece; they had fo well aimed their
Ihot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his seet, and called eagerly
for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help; he should call
upon God to forgive his villany; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his mufquet, fo
that he never spoke more: there were three more in the
company, and one of them was alfo slightly wounded.
B7
By this time I was come; and when they saw their dan*
ger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy: the captain told them, he would spare their
lives, if they would give him any assurance of their ab-
horrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be saithsul to him in recovering the ship,
and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from,
whence they came: they gave him all the protestations
of their smcerity that could be desired, and he was wil-
ling to believe them, and spjre their lives which I was
not against; only I obliged them to keep them, bound
hand and foot while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's;
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by,
three straggling men, that were (happily for them) part-
ed from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired; and feeing their captain, who besore was their
prifoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound alfo, and fo our victory was complete.
It now remained, that the captain and I should enquire
into on>; another's circumstances. 1 began sirst, and told
him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
even to amazement, and particularly at the wondersul
manner of my being surnished with provisions and am-.
munition; and indeed, as my story is a whole collection
of wonders, it assected him deeply; but when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been
preserved there on purpose to save his lise, the tears ran
<lown his sace, and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartments, leading them
in just where I came out, viz; at the top of the house;
where I resreshed them with such provisions as 1 had,
and shewed them all the contrivances I had made during
my long, long inhabiting that place.
All 1 shewed them, all I said to them, was persectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how persectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which having now been. planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much saster
than in England, was become a little wood, and fo
thick
thick, that it was unpassable in any part of it, but at
that one side where I had reserved my little Winding
passage into it: this I told him was my castle, and my
residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as molt
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and
I would shew him that too another time; but at present
our business was to consi er how to recover the ship:
he agreed with me as to that; but told mi, he was per- «
sectly at a lofs what measure to take; sor that there
were still six and twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all
sorseited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it
now by desperation; and would carry it on, knowing
that if they were reduced, they should be brought to the
fallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the
Inglifo colonies; and that theresore there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were.
I mused sor some time upon what he had said, and
sound it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
sore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as'
well to draw the men on board into some snare sor their
surprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
stroying us: upon this it presently occurred to me, that
in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat to see sor them;
and that then perhaps they might; come armed, and be too
strong sor. us: this he allowed was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to do,
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off; and, taking every thing
out of her, leave her so sar useless as not to be fit to swim.;
accordingly we went on board, took the arms which
were lest on board out of her, a,nd whatever else we sound
there, which was ar-bottle of bsandy, and another of rum,
"a sew bifcuit cakes, ar^horn of powder, and a great lump
'of sugar in a piece of canvas: the sugar was five or six
pounds; all which was very welcome to me, especially
the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none lest soy
many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
, away
away besore, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to maikr
us, yet they could not carry osf the boat.
Indeed it was not much ,in my thoughts that we
could be capable to recover the ship , but my view was,
that if they went away without the boat, 1 did not much
question to make her fit again to carry us away to the
Leeward islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
W hile we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the
beach Ib high that the tide would not float her off at
high-water mark, and, besides, had broken an hole in
her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat
down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a sig-
nal for the boat to come onboard; but no boat stirred, and
they fired several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and sirings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them
(by the help of our glasses) hoist another boat out, and
row towards the shore ; and we found as they approached,
that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had sire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a sull view of them as they came, and a plain
fight of the men, even of their saces; because the tide
havmg set them a little to the east of the other boat, they
roue 1 up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay. J
By this means, I say, we had a sull view of them,
and the captain knew the perfons and characters of all the
men in the boat ; of whom, he said, there were three very
'honest sellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
lpiiacy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted.
But that for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chies officer amongst them, and all the rest, they were as
'outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and were, no
-doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise; and ter-
ribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too power-
ful for us.
5. I smiled
I smiled at him, and told, him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of seatt: that seeing
almost every condition that could be was better than that
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the con-
sequence, whether death or lise, would be sure to be a de-
liverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstan-
ces of my lise, and whether a deliverance were not worth
venturing for. And where, fir, said I, is your belies of my
being preserved here on purpose to save your lise, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part, said I, there
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.
What's that? says he. Why, said I, *tis that, as you say,
there are three or four honest sellows among them, which
fliould be spared; had they been all of the wicked part of
the crew, I should have thought God's providence had
smgled them out to deliver them into your hands; for
depend upon it, every man of them that comes ashore,
are our own, and shall die or five, as they behave to us.
As I spoke this with a raised voice and chearsul coun-
tenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; fo we set
vigorously to our busmess: we had, upon the first ap-
pearance of the boat's coming from the ship, considered
of separating our prifoners, and had indeed secured them
esfectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain, was less assured than
ordinary, 1 sent with Friday, and oneof the three delivered
men, to my cave, where they were remote enough, and
out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of sinding
their way out of the woods, if they could have delivered
themselves : here they lest 'em bound, but gave 'em provi-
sions, and promised 'em, if they continued there quietly,
to give 'em their liberty in a day or two; but that, if they
attempted their escape, they fliould be put to death with-
out mercy. They promised saithsully to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thanksul that they
had such good usage as to have provisions, and a light left
'cm; for Friday gave 'em candles (such as we made our-
selves) for their comsort; and they did not know but that
he stood centinel over 'em at the entrance.
The other prifoners had better usage: two of. them
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was not
free to trust them; but the other two were taken into my
'vol. i. m service
service upon their captain's recommendation, and upon
(heir folemnly engaging to live and die with us; fo
with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we mould be able to
deal well enough with the ten that were a coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said, there were three or four
honest men among them alfo.
'As foon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was
glad to see; for 1 was afraid they would rather have lest
the boat at an anchor, fome distance from the shore,
with fome hands in her to guard her; and fo we should
not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all
to the other boat ; and it was easy to see they were under
a great surprise, to find her stripped, as above, of all that
was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. «
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two
or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to
try is they could make their companions hear; but all was
to no purpose; the)' then came all close in a ring, and
fired a volley of their small arms, which indeed we
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was
all one; those in the cave we were sure could not hear;
and those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were fo astonished at the surprise of this, that, as
they told us afterwards, they refolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know there that the
men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved; ac-
cordingly, they immediately launched the boat again,
and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confound-
ed at this, believing they would go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and
fo he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes
we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off' with the boat, but we
perceived them all coming cp more again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they con-
sulted
suited together upon, viz. to leave three men in the hoat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country
to look for their sellows.
This was a great disappointment to us; for now we
were at a lose what to do;' for our seizing those seven
men' on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the
boat escape, because they would then row away to the
ship ;' and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and fo our recovering the ship would be loft.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present: the seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her off to a good distance from the shore, and came to.
an anchor to wait for them, fo that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on more kept close together, march-
ing towards the top os the little hill, under which my
habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us: we could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, fo that we might
have fired at them; or that they would have gone sarther
osf', that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way in the valley and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the issand lay lowcst, they shouted and hallooed till
they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to ven-
ture sar from the shore, nor sar from one another, they
sat down together under a tree, to consider of it: had
they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other
party of them had done, they had done the job for.us.;
hut they were too sull of apprehensions of danger, to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tesl what
the danger was they had to sear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this' consultation of theirs; viz, that perhaps they
would al! tire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their sellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
•should have them without bloodshed: I liked the pro-
posal, provided it was done while we were near enougfi
m 2 to
I v
to come up to them, besore they could load their pieces
again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a lonr*
time, very irrefolute what course to take; at length I
told them, there would be nothing to be done in my
opinion till night; and then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and fo might use fome stratagem with
them in the boat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient, for
their removing, and were very uneasy: when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down
towards the sea: it seems, they had such dreadsul appre-
hensions.upon them of the danger of the place, that they
refolved to go on board the ship again, give their compa-
nions over for lost, and fo go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As foon as I perceived them go towards the ihore, I
imagined it to be as it really was; that they had given
over th'e search, and were for going back again; and the
captain, as foon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to
sink at the apprehension' of it; but I presently thought of
a stratagem to setch them back again, and which an-
lwered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate, to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued; and as
foon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half
a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as thev
could, and wait till they foundthe seamen heard them ; that
as foon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again, and then keeping out of tight, take
a round, always answering when the other hallooed, to
draw them assarintotheistand, and among the woods, as
foffible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways
directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallcoed, and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
the ^otce ihey heard, when they were presently stopped
by the creek, where, the waser being up, they could not
»et over, and called for the boat to come up, and set
lk*m over, as indeed I expected. When
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the
boat being gone up a good way up into the creek, and as
it were in an harbour within the land, they took one of'
the three men out of her to go along with them, and left
only two in the boat, having sastened her to the stump of
a little tree on the shore.
This was what I. wished for, and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took
the rest with me, and, crossing the creek out of their
fight, we surprised the two men besore they were aware,
one of them lying on shore, and the other being in the
boat; the sellow on shore was between sleeping and
waking, and going to start up: the captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man. 'i
There needed very sew arguments to persuade a single
man to yield, when he ,saw five men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not fo hearty in the mutiny as the
'rest of the crew, and theresore was easily persuaded not
'only to yield, but afterwards to join very smcerely with us.
in the mean time, Friday and the captain s mate 4©
well managed their business with the rest, that they drew
them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to an-
other, and from one wood to another, till they not only
heartily tired them, but lest them where they were very
sure'they could not reach back to the boat besore it was
dark; and indeed tHey were heartily tired themselves also
by the time they came back to us>
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to sall upon them, fo as to make sure work
•with them.
It was several hours after Friday came. back to me
besore they came back to their boat; and we could hear
Ihe foremost of them, long besore they came quite up,
callmg to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not being able to come any saster, which
was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; hut it is impossible
to express their confusion when they found the boat salt
, m 3 a-ground.
a ground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their
two men gone; we could hear them call to one another
in the moil lamentable manner, telling one another they
were gotten into anenchanted island ; that eitherthcre were
inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else
there were devils or spirits in it, and they should all be
carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer; after
some time we could see them, by the little light there
was, run! about wringing their hands, like men in despair;.
and that sometimes they would go and fit down in the
boat to rest themselves, then come ashore, and walk
about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would sain have had me given them leave tot
sall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing ta
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill
as sew of them as I could; and especially I was un-
willing to hazard the killing of any of our men, knowing
the others were very well armed : I resolved to wait to see
if they did not separate; and theresore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday
aad the captain to creep upon their hands and seet as
clofe to the ground as they could, that they might not be
difcovered, and get as near them as they pofsibly could,
besore they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, but that the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mu-
tiny, and had now shewn himself the most dejected and
difpirited of all the rest, came walking towards them with
two more of the crew; the captain was ib eager, at
having the principal rogue so much in his power, that he
could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to
be sure of him; sor they only heard his tongue besore :.
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday4
starting up on their seet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man
was shot in the body, and sell just by him, though he did
not die till an hour or two after; and the third run sor it.
At the noife of the tire, 1 immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was .now eight men, viz. my-
self generalissimo; Friday roy lieutenant-general; thq
''" captaia
captain and his two men, and the three prifoners of war,
whom he had trusted with arras.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they"
cnuldnot see our number; and I made-the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so
might perhaps reduce them to terms; which sell out just
as we desired: sor indeed it was easy to think, as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu-
late; so he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
Tom Smith, Tom Smith. Tqrn Smith answered imme-
diately, Who's that? Robinson! For it seems he knew
his voice. The other answered, Ay, ay ; sor God's sake,
Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you
are all dead men this moment.
Who must we yield to? Where are they? says Smith
again. Here they are, says he; here is our captain and
fifty men with him, have been hunting these two hours;
the boatswain is killed; Will Frye is wounded, and 1 am
a prifoner; and if you do not yield, you are all'
lost.
Will they give us quarter then? says Tom Smith, and
we will yield. I'll go and ask, if you promife to yield,
says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the caps-
tain himself then calls out, .You, Smith, you know my
voice, if you lay down your arms immediately, and suh,-
mit," you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins. . .
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, cap-
tain,give me quarter: what have 1 done? they have beep
all as bad as 1; which by the way was not true, neither;
for it seems this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain when they first mutined, and used hjrn
barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language: however, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at difcretion, and trust to the gover-
nor's mer«y, by which he meant me, sor they all cailed
me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and 1 sent the man that had parlied with
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
. great army of fifty men, which, particularly with thote
three, were all but eight, came upiand seiied upon them
m 4 all,
r
all, and upon their boat, only that 1 kept myself and one
more out of sight, for reafons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the vilsany of their practices with him, and at
length, upon the sarther wickedness of their design; and
how certainly it muit bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives: as for that, he told them they were none of
his prifoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore in a barren unin-
habited island ; but it had pleased God fo to direct them,
that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was
an Englishman; that he might hang them all there if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he sup-
posed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for
death; for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins sell upon his knees to beg the
captain to intercede with the governor for his lise; and
al! the rest begged him for God's sake, that they might
pot be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these sellows in to be hearty in getting possesfion
of the ship; fo I retired in the dark from them, that they
Blight not see what kind of a governor they had, and
«alled the captain to me; when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and
say to the captain, Captain, the commander calls for
you: and presently the captain replied, Tell his excel-
lency I am just a coming. This more persectly amused
them; and they all believed, that the commander was
just by, with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my pro-
ject for seizing the ship, wh|ch he liked wondersully
well, aud refolved to put it in execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure
secure of success, I told him we must divide the prison-
ers, and that he should go and take Atkins, and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave
where the others lay : this was committed to Friday, and
the two men who came on shore with the captain. v
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and
it was indeed a difmal place, especially to rnen in their
condition.
The other I ordered to my bower, as 1 called it, of
which 1 have given a sull description; and as it was
senced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning 1 sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try them,
and tell me, whether he thought they might be trusted
or no, to <ro on board, and surprife the ship: he talked
to them of the injury done him, of the condition they
were brought to, and that though the governor had
given them quarter sor their lives, as to the present action,
yet if they were sent to England, they would all be
hanged in chains to be sure; but that if they would join
in such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have
the governor's engagement sor their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a propofal would
he accepted by men in their condition: they sell down
on their knees to the captain, and promifed with the
deepest imprecations, that they would be saithsul to him.
.to the lalt drop, and that they should owe their lives to
him, and would go with him all over the world; that
they would own him sor a sather to them as long as they
lived.
Well, says the captain, I must go and tell the gover-
nor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him tc»
consent to it-: so he brought me an account of the temper
he sound them in: and that he verily believed they
would be saithsul.
'However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again, and chonse out sive of them, and
tell them, that they should see that they did not want men;
but that he would take out of thofe five to^be his assist-
ants, and that the governor would keep the other two,
And the three that were sent prifoners to the castle, (my
M 4 cave,
cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those five; and that
if they proved unfaithsul in the execution, the five hos-
tages should be handed in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and'convinced them, that the go-
vernor was in earnest; however, they had no way lest
them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the
prifoners, as much as that of the captain, to persuade the
other sive to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the
two prifoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, 1 had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. 3. The other two whom I
kept in my bower till now pinioned, but, upon the cap-
tain's motion, had now released. 4. These five released
at last; fo that they were twelve in all, besides five we
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the lhip: for, as to me, and my
man Friday, 1 did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men lest behind; and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them.
with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I refolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I mr.de the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, 1 was the perfon the
governor had ordeied to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure that they should not stir any
where but by my direction; that if they did, they should
be setched into the castle, and be laid in irons; fo that
as we never sufsered them to see me as governor,' fo I
now appeared to another perfon, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrifon, the cattie, and the like, upon all.
occasions.
The captain had now no difficulty besore him,, but
to surnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
and man them : he made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men; and himself, and his mate, and sive
more,.
more, went in the other: and they contrived their busi-
ness very well; for they came up to the ship about mid-
night: as foon as they came within call of the ship, he
made Robinfon hail them, and tell them he had brought
off the men and the boat, but that it was a long timebe-
- fore they had found them, and the like; holding them.
in a chat, tisl they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate, entering first with their arms, im-
mediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with the butt end of their muskets, being very saithsully
seconded by their men; they secured as! the rest that
were upon the main and quarter-decks, and began to
fasten the hatches to keep them down who were below,
when the other boat and thtir men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle oi the ship, and the Ikuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prifoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, the
captain ordered the mate with three men to break into the
round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, and,
having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and with two
men and a boy had gotten sire-arms in their hands; and
when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new
captain .and his men fired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musleet ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody.
The mate calling for help, rustsed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullets entering at
his moirth, and came out again behind one of his ears;'
fo that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any
more lives lost.
As foon as the ship was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be sired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice of his success; which
you may be sure 1 was very glad to hear, having sat
watching upon the shore for it, till, near two of the clock
in the morning. ,
Having thus heard the signal plainly, 1 laid me down;
and it having, been a day of great satigue to me, I slept
M 6 very.
very found. till 1 was fomething surprised with the noise
of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call
me by the name of governor, governor; and ^presently
I knew the captain's voice, when climbing up tothetop
of the hill. there he fsood; and pointing to the ship, he
'embiaced me in his arms. My dear friend and deliverer,
says he, there's your ship, for she is all your's, andfoa*e
we, and all that belong to her. J cast my eyes to tfie
ship, and there she rode within a little more than half a.
mile of the shore ; for they had weighed her anchor as
foon as they were masters of her; and the weather being
sair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth
of a little creek, and the tide being tip, the captain had
brought the pinnace in nearthe place where I first landed
my rasts, and so landed just at my door.
I was, at sirst, ready to sink down with the surprise:
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a huge snip just ready to carry me
away whither 1 pleased to go: at first, for fome time, I
•was not able to answer one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held sast by him, or I should have
sallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me: after I drank
it, I sat down upon the ground, and though it brought
me to myself, yet it was a gcod while besore I could
speak a word tc him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ec-
stasy as I, only not under any surprise, as 1 was; and he
said a thousand kind tender things to me, to compose
and bring me to myself; but such was the flood of joy.
in my breast, that it put all my spirits into consusion ; at
last it broke into tears, and in a little while after I re-
covered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de-
liverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him 1 looked
upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me,
and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chaia
of wonders; that such things, as these were the tes-
timonies we had of a secret hand of Providence go-
verning the world, and an evidence that the eyes of
b an
,
an infinite power could search into the remotest corner
of the world, and send help to the miferable whenever
he pleased.
I sorgot not to lift tip my heart in thanksulness to
heaven; and what heart could sorbear to bless him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided sor
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condi-
tion, but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed?
When we bad talked awhile, the captain told me he
had brought me some little resreshments, such as the
ftip afforded, and such as the wretches, who had been
so long his masters, had not plundered him of:' upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid bis men bring
the things ashore that were sor the governor ; and indeed
it was a present, as if I had been one, not that was to be
carried along with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still, and they were to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles sull of ex-
cellent cordial waters} six large bottles of Madeira wine;
the bottles held two quarts a-piece; two pounds of ex-
cellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
bees, and stx pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and
about an hundred weight of bifcuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar,a box of flour, a
bag sull of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things: but besides these, and what
was a thousand times more usesul to me, he brought me
six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, an hat, and one pair of
stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he
clothed me from head to soot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awk-
ward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at
* their first putting on.
After these ceremonies part, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prifoners we
had; sor it was worth considering whether we might
venture
venture to take them away with us or no, especially two
of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and resrac-
tory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no obliging them;
and it he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malesactors, to be delivered over to justice at the first:
'English colony he could come at; and I sound that the
captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that is he desired it, I durst under-
take to bring the two men he spoke of, to make it their own.
request that he should leave them upon the ifland: 1 should
be very glad of that, says the captain, with all my heart.
Well, laid I, I will send sor them, and talk with them
sor you: so 1 caused Friday and the two hostages, sor
they were now difcharged, their comrades having per-
sormed their promife; I say, I caused them to go to the
cave and bring up the sive men, pinioned as they were,
to the bower, and keep them there till I came.
After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with nie, 1 caused the men to be
brought besore me, and I told them I had had a sull ac-
cost of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and
how they had run away with the ship-, and were prepar-
ing to commit sarther robberies; but that providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were
sallen into the pit which they had digged sor others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship bad
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might
see by and by that their new captain had received the
reward of his villainy; for that they might see him;
hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as parties taken in
the sact, as by my commission they could not doubt I
had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say hut this, That when they were *
taken, the captain promifed them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy; but I told them I knew
not what mercy to thew them; sor, as sor myself, I had'
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had.
taken
ADVENTITHES OF ROBTNSON CRUSOE. '255
for the captain, he could not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
fo that I could not tell which was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their sate in the island, if they
desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it;
1 had ibme inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very.
thankful for it, said they would much rather venture to
stay there than to be carried to England to be hanged:
fo I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make fome difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this, 1
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that thev were my prifoners, not his; and that seeing I
had offered them ib much savour, 1 would be as good as
my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to
it,- I would set them at liberty as I found them; and if
he did not like that, he might take them again, if he
could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thanksul, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into
the woods, to the place whence they came, and 1 would'
leave them fome lire-arms, fome ammunition, and fome
directions how they should live very well, if they
thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on•board the ship, but told
the captain, that I would itay that night to prepare ray
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all ri^htin the ship, and send the boat on shore
the next day for me ; ordermg him, in the meantime, to'
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at
the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
,. . When the captain was gone, 1 sent for the men up to
me to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse
with them of their circumstances: I told them I thought
they had made a right choice; and if the captain earned
them away, they would certainly be hanged. I shewed
them their captam hanging at the yard-arm of the. ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
told them, 1 would let them into the story of my living-
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them: accordingly I gave them the whole history of the
place, and of my coming to it ; shewed them my sorti-
fications, the way 1 made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes, and, in a word, all that was neceisary
to make them easy. I told them the story also of the six-
teen Spaniards that were to be expected; sor whom I
lest a letter, and made them promife to treat them in
common with themselves.
I lest them my fire-arms, viz. five musquets, three
sowling pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel
of powder lest ; sor after the first year or two 1 used but
little, and wasted none: I gave them a description of the
way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
satten them, to make both butter and cheese. .
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and told them, I would prevail with the captain to leave.
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-
seed, which I told them the bag of peas which the cap-
tain had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to
sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I lest them the next day, and
went on board the ship; we prepared immediately to sail,
but did not weigh that night : the next morning, early,
two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side,
and, making a most lamentable complaint of the other
three, begged to be taken into the ship, sor God's sake,
sor they should be murdered; and begged the captain to
take them on board, tho* he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power with-
out me ;' but aster some difficulty, and after their solemn
promife of amendment, they were taken on board, and
were some time after soundly whipped and pickled j after
which they proved very honest and quiet sellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promifed to the
men, to which the captain, at my intercession, caused
their chest and clothes to be added, which they took,
and were very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by
teJlwg
telling them, that if it lay in my way to send a vessel to
take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried onboard
for reliques the great goat's skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; alfo I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me fo long useless, that it was grown rusty, or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been
a little rubbed and handled; and alfo the money I found
in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I lest the island the nineteenth of December,
as 1 found by the ship's account, in the year 16'86', after I
had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months,
and nineteen days, being delivered from the second cap-
tivity the same day of the month that I first made my
escape inv the Barco-lango, from among the Moors of
Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 16*87, having
been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was a persect stranger to
all the world, as if I had never been knowiuthere: my
benefactor, and saithsul steward, whom 1 had lest in
trust with my money, was alive, hut had had great mis-
fortunes in the world, was become a widow the second
time, and very low in the world: I made her easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no
trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her for-
mer care and saithsulness to me, 1 relieved her as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would in-
deed allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her
I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did
I forget her, when I had sufficient to help her, as shall
be observed in its place.
1 went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my sather
was dead, and my mother, and all the samily extinct,
except that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers: and as I had long ago been given.
over for dead, there had been no provision made for me,
fo that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist
me; and that little money 1 had, would not do so much
for me, as to settling in the world.
I met
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship,
whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same means
saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved
the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to
meet them, and some other merchants concerned, and
all together made me a very handsome compliment upon
that subject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds
sterling.
But after making several reslections upon the circum-
stances of my lise, and how little way this would go to-
ward settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lifbon,
and see if 1 might not come by some insormation of the
Hate of my plantations in the Brafils, and what was be-
come of my partner, who, I had reason to suppofe, had
some years now given me over sor dead.
With this view I took shipping sor Lisbon, where I ar-
rived in April sollowing, my man Friday accompanying
me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a
most saithsul servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I sound out by enquiry, and
to my particular satissaction, my old friend the captain
of the ship, who sirst took me up at sea, off the shore of
-Africa: he was now grown old, and had lest off the
sea, having put his son, who was sar from a young man,
into his ship, and who still used the Brasil trade. The
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew
him; but I soon brought- myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old acquaint-
ance, 1 enquired, you may be sure, aster my plantation,
and my partner: the old man told me he had not
been in the Brasils sor about nine years; but that he
could assure me, that when he came away, my partner
was living ; but the trustees whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I would have a very good
account of the improvement of the plantation ; sor
that, upon the general belies of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation* to the procurator
Fifcal;
^
Fifcal; who had appropriated it, in case I never came to
claim it, one third to the King, anal two thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended sor the benefit
of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic saith; but that if I appeared, or any one sor me,
to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that
the improvement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured
me, that the steward of the king's revenue (from lands]
and the provedore, or steward of the monastry, had
taken great care all along, that the incumbent, that is
to say, my partner, gave every year a saithsul account of
the produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him, if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had brought the plantation; and whether he
thought it might be worth looking after: or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
. He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved : but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one half of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance
he had heard, that the king's third of my part, which.
was, it seems, granted away to some other monastry,
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred
moidores a year; that, as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made
of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and
my name being alsoinrolled in the register of the country.
Also he told me, that the survivors of my two trustees
were very sair honest people, and very wealthy, and he
believed I would not only have their assistance sor put-
ting me in possession, but would sind a very considerable
sum of money in their hands, sor my account, being the
produce of the sarm, while their sathers held the trust
and besore it was given up, as above, which, as he re-
membered, was about twelve years.
1 shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and enquired of the old captain, how it came
to pass, that the trustees should thus difpofe of my eftects,
'when he knew, that I had made my will, had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSI
He told me, that was true; but that, as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor,
until fome certain account should come of my death;
and that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with
a thing fo remote: that it was true, he had registered my
will, and put in his claim; and could he have given
any account os* my being dead or alive, he would have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio,
(fo they called the sugar-house) and had given his fon,
who was now at the Brasils, order to do it.
But, says the old man, I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps may not be fo acceptable to you
as the rest; and that is, that believing you were lost, and
all the world believing (0 alfo, your partner and trustees
did offer to account to me in your name, for six or eight
of the first years of profit, which I received; but there
being at that time, says he, great disbunements for in-
creating the works, building an ingenio, and buying
staves, it did not amduilt to near fo much as afterwards
jt produced: however, says the old man, I shall give
you a true account of what I have received in all, and
how I have disposed of it.
After a sew days sarther conserence with this antient
friend, he brought me an account of the six fiist years
income of my plantation, signed by my partner, and the
ynerchant's trustees, being always desivered in goods,
viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum,
melasses, &c. which is the consequence of a sugar-work;
and I found by this account, that cvefy year the income
consideraWy increased: but, as above, the disbursement
being large, the sum at first was small: however, the
old man let me see, that he was debtor to me 470 moi-
doresofgold, besides 90 chests of sugar, and 15 double
rolls of tobacco, which were 1ost in his ship, he hav-
ing been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfor-
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a
new ship: however, my old friend, says he, you shall
not want a supply in your necessity; and as foen as my
ion returns, you shall be sully satisfied.
Upon.
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me two
hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and giving me the
writings of his title to the ship which his son was gone to
the Brasils in, of which he was a quarter part owner. and
his son another, he put them both in my hands sor secu-
rity of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this; and remem-
bering what he had done sor me, how he had taken me'
up at sea, and how generously he had used me on all oc-
casions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was
now to me, 1 could hardly resrain weeping at what he
said to me: Theresore first I asked him if his circum-
stances admitted him to spare so much money at that
time, and if it would not streighten him? He told me
he could not say but it might streighten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man said was sull of afsection,
and I could hardly resrain from tears while he spoke. In
short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called sor
a pen and ink to give him a receipt sor them; then I
returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had possession
of the plantation, 1 would return the other to him also,
as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as to the bill of
sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I sound he
was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but
came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me,
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to
my plantation. I told him, 1 thought to go over to it
myself: He said I might do so if I pleased; but that if I
did not, there were ways enough to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use; and
as there were ihips in the river of Lisoon, just ready to go
away to Brasil, he maiie me enter my name in a public
register, with his afsidavit, affirming upon oath that
I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land sor the planting of the laid plantation
at first.
This
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation arfixejd, he directed me to send it with a letter of
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the
place ; and then proposed my staying with him till an ac-
count came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors ot'
my trustees, the-merchants, for whose account I went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters and
papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the produce
of my sarm, or plantation, from the year when there
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, be-
ing for six years; the balance appeared to be in 1174
moidores in mv savour.
Secondly, 'I here was the account of four years more
while they kept the effects in their hands, besore the
government claimed the administration, as being the
effects of a perfon not to be found, which they call Ci-
vil Death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to cruisadoes, which
made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augusiines ac-
count, who had received the profits for above fourteen
years; but not being able to account for what was dis-
posed to the hospital, very honestly \leclared he had 8T2
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to
my account: as to the king's part, that resunded
nothing.
There was alfo a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive; giving me
an account how the estate was improved, and what it
produced a year, with a particular of the number of -
squares or acres that it contained; how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it; and making two and
twenty crosses for blessings, told me, he had said fo
many Ave Maria's to thank the Blessed Virgin that I
was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own, and in the mean time
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my
effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with an
hearty
hearty tender of his friendship, and that of. his sami-
ly; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards' skins,
which he had, it seems, received from Africa by some
other ship which he had .sent thither, and who, it
seems, had' made a better voyage than 1: He sent'
me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and an
hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
moidores.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped me
1200 chests os sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest
of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
^ob was better than the beginning: It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart, when 1 looked
over these letters, and especially when I sound all my
wealth about me; sor as the Brafil ships come all in
fleets, the same Imps which brought my letters brought
my goods; and the effects were sase in the Tagus besore
the letter came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale,
and grew sick; and had not the old man ran and setched
me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprife of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, aster that, I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of
the real canse of my illnels being known, he ordered
me to be let blood, after which I had relies, and grew
well; but I verily believe, if it had not been eased by
the vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died.
1 was now master, all on a sudden, of above 50,0001.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well
call it, in the Bratils, of above a thousand pounds a
year, as sure as an estate of lands in England; and, in
a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how
to understand, or how to compose myself sor the enjoy-
ment of.
The first thing I did, was to recompence my original
benesactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the be-'
ginning, and honest to me at the end: I shewed him
ail that was sent ma; I-told hi|rii that, next to the
pro-
providence of heaven, which difpofes all things, it was
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him,
which I would do an hundred sold: So I first returned to
him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then
1 sent sor a notary, and caused him to draw up a gene-
ral release or difcharge sor the 470 moidores, which he
had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest
manner possible; after which, 1 caused a procuration to
be drawn, impowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my. plantation, and appointing my
partner to account to him, and make the returns by
the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause ia
the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to him,
during his lise, out of the ersects; and 50 moidores a
year to his'son after him, sor his lise: and thus I re-
quited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now than 1 had in my silent state
of lise in the island, where I wanted nothiiig but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it: I had never cave to hide my money
in, nor a place where it might lie without lock or key
till it grew mouldy and tarnished besore any body would
meddle with it: on the contrary, 1 knew not .where to
put it, or whom to trust with it; my old patron, the
captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only re-
suge I had.
In the next place,' my interest in the Brasils seemed to
summon me thither; but now I could not tell how to
think of going thither till 1 had settled my afsairs, and
lest my effects in some sase hands behind me: at first I
thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was
ljonest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and, sor aught I knew, might be
in debt; so that, in a word, 1 had no way but to go back
to England myself, and take my effects with me.
I was some months, however,i besore 1 resolved upon
this; and theresore as I had rewarded the old captain
sully,
fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my former
benesactor, fo I began to think of my poor widow, whose
husband had been my first benesactor, and she, while it'
was in her power, my saithsul steward and instructor:
So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to
write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay
a bill, but to go sind her out, and carry her in money
an hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her, she should, if
I liv'd, have a sarther supply: At the same time I sent
my two sisters in the country, each of them, an hundred
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married and
lest a widow, and the other having an husband ' not fo
kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances I could
not yet pitch upon one to whom 1 durst commit the
gross of my stock, that I might go away to the Brafils,
and leave things sase behind me: and this greatly per-
plexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brasils, and have
settled myself there; for I was, as it were, naturalized
to the place; but I had fome little scruple in my mind .
about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which
I shall say more presently. However, it was not religion
that kept me from going thither for the present; and as
I had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of
the country, all the while I was among them, fo neither
did I yet; only that now and then having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of liv-
ing and dying among them, I began to regret my hav-
ing profese'd myselt a papist, and thought it might not
be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept
me from going to the Brasils, but that really I did not
know with whom to leave my esfects behind me; fo I re«
folv'd at last to go to England with them, where, if I ar-
riv'd, I concluded I should make fome acquaintance, or
find fome relations, that would be saithful to me; and ac-
cordingly I prepar'd to go forEngland with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brasil fleet being just going away) resolved to give.
vol i, w , answers
answers suitable to the jnst and saithsul account of
things I had from thence; and sirst to the prior os St.
Augustine I wrote a letter sull of thanks for his just
dealings, and the oster of the 872 moidores, which was
undisposed of, which I desired might be given, 500 to
the monastery, and 37" to the poor, as the prior should
direct, desiring the good Padres prayers for me, and the
like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that fo much justice andi
honesty called for; as for sending them any present,
they were sar above having any occasion for it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in-
dustry m the. improving the plantation, and his inte-
grity in increasing the stock or the works, giving him
instructions sor his suture government of my part, ac-
cording to the powers I had lest with my old patron, to
whom I desired him to send whatever become due to
me, till he should hear from me more particularly; as-
suring him, that it was my intention, not only to come
to him, but to settle mysesf there for the remainder. of
my lise: To this I added a very handfome present of
some Italian silks for his wise and two daughters, for
such the captain's fon lnform'd me he had; with two
pieces of fme English broad-cloth, the best I could get
in Lisbon, five pieces of black bays, and fome Flanders
lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, fold my cargo, and
turn'd all my effects in good bills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England: I had
been' .accustomed enough to the sea, and yet' I had a
strange aversion to go to England by sea^.at that time;
and though Ecould give no reafon for it, yet the diffi-
culty increased upon me fo much, that though I had
once shipp'd my baggage in order to go, ye,t I alter'd
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
.1tis true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reafons: But let no man
•flight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
of such moment: two of the ships which 1 had tingled
eut to go in, I mean, more particularly singled out than
any other, that is to say, fo as in one of them to put my
things
things on board, and in the other to have agreed with
the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried; viz.
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; fo that in either of these vessels I
had been made miserable, and in which most, it was.
hard to fay.
Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom 1 communicated every thing, pressed me
earnestly not to go to sea; but either to go by land to
the Groyne, and erase over the bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land
to Paris, and fo to Calais and Dover; or to go up to
Madrid, and fo all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was fo prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that 1 refolved
to travel all the way by land; which, as 1 was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way; and to make it more fo, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the fon of a merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me: after
which, we picked up two who were English and mer-
chants alfo, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the
last going to Paris only; Ib that we were in all fix of us,
and sive servants, the two merchants, and the two Portu-
guese, contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an Eng-
lish sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable os
supplying the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner I set out for Lisbon: and our compa-
ny being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call mu .
captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be-
cause I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.
As 1 have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
fo shall I trouble you with none of my land journals: but
fome adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us stran-
gers to Spain, were willing to stay fome time to see the
N 2 COUit
266
£***
?"*«
iD*i.
'.""able
I
me I
'J?0"**
--
If* "sri»
To,.•^,c
•ft."?:
I
i o sAe„„ sj
ti
/...
r0r"e It.
n"C'' *
cor,;.. r;,"!s/-0r , ?'.'ie «,-.'««
„„u:n".* «*a
oswar:'^A.
heJ. "'tieii,;!.<*ttf
J'cA
6'^s
PU/s
to
*'#.
?af/
J^f tA
"'iicA
»i
0Ai
W****,
<*«£*
er
ar, so
as
'«
'as X^i^S"-J -tJ
?°™ whence it was but ?n n *' t0 Roch^,
Madrid, and so at) the w ™ "°Ts. or to go up to
,;. 1n a word, 1 was so br^LfLr"Sh Fran«.
sea at all, excepflomclf dA8^n{imy Soi"S by
. to trav el all the Say by land s°, ^' that j^ed
hffte, and did not ffi J"/ 'Jh:ch. as i was not in
Pleasanter wav- »„,? it f S"' was ty mu«b the
bought -, Sglff^Si* TV*' "7 °W "**
» Ufcon, who" was "wl£ ' he s°n of a "^W
which, we picked ,,„ lS ° travel with ine: after
chants' also, ImciT wo "Z t° Were EnS^ ^ —
1>st going to Paris only so\h3tnUgUCsc S="^'-". the
*nd five servants »!, /' at we were iri al] llJ£: of in
fese, cS^ÆS^g-^d the two P0rtu:
^o, to save the charge-Tml "e servaat betlVe«
P. sailor to travel w?th'me ""^ * §2' M %
Friday, who wa, too m™ch a str *' "f" ^
supplying the place of?f nger ro be ca/«& «
1n this ml, t ,- ervant uP°n tnc roa*
iv he;nJ IIiCt °Ut sor Li<b°n: *>*»"' com*
V being all very well mo , Ara.<re "J*
Sti r°OP' W^seort^y did me the h?/b j£**'
;apain, as well because'I was the o^ ?7/*8-
-ante I had two servam and. inde>e ^ *-
of the whole journey. 2"'/te/
so stall IhtrVoC ,?UWe'd 7°U with **:%/>'"""
some adventures that happened , *'""«"" A
d.fficult journey, 1 milstPnPot 0£SH *»-«„„. <*
AV hen we came to huwidit a* Cee the ,
g" to Spsdn, were wUW t *** * **

court of Spain, and to see what was worth observing;
but it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened'
away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of Oc-
tober: but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we.
wear alarmed at several towns on the way, with an ac-
count that so much snow was sallen on the French side of
the mountains, that several travellers were obliged to
come back to Pampeluna, aster having attempted, at an
extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pamcluna itself, we sound it so in-
deed; and to me that had been always used to an hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was unsofr'erable; nor,
indeed, was it more plentisul than it was surprising, to
come but ten days besore out of the Old Castile, where
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im-
mediately to seel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains,
so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and
to endanger benumbing and perishing of our singers and
toes, was very strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and selt cold weather,
'which he had never seen or selt besore in his lise.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so long,
that the people said winter was come besore its time,
and the roads which were difficult besore, were now
quite impassable: in a word, the show lay in seme
places too thick sor us to travel; and being not hard
frozen, as is.tbe case in northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive
every step: we staid no less than twenty days at Pampe-
luna; when (seeing the winter coming on, and no like-
lihood of its being better, sor it was the severest winter
all over Europe that had been known in many years)
I proposed that we should all go away to Fontarabia,
and there taking shipping sor Bourdeaux, which was a
very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
sour French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
sound out a guide, who, travelling the country near the
head
head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by such ways, that they were not much incommoded
with the snow; and where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear
them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the
snow, provided we were armed sufficiently .to protect us
from wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows,
it was frequent for fome wolves to shew themselves at the
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of
food, the ground being covered with snow: we told him
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two legged
•wolves, which we were told we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
He satissied us there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go; fo we readily agreed to follow
him, as did alfo twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants,' fome French, fome Spanish, who, as I said,
had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back
again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed, I
was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he c?.mc
directly back with us, on the same road that we came
from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was
pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turn-
ing to the lest, he approached the mountains another
way; and though it is true, the hills and the precipices
looked dreadfully, yet he made fo many tours, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we insen-
sibly passed the height of the mountains, without being
much incumbeYed with the snow; and all on a sudden
he shewed us the pleasant fruitsul provinces of Langue-
doc and Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though
indeed they were at a great distance, and we had fome
rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and a night, so fast, that we
n 3 could
could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon
be past it all: we sound, indeed, that we began <o de-
scend every day, and to come more north than besore;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours besore night, when our guide
being something besore us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three n.«onstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out of an hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two os
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half a
mile besore us, he had been devoured indeed, besore*we
could have helped him: one of them sastened upon his,
horlV, and the other attacked the man with that violence,
that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough,
to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily: my man Friday being next to me, I bade him ride
up, and see what was the matter: as soon a& Friday came
in sight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, O
master! O master! But like a bold sellow, rode directly
up to the man, and with his piftol shot the wolf that at-
tacked him into the head.
It was happy sor the poor man that it was my man
Friday; sor he, having been used to that kind of crea-
ture in his country, had no sear upon him, but went
clofe up to him, and shot him, as above; whereas any
of us would have fired, at a sarther distance, and have
perhaps either missed the Wolf, or endangered shooting
the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bokler man than
I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with
the noile of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the
difruallest howlir.gs of wolves, and the noife redoubled
by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there
had been a prodigious multitude 'of them; and perhaps
indeed there was not such a sew, as that we had no cause
of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had sastened upon the horse, lest him immediately,
and fled, having happily sastened upon his head, where
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him mCich hurt: the man, indeed, was
most hurt: sor the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee j
knee; and he was just as it were tumbling down by the
diforder of the horse, when Friday came up, and shot
the wolf.
It is easy to suppofe, that at the noife of Friday's pif-
tol we all mended our pace, and rid up as sall as the
way (which was very difficult) would give us leave, to
see what was the matter: as soon as we came clear of the
trees, which blinded us besore, we saw plainly what had
been the case, and how Friday had difengaged the poor
guide; though we did not presently difcern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.
But never was a sight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprising manner, as that which sollowed between
Friday aud the bear, which gave us all (though at first
we were surprifed and afraid sor him) the greatest di-
version imaginable: as the bear is an heavy, clumsy
creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, which is
swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, which
generally are the rule of his actions; sirst, as-to men,
who are not his proper prey, 1 say not his proper prey,
because, though 1 cannot say what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their case, the ground being all co-
vered with snow; yet as to men, he does not usually at-
tempt them, unless they first attack him: on the contra-
ry, if you meet him in the woods, if you do not meddle
with him, he won't meddle with you; yet then you must
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the road;
sor he is a very nice gentleman, he will not go a step out
of the way sor a prince; nay, if you are really afraid,
your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on; sor sometimes, if you stop, and stand still, and look
stedsastly at him, he takes it sor an affront; and if ypu
throw or tofs any thing at him, and it bitshim, though
it were but a bit of stick as big as your singer, he takes it
sor an affront, and sets all other.business aside to pursue
hisirevenge; sor he will have satissaction in point of hq-
noyr, and this is his first quality: the next is, that if be
be otlce affronted, he will never leave. you night or day,
till he has his: revenge, but sollow at a good round rate
till heiOY.ertakes you. ' . , <' . < '7
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when.we
came up to him, he was helping liiri\pstj from his host"e;
.. « s 4 sor
for the man was both hurt and frighted, and indeed the
]ast more than the sirst; when, on a sudden we espied
the bear come out of the wood, and a very monstrous one
it was, the biggest by sar that ever I saw: we were all
a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the sel-
low's countenance : O ! O ! O ! fays Friday, three times,
pointing to him, O master! you give me te leave, me
shakec te hand with him, mt makee you good laugh.
I was surprised to see the sellow fo pleased: You fool,
you, said I, he will eat you up. Eatee me up! eatee me
up! says Friday, twice over again; me eatee him up:
me makee you good laugh: you all stay here, me shew
you good laugh: fo down he sits, and gets his boots off
in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call
the flat shoes they wear) and which he had in his poc-
ket, gives my other servant his horse, and, with his gun,
away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking foftly on, and offered to meddle
with' nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to
him, as if the bear could understand him : Hark ye! hark
ye! says Friday, me fpeakee wit you. We followed at a
distance; for now being come down to the Gascoigneside
of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country was plain, and pretty open, though
many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone,
and throws at him, and hit him just on the head; but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against
a wall; but it answered Friday's end; for the rogue
was fo void of sear, that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and shew us fome laugh, as he
called it. •
As foon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, 'arid comes after him, taking devilish''long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, fo as would
put an horse a middling gallop; away runs Friday,
find takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help;
fo we all refolved to fire at once upon the bear, and de-
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about
about his own business another way; and especially I
was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then
run away; and I called out, \ou dog, said I, is this
your making us laugh? Come away, and take your,
horse, that we may shoot the creature. He hears me,
and cries out, No shoot, no shoot, stand still, you get
much laugh: and as the nimble creature ran two seet
for the beast's one, he turned on a sudden on one side
of us, and seeing a great oak.tree, sit for his purpose,
he beckoned^ us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he
gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about five or six yards from the bottpm of
the tree.
The bear foon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance; the first thing he did, he stopt at the gun,
smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
tree, climbing like a cat, though fo monstrous heavy:
1 was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, ot my man,
and could not for my lise fee any thing to laugh at yet,
till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer
to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got
about half way to him: as foon as the bear got out to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker. Ha,
fays he to us, now you see me teachee the bear dance;
fo he falls a jumping, and shaking the bough, at which
the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look
behind him, to see how he should get back; then indeed
we did laugh heartily : but Friday had not done with him
by a great deal; when he sees him stand still, he calls
put to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could
speak English, What, you come no sarther? Pray you
Come sarther! So he left jumping and shaking the
hough; and the bear, just as if he understood what h#
said, did come a little sarther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again. <
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and we
•would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, O pray 1
O pray ! no shoot, me shoot, by and then; he would have
said, by and by. However, to shortest the story, Friday
ni danced
danced fo much, and the bear stood fo ticklish, that we
had laughing enough indeed,'but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do; for first we thought he de-
pended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the.
bear was too cunning for that too; for he would not get
out sar enough to be thrown down, but clings sast with
his great broad claws and seet, fo that we could not ima-
gine what would be the end of it, and .where the jeft
would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for seeing the
bear cling sast to the bough, and that he would not be
persuaded to come any sarther; Well, well, said'Friday %,
you no come sarther, me go, me go ; you no come to
me, me come to you: and upon this he goes out to the
'smallest end of'the bough where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down
the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on.
his seet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it up and
stands still.
Well, said I to him, Friday, what will you do now?
Why do not you shoot him? No shoot, says Friday, no
yet, me shoot now me no kill; me stay, give you one
more laugh; and indeed fo he did, as you will see pre-
sently; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes
back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and coming
backward till he got into the body of the tree: then,
with the same hinder end foremost, he came down the
tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at
a time very leisurely; at this juncture, and just besore he
could set his hind seet upon the ground, Friday'stepped'
close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his
ear, and shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did' not
Jaugh; and when he saw we were pleased hy our looks,
he salls a laughing himself very loud: fo we kill bear in
our country, says Friday. So you kill them said I, why
you have no guns: No, fays he, no guns, but shoot great
much long arrow.
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; hut we
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves
lan
ran much in my head; and indeed, except the noise I
once heard on the shore of Africa; of which I have said
fomething already, I never heard any thing that filled
me with fo much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday would haVe trad, us we mould cer-
tainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had three leagues
to go; and our guide hastened .us; fo we left him, and
went forward on our journey. ,
The ground was still covered with show, though not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ra-
venotis creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest, and plain country, pressed by.
hunger, to seek for food; and had done a great deal of
mischies in the villages, where they surprised the coun-
try people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses,
and fome people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
country, we should find them there; andf this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on' every side, and
a long narrow desile or lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of fun-set when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sun-set when we
'came into the plain. We met with nothing in the first
wood, except that, in a little plain within the wood,~
which was not above two surlongs over, we saw sive
great wolves cross the road, sull speed one after ano-
ther, as if they had been in chase of fome prey, and
had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were
gone, and out of sight, in a sew moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched
faint-hearted sellow, baii us keep in a ready posture; for
he believed there were more wolves a coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
hut we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain; as foon as we came into the plain, we bad oc-
casion enough to look about us. The sirst object we met
i with
with was a dead horse ; that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work; we could not say eating of him, bat
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us; Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not susfer him by any
means; for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. . We were
not half gone over the plain, but we began to hear the
wolves howl in the woods, on our lest, in a frightsul
manner; and presently aster we saw about an hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most
of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up
by experienced officers: I scarce knew in what man-
ner to receive 'them; but found, to draw ourselves
in a close line, was the only way: fo we formed in
a moment: but, that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered, that only every other man should
fire; and that the others, who had not fired, should
stand ready to give them a second volley immediately,
if they continued to .advance upon us; and that then
those who had sired at first, should not pretend to load
their susils again, but stand ready, with every one a
pistol, for we were all armed with a susil, and a pair
of pistols, each man; fo we were by this method able
tq lire six volleys, half of us at a time: however, at
prescut we had no necessity; for, upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a sull stop, being terrisied, as
well with the noise, as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the
snow: 1 found they stopped, but did not immediately
retreat; whereupon remembering that 1 had been told,
that the siercest creatures were,, terrisied at the voice of
a m3n, 1 caused all our company to halloo as loud as
we could, and found the notion not altogether mis-
taken,; for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and
turn about; then I ordered a second volley to be fired
in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away
they went to the woods.
This
This gave us leifure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lnse no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our sulils, and put our-
selves into readiness, when we heard a terrible noife
in the same wood, on our lest; only that it was sarther
onward the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the night began to
he dusky, which made it the worse on our side; but,
the noife increasing, we could easily perceive, that it
'was the howling and yelling -of thofe hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
'wolves, on our lest, one behind us, and one on our
front; so that we seemed to be surrounded with them;
however, as they did not sall upon us, we kept our
'way sorward, as sast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good
large trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were
to pass, at the sarther side of the plain; but we were
greatly surprifed, when, coming near the lane, or pass,
we saw a consused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noite of a gun; and looking that way, out
rushed an horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, fly-
ing like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after
him sull speed; indeed the horse had the heels of them;
but as we suppofe, that he could not hold it at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him at last;
and no question but they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; sor, riding up to
the entrance where the horse came out, we sound the
carcase of another horse, and of two men devoured by
these ravenous creatures, and of one the man was no
doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun; sor there
lay a gun just by him fired off, but, as to the man, his
head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten up.
. This silled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon; sor
they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and
1 verily believe there were three hundred of them: It
happened very much to our advantage, that at the
'entrance
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay fome large timber-trees, which had been cut dowa
the summer besore, and I suppose lay there for carriage:
1 drew my little troop in among these trees, and pla-
cing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and, keeping that tree besore us, for
a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did fo, and it was well we did; for never was a
more surious charge than .the creatures made upon us in
this place: they came on us with a growling kind of a
noise, and mounted the piece of timber (which, as I
said, was our breast-work,) as if they were only rushing
upon their prey; and this sury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind
us, which was the prey they aimed at:.1 ordered our
men to fire as besore, every other mast; and they took
their aim fo sure, that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the sirst volley; but there was a necessity to
keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those besore.
W hen we had fired our second volley of our susilsv
we thought they slopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone ofs', but it was but a moment, for others came
forward again; fo we sired our volleys of our pistols,
and I believe, in these four sixings, we killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet they
came on again. :i
I was loth to spend our last foot too hastily; fo I called
my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better em-
,plojfed;,for, with the greatest..dexterity imaginable, he
• charged my susil, and his owdj while we were en-
gaged; but, as I said, I called my.other man, and, giv-
mg him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train, all
along the piece .of timber, and let it be a large train,;
he did fo, and had but time to get away, when the
wolves came up to it, and fome were got up upon 4$,
when, I, snapping an uncharged pistol, close to the pow-
der, set it on fire; and those that were upon-the timber
were scorched with it, and six or seven of them sell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and frigllt
of the fire; we dispatched these in an instant, and. the
'rest
rest were so frighted with the light, which the night,
sor now it was very near dark, made more terrible,
that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired offin
one volley, and after that we gave a sbout; upon this,
the wolves turned tail, and we tallied immediately upon
near twenty lame ones, which we sound struggling on
the ground, and sell a cutting them with our swords,
which answered our expectation; sor the crying and
howling they made were better understood by their sel-
lows; so that they sled, and lest us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore os
them; and had it been day-light, we had killed many-
more: the field of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward again; sor we had still near a league to gos
we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling;
our eyes, we were not certain; so in about an hour
more, we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
-which we sound in a terrible fright, and all in arms; sor
it seems, that, the night besore, the wolves and some
bears had broken into that village, and put them i'n a
terrible fright; and they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in the night to preserve
their cattle, .and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he
could go no sarther; so we were obliged to take a neiy
guide there, and go to .Tholouse, where we sound H
'warm climate, a fruitsul, pleasant country, and no snow,
no wolves, or any. thing like them: but when we told
our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but
'what. was ordinary in the great sorest at the soot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground .
but they inquired much what kind of a guide we had
gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such
a severe season; and told us, it was very well we
were not all devoured: when we told them how we
placed ourselves, andi the. horses. in the. middle* they
blamed us exceedingly, and told us, it was .fifty to one
but we had been all destroyed; sor it was the, sight of
the.
the horses that made the wolves fo surious, seeing their
prey; and that at other times they are really afraid of a
gun; but they being excessive hungry, and raging on
that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
•made them senseless of danger; and that if we had not
by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of
.the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great
odds but that we had been torn to pieces: whereas, had
we been content to have lat still on horseback, and fired
as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses
fo much for their own, when men were on their
backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at
last, if we had stood altogether, and lest our horses,
they would have been fo eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come off sase, especially having
our fire-arms in our hands, and being sb many in
number.
For my part, I was never fo sensible of danger in my
lise; for seeing above three hundred devils come roar-
ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and as it was, I believe, 1 shall never care to cross thole
mountains again; 1 think I would much rather go a
thousand leagues, by sea, though 1 were sure to meet
'With a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of, in roy
passage through France; nothing but what our travel-
lers have given an account of, with much more advantage
than I can: I travelled from Tholouse to Paris, and
'without any considerable slay came to Calais, anct landed
sase at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having
•had a severe cold seafon to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new discovered estate sase about
me, the bills of exchange, which I brought with me,
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide, and privy counsellor, was my
good antient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her fo entirely
with every thing, that I was persectly easy as to the se-
curity of my effects; and indeed I was very happy from
my
my beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted in»
tegrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think ot' leaving my effects with
this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and fo to the
Brasils: but now another scruple came in the way, and
that was religion: for as I had entertained fome doubts
about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad,
especially in my slate of folitude, fo I knew there was
no going to the Brasils for me, much less going to settle
there, unless I refolved to embrace the Roman Catholic
religion, without any reserve; except on the other hand
I refolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr
for religion, and die in the inquisition; fo I refolved to
stay at home, and, if I could find means for it, to dispose
of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily dis-
pose of it there; but that if 1 thought fit to give him
leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the
survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brasils, who
must fully understand the value of it, who lived just upon
the spot, and who I knew to be very rich, fo that he be-
lieved they would be fond of buying it; he did not
doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces of eight the
more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did fo; and, in about eight months more,
the (hip being then returned, he sent me an account, that
they had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to
pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the bills of exchange for 33,800 pieces
of eight for the estate; reserving the payment of 100
moidores a year, to him, the old man, during his lise,
and 50 moidores afterwards to his fon for his lise, which
I had promised them; and which the plantation was to'
make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a
lite of providence's chequer-work, and of a variety
'4' which
i .which the world will seldom be able to shew the like*
off: beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily
than any part of it ever gave me leave fo much as .r»
hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state,of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards;
and fo indeed I had been, if other circumstances had
concurred ; but I was inured to a wandering lise, had no
samily, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and though I had fold
my estate in the Brasils, yet 1 could not keep that country.
out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the
wing again; especially I could not resist the strong in-
clination 1 had to see my island, and to know jf the poor
Spaniards were in being there; and how the rogues I
lest there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestlv dissuaded me
from it, and fo sar prevailed with me, that almost for
seven years she prevented my running abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest, having
fomething of his own, 1 bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement of fome addition to his estate,
after my decease; the other I put out to a captain of a
ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible, bold,
enterprismg young sellow, I put him into a good ship,
and sent him to sea, and this young sellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as 1 was, to sarther adventure my-
self.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for,
nrst of all I married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatissaction; and had three children, two
ions and one daughter: but my wise dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu-
nity, prevailed and engaged me to go in his ship as a
private trader to the tatt-lndies: this was in the year
16.94. '• •-:
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of
their lives, and of the villains 1 lest there; how at rirst
< they
toey insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards
lgreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them; how
thXy were subjected to the Spaniards; how honestly the
Spaniards used them; an history, if it were entered into,
is sull of variety and wondersul accidents as my own
part; particularly alfo as to their battles with the Cartb-
beans, who landed several times upon the island, and as
to the improvement they made upon the island itself;
and how five of them made an attempt upon the main
land, and brought away eleven men and five women
prifoners; by which, at my coming, I found about
twenty young children on the island.
Here 1 stayed about twenty days; lest themsupplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes, tools, and two 'workmen, which I
brought from England with me; viz. a carpenter, and
a smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with them,
resei ved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and,
having settled all things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the place, 1 lest them there.
From thence 1 touched at the Brasils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people, to
the island; and in it, betides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them : as to the Englishmen,
1 promised them to send them fome women from Eng-
land, with a good cargo of neceisaries, if they would ap-
ply themselves to planting which I afterwards could not r
persorm: the sellows proved very honest and diligent,
after they were mastered, and had their properties set
apart for them. 1 sent them alfo from the Brasils five
cows, three of them being big with calf, fome theep,
and fome hogs, which, when I came again, were con-
siderably increased.
But asl these things, with an account how 300 Carib-
bees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations,
"pd how they fought with that whole number twice,
td we're at sirst deseated, and one of them killed; but
S/ - at
at last a storm destroyed their enemies' canoes, they sa-
mished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and
recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived
upon the island. >
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, sor ten years more,
I may, perhaps, give a sarther account of hereafter.
THE END or THE FIRST VOLUME,
i •- t, StlfeltTA.MSt*, LlABSI)HAl.I.-$T«ZXT.
«,*
sii-
IT;'


