ERSTYO CAL FORNIA. SAN DIEG 



3 1822 00295 5722 




THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO 

LA JOLLA, CALIFORNIA 



ILFRACOMBE 



CHURCH SCHOOLS 



(BOYS). 





A PRIZE 

FOR 





"proficiency 



In the work of Standard 



PRESENTED BY 

C DARBYSHIRE, Esq. 



Christmas, 1916. 



H. J. MACEY, Head Master. 



Twiss Bros., Arcade, Il/racombe. 



JN1VERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. SAN DIEGC 




3 1822002955722 



mi 



$ 






Perseverance Island 




OPENING THE WATER GATE 



Perseverance Island 



OR 



The Robinson Crusoe of the 
Nineteenth Century 



BY 
DOUGLAS FRAZAR 



ILLUSTRATED 



BLACKIE AND SON LIMITED 

LONDON GLASGOW DUBLIN BOMBAY 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTEE I. 

Boyhood and youth of the author. Sailor's life. The " Good Luck." 
South Pacific Island scheme. Loss of crew off Cape Horn .... 3 

CHAPTER II. 

Push forward for the Society Islands. Driven into Magellen Straite by 
stress of weather. Anchor in a land-locked bay. Search foi fresh 
water. Attacked by savages. Serious injuries to Capt. Davis aud 
one of the crew. Return to the schooner and make sail for the open 
ocean. Resolve to return to England. Finally lay our course for 
Easter Island 9 

CHAPTER III. 

Captain Davis's condition. Only five men fit for duty. Terrific storm. 
The schooner thrown on her beam ends and dismasted. Loss of 
three more of the crew. Taking to the whale-boat. Foundering of 
the schooner " Good Luck." Death of Captain Davis. Storm again, 
running to the southward before the tempest. Strike upon a reef. 
The author cast on shore 19 

CHAPTER IV. 

Return to consciousness. Seek for my comrades. Commence a calen 
dar, and take inventory of my effects 38 

CHAPTER V. 

Attempt to make a fire. Distil salt water. First meal. Reflections. 
Hat-making. Repose 45 

CHAPTER VI. 

Build fireplace. Make knife and spear from anchor. Build tower of 
stones for perpetual lamps. Resolve to explore the island . . . . 66 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER VIL 

Improve my lamp-tower. Make a bow and arrow, and fish-hooks and 
lines. Capture a large turtle. Improve my steel and flint, and build 
a hut. Procure some salt, and make arrangements to explore the 
island on the morrow 65 



CHAPTER VHL 

Eainy day. Reflections concerning climate, season of the year, tides, 
etc. Plant several varieties of my seeds. Make a pocket compass, 
and prepare for my exploration of the island 73 

CHAPTER IX. 

Exploration of the island : First day. Fresh water at Rapid River. 
Wild goats, quail, tortoise, tobacco, wild ducks, trout, sweet pota 
toes, mussels. Name the island and principal points, etc 85 

CHAPTER X. 

Exploration of the island : Second day. Find coal and sulphur, seals, 
more turtles, gulls, etc 96 

CHAPTER XI. 

Exploration of the island : Third day. Stalking goats. Mirror lake and 
river and bay. Sad moonlight thoughts 105 

CHAPTER XII. 

Exploration of the island : Fourth day. Finish the exploration of the 
island, and build stone house at Rapid River 113 

CHAPTER Xin. 

Make a hatchet of my iron hammer. Make matches and utensils for 
house. Team of goats, chair, table, etc. Birch-bark canoe. Ar 
rangements for winter 124 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Make chairs, and ai range my house, seal-skins, and goat-skins. Provide 
provisions for winter. Discover wild grapes, and make wine and 
vinegar. Find potassium, or saltpetre. Make gunpowder, and by 
means of my compass discover iron. Thoughts of the future . . . 136 



CONTENTS. Vll 



CHAPTER XV. 

Make a mould for bricks. Build a brick-kiln and make bricks. Build a 
smelting-house, blast-furnace, kiln for cleansing ore. Meditations. 
Build water-wheel and fan-wheel, and set my machinery for an air- 
blast to reduce the ore 151 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Smelt my iron and make Bessemer steel and all kinds of tools. Erect 
an anvil and forge. Build a saw-mill, and plant a farm and kitchen- 
garden 166 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Make an astrolabe, and obtain the latitude of the island, and, by an 
eclipse of the moon, the longitude also. By means of the Epitome 
make a chart on Mercator's projection, and find out the distance 
from any known land 176 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

A resume 1 of three years on the island. Daily routine of life. Inven 
tions, discoveries, etc. Fortification of the Hermitage. Manufac 
ture of cannon and guns. Perfection and improvement of the ma 
chine shop. Implicit faith of ultimately overcoming all obstacles 
and escaping from the island. Desire to accumulate some kind of 
portable wealth to carry with me, and desire to explore the island 
for its hidden wealth and the surrounding ocean for pearl oysters . 189 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Construct a submarine boat, to be propelled by goat power and to make 
its own air, to examine the bottom of the ocean near the island for 
pearl oysters 206 

CHAPTER XX. 

Launch the submarinalwat. Experiment with it In Stlllwater Cove . 323 

CHAPTER XXL 

Explore the bottom of the ocean in the vicinity of the island with my 
submarine boat. Discover pearl oysters and invent a great improve 
ment to my boat . . . , 23t 



Viii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Manufacture glass. Build a steam yacht, and circumnavigate the 
island. Lay up large stores of valuable pearls obtained from the 
pearl oysters ..................... 252 

CHAPTER XXIII. 
Discovery of a human habitation. The skeleton and manuscript . . 263 

CHAPTER XXIV. 
The Pirate's manuscript .................. 277 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Finding of the sunken wreck. The submarine explosion of the hull. 

Recovery of over ten millions in bars of gold and silver ..... 290 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

Chess and backgammon playing. Fortification of the island. Team of 
white swans. Goats as servants, and opponents in backgammon 
playing ........................ 310 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

Discovery of gold. Turn the stream out of the lake, and build portable 
engine to separate the gold ................ 321 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

The sea serpent. Attack and capture one of the spedes, thus putting 
the question of its existence forever at rest .......... 339 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

Make a balloon and flying machine, in which, I make a successful 
ascension ....................... 349 



CHAPTER 

The manuscript sent forth ..........362 



THE MANUSCEIPT. 



Perseverance Island, South Pacific. 
To the Person who shall find this Manuscript, Greeting, 

I hope that in the mercy of God these lines may come to the hands of 
some of my fellow-creatures, and that such action may be taken as may be 
deemed best to inform the world of my fate and that of my unfortunate 
comrades; if the finder will, therefore, cause the accompanying account to 
be published, he will confer a lasting benefit upon his humble servant, 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 
Otherwise caUed WILLIAM ANDERSON. 

Everybody must remember the setting out of the schooner "Good 
Luck" from the Liverpool docks, England, in the summer of 1865, 
with the advance gnard of a colony to be established in the Southern 
Pacific, on one or more of its numerous islands to be selected; and from 
that day to this, the non-reception of any news of her from her day of 
sailing. 

I am the only survivor of that ill-fated vessel, and record here, in 
hopes that the manuscript may reach the eyes of those interested, all 
the facts of the case, and pray that they will speedily send to my relief 
some vessel to take me home, and permit me once more to gaze upon 
the faces of my fellow-men before I die. 



THE FINDING OF THE MANUSCRIPT. 



Shottsville, Delefero County, Texas, 
April 1, 1877. 

Returni/ng to my home in the evening after a hard day's work on my 
quarter -section farm, I saw in the twilight an object dangling in the air, 
and apparently fast to a young walnut sapling. I approached it and 
found that it was a small balloon of about three feet in diameter, made, 
/ should think, of some kind of delicate skim of beasts or birds sewed 
cunningly together. A ttached in the place where the car should be, I dis 
covered the manuscript herewith submitted, written on some kind of 
parchment, which, being taken home and read, I found of such startling 
interest that I have, although poor, ordered the same to be published at my 
expense, in hopes that some action may be taken by those whom it may 
concern to move further in the matter. I further depose that the accom 
panying manuscript is the original one found by me attached to the 
balloon, and that it has never been tampered with or allowed to leave my 
possession tul this moment. It can be examined, as well as the balloon 
at any time, by any responsible person, by calling upon me. 

[Signed] REUBEN STANLEY. 

State of Texas, 
Shottsville, Delefero County, 

April 1, 1877. 
S.S. 

Then personally appeared before me the said Reuben Stanley, to me 
wett known, and made oath that the above deposition made by him is true. 

[Signed] RICHARD HILLANDIEB 

Justice of the Peace. 



PERSEVERANCE ISLAND; 



OB, 



THE ROBINSON CRUSOE OF THE NINE 
TEENTH CENTURY. 



CHAPTER I. 

Boyhood and youth of the author. Sailor's life. The" "Good Luck." 
South Pacific Island scheme. Loss of crew off Cape Horn. 

I WAS born in the year 1833, in the State of Vermont, 
United States of America, and at an early age lost both 
parents by that fearful scourge, the small-pox. I was an 
only child, and upon the death of my parents, which hap 
pened when I was about six years of age, I was taken 
charge of by a friendly farmer of a neighboring town, who 
put me to school for several years in the winter, and at 
work upon the farm in the summer. I had no known 
relatives in the wide world, and often felt the bitter pangs 
of orphanhood. My master was not, however, unkind, 
and I grew up strong, robust, and with rather a retiring, 
quiet disposition, with a great love of mechanics and 
tools. Under all this quietness, however, lurked, I well 
knew myself, an unappeasable love of adventure and 

3 



4 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

enterprise. I loved to lie in the open fields at night 
Under the full moon ; to explore swamps and brooks ; and 
I soon learned to swim in the pond near by. At the age 
of fourteen I left my master, with his consent, and went 
to work in a neighboring machine-shop, where castings, 
etc., were made. I loved all manner of mechanical tools 
and instruments, and evidently had a taste in that direc 
tion. At the age of eighteen I became restless, and, having 
read during leisure hours many books of adventure and 
discovery, I took it into my silly head to become a sailor, 
and upon the inspiration of a moment I packed up my 
small bundle of clothes, and, bidding good-by to my 
workmates, started out on foot for Portsmouth, N. H. 
I arrived there and shipped as green hand in the schooner 
" Rosa Belle " for Boston, at which port we in due season 
arrived. From thence I shipped again before the mast 
in a large, square-rigged vessel .for a voyage round the 
world. It is not my intention here to give a detailed 
account of my adventurous life till I joined the " Good 
Luck ; " suffice it to say that during fourteen years at sea 
I passed through all the grades of boy, seaman, able 
seaman, boatswain, third mate, second mate, and first 
mate. It was after my discharge from a large clipper 
ship in Liverpool, lately arrived from China, in the latter 
capacity, that, having some few hundred dollars by me, 
I began to look about to see if I could not gain a liveli 
hood in some easier way than by going to sea, being by 
this time heartily tired of the life, and for want of friends 



THE SCHOONER GOOD LUCK. 5 

and relations with little chance of rising higher in the 
profession; it was at this time, I say, that this cursed 
project of the " Good Luck " was brought to my attention. 
As fate would have it, the schooner lay in the same dock 
with ourselves, and I became interested in her by hearing 
the talk upon the dock that she was bound to the South 
Pacific Islands to seek for pearls, sandal wood, tortoise- 
shell, etc., and to establish a colony of which the persons 
who were going out on this trip were the advance guard 
and projectors. I remember now, oh! how sadly, the 
Utopian ideas that were advanced, and although I, as a 
sailor in those seas, knew many of them to be false, yet 
imagination proclaimed them true. I could not resist the 
impulse to join my fortune to theirs. Having made up 
my mind, I called upon the chief movers in the matter and 
offered my services. It was first a question with them 
whether I could subscribe any money to the project, and 
secondly, what position I desired in the adventure? 

I satisfied them upon the former, by stating that if 
I was pleased with their plans I could subscribe four 
hundred dollars in cash, and my services as a seaman and 
navigator in those seas. This seemed very satisfactory, 
and I was then asked, more pointedly, what position I 
demanded. I said that I should be satisfied with the 
position of chief officer, and second in command on board 
of the schooner, and fourth in command on the island as 
concerned the colony, that is to say, if their plans 
suited me, which I demanded to know fully before sign- 



6 PERSEVEKANCB ISLAND. 

ing any papers and bound myself by oath not to disclose 
if, after hearing and seeing everything, I declined to join 
them. 

This straightforward course seemed to please the man 
agers, and I was put in full possession of all their plans, 
and immediately after signed the papers. 

It is sufficient for me to give an outline of this plan 
simply, which, through the act of God, came to naught, 
and left me, a second Robinson Crusoe, on my lonely 
island. 

The company was formed of one hundred persons, who 
each put in one hundred pounds to make a general 
capital, except a few like myself, who were allowed 
a full paid-up share for eighty pounds, on account of 
being of the advance guard, and wages for our services 
according to our station, with our proportionate part of 
the dividends to be hereafter made. 

With this fund paid in, amounting to about nine thou 
sand eight hundred pounds, the managing committee pur 
chased the schooner " Good Luck." She was a fore-top 
sail schooner, of one hundred and fifty-four tons mea 
surement, built in Bath, Maine, and about seven years 
old, strong, well built, sharp, and with a flush deck 
fore and aft. She cost two thousand four hundred 
pounds. The remainder of the money was used in 
purchasing the following outfit for the scheme we were 
engaged in: 

Four breech-loading Armstrong cannon, nine pounders, 



THE VOYAGE BEGUN. 7 

four old-fashioned nine-pounders, twenty-five Sharpe's 
breech-loading rifles, and twenty-five navy Colt's revol 
vers, with plenty of ammunition for all. These, in con 
junction with boarding-pikes, cutlasses, hand-grenades, 
and a howitzer for the launch, comprised our armament. 
The hold was stored with a little of everything generally 
taken on such adventures, knives, hatchets, and calico 
for the natives, and seeds, canned meats, and appliances 
for pearl fishing, house-building, etc., for ourselves. To 
these were added a sawmill, an upright steam-engine, 
a turning-lathe, blacksmith tools, etc. 

Our plan was to find an island uninhabited, that would 
form a good centre from which to prosecute our purpose 
of pearl gathering, and to there establish a colony, send 
ing home the " Good Luck " for the rest of our compan 
ions and their families. 

Ten of us were chosen as the advance guard (all but 
three being sailors), to make the first venture, establish 
the colony, load the schooner, leave part of our force 
upon the island selected, and the remainder to bring back 
the schooner to Liverpool. "Man proposes, but God 
disposes." 

On July 31, 1865, we set sail upon this disastrous 
voyage, and from that day to this have I never seen 
the faces of civilized beings except those on board of the 
schooner, and not those for many months. Our captain 
was a fine, manly fellow, of about eight and thirty years 
of age, and we all liked him. Duty on board was o.f 

(370) li 



8 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

course different than it would have been in a common 
vessel ; and although we had watches and regular disci 
pline, each was familiar with the other, having, as we had, 
an equal stake in the adventure. 

We had a tough time off Cape Horn, and, although 
the "Good Luck" behaved well, it was here that we met 
with our first misfortune. In stowing the jib, in a gale 
of wind, preparatory to laying-to, three men were swept 
overboard, and we never saw them more. This cast a 
damper upon the remaining seven, and was but a pre 
cursor of what was yet to happen. We rounded Cape 
Horn the first part of October, and, steering northwest, 
soon reached more pleasant weather. Our course was 
towards the group of islands, so well known in the South 
Pacific, called the Society Islands. 



CHAPTER H. 

Push forward for the Society Islands. Driven Into Magellan Straits by 
stress of weather. Anchor In a land-locked bay. Search for fresh water. 
Attacked by savages. Serious injuries to Capt. Davis and one of the crew. 
Return to the schooner and make sail for the open ocean. Resolve to return 
to England. Finally lay our course for Easter Island. 

WE had proceeded but a very short way towards the 
Society Islands when a terrific storm arose from the west 
ward, driving us back upon the coast of South America. 
We lay to for many days, bending down before the 
blast, and drifting all the time rapidly to the southward 
and eastward ; till one morning we discovered land broad 
off our lee beam, and, by a forenoon observation which the 
captain obtained, we found that we were off the western 
opening of the Straits of Magellan, and we soon put the 
schooner's head before the howling blast and ran in for 
shelter, rest, and repairs. We came up with the land 
very rapidly under easy sail, and passed the frowning cliffs 
and rocks on our port hand, not over a mile distant, as we 
knew we had plenty of water and to spare. After having 
passed the opening we hauled the schooner up on the port 
tack, heading her well up to the northward, intending to 
find some quiet land-locked cove where we could anchor 
and repair the damages small in detail, but quite grave 



10 PERSEVEBANCE ISLAND. 

in the aggregate that we had received in our buffeting 
of the last ten days. 

About eight bells in the forenoon we found ourselves 
well inside the land, and with a smooth sea and a good 
fair working breeze, we kept the land well on the port 
beam and gradually crawled in toward it. 

At about 4 P. M. we estimated that we were twenty 
miles inside the headlands, and having come to an arm 
of a bay trending well to the northward, we hauled the 
schooner sharp on a wind and steered into it; we dis 
covered soon that it was about ten miles deep and thirty 
wide as near as we could judge ; and as we came toward 
the head of the bay we found that we could run into a 
small inner bay of about three miles in area, with evidently 
smooth water and good anchorage. Into this inner bay 
or anchorage we quietly sailed and let go an anchor in 
six fathoms of water, and at a distance of about one mile 
from the shore. 

When the sails were all properly furled, and everything 
put in " ship-shape and Bristol fashion," as the saying is 
amongst sailors, we had tune to look about us ; and the 
motion of the vessel having ceased, and the creaking of 
the masts and cordage, the flapping of the sails, and the 
usual noises of the sea, having come to an end, we were 
struck with the awful and sublime solitude of our sur 
roundings. By this time the moon had risen, and by its 
light we saw the shadowy shapes of monstrous cliffs and 
miniature headlands covered with tangled forests of a 



AT ANCHOR IN MAGELLAN STRAITS. 11 

species of pine, mirrored in the little bay in which we 
hung at anchor ; but not one sound of life, no lights on 
shore, no cry of bird or beast, but the depressing, awful 
solitude of an unknown land ; no noise except the grace 
ful rise of the " Good Luck " to the miniature waves of the 
bay as she lay at anchor with twenty fathoms of chain 
out. We all spoke in whispers, so awe-striking was the 
scenery, and when we set the anchor watch and turned in 
it was unanimously conceded that we had little to fear in 
landing on the morrow either from natives or wild beasts. 
Glad enough were we, after our long fight with the 
stormy ocean, to turn into our berths. It was chilly, 
although now past the middle of October, yet we saw no 
snow upon the ground, and the air had the smell of spring 
and verdure. This was easily accounted for when we 
remembered that in reality we were in the latter part 
of April as to seasons, and that we were no further south, 
than Great Britain is north, as concerns latitude. No 
doubt, also, the climate was favorably affected by this 
great arm of salt water penetrating the land. At any 
rate we had nothing to complain of on the score of ice 
and snow, which we should have found in plenty had we 
arrived a month or two earlier. Our captain had some 
very good traits, and was very systematic. For instance, 
he said that he would never allow a boat to leave the 
vessel to visit the shore, to be gone even an hour, without 
being properly rationed, and with flint, steel, and tinder, 
and also two large tin canisters filled with garden seeds. 



12 PBESBVEKANCE ISLAND. 

He had a hobby that it was our duty to plant seeds in all 
of the out-of-the-way places that we visited, for the good 
of those who might come after us. Carrying out these 
ideas, he had had our whaleboat on deck whilst we 
were running by the land righted and filled with the 
above-named articles, ready for use in the morning ; that 
Is to say, he had ordered to be put on board of her cooked 
rations for six days for four men, two breakers of fresh 
water, one bag of hard tack, a compass, two large tin 
canisters with water-tight screw-heads, filled with peas, 
beans, cucumber seeds, one hatchet, one knife, and a spare 
coil of rope. 

The next morning, when we arose, there was a general 
desire to land upon the unknown coast, and we bethought 
ourselves of the plan of drawing lots to see who should 
stay on board and who go ashore, as the vessel would 
need the care of at least three hands, leaving four of us 
to go in the boat. Lots were drawn, and the privilege 
of going in the boat fell upon Captain Davis, two of the 
sailors, and myself. I was overjoyed at the opportunity 
of exploring this new world. Captain Davis told us to 
arm ourselves well with rifles and revolvers, and to be in 
readiness to start after breakfast, sharp. 

No pleasanter party ever shoved off from a vessel's side 
than we on that pleasant October morning. We soon 
reached the shore, and, pulling up the boat upon the beach, 
were soon roaming here and there, stretching our legs 
and enjoying the novelty of our position. It was evident 



SEABCHING FOB WATER. 13 

that the place was a complete solitude, and we doubted 
if any civilized persons had ever visited the shores of the 
bay before. 

We wanted most of all things a supply of fresh water, 
and to this end we wandered somewhat apart and towards 
the upper part of the bay, concealed by over jetting cliffs, 
to see if there was not some stream or river flowing into 
it. After a little we heard a cry of delight from a com 
rade in advance, and hastening toward him found that 
after turning a short and abrupt point of rocks, a river of 
some considerable width lay before our eyes, evidently 
navigable with a small boat for some miles, but, as far as 
the eye could extend, no sign of any habitation. We ran 
gayly back to the boat, launched her, and soon pulled 
round the overhanging cliff that had concealed the pres 
ence of the river from us. 

I should judge that we had pulled some five or six 
miles when we began to get hungry, and thought by the 
sun that it was about noon, and that we would land and 
eat our dinner. Up to this time we had found no side 
brook or spring entering the main river, and each turn 
was so enticing that we kept on passing bend after bend. 

We landed upon a nice sandy beach, and soon had a 
pot boiling, and some clams, of which there were vast 
quantities in the sand, cooking upon hot stones. We 
made a capital meal, and after a good smoke took our 
oars again and went on up the river. Shall I ever forget 
the ending of that pleasant day ? As we were chatting 



14 PEKSEVEBANCE ISLAND. 

and passing a bend, and opening a new reach, in one 
moment of time our ears were filled with awful shrieks 
and shouts, and we had become the centre of a perfect 
shower of missiles from the cliff underneath the base of 
which we had just passed. 

Our first instinct was to drop our oars and grasp the 
firearms, and a dropping, irregular fire into the bushes at 
the foot of the bend and towards the higher cliff towering 
above us brought to a sudden cessation the shower of 
stones with which we had been assailed, and with wild 
cries of fear, pain, and awe these untutored savages fled 
into the dense forest behind them. 

I was amazed at the ease with which we had repelled 
them, until I bethought me that probably our firearms 
were the first they had ever heard. I wondered why we 
had not fired more, and quicker, and turning my eyes 
from their disappearing bodies, I saw, with horror, the 
cause. Captain Davis lay in the stern sheets of the boat 
with a large stone across both legs, dropped evidently 
from the cliff, which was some twenty or thirty feet above 
us, upon them. He had fainted away, or else was dead 
from some other wound, for he did not offer to stir or 
remove the stone. I glanced towards my other two 
comrades, and found, upon examination, one with a seri 
ous fracture of the left arm, which, however, did not pre 
vent his holding on to his revolver in a most determined 
manner, and the other with only a few slight bruises. 
I beckoned him to come aft and help lift the stone 



ESCAPE FROM THE SAVAGES. 15 

off the captain's legs, we did so, and threw water in his 
face to revive him We dared not imagine how bad his 
injuries were, and left him lying as we found him, after 
throwing overboard the stone, which undoubtedly would 
have gone through the bottom of the boat and sunk us, 
if it had not encountered the legs of the captain in its 
descent. As for our other comrade, we bound up his arm 
as best we could. I felt dizzy and weak, but did not sus 
pect any serious injury. All that I have written was 
performed quickly, as sailors always act in an emergency. 
Bill Thompson and I soon got the boat's head pointed 
down stream, and the way we pulled for the ship was a 
sight to behold; pausing once in awhile to lift a hand 
and explode a revolver to keep the savages from attack 
ing us again ; but they had evidently had enough of it, 
for we saw no signs of them, and after a long and arduous 
pull we came to the ship's side, and sad was the news 
that we had for our comrades. We slung the boat and 
hoisted her on board, and I ordered the anchor to be 
weighed at once, and we set sail from this treacherous 
bay. It was found upon examination that one of the cap 
tain's legs was broken, evidently a compound fracture, 
and the other much bruised and inflamed. He was car 
ried with care and affection to his stateroom, and I took 
charge of the deck. The sailor's arm was found to be a 
simple fracture, and we soon had it in splints and himself 
in his berth. After the schooner was fairly under way 
and heading out of the bay, I went below to my state- 



16 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

room, and found that I had received several severe blows, 
but none that had drawn blood, except in the back of my 
head, where I found the hair under my cap bloody and 
matted together. This it was that had made me dizzy, 
although my excitement had been so great that I could 
not fix where the pain was till all was over. I washed 
myself, and went on deck again, to remain there during 
the night and run the schooner out into the open sea. 
What thoughts passed through my brain as the little 
vessel gallantly slipped along by the land, towards the 
ocean ! what in the world were we to do should Cap 
tain Davis die, and where were we to recruit, for dur 
ing the long watches of that night it was agreed that 
we had become too short handed to prosecute our enter 
prise, and that the best thing that we could do would be 
to make our way back to England and start afresh ; but 
after a long consultation, it was acknowledged that we 
were in no condition to face Cape Horn, and that we 
must get somewhere to recruit before we dare attempt 
the passage home. The captain, who had his senses per 
fectly, although suffering bodily pain, said " that we must 
make one of the easterly of the Society Islands before 
attempting to go home, and there recruit ourselves, over 
haul the vessel, and by that time he should know what he 
was to expect of his own health, but feared that his in 
juries were beyond mortal aid." Towards morning the 
open sea appeared ahead, and at about eight bells, we 
issued from the mouth of Magellan Straits, and I laid the 



BOUND TO EASTER ISLAND. 17 

course of the schooner northwest, so as to hit Easter 
Island, or some of the islands further to the westward 
should the wind haul. At two bells in the forenoon we 
were bowling along on our course with everything set, 
and a fine working breeze from north-northeast, and a 
smooth sea. Of course we talked over the disastrous 
trip of the day before, and, as in all such cases, wondered 
why we did not do so and so, and why we were not more 
careful, etc., but to what good. The deed was done: 
our comrade with his broken arm, and our captain with 
his broken leg, were mute reminders of our folly and 
carelessness. My greatest fear at this time was that we 
should lose the captain, and that his duties would devolve 
upon me. He seemed throughout this day slightly better, 
but upon examination we found that we could not set his 
leg as we had the sailor's arm, and that, although he com 
plained of little pain, his leg had a puffed and swollen ap 
pearance, and I feared the worst. I was somewhat in favor 
of changing the course and making a port on the South 
American coast; but the captain would not hear of it. 
He said " you can at least get to the Society Islands and 
land your cargo in some port under some flag where it 
will be safely kept till you return to England for a new 
crew. " I shall not get well any sooner, if at all, on the 
South American coast than I shall in the Society Islands. 
We are bound by honor to push the adventure to its 
legitimate end, or as near it as possible." This and many 
other convincing things were uttered by him. "If my 



18 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

leg should have been amputated it should have been done 
before this; and it will be too late to do anything at 
Santiago as well as at Easter Island. You can still do a 
great deal towards making the adventure a success ; per 
haps you can even get volunteers enough in the islands to 
fill up your ranks, so as not to have to go back to England 
till you have your headquarters established and a cargo 
ready to ship back." And thus this sick and dying man 
cheered us on. 

The end of the day found us with a still fresh working 
breeze headed for Easter Island. 



CHAPTER HI. 

Captain Darls's condition. Only fly men fit for duty. Terrific storm. 
The schooner thrown on her beam ends and dismasted. Loss of three more 
of the crew. Taking to the whale-boat. Foundering of the schooner " Good 
Luck." Death of Captain Daris. Storm again, running to the southward 
before the tempest. Strike upon a reef. The author cast on shore. 

THE next fifteen or twenty days passed over us without 
anything material interfering with our advancement to 
wards the islands. 

During this time the change in the condition of Captain 
Davis had become worse ; and we could all see that he was 
failing surely but rapidly ; the sailor with the broken arm, on 
the other hand, was everyday gaining strength and health, 
and bid fair to be soon amongst us again and at work. 
Bill Thompson and myself had fully recovered from the 
bruises and blows that we had received, and were in ex 
cellent health. 

The duty at this time was rather exhaustive, as there 
were only five of us, including myself, fit for duty, and 
our turn at the wheel came about pretty often, as we, 
being so short-handed, had each to take our "trick." 
Our vessel was small, to be sure, and easily handled, but 
reduced, as we were, to five men, it was no boy's play to 
manage her. 

19 



20 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

In the first place, it needed a man at the helm night and 
day ; then there was the cooking to be taken charge of ; 
and at night the lookout man on the forecastle ; these were 
three imperative duties which admitted of no change or 
neglect, and, divided amongst five persons, and including 
the watches at night, gave us plenty to do and to think of. 

On November 5 we went about our usual duties in the 
morning, washing down the decks, and making everything 
snug and cleanly, as seamen like to see things. At noon 
I was able to get a good observation of the sun, which 
gave us lat. 40 39' 12" S., and longitude by two forenoon 
observations by chronometer, 112 5' 54" W. from Green 
wich. The wind had for the last two weeks steadily 
hauled ahead, and we had been close-hauled and often un 
able to lay our course, hence I found the schooner much 
too far to the southward, but with her longitude well run 
down, and it was my purpose to decrease our latitude, 
even if we had to stand on the other tack to the north 
ward and eastward. We were about fifteen hundred miles 
to the westward of the Straits of Magellan, which was 
not a bad run for a small vessel of the size of the " Good 
Luck ; " especially when it was to be remembered that we 
had also made several degrees (about ten) of northing, in 
latitude. 

The afternoon shut down cloudy and threatening, and 
I hastened to the cabin to consult the barometer ; I found 
no great change, but marked it with the side regulator, so 
as to be able to see if there was any sudden change within 



PEEPAEING FOE THE STOEM. 21 

the next hour or two. At about eight bells (4 p. M.) the 
wind shifted suddenly to about N. N. W., and then died 
away and left us bobbing about in a heavy cross-sea, with 
dark, dirty weather to the northward and westward, but 
with little or no wind. 

I examined the barometer again, and to my dismay saw 
that the mercury had fallen rapidly since my last visit. 
Everything about us showed that we were about to catch 
it, and although I knew that we were out of the track of 
typhoons and cyclones, still we were evidently about to 
experience a heavy gale of wind ; the admonitions of na 
ture were too evident and palpable to be misunderstood. 
I called all hands, and we went to work with a will to put 
the schooner in order for the coming blast. 

We soon had the foretopsail lowered on the cap, close 
reefed, and then furled to the yard. We then took two 
reefs in the mainsail, and reefed and then stowed the fore 
sail ; got the bonnet off the jib, and the outer jib furled. 
Under this short sail we awaited the coming of the inevi 
table. First, the day grew darker, and was overcast with 
clouds of inky blackness ; then came the mysterious sob 
bing and moaning of the ocean that all sailors have expe 
rienced ; then the jerky and uneven motion of the schooner 
on the heavy swells for want of enough wind to keep her 
canvas full and herself steady. 

Finally, towards evening, the pent-up storm came madly 
down upon us from the N. N. W., where it had been so 
long gathering its strength and forces. We laid the 



22 PERSEVERANCE ISLAN1X 

schooner's head to the westward and awaited the blast. 
Oh ! if we only could have had wind enough to have got 
ten steerage-way upon her, so as to have luffed up into 
the howling blast, I might have been spared writing this 
narrative ; but lying, as we were, almost dead upon the 
waste of water, we were compelled to receive the blast in 
all its strength, not being able to yield an atom to it. We 
had done all that men could do, except to await the result 
and trust in the mercy of God. I do not think that there 
was very much fear as to the result ; there was a certain 
anxiety, however ; but sailors never believe that wind or 
sea can hurt them till it does so. We expected to be 
struck hard, and to suffer some damage ; but I think no 
one*~n board of that schooner had the slightest idea of the 
shock that we were about to receive. As the storm, or 
rather advance whirlwind, approached, we took our differ 
ent stations and awaited the result. It came upon us with 
a crash, and in spite of all our care and skill the foretop- 
mast went over the side, followed by the jibboom and 
maintopmast, as if the whole fabric had been made of 
paper, and the schooner was thrown violently upon her 
beam-ends. We lowered away the mainsail halyards, and, 
by cutting away the wreck to leeward, finally got her 
head before the wind, when she righted, and we dashed 
off before the tempest with nothing set but the jib, the 
mainsail having blown out of the bolt-ropes. Black night 
shut down upon us like a pall, and sheets of rain and spray 
fell upon us in torrents ; thunder and lightning played about 



ETTNNING BEFORE THE GALE. 23 

us, lighting up the decks one moment as bright as noon 
day, and the next leaving us in the most intense dark 
ness, with a feeling about the eyes as if they had been 
burned up in their sockets. After the " Good Luck " once 
got started she did pretty well, scudding before it, but the 
forward sail was too small for the tremendous sea getting 
up astern of us ; and we were in deadly peril of being 
pooped, and feared it each moment. We could set no 
square sail, everything forward above the foretop having 
been carried away ; and we had no means of hoisting the 
foresail, even if we had dared to set it, as the peak-halyards 
had been carried away with the fall of the topmast, and 
we could not repair them ; so all we could do was to fas 
ten down the companion-way and trust to luck in foxing 
her run before it under the jib. I thought that I had 
seen it blow before, but such a gale as this I never expe 
rienced ; the voice of the tempest howled so through the 
rigging that you could not hear the faintest sound of the 
human voice in its loudest tones. I stood at the wheel, 
after helping to cut away the wreck, aiding the man at 
the helm through that long and awful night. We lashed 
ourselves to the rail and rudder-head ; and well was it that 
we did so, for we were repeatedly pooped, and large masses 
of water came in over the stern, and rushed forward over 
the decks, that would have carried us to a watery grave 
if we had not been lashed to our post. My comrade Bill 
Thompson and I had no means of knowing whether the 
others forward had fared as well as we, or had been swept 
overboard by the repeated invasions of the sea. 

(370) ' C 



24 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Before we had been able to cut clear from the wreck we 
had received several severe blows from the timbers along 
side, how severe I had no means of judging as yet, but 
my great fear was that we had started a butt or been seri 
ously injured by these floating spars before we had been 
able to get rid of them. 

About two bells (1 A. M.) as near as we could judge, 
the thunder and lightning ceased ; and the puffs of wind 
were less and less violent, so that it was easy for us to 
feel confident that the strength of the gale had passed 
us. At eight bells (4 A. M.) there was a great difference 
both in the sea and wind ; the former was no longer to 
be feared, and the latter was fast dying out. With 
what anxiety did we watch for the first light of day, 
hours of agony unknown to those who have never led a 
sailor's life. As the gray of the morning began to come 
upon us, both wind and sea abated more and more, till 
in the full light of the morning we lay a dismantled 
wreck upon the waste of waters, with scarcely wind 
enough for a fair topsail breeze, and the seas momentarily 
going down. 

My first care was to rush into the cabin, and to the 
locker, and pounce upon some food, and my next to carry 
some to my companion at the wheel. After this I looked 
around me to take in our situation. The foremast was 
gone near the head, the foreyard had evidently parted in 
the slings, and the foretopmast, topsail, and hamper, all 
gone together over the port bow. 



EFFECTS OF THE STORM. 25 

Bill Thompson and I both strained our eyes for a view 
of some of our companions forward, but not a living soul 
met our gaze. I descended into the cabin, and found 
the captain and the sailor with the wounded arm doing as 
well as could be supposed after such a night of horrors. 
Captain Davis was evidently much weaker and much 
worse. I gave them an outline of the misfortunes that 
had overtaken us, and then went forward with a beating 
heart to the companion-way, threw it open, and passed 
into the forecastle and found it empty ; not one soul left 
of three gallant fellows to tell the story of their swift 
destruction. The repeated poopings that we had received 
during the night must have swept them into the sea. I 
passed on deck, and thence aft. I noticed that the cook's 
galley was gone, and the bulwarks on the starboard side, 
and all the boats, except our whaleboat, which, although 
full of water, still remained pinned down to the deck by the 
lashings across her frame to the numerous ringbolts. As I 
walked aft, I could not but think that the schooner seemed 
low in the water ; but I for the moment put it down to 
her changed appearance on account of the loss of her bul 
warks. By this time the sun had risen and as beautiful 
and mild a day as one might desire to see burst upon us. 
I relieved Thompson at the wheel, and the wounded sailor 
soon took it with his one arm ; the vessel scarcely moving 
through the water with the light air now stirring. I went 
below for the sounding-rod, and hastened to the well, as 
I knew we must have made much water during the storm, 



26 PEESEVERANCB ISLAND* 

and I prayed to God that it might be no worse. I pulled 
out the pump-bucket and inserted the rod, it came back 
to the deck, marking at least FIVE FEET of water in the 
hold. I struggled one moment with my emotion, and 
then, turning to my companions, I said, "Get Captain 
Davis on deck ; clear away the whaleboat ; this vessel, 
curse her, is doomed. She will not float one hour ; she 
has started a butt." 

Amazement was depicted upon the faces of my com 
panions ; but, sailor-like, they hastened to obey my com 
mands. We went into the cabin, and with infinite care 
and solicitude lifted the captain out of his berth and car 
ried him to the deck. We then gathered round the whale- 
boat, relieved her from her slings and fastenings, tipped 
her over upon the deck, and got out all the water, and 
righted her, and then launched her over the starboard side 
through the broken bulwarks, and, putting her in charge 
of the broken-armed sailor, let her drop astern by her 
painter. We commenced at once rummaging for stores ; 
and out of a mass of stuff brought on deck I ordered 
the following into the boat (the spritsail and oars were 
already lashed to the thwarts): Two half casks of fresh 
water, one bag of hard tack, one bag of uncooked salt 
junk, a fishing-line and hooks, a pair of blankets, some 
canned meats, a compass, charts and quadrant, a Nautical 
Almanac, Bowditch's Epitome, and a very valuable book 
of my own, a Compendium of Useful Arts and Sciences, 
a few pounds of tea and coffee, four tin canisters contain- 



THE "GOOD LUCK" ABANDONED. 27 

ing garden-seed, matches, two rifles and four revolvers, 
and ammunition for the same ; this, with the usual cloth 
ing of the men, was as much as I dared load the boat with ; 
and, pulling her up alongside, we lowered the captain on 
board on a mattress, and proceeded to stow away the 
articles I have enumerated in as good order as possible. 
We stepped the spritsail forward and unlashed the oars, 
and got the steering oar out aft through the becket made 
for that purpose. I feasted my eyes upon the treasures 
round about me, but had sense enough not to allow the 
boat to be overloaded with trash, so as to swamp us in 
the first gale of wind. Having got everything on board, 
and carefully noted the day of the month, November 6th, 
in the Nautical Almanac, we cast off from the unlucky 
*' Good Luck," and set our sail to keep near her till her 
final destruction took place, which to our practised eyes 
could not long be postponed, as she was evidently hi the 
throes of death. "We found that she was making so little 
headway on account of the light breeze, and from having 
^settled so deep in the water, that we took in our sail and 
lay to upon our oars at a safe distance and watched her. 

Could anything be more miserable than our condition ? 
Four unfortunate men, two of whom were crippled, one 
probably to the death, cast on the open ocean in an open 
boat, at least a thousand miles from any known land. 

I thought of all the open-boat exposures of which I had 
ever read; of Lieutenant Bligh and the "Bounty," and 
others equally startling. I shuddered when I thought 






28 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

what our fate might be. I ran through, in my mind, the 
rapid events that had followed each other Since c-u? 
departure from England, and the unexplainable series 
of fatalities that had robbed us of our comrades till we 
remained only the little group now seated in this frail boat. 
In what direction should we steer ? what was to be our 
fate ? what had God still in store for us in the shape of 
misfortune and horror? It seemed as if the bitter cup 
had been full to overflowing, and that we had drained 
it to the very dregs. I was awaked from my day-dream 
by the voices of my comrades, who drew my attention, 
without speech, by pointing to the doomed vessel. We 
lifted Captain Davis in our arms, and with fixed eyes and 
eet teeth saw the misnamed schooner drive her bows 
under the water, and then shortly after, majestically rais 
ing her forefoot high in air, sink down grandly into the 
abyss of ocean, leaving us poor unfortunates adrift upon 
its treacherous bosom. 

After we had seen the last of the schooner we gathered 
together for consultation as to our course. It was demon 
strated by the chart that we were much nearer to Easter 
Island than to any other land, say some eight hundred 
miles distant by projection. But, on the other hand, 
the wind hung persistently from the northward and 
placed us to leeward of our port. It was too far to think 
of standing back to the South American coast, and we 
felt that we must keep a northwesterly course, and if the 
wind headed us off from Easter Island, that we could 



AT SEA IN AN OPEN BOAT. 29 

at least fetch some of the more westerly of the Society 
Group. 

Having decided upon this, we set our foresail and laid 
our course about W. by N., which was as high as the 
wind would allow us to lie. The day was pleasant and 
the wind light, and the sea quiet. I inaugurated at once 
a system of daily allowance, and for this first day we were 
to issue no rations, we all having had at least, although 
coarse and interrupted, one meal and plenty of water, be 
fore leaving the schooner. The days were growing per 
ceptibly longer and warmer, and we ran all that after 
noon quietly along over quite a smooth sea, making good 
headway to the westward, but little northing, which I 
was so anxious to make. As the sun went down Captain 
Davis, although very weak, called us all aft around him 
and, in a faint voice on the lonely ocean, from memory re 
peated for us all the Lord's Prayer ; the loneliness of our 
situation and the solemnity of the occasion remain vividly 
in my mind to this day. We all saw that we must soon 
lose our captain, but no one dared to say as much to hia 
neighbor ; we could plainly see that his hours were few, 
and that the motion and exposure of the boat could not 
be endured by him much longer. After the sun went 
down I took the steering oar aft, and telling the men to 
lie down and get all the rest they could, I kept the boat on 
her course and seated myself near the captain, stretched 
on his mattress at my feet. At about ten o'clock, as near 
as I could judge, after a long and absolute silence, I heard 



30 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Captain Davis utter my name. I bent down towards him, 
and he said, " Do not be shocked. I am soon, very soon, 
about to depart, the sands of life have almost run out, and 
I am weary and want to be at rest in the Haven of Re 
pose. If you ever get back to England, tell them that I 
did my duty faithfully. I, as you know, have no wife or 
child to mourn for me, but I want you all to remember me 
as a just captain, with all my faults. I have no fear of 
being buried in the sea ; God can find me anywhere at the 
great day, when we shall all be mustered on the quarter 
deck for inspection, and, if worthy, promotion. If you 
are driven out of your course, keep to the westward still, 
and you will eventually find land. Say a prayer or two 
over my body when you commit me to the deep ; and now 
wake up the men and let me say good-by to them, for I 
am going fast." I called up the men, and the two poor 
fellows came aft and shook the hand of our captain in sore 
distress ; and we sat watching, unwilling to sleep or break 
the silence of that solemn moment. In about an hour 
Captain Davis opened his eyes, that had been closed, raised 
his arm slowly to his head, touched an imaginary hat, and 
said, " Come on board to report for duty, Sir," and 
passed away like a child dropping to sleep. We covered 
the body with our spare clothing, and each sat in sad 
reflection. Bill Thompson soon after relieved me at 
the oar, and I laid down in the forward part of the boat 
and tried to sleep ; and such was exhausted nature that, 
in spite of our unfortunate condition, I soon dropped off. 



BTTKIAL AT SEA. 81 

I was awakened early in the morning by a slight call 
from Bill, and sat up in the boat, rather bewildered for 
a moment, till I saw the outline of the body in the stern 
sheets, and then everything flashed back to my memory. 
I have little doubt but what that sleep saved me for 
the purposes that God has preserved me for to this 
day. It was thought best to dispose of the body before 
the full breaking of the day, and we for that purpose 
gathered around the remains, and, in compliance with the 
dead man's request, I recited the Lord's Prayer, and we 
committed the body to the deep. This event produced 
a new shock to our already overstrained systems, and 
we looked sadly enough upon each other with almost 
vacant eyes. We as yet were blessed with pleasant 
weather, and, although we were not heading up to our 
course, we were making westing quite fast. This day, 
November 7th, we passed without any remarkable event. 
As there were now only three of us left we found plenty 
of room in the boat to lie down at our ease, and it only 
took one of us to steer and look after the boat. We re 
arranged everything, and stowed all our articles in con 
venient places. So far, we had seen no signs of vessel or 
land, and we passed the day in sleeping and refreshing 
ourselves for whatever the future might have in store for 
us. The night was quiet and the stars shone down upon 
us with their silvery light, and we used them to keep our 
course by, having no light to see the compass in the night 
time. Towards eight o'clock in the morning of the 8th 



32 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the weather began to change, and large clouds to gather 
in the northern horizon ; it was at this time that we made 
another discovery, and that was that one of the breakers 
of water had leaked out quietly till there was scarcely 
enough in it for our rations for that morning ; this was 
caused by its not having been used for some time before 
we filled it on board of the ship. This discovery caused 
us great uneasiness, and although the breaker had evi 
dently ceased leaking now, having swollen with the water 
placed in it, it was no longer useful, as we had no water 
to replace that which was lost. The weather to wind 
ward caused me great disquietude, and I was sadly 
afraid, in case of a blow, that my Nautical Almanac and 
Epitome and Compendium would be destroyed, either by 
rain or seas that we might ship. I bethought me, there 
fore, of copying off the declination of the sun for a few 
days, and the tables that I might want to use, on a spare 
leaf of the Epitome, and take out the head of the now use 
less breaker and enclose all the books and charts in it and 
head it up. This was accordingly done. We started the 
hoops, took out the head, put the books and charts in, 
carefully wrapped up in a piece of blanket, and replaced 
the head and closed up the bung-hole. I felt relieved 
after this, as I looked upon the preservation of my books 
as of the utmost importance in our future navigation, and 
I could think of no greater loss to people in our condition 
than to have them lost or destroyed. It was with infinite 
satisfaction that I saw them thus safely preserved from 



SHORTENING SAIL. 83 

the water till I could again take them out in good weather 
and examine and copy from them. 

Whilst we had been busy at this task the weather to 
windward was fast becoming bad and threatening. I 
dealt out a fair ration of hard tack and canned meat to 
my two comrades, and then ordered them to take the 
sprit out of the foresail, and bring the peak down to 
the foot of the mast, and lash it to the inner leach of 
the sail, and fasten what was before the after leach to 
the foot; so as to make a sort of double leg-of-mutton 
sail, with the body low down and along the boom. We 
labored with a will at our work, for the freshening 
breeze was fast coming down upon us, and at twelve 
o'clock, as I judge, we were plunging along quite well 
for so small a boat, in about half a gale of wind, which 
allowed us to head up as high as N. N. W. The sea, how 
ever, was getting up fast, and I foresaw that unless it 
moderated we should have to bear away and run before 
it. As I feared, we now commenced to take in consid 
erable water, which, although not in dangerous quantities, 
gave us work to do in the shape of bailing with the empty 
meat cans, whilst the attention of one was needed without 
remission at the steering oar and sheet. We were, thank 
God, blessed with that best of seaboats, a Nantucket 
whaleboat ; and although she was low in the water, she 
was also buoyant, and rode the waves better than could be 
expected of any other craft of her size. I felt, too, that 
we could at any time make easy weather of it by scudding 



34 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

or running before the wind, for which she was admirably 
fitted, being sharp at both ends, and therefore in no 
danger of being pooped ; but this was the last thing that 
I desired to do, as it would take us from our course 
towards the islands and far to the southward, as such a 
boat would make rapid way before the wind, with even 
this small sail. 

At about two o'clock the wind hauled more to the 
westward and headed us off to the southward. At three 
o'clock we had broken off to S. W., and the wind increas 
ing, and the sea getting up fast, so fast that I already 
had to let the boat go very free before it, to keep her 
from being swamped. 

At sundown the gale had greatly increased, and I 
found that to preserve us, and on account of the steady 
change of the wind, that I was compelled to steer about 
S. by W., and to allow ourselves to run before the tem 
pest. As the darkness set down upon us like a pall, I 
gave ourselves up as lost. I clung to the steering-oar 
and guided the boat before the wind ; the only clew that 
was given me how to steer was the angry roar of the 
combing billows astern and the rush of the wind by the 
side of my face : by these two senses of hearing and feel 
ing, I was enabled to tell when the boat was about to 
broach to, which would have been destruction, and how 
to steer so as to keep her before the wind. The dark 
ness was the darkness of the ocean in a storm, and 
torrents of rain and spray flew over us. I was unable to 



WRECK OF THE WHALEBOAT. 35 

see an atom of even the sail ahead of me in the boat. 
And thus we plunged on, into the inky darkness, followed 
by the angry roar of the disappointed waves that we left 
astern. We were moving with frightful rapidity through 
the water; but in what direction I had no means of 
knowing. 

I clung to the steering-oar, and my companions to their 
bailers ; how many hours we thus rushed along I know 
not. I had become hardened to the situation, and the 
angry roar astern had become a familiar noise in my ears. 
I commenced to people the darkness with vessels, islands, 
sunlight, and music ; I had long ceased to care what fate 
might have in store for me ; I felt that the night must be 
nearly passed, and wondered whether we should survive 
to see the daylight. I dreamed, and became semi-uncon- 
cious, but still guided the boat onward before the wind. 

I felt that nature could not be sustained much longer, 
and that in a few hours I must succumb. My comrades 
pottered round at my feet, their efforts to bail becoming 
more and more feeble. I was in this reckless, half-dazed 
etate when, without one moment's warning, I was thrown 
with a crash into the forward end of the boat, and in 
another instant surrounded by pieces of the boat and 
floating debris. I found myself hurled rapidly forward 
by an incoming wave, and rolled over and over some 
hard substance; the next instant the retreating wave 
found me clinging to a mass of what was evidently land 
of some kind, and the sea already had a faint, distant 



86 PEESEVEBANCB ISLAITO. 

sound to my ears. The next incoming wave dashed over 
some evident obstacle between me and it, and I clung to 
the object at which I had first clutched, ready to receive 
it. I was buried beneath it, but managed to keep my 
hold, and, as it retreated, the noise again became fainter, 
and it flashed over me that, by the first wave, I had been 
washed over some reef or barrier between the open ocean 
and where I now hung, and that each wave was broken 
by this barrier before reaching me. 

Before the next wave came I had gained my feet, and 
felt that I was standing upon rocky ground, and clutching 
masses of rock-weed in each hand. I was again buried, 
but hung on with desperation till the wave had retired. 
Evidently I had been washed over the reef; but what 
was to leeward of me. By a sailor's instinct I knew that 
it was smooth water, and that I had at least a rocky bar 
rier between me and the raging ocean outside. Every 
wave did not submerge me, but most of them did, and I 
felt that it was only a question of a few moments more 
how long I could hold on before trusting myself to swim 
ming to leeward. O for some knowledge of what lay 
behind me. One flash of lightning, one speck of God's 
blessed daylight ! 

Was there land behind me ? or should I let go my last 
hold upon life when I unclasped my hands from the 
rock-weed that they held to? My brain worked with 
lightning-like rapidity. I knew that I must not hang on 
to this reef, submerged every few moments, till all my 



SAVED. 37 

strength was gone, so that I could not swim; this was 
to seek certain death ; whereas, in letting go and swim 
ming to leeward I had one chance to be saved. If there 
was land, it no doubt could be easily approached on 
account of the sea being stopped by the barrier to which 
I now clung. On the other hand, if the land to which I 
now hung was the only land, and the pitiless sea alone 
to leeward, then God have mercy upon my soul ! I must 
do something. Although used to swimming and diving, I 
could not stand this submersion much longer, and my 
arms were fast giving out ; therefore, when the next wave 
came, I let go my hold, and crying out, in my despair, 
" Oh, help me, Lord! " allowed myself to be carried away 
with it. In a moment I felt that my conjectures about 
smooth water had been correct. I swam without difficulty, 
in comparatively smooth water, encumbered only by my 
clothes. Should I find land before me ? Oh, for light ! 
Hark! did I hear the break of water upon land before me? 
and so near. Down went my feet, and I found myself 
standing in water not up to my armpits. The revulsion 
was terrible. I fell into the water, and scrambling, fight 
ing, fainting, plunged forward till I found myself safe on 
shore and at some distance from the sea, when I dropped 
unconscious on the sand. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Return to consciousness. Seek for my comrades. Commence a calendar, 
and take inventory of my effects. 

How long I lay unconscious where I had scrambled 
and fallen down I shall never know, but when I awoke 
and stared around me, I found that it was broad day 
light, and, by the sun, at least eleven or twelve o'clock 
in the day. I gazed around me and tried to collect my 
thoughts, and the horrors of the preceding night came 
slowly back to my memory. I arose and stretched my 
limbs, and with the exception of some stiffness in my 
joints, and bruises that were not of a serious nature, I found 
myself all right. I fell upon my knees and devoutly 
thanked God for my deliverance, and then arose and 
looked around me. I found myself standing on a smooth, 
sandy beach, which, by the sun, evidently ran nearly, if not 
quite, east and west ; a narrow strip of water not more 
than a short quarter of a mile separated me from the 
reef over which I had evidently been swept the previous 
night. To my right hand, as I stood facing the north, 
ran a level beach of a mile or so in extent, ending in an 
elevation and hills at the extreme end, faced, its entire 
length, as far as I could see, by this natural breakwater 



ALONE ON THE ISLAND. 89 

or reef in front of me. To the left I discerned an open 
ing to the sea about one mile distant ; and beyond, low 
land extending for several miles, and ending in a pro 
montory of some elevation. Turning about, I saw behind 
me, running down almost to the sandy beach, a grove 
of trees, with many of which I was familiar, and wooded 
higher land in the background. 

My nautical knowledge told that there was no known 
land in this part of the world. Where was I ? Where 
were my companions in the boat? Was the island 
inhabited by savages? Had I been saved to become their 
prey ? All these questions rushed through my mind, but 
were unanswerable. I began to feel faint and sick with 
thirst, hunger, and fatigue, and devoured with an unap 
peasable curiosity to know the fate of my comrades ; and 
to this end, I stripped off my clothing and waded into 
the water towards the reef over which I had BO provi 
dentially been cast. I found the water shallow and with 
a pure, sandy bottom, and had only to swim a few rods 
to regain my feet again, and be able to reach the break 
water. With what intense excitement, fierce but re 
strained, I climbed the rocks, and gazed upon the open 
sea, you who have never been cast away, from home, 
kindred, and society can never know. I looked about me 
upon the rocks, and at the treacherous sea, now as smooth 
and smiling as a sleeping infant. In vain did I search 
for any traces of my comrades. 

Not a sign of them was to be seen. Now that the storm 

(370) D 



40 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

had gone down, this breakwater of rocks Btood several 
feet above the sea, irregular in width and height. By 
aligning myself on the place on shore where I had landed, 
and whence I had come, I felt sure that I must be near 
the spot where the boat had struck. I passed a little 
farther to the right, and came upon the scene of my dis 
aster. Upon the rocks I found small portions of the 
boat, broken to atoms not larger than my hand, but 
no friend, no comrade, no living soul to cheer my 
despair. I saw in a very few minutes that if they 
had not been swept over the reef at the very first sea, 
as I had been, they had inevitably been washed back 
again into the ocean, dashed amongst the rocks, and 
sucked in by the undertow, never more to be seen by 
man. A very few moments' examination convinced me 
that such must have been the case. But one single 
chance remained, and that was, if they were swept over 
the reef as I was, if alive, their tracks would show on the 
sand of the shore behind me. I did not have the slight 
est faith in this, but saved it in my mind to be proved 
when I returned to the shore. Striving to put the horror 
of my position far from me, and trying to see if there was 
anything to be saved that could be useful to me in my 
miserable condition, I began to look about me in the 
crevices of the rocks for any small article that might have 
escaped the maw of the ocean. In about an hour's 
search I had gathered the following together, which was 
every atom that seemed to remain of the boat and her 



FLOTSAM AND JETSAM. 41 

appurtenances, the remainder had evidently been 
ground into powder against the rocks, and hurled back 
with the retiring waves into the insatiable ocean: One 
piece of boat-planking, about nine feet long and ten inches 
wide, which I preserved on account of its containing 
several nails which had bolted it to the keelson ; one tin 
meat-can that we had used as a bailer, somewhat bent, 
which I found securely jammed in a crevice of the rock; 
one canister of preserved meat, thrown by the sea into 
a sort of natural cavity or pocket in the rocks; and 
last, the most important of all, the boat's anchor and 
rope cable, which had washed across the reef and hung 
with the end in the quiet waters of the inner bay. I 
grasped it and coiled it up, following it to the outer 
side of the reef, whence I pulled up the anchor, and 
found myself in possession of it and some twenty fathoms 
of good inch-and-three-quarter manilla rope. This con 
stituted all my earthly fortunes, and, placing the anchor 
and rope and the empty meat canister and the full one 
upon the piece of boat-planking, which just barely sup 
ported them when submerged in the water, I thrust 
them carefully before me towards the other shore, and, 
getting too deep to wade, I guided them with one hand 
and pushed them before me till, again touching bottom 
with my feet, I soon had them on land, safe and sound, 
at the place where I had first landed, and beyond the 
reach of the sea. 

As soon as these were secured, I started off to the left 



42 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

to examine the pure white sand to see if any human foot 
had come on shore but my own; but, alas, there wag 
no sign. Turning, when I had reached a distance beyond 
which it would have been useless to look, I came back and 
made a similar exploration to the right. As I advanced I 
saw something black rolling quietly up and down the 
beach with each miniature wave. For one instant I mistook 
it for the body of one of my comrades ; the next I knew it 
for one of the breakers that had been in the boat. I 
rushed into the sea and grasped it, its light weight told 
me at once that it was the one containing my charts, 
books, Epitome, and Nautical Almanac, that its very light 
ness had preserved it and allowed it to be cast over the 
reef at the very first sea, instead of being crushed, as the 
one full of water evidently had been, with the boat. 
With gratitude to God for even this slight mercy and 
solace, I dragged the cask well towards the land and 
beyond all danger of the sea. 

Having made sure that there was nothing else to be 
saved, I came back to my first landing-place, sat down 
fainter than ever, but managed to get on my clothes, and 
with one of the rusty nails from the boat's plank to 
scratch upon a large stone near by, "November 9, 1865," 
after which I forced open the top of the canister of pre 
served meats, by means of the same nail and a small 
pebble, taking care not to cut the whole top quite out, but 
to leave it hanging by a kind of hinge. By punching hole 
after hole around the periphery of the canister with the 



INVENTORY OF SALVAGE. 43 

point of the nail, close together, I soon had it off except 
in one portion purposely preserved. Pressing this cover 
back, I took a draught of what to me, in my state, might 
be called nectar, for it was both food and water, but 
which was in reality simply beef soup. 

After this refreshing draught, I lay myself down upon 
the bank and gave myself up to meditation. After re 
clining upon the ground about half an hour, my eyes 
became fixed upon an object slowly approaching me from 
the right hand, and evidently going out of the narrow 
inlet in front of me with the tide, which was then at ebb. 
I rubbed my eyes, and thought I recognized an article 
belonging to the boat. I took off my clothes again and 
entered the water, and soon had hold of one of the large 
red powder-canisters, which had been filled with seeds 
and stored in the boat when we entered Magellan Straits. 
I eagerly seized upon my prize and brought it safely to 
shore, and found that it had been preserved perfectly 
water-tight by the screw in the top, through which hole 
the seeds had been dropped into it and then closed. I 
carried this canister to my former seat and sat myself 
down with all my worldly goods about me. I made 
mentally the following inventory of effects : 

On my person I had the following : I had lost my hat 
in the gale, and the remainder of my clothing consisted of 
one pair of coarse shoes, one pair of woollen stockings, one 
pair of flannel drawers, one pair of cheap woollen trousers, 
one flannel undershirt, one blue flannel shirt, one silk neck- 



44 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

tie. On the ground before me : one empty tin canister 
that we had used as a bailer, one empty tin canister that 
had lately contained the beef soup, one large tin canister, 
filled with garden seeds, one anchor of about forty pounds 
weight, and twenty fathoms of line, one piece of boat- 
planking with several nails, and the empty breakers, con 
taining, as I knew by memory, one Bowditch's Epitome, 
one Nautical Almanac, one large book, entitled, " Com 
pendium of Useful Arts and Sciences," and one chart of 
the South Pacific Ocean. In the pocket of my trousers I 
found one piece of plug tobacco, a small piece of twine, a 
hair comb, and clay pipe. My knife, for which I would 
have given so much, had either been laid down in the 
boat or since lost ; it was, at any rate, gone, and I mourned 
for it. 

My various duties in collecting these things about me ; 
my former fatigue and depression, aided by the food I 
had swallowed, soon brought me to a state of drowsiness ; 
and as the sun was now fast declining, I drew myself fur 
ther upon the island and under a sort of cedar-tree, the 
thick and low boughs of which formed a covering for 
my body from the dews, and gathering my household 
goods about me, I, after meekly resigning myself to my 
fate and commending myself to God, lay quietly down 
and fell to sleep with the setting sun. 



CHAPTER V. 

Attempt to make a fire. Distil salt water. First meal. Reflections. 
Hat-making. Repose. 

I SLEPT all night soundly in spite of the cool air and 
the novelty of my situation. When I awoke, the sun was 
about two hours high, and I came out from under my 
cedar-tree feeling quite refreshed, with the exception of 
an intolerable thirst. The want of water had troubled 
me on the preceding day, and it flashed across my mind, 
What shall I do if I find no fresh water? what shall I do if 
I find no fresh water? and this refrain kept now running 
through my head, accompanied with another tune, What 
will you do for fire? what will you do for fire? These 
two melodies filled my ears without cessation. I arose 
from my seat on the bank, and proceeded to the sea in 
front of me, and washed my face and combed out my hair. 
I then fell upon my knees and invoked the assistance of 
Divine Providence in my distress. Having ended these 
duties I began to look about me for water, water. 

Should I start off at a venture and run the chance of 
finding water, failing in which I should perish, or should 
I at once begin to work with the brains that God had 
given me, to procure in a scientific manner that which 

46 



46 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Nature had refused ? If, thought I, I Btart off and use up 
all my strength in a vain search, I can then but lay down 
and die ; whilst on the other hand, by commencing now 
whilst I am comparatively fresh, to try and overcome this 
obstacle, I have two chances of life : for, failing here, I 
can as a last resort push forward into the island till I find 
water or lie down and die for want of it. Having thus 
firmly made up my mind, I began to think. To procure 
water I must first make fire. How should I do it ? 
Matches I had none ; flint, steel, or tinder I was without, 
and no means of procuring them. I must find steel, flint, 
and tinder, but where? how? My eyes fell upon the 
anchor, and that gave me an idea, but I knew that the 
iron of which it was composed was too soft and rusty to 
be of use for my purpose. I bethought me of the nails in 
the planking, but upon examination they also were too 
soft. 

An inspiration struck me. I drew off one of my shoes, 
and by means of one of the larger nails and a pebble soon 
had one of the heels off, displaying a row of nails that I 
hoped were hard enough for my purpose. I pounded one 
of the most likely looking ones out of the leather, and 
found it quite hard and polished. I ran towards the line 
of pebbles that the sea had for ages cast up, and looked 
for a flinty stone to strike my nail upon. I tried several, 
but could get no spark. I began to despair. I had in 
boyhood thrown large stones together in the night time 
on purpose to see the sparks fly, but I was well aware that, 



OBTAINING FIRE. 47 

obtained in this manner, they would be too weak to ignite 
any tinder, and my only salvation was in my shoe nail and 
a flint, or at least a flinty stone. I sought and sought, 
and tried and tried, without the slightest success. The 
sweat began to drop from my brow in great beads of 
excitement ; finally I edged more towards the upper part 
of the beach and towards a small cluster of rocks further 
inland, whose base was also surrounded by small pebbles. 
I had almost given up hope, when, pushing the pebbles 
to one side, I turned up to the light one of a dirty yellow 
color that I was convinced was a veritable piece of flint. 
I seized upon it and wiped it upon my clothes, for it waa 
damp, and felt convinced that it was genuine flint. I had 
to lay it in the sun to dry before I could prove it, and you 
can little know the agony that I endured in that short 
interval. At last the flint was dry, and, taking it in my 
hand, I struck it against the nail. Eureka 1 Eureka ! A 
faint but perfect spark shone for an instant in the open 
air. I rushed back with my prize to my cedar-tree, and 
placing the nail and flint where I could easily find them, 
I plunged into the grove to look for tinder. I took within 
half an hour a hundred different substances in my hand 
to examine them and see if they would serve my purpose. 
"Walking on, I came to a little open field with a short, sour 
grass, and it was here that I hoped to find my prize. Do 
you ask what I was looking for ? I was looking for one 
of those dried-up balls, that, as boys, we used to burst 
open and see the dust fly, that we called nigger-balls. 



48 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Moving along I came upon a plant that is sometimes used 
to make pickles of, and I knew that the pod contained a 
soft silky substance something like cotton. I seized upon 
this and pulled off an old last year's pod, and found the 
substance I was in search of. I did not know whether it 
would do for tinder or not, but I hoped so. I ran about 
the field looking to the right and the left, and as I was 
about to give the search up, right under my nose I espied 
a large nigger-ball. I fastened upon it and posted back 
to my bank near the cedar-tree. The time for the final 
test had come. Now to the supreme trial. 

I burst open the nigger-ball and extracted a small quan 
tity of the dark, dust-like powder that it contained, and 
laid it carefully upon a small, smooth stone. I then ex 
tracted some of the cotton-like fibre from my milkweed 
pod, and picked it carefully apart into minute atoms with 
my fingers, and mixed it into the dust before me on the 
stone. I gathered together minute dry twigs and leaves 
all ready to place upon the tinder should I be able to 
ignite it. I leaned over my tinder, and with the shoe 
nail grasped carefully and firmly in the left hand I placed 
it near to it, and with the right hand containing the flint 
struck it a smart blow. The first spark missed the tinder 
entirely. I moved my hand slightly, and the next stroke 
sent a fine spark into the very centre of the pile, and in 
one moment it was ignited, and a little snake of fire began 
to run in and out of the tinder. I blew carefully upon 
this and put little pieces of wood in the right places, 



DISTILLING WATER. 49 

petted and worked upon it until, with a careful but in 
creasing blast, it burst into flame. I piled on wood and 
sticks till I felt sure of the result, and then commenced 
dancing and singing round about the flame, till in my 
weakness and excitement I fell down in a dead faint. I 
opened my eyes again to see my fire burning cheerily 
away as if it was the most natural thing in the world. 

Now for water ! water 1 I seized upon the canister of 
garden seeds, which was an old powder canister formerly, 
and would contain, I should say, a gallon of water, and 
poured out the seeds through the screw hole in the top 
upon a large flat stone, and covered them with a few leaves. 
Weak as I then was, I recognized beans, wheat, rice, 
corn, cucumbers, &c. I took the empty canister to the 
sea and washed it carefully out and brought it back filled 
with salt water, and placed it upon my fire, which was 
now burning splendidly. I rushed again to the seashore 
and picked up several long pieces of kelp, which we boys 
used to call devil's apron, and which I knew were long, 
hollow tubes that would suit my purpose admirably. 
With the small twine in my pocket, and a piece of my 
flannel shirt and various leaves, I bound one of these long 
tubes of kelp to the screw hole of the canister en the 
fire, and supported it clear of the flames by means of 
crotched sticks, which I tore from trees near by, and 
also built a wall round about the fire, to confine it more, 
made out of stones, upon which I rested the opposite edges 
of the canister. I led this tube of kelp, which was at 



50 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

least ten feet long, gradually down hill towards the ocean, 
and, digging a long furrow in the sand, I filled it with wet 
kelp and seaweed, placed my tube therein, and covered it 
up again with sand ; at the orifice I dug quite a deep hole, 
and set one of the empty meat-cans under it to catch the 
dropping water that I knew must appear as soon as my 
powder canister commenced to boil. I took the bailer and 
rushed to the ocean, and saturated, by repeated trips, the 
sand under which my tube was buried. By this time my 
thirst was fearful, and having heard that bathing is some 
times useful in such circumstances, I dragged off my 
clothes, and, too weak to swim, I lay down in the cool 
water at full length upon the sandy bottom, within view 
of my fire and condenser. Anxious as I was, I knew that 
I must sustain my strength, and I could think of no better 
method than this. The cool sea water revived me greatly, 
more than I could have believed possible, and, fearing to 
stay in too long, I tottered ashore and to my little well. 
Water ! water ! There it was dribbling out of the tube of 
kelp into the meat-can already an inch or two had col 
lected. Although tasting badly of the salt kelp tube 
through which it had passed, you can little know the rap 
ture with which I swallowed it and thanked God. In a 
few moments more I had enough for another swallow, and 
of a much better quality, less brackish, and by quietly 
waiting I soon had two or three inches of quite good 
water, brackish to be sure, but pure enough to support 
life and to course like quicksilver through my veins and 



A CLAMBAKE. 51 

give me a new lease of life. Suffice it to say that, by re 
newing my canister on the fire, I had in a few hours both 
the meat-cans full of water, and my craving thirst entirely 
quenched. Brains had won. I had both fire and water 
two of the four elements at my command. As soon as 
my thirst was appeased I commenced to feel the pangs of 
hunger, but this gave me little disquietude, for I had not 
been digging in the sand without observing that there 
were plenty of clams on every side of me, and with a 
short stick I soon had as many as I wanted on the surface, 
and from thence to the hot stones of my fire, where I cov 
ered them with wet seaweed and allowed them to roast. 
Whilst this was going on I strayed away to the left a short 
distance, where I had seen many gulls gathered together, and 
sure enough, as I suspected, I found the crevices of the rocks 
full of eggs. I took upon myself, as proprietor of the island, 
to abstract some dozen of them, and taking the large can 
ister and rinsing it out with a very little of the precious 
fresh water, I poured the remainder into it from the meat- 
can, and started with the latter to the sea, and returned 
with it filled with sea water, which I placed upon my fire, 
and dropped into it half a dozen of my new-found eggs, 
which soon commenced to boil right merrily. By this 
tune my clams were baked or roasted, and I sat down to 
my first meal, consisting of boiled eggs, baked clams, and 
fresh water, with a thankful and even a cheerful heart ; for 
had I not overcome impossibilities almost, and made sure 
of the two great wants of humanity, fire and water, which 
meant food, life, everything? 



52 PEKSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

Nature being satisfied, I began to think of the horror 
of my situation, the only survivor of a company of gal 
lant fellows that had left England in such good spirits only 
a few months ago. Here was I, a poor Robinson Crusoe, 
alone and desolate on an unknown island. I tried to pen 
etrate the dark future and discover what fate still held in 
store for me. By this time the day had passed into after 
noon, and I felt the necessity of preparing for the coming 
night. My great fear was that the island was inhabited 
by savages, and if so I had preserved my life to little 
purpose, for I should, upon being discovered, probably be 
killed at once, or else be made to drag out a miserable ex 
istence as their slave, or be kept a captive by them for the 
term of my natural life. 

I glanced about me and saw that the island was fair to 
look upon, and evidently of considerable extent. I desired 
to explore it, but prudence and fear restrained me. My 
first care was to get some covering for my head; the 
rays of the sun, although not oppressive, were uncom 
fortable. I passed again through the grove of cedars 
and into the open field, and looked about for something 
to make a hat of, but found nothing then to suit me. 
I returned to the seaside again, and what would do for 
the purpose struck my eye at once, namely, a sort of salt 
water rushes which grew out of the sand in large quanti 
ties, not far from me to the right, similar to what we used 
to call at home sedge. I gathered sufficient of the riper 
and less green leaves and stalks for my purpose, and 



HAT-MAKING. 53 

commenced to lay them up into what sailors call five- 
strand sennit, and what young ladies would call five- 
strand braiding. I soon had several yards of this material 
laid up, and found it quite well suited for my purpose. 
When I had what I deemed sufficient I took the nail 
I had before used to open the meat-can with, and which 
I kept in my pocket, and commenced to bring its end 
to a sharp point by grinding it upon a soft pebble that 
lay beside me, and having brought it to a point I went 
to work and unlaid about a fathom of my manilla rope, 
and, taking the edge of a clam-shell, sawed off one of the 
strands, and from that I selected a few threads, which 
I laid up again into a good strong twine. I then com 
menced at the crown of my straw hat, and by turning 
the sennit round upon itself I soon had that part com 
pleted, for as I passed once round, I, with the sharp nail 
as a pricker, forced holes through each part at distances 
of every two or three inches of the circumference, and 
passed my manilla twine through, knotted it, and cut 
it off with the edge of my clam-shell. In this way, in 
an hour or two I had quite a good straw hat with a large 
wide brim, and, although hastily tacked together instead 
of being sewed, it answered my purpose admirably. My 
hand being now in, I made, in the same manner and of 
the same stock, quite a long, deep bag, which I fitted 
with a strong manilla string to pass over my shoulder 
and hang by my side. 
My next task was to get together plenty of wood for 



54 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

my precious fire during the night. But this was an easy 
affair, the very edge of the grove abounding in fallen and 
dried branches of every kind and description. 

I made another trip to the gulls' eggs, equipped in my 
new hat and with my bag slung at my side, and returned 
with it filled with as many as I desired, and for contin 
gencies I boiled quite a large number of them in salt 
water in my meat-can over the fire. 

As a last thing, I went to the field and brought back 
an armful of grass, which I strewed under my cedar-tree, 
and increased it with a large bundle of dried seaweed 
for bed-clothing, and a good-sized stone for a pillow. 
Having completed all these arrangements, eaten again 
of my gulls' eggs and baked clams, and carefully attended 
to my fire, I cut up some of the small quantity of tobacco 
remaining to me with my clam-shell, and placing it in 
my pipe had a quiet smoke. 

By this time the sun was sinking to rest, and I took 
care to make the record of the day upon the boat-planking, 
and also opened a calendar account upon one of the 
branches of my cedar-tree by means of my pointed nail 
and clam-shell. 

As the dusk came on I began to think, What is the next 
most important thing for me to do ? My mind answered 
me, Preserve your fire, or invent means so that you can 
light it without trouble. I should say that I had already 
burned a piece of the cotton lining of my trousers, and 
carefully preserved it between two clean, large sea-clam 
shells for tinder. 



END OF THE SECOND DAY. 55 

I thought that I saw my way clear to protect my fire 
on the morrow, and also to give myself some weapons of 
offence, and after having asked God's pity upon my con 
dition I dropped asleep in my seaweed bed, thinking of 
these things, with my fire near by me well covered up 
with ashes. 



(370) 



CHAPTER VI. 

Build fireplace. Make knife and spear from anchor. Build tower of stones 
for perpetual lamps. Resolve to explore the island. 

I SLEPT soundly and pleasantly all night, and jumped 
out of bed in the early morning light, ran to the beach, 
and had a nice plunge in the smooth and sparkling waters. 
Just as I was about to leave the water I espied two 
or three quite large dog-fish sharks, which were four or 
five feet in length, and, although I had no fears of them 
as concerned myself, they immediately gave me an idea 
of how I could utilize them could I succeed in capturing 
them. I ran back to the bank, got into my clothes, and, 
you may be well sure, knew that the fire was all right 
even before I started to bathe ; ran again to the seaside 
and dug a few clams, and filled the bailer with salt water, 
and soon had my usual meal of boiled eggs and roast 
clams under way. Whilst my breakfast was cooking I 
commenced building, and completed a superior kind of 
fireplace, with nice, strong sides of stone, set up on edge, 
and just wide enough apart to sustain my condenser. After 
having eaten my breakfast, quenched my thirst, and had 
a good, quiet smoke, I set the fresh-water apparatus to 
Work again, and commenced to apply myself to the task 



THE BLACKSMITH'S SHOP. 57 

of the day. With my clam-shell I cut the manilla warp 
from the anchor, and the latter lay before me under my 
fixed gaze. I saw that the stock, which was of iron also, 
was passed through a hole in the solid iron forming the 
shank of the anchor, and was retained by a shoulder on 
one side and a large ball at the extremity of its arm on 
the other. My first attempt was to unship this iron stock 
or arm from the rest of the anchor, and release it from 
the hole through which it was rove and kept in place. 
To effect this I set up in the sand a large stone, with 
quite a flat, smooth top, as my anvil, and procured another, 
of an oblong, irregular shape, which I could grasp with 
my right hand, and with which I could strike quite a 
powerful blow, as my hammer. Thus equipped, I started 
a nice fire in my new fireplace and put the condenser on 
that, leaving me the open fire for my blacksmith's shop. 
I next went to the beach and got a piece of kelp, and 
with my clam-shell cut it into suitable lengths for my pur 
pose, and, thrusting the ball at the end of the anchor- 
stock into the fire, I commenced operations. 

To increase the heat of the fire I piled on the sort of 
semi-charcoal that had been formed by the wood covered 
in the ashes the night before, and sprinkled the same 
carefully with a little water, and to still further promote 
affairs I thrust one end of my pieces of kelp under the 
warm ashes, towards the bottom and centre of the fire, 
and by putting the other end to my lips I forced a blast 
of air through the flames as nicely as if I had had a pair 



58 PEESEVEEANCE ISLAND. 

of bellows. The iron soon became red-hot, and, snatch 
ing it out of the fire and on to my anvil, I, by a few well- 
directed blows, soon had the ball reduced so as to be able 
to unship the stock from the rest of the anchor, and held 
in my hand a bar of iron about an inch in diameter and 
three feet long ; quite a weapon in itself, but not sufficient 
for such a mechanic as I was. 

I took this bar of iron, and, putting the end again in the 
fire, commenced upon my kelp bellows, and soon pulled it 
out, quite hot and malleable. Suffice it to say that in not 
a very long space of time, and by repeated beatings and 
hammerings, I had fashioned out quite a respectable knife, 
of about eight inches in length and at least quarter of an 
inch thick in the back; and although the sides were 
a little wavy and irregular, I knew that grinding would 
nearly take that out. Whilst the knife that I had made 
was still fastened to the original bar of iron I drew it 
down to a long, thin point, and by grasping it and 
bending it to the right and left soon had it free. 

My next task was to temper this piece of metal, and by 
repeatedly plunging it into water and back into the fire I 
soon got it quite hard, and fit for my present purposes. 
I sought out a coarse-grained stone, and with my tin 
of water sat down to moisten it and grind my knife to an 
edge. I passed several hours at this work, but in the 
end found myself possessed of quite a good-looking 
knife, with a good sharp point and fair edge. I picked 
up a suitable piece of wood for a handle, and soon had it 



KNIFE, HAMMER, AND SPEAB. 59 

in shape, and, slightly heating the pointed, unfinished 
end, I drove it home with a stone firmly into the handle^ 
and my knife was done. Pleased enough was I with my 
success; but I did not stop here. The hole in the 
shank of the anchor, whence I had drawn the stock, fas 
cinated me. I saw before me a hammer of iron, all ready 
made to my hand. I thrust the anchor into the fire just 
below this hole, towards the flukes, and set my kelp bel 
lows to work with a will. After repeated heatings and 
poundings I had brought the iron down to so small a size 
that I was able, as before, to part it from the original bar, 
by bending it backward and forward till the crystallization 
of the iron was destroyed, exactly as you break off a nail 
by hitting it with a hammer a few times in opposite 
directions. I had to get the ring off at the end of the 
anchor in the same manner, and then found myself in 
possession of a piece of iron almost exactly like what we 
sailors call a top-maul, a flat-headed hammer with a long 
end. I speedily fitted this with a good, strong handle, 
and, after beating it and tempering it to the best of my 
ability, put it into use at once. Taking the bar from 
which I had made my knife I soon made it take the shape 
of a kind of spear, or rather harpoon, with a sharp, flat 
head, similar to those arrows always printed on charts to 
show the direction of currents or winds. 

This, when finished, tempered, ground, and lashed 
firmly to a smooth staff of wood, some two inches in 
diameter and eight feet in length, was really a formidable 
weapon, either for offence or defence. 



60 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Armed with my harpoon and knife, I made my way to 
the seaside, having still another project in my head. 
Proud, indeed, was I of my weapons, and my natural 
courage was increased. I took off my clothes and waded 
quietly into the water, and had not long to wait till 
I saw some of my friends the dog-sharks, and picking out 
one that suited me, for I had no difficulty in approach 
ing them, they showing no fear of me, I thrust my 
harpoon into him, and dragged him ashore, cut him open 
with my knife, took out his liver, and dragged back the 
carcase into the sea. I served three of them in this man 
ner. From the last one which was the largest and had 
a beautiful skin I cut a large strip, out of which to 
make a case for my knife, which I did whilst it was 
green, fitting it nicely, and also a small tip to cover the 
barbs of my harpoon when not in use. I sewed these up, 
or, rather, fastened them by means of a bradawl sharp 
ened in the fire from one of the boat nails, tempered and 
fitted with a handle, and nice, strong thread made from 
my manilla rope. I brought back with me to the fire 
place quite a good-sized flounder, that I had also speared 
without the slightest trouble, and it was soon cut up and 
broiling away for my dinner, it being now about noon. I 
hung my shark livers in the sun, upon a tree, a little dis 
tant from my camp, where they would not offend me, and 
placed myself at table, the fish being now eooked, and 
plenty of cold boiled eggs on hand. 

I could spare no time for much dinner. My condenser 



DESTRUCTION OP THE CHAHT. 61 

had been taken off long ago in the forenoon, my two meat- 
cans being full of water. After dinner I stopped to take 
a few whiffs at my pipe, and then to work again, for I 
had much to do ere the setting of the sun. In the first 
place I proceeded to the right of my camp a short dis 
tance, and had no difficulty in picking up as many large 
shells aa I desired, some of them being fully a foot in cir 
cumference, and beautiful enough, with their pink, open 
mouths, to ornament the table of any lady. I gathered 
together some fifteen or twenty of these, and transported 
them to the seaside, and thence to my camp, having 
washed them out carefully, and ascertaining that they 
would each hold about a quart or more of water. I then 
set my condenser hard at work, determined to get a supply 
ahead of any contingency. 

For my next task I got hold of the breaker that con 
tained my books and charts, and by means of my hammer 
soon had the hoops off and the head out. But I was 
mortified to see that a little water had worked into the 
cask, and that the motion of the boat had caused the 
books, in moving to and fro, to completely destroy the 
chart, and, with the little water that had entered, reduced 
it to a pulp and beyond recognition and repair. Tears 
started into my eyes at this cruel blow of fate, and it was 
with the greatest anxiety that I seized upon the books 
and examined them. Their strong canvas covers had 
preserved them, and although battered, chafed, and damp 
they seemed intact, all except the Nautical Almanac, 



62 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

which had suffered somewhat in different portions, to 
what extent I had now no time to examine minutely. 
My Compendium of Useful Arts and Sciences, and Bow- 
ditch's Navigator, were, at least, saved, and these were a 
library and tower of strength in themselves. I put the 
three books carefully in the sun, where they might dry, 
and, after heading up the breaker again and setting on 
the hoops strongly and firmly, I went back to where I had 
gathered my shells and fastened on to one that I had 
before discovered, that would hold many gallons, it is 
called, I think, sometimes, a sea oyster. With this bur 
den I struggled along to my tree where I had hung the 
sharks' livers, and placed this huge basin under them to 
catch the dripping oil; and, as I did not expect much 
result for a day or two, I cut off a portion of one of the 
livers and took it to my fireside and carefully tried it out 
in small pieces, in numerous clam-shells, and poured the 
oil thus obtained into one of my shell reservoirs. 

My next task was to go back into my grass-field and 
gather some of the clayey earth that I had noticed there, 
and to bring it in my hat to the camp, getting a sufficient 
quantity in two trips. With this clayey earth I mixed 
pounded-up clam-shells and a small quantity of seaweed, 
fine sand, and water. Then, near my cedar-tree, and pro 
tected by it, I built a tower of flat stones, using this 
material as mortar. I built it in a circular form, of about 
two feet in diameter, and perhaps three feet high. At 
the bottom I left interstices every once in a while, varying 



THE LAMP-TOWER. 63 

in size, but none of them larger than a half inch in 
diameter. Towards the top I left the same kind of air 
holes, but rather larger in size. On one side, about half 
way up, I left two stones so that they could be taken out 
by hand and replaced, and when taken out would leave 
quite a large aperture, large enough to put my arm into 
and explore the interior. In the exact centre of this stone 
circular tower I drove a strong stake, standing at least 
three feet higher than the walls, and by means of sedge, 
rushes, manilla twine, and large leaves I made the 
pointed top of which this stake was the apex, and the 
top of the circular wall the base completely waterproof, 
the sedge projecting beyond the walls in every direction. 
Within this tower I placed my flint-stone, steel, and 
tinder, and upon four smooth stones that I placed inside 
I fitted up on each a large sea-clam shell full of shark's- 
liver oil, and from milkweed pods provided each of them 
with a soft, cottony wick, which I lighted, and then closed 
the aperture. By peeping through the interstices I 
could see that my lamps burned splendidly, and by blow 
ing I was unable to get up any current inside. My 
gigantic lantern was made. If my fire should go out, 
my flint and steel fail me, here was perpetual light. I 
placed four lights within, so that in case the roof should 
leak a drop in a heavy rain, some one or two of the 
shells would run a chance of not being put out. I did not 
intend to allow my fire to go out this night, but to burn 
the lamps as a test only of how much oil they would need, 



64 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

and how they would appear in the morning, so as to know 
what to expect should I leave them for any length of time. 

Fixing my lamp-tower and pouring the condensed 
water into the breaker, getting wood for the fire, and my 
other labors, had made the day a hard one ; but as the sun 
went down, and I supped upon the remains of my fish 
warmed up, and the inevitable eggs, and enjoyed my pipe, 
I could but think of how far I had advanced even in one 
twenty-four hours. Weapons by my side, a breaker full 
of fresh water, and perpetual light in a waterproof tower 
beside me. With the deepening shadows came, however, 
the bitter feelings of desolation and solitude, mingled 
with the uncertainty of the magnitude of my island, and 
the impossibility of my being able, except by explora 
tion, to prove it uninhabited. 

During this day my heart jumped into my mouth many 
times when I heard the least unusual noise, or, carelessly 
glancing up, mistook every tree for a savage. My com 
plete freedom from any annoyance up to the present time 
was in itself satisfactory to my mind, and strosg proba 
ble reason that the island was unpeopled. Then its 
unknown position for I felt convinced that there was 
no known land where I was now sitting improved the 
probabilities. I foresaw that my next task would be the 
exploration of the island and a search for fresh water; 
and, wondering what the future would bring forth, I rolled 
drowsily over into my seaweed bed, and dropped asleep 
in the very act. 



CHAPTER VII. 

Improve my lamp-tower. Make a bow and arrow, and fish-hooks and 
lines. Capture a large turtle. Improve my steel and flint, and build a 
hut. Procure some salt, and make arrangements to explore the island 
on the morrow. 

I AEOSE at sunrise and found another lovely day com 
mencing. God had blessed me with pleasant weather 
each day so far. I went first to my calendar, and with 
the point of my knife inscribed the day and date, as usual ; 
thence to my lamp-tower, and found all the lamps burn 
ing splendidly, but with not oil enough to have lasted 
more than two or three hours more. I foresaw that I 
must get a much larger and more shallow dish to have 
any certainty of keeping them alight for any length of 
time without replenishing them each morning and night. 
The principle upon which they were built was exactly 
that which I had often observed in the northern part of 
China, where the Chinese burn peanut oil in exactly 
the same way in shallow dishes, with a pith wick hang 
ing over the side. The principle involved necessitated 
a shallow dish, and that the wick should be in nearly a 
horizontal position, to suck up the oil to its end which 
projected over the side of the clam-shell. If the reser 
voir for the oil was deep instead of shallow, the receding 

65 



66 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

of the oil as it was consumed by the wick would soon 
let the lamp go out. I saw that I should have to improve 
upon my lamp business, and concluded to work out the 
problem whilst taking my morning bath and breakfast. 
As I started towards the beach, I saw at a little distance 
to my left a huge turtle, the first I had seen, making for 
the sea. I ran with my utmost speed, and contrived to 
upset him upon his back before he had reached it, and 
soon dragged him to my fireplace, and, although still 
upon his back, for fear of any accident or escape, at once 
beheaded him then and there. I then quietly took off my 
clothes and had my usual bath, taking care, however, 
not to go out of my depth, as I saw several dog-fish 
sharks, and possibly larger ones of their species might 
be in the bay, but, from its shallowness, I did not much 
think it. Whilst bathing, I solved my problem about 
the lamps, and returned in good spirits to my fire and 
clothes, and soon had a nice turtle soup boiling and a 
steak of the same broiling upon the embers. 

This turtle was a godsend, and was just what I needed 
to change my diet. I made a hearty meal, and with 
reluctance cut into the small piece of tobacco left me and 
filled my pipe, and had a short smoke, and then to work. 
I took two of my largest conch-shells, that would hold 
nearly a quart a-piece, and filled the lips up with my 
mortar that I had used the day before in the construction 
of the lamp-tower, leaving an orifice at the larger end, 
of sufficient size to pour liquid into easily, and one at the 



OIL RESERVOIRS. 67 

smaller end very small indeed. I then thrust both of the 
shells into the hot embers, and hardened the mortar or 
cement so that it was soon dry and compact. I then 
went to my grass-field and chose some minute grass- 
straws of about a foot in length, and inserted two in the 
small orifice of each shell, and fixed them in with moist 
cement. I then went to my lamp-tower, took the roof 
carefully off, and with a base of stones, and by means of 
twine with which I fastened them to the central stake, 
soon had my shells lashed and secured in an upright posi 
tion, with the four straws pointing into the four clam-shell 
lamps. I then went with my bailer to the large sea- 
oyster shell and dipped up the oil that had distilled under 
the rays of the sun from the dog-sharks' livers, and in 
several trips filled my shell-reservoirs with oil, and had 
the satisfaction of seeing each straw dropping oil into the 
clam-shell lamp beneath. The dropping being rather 
fast, I easily regulated it by thrusting seaweed stoppers 
into the upper orifice of the shells till the feeding was 
very slow, but very perfect and exact. I felt now that I 
could leave my tower, days without care, and be sure of 
finding the lamps burning upon my return. I carefully 
replaced the roof, lighted the lamps again, and made all 
snug and secure. I did all this work about the lamps to 
make myself doubly sure of always having fire. I was 
well aware that with my hardened knife I could strike 
fire much better than I at first did with my shoe-nail, but 
I wanted to be sure and take every precaution, and to 



68 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

that end I went to work upon the nails in the boat-plank 
ing, and, finding one to my mind, I flattened it out at my 
anvil into a narrow ribbon of iron, which I hardened and 
steeled in the fire and water ; and, after carefully testing 
it with my flint, which, by the way, I broke into several 
fragments, I put it and a piece of the flint into my 
pocket, and returned the remaining fragments with 
another nail, hardened and heated in the same manner, 
to the custody of the lamp-tower. I took thence a small 
quantity of the burned tinder I had made of my clothing, 
some of the nigger-ball powder, and cotton of the milk 
weed, and taking one of the numerous pods of last year's 
growth that I had gathered of these, and also stored 
there out of the rain, I split it lengthwise with my knife, 
and removed most of the core and cotton, and in its 
place inserted the tinder and powder that I have just 
mentioned, and secured the whole together by winding 
round about it some manilla twine ; and, not satisfied with 
that, I cut a small piece from my flannel shirt and 
wrapped that also about it, and secured it with twine. 
Thus I carried on my person the means of starting a fire 
at any time; and, feeling secure, I allowed myself to 
throw this terrible fear off my mind. 

All my energies were pointing to one direction, to be 
able to arm and equip myself, so as to make the tour of 
my island as speedily as possible ; but I foresaw that, with 
my utmost speed and care, I should not be able to be 
ready to start until the morrow, if then. I went into my 



MAKING BOW AND ARROWS. 69 

grass-field and passed beyond it into the natural under 
growth of trees, and soon had picked out exactly what I 
wanted, a sort of ash or walnut tree, evidently dead some 
time since from some cause, the limbs of which I tested 
and found of the right elasticity. I cut off with my 
knife several portions that suited my purpose, and return 
ing to my fire, I soon had a handsome bow of fine elas 
ticity, some six feet in length, finished to my hand. From 
a lighter kind of wood, a sort of alder, I manufactured 
without much difficulty some half-dozen arrows, and 
sharpened and hardened as many nails to form heads for 
them, which I securely lashed on with fine manilla twine. 
I then proceeded to my gulls' nests retreat, and picked up 
such feathers as I thought might suit me, and also brought 
back a load of fresh eggs in my bag. 

I then took off my clothes again and waded into the sea 
with my harpoon, and soon had on shore one of my dog- 
shark friends, and his bladder and fins in a short time in 
my bailer over a slow fire, for I wanted some glue badly. 
I took occasion, whilst this was preparing, to thoroughly 
oil my bow and arrows and to wipe them off nice and 
clean again with leaves and seaweed. 

I soon had plenty of glue, and of a good quality also, 
which I poured out into a large clam-shell, and filled my 
bailer again with water to boil and cleanse it out. I then 
proceeded with great care to lay up three strands of fine 
manilla, aboiit ten feet long each, and made each of them 
fast to a tree near each other ; and, stretched as they were 



70 PERSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

in this manner, I saturated them with the liquid glue, and 
then brought them together and laid them up right-handed, 
so as to make a very fine-looking and strong bowstring, 
with which I was delighted. By means of the glue I 
easily fitted each arrow with three nice feathers, and I also 
dipped the seizing round the heads, that held on the iron 
barbs, into the same, which gave them a fine finish and 
smoothed down all the standing fibres of the manilla 
twine, making all "ship-shape and Bristol fashion," as 
sailors say. 

Whilst my hand was in I made also a fishing-line of 
great strength and of considerable length, and managed 
to forge out two quite respectable fish-hooks from the 
wrought nails of the boat's planking. I took my usual 
meal at noon, but it was of delicious turtle soup, instead 
of fish, clams, or eggs, none of which did I, however, by 
any means despise. After dinner I sat down and sharp 
ened and perfected the points of my arrow-heads and fish 
hooks. I was not able to make any barbs to the latter, but 
had to run the risk, when I hooked a fish, never to let him 
have any slack line till he was landed. 

Having finished these various labors and looked after my 
condenser, I commenced another round tower similar to 
the one already built, and near to it. I wanted a place of 
safety for books, and with the stones at hand and some 
new mixed mortar, or cement, I in a few hours completed 
my task, and had the pleasure of seeing them in safety 
from rain or damp. I was afraid to put them in the lamp- 



HUT-BUILDING. 71 

tower for fear of their catching fire in some unforeseen 
manner, and I would not risk the chance, however remote 
it might be. 

This being finished, I went to the wood and cut down 
with my knife several small trees, about six feet in height, 
leaving a crotch like the letter Y at the top of each. I 
brought these near my cedar-tree, and with my hammer 
drove them into the ground, so that they stood at an equal 
height of about four feet in the front row and one foot 
in the rear row. I stopped this work for a season to fill 
the bailer, which I had cleansed of the glue, with salt 
water, and let it, during the afternoon, gradually boil down 
several times, till I had collected quite a quantity of salt. 
After attending to this, I returned to my hut-building, 
and soon had the uprights crossed with light sticks and 
branches, and upon these I placed large masses of sedge 
as thatch, which I kept in place by numerous flat stones 
that I placed upon the roof. I wove into both the long 
sides, and one end, some manilla strands and pliable small 
branches, working them in and out in a horizontal posi 
tion and at right angles to the uprights. To this rough 
basket work, or trellis, I bound, by means of more manilla 
strands, large bundles of sedge, till I had a nice hut of 
about eight feet in length and six wide, with one end left 
open some two feet wide, and the roof four feet high on 
one side fronting the sea and two feet high on the land 
side. Into this hut I carried all my few earthly treasures, 
and made me a nice bed of seaweed and sedge on one 

(370) f 



72 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

side, and with a large clam-shell and the flukes of the anchor 
cut out a nice trench round about it, under the overhang 
ing eaves, and piled the spare earth up against the sides 
of the hut. I was proud of my work. After everything 
was all finished to my satisfaction, I sat down to a hearty 
meal, and, being too tired even to smoke, I pulled a small 
cedar-tree that I had cut down for the purpose, against 
the opening in the end of my hut, from the inside, and 
threw myself upon my seaweed bed, and fell instantly to 
sleep. 



CHAPTER Vin. 

Rainy day. Reflections concerning climate, season of the year, tides, etc. 
Plant several varieties of my seeds. Make a pocket compass, and prepare 
for my exploration of the island. 

" Man proposes, but God disposes." This was what I 
thought when I woke in the morning and looked out upon 
a foggy, drizzling day; not very much wind, but a regular 
Scotch mist, and with every look of settling into a real 
downright rain. I could not well complain, for I had 
been blessed with pleasant weather since my arrival, and 
it was but natural that all days should not be as pleasant; 
and the fast-approaching appearance of rain delighted me 
in another sense, for I was not at all sure about my sup 
ply of fresh water, and I was not sorry to see that the 
island was visited with rain, which I foresaw that in the 
future I could utilize should all other methods fail. My 
nautical experience had been correct ; in less than an hour 
the rain fell freely, and the wind got up quite strong from 
the northward and eastward. I saw that I must put aside 
all idea of exploring my island for this day, and I was not 
sorry, as I had several things that I desired to complete 
first, and my great fear of not being able to obtain plenty 
of water of a good quality was fast being dissipated. I 

73 



74 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

got to my fire and started it briskly, so that it would not 
be disturbed by the rain, and for more security lighted a 
small one inside my hut under cover, so as to run no 
risks at all. Although I felt confident that I had the 
means at present of starting a new fire at any time, I was 
morbid on this subject, and could not prevail upon my 
self to allow any of the three flames to be extinguished, 
namely, the lamps, the regular fire, and the small one in 
my hut, so fearful was I about it. Up to the present 
time fire was not only fire to me, but it was water. Once 
secure concerning the latter I felt that I could allow my 
fires to go out with better faith. I found during this day 
my hut a great comfort, and blessed my stars that I had 
completed it so luckily before this storm commenced. 
The rain was not cold, being from the direction of the 
equator; and I therefore, throughout the day, moved 
about in it in my flannel shirt and drawers, with my 
broad-brimmed hat and shoes and stockings, leaving my 
other clothing dry in the hut. I was pleased to observe 
that the thatching was a perfect success, and the interior 
as dry and nice as possible. My first task was to go and 
get the other half of the sea-oyster shell that I had placed 
under my shark's livers and bring it near the house. I 
had no fears of the rain interfering with the former, for I 
knew that, although exposed, the rain would not mix with 
the oil, but would, if anything, purify it, and that I could 
easily skim off every particle with a clam-shell when the 
weather became again clear. Having got my sea-oyster 



CLIMATE OP THE ISLAND. 75 

shell, which would hold some gallons, placed under one 
of the dripping eaves of my hut, I sat down to breakfast, 
which I made very pleasantly of turtle steaks and eggs. 
After breakfast I drew forth from my trousers pocket my 
precious piece of tobacco, and looked with grief at its 
diminished proportions, but, urged on by solitude and the 
rain, I could not resist filling my pipe and taking a good 
long smoke. Whilst smoking, the following thoughts of 
what I had seen, and what I might expect ran through 
my head, and I repeated them to myself to fix them in 
my memory, so that they might serve me hi the future. 
In the first place I calculated that this day, the thirteenth 
of November, must in this part of the world represent the 
thirteenth of May in the northern hemisphere, and that 
therefore I was in the very spring-time of the year, and 
at a proper season to plant some of my seeds and note the 
result. Although I did not know how far south I was, 
still I knew within a degree or so by the reckoning that I 
had on board of the " Good Luck." I felt assured that I 
was somewhere between the fortieth and forty-fifth 
parallel of latitude, and that the climate must therefore 
be somewhat like that of countries situated between the 
same parallels of north latitude, like that of England, 
France, or the New England States of America. Knowing 
this I had a sort of general knowledge of what seeds would 
probably prosper, and also what kind of a winter I might 
expect. Surrounded as I was, as I suspected, by water, I 
thought that the winter ought to be milder than those of 



76 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the northern hemisphere, and for the same reason the 
summers milder. I remembered that many fruits would 
mature in England, in latitude 52 north, that would not 
grow in the open air in New England in only 42 north. 
In imagination I gave my island a climate even milder 
than England, first on account of its being nearer the 
equator, and next on account of its, as I supposed, small 
extent, completely surrounded by water. I was also 
led to this belief by the balmy, spring-like, and warm air 
of the days I had already passed upon the island, and the 
advancement in vegetation that I saw upon all sides of 
me ; the latter completely satisfying me that the springs 
must be very early, and that the winters could not be 
very severe. I had also noticed that the rise and fall of 
the tide was considerable ; I should say at a venture at 
least ten feet. I had no doubt but what I could wade 
almost across the gulf separating me from the breakwater 
at mean low tide, at any rate a few strokes only of swim 
ming would be necessary, I felt convinced. From these 
subjects I passed to thinking of my lonely fate, and made 
up my mind to cross over again to the breakwater this 
very day and examine anew the scene of my disaster. 
What a miserable fate was reserved for me. Here was I 
only thirty-two years of age, in the very prime of my life, 
cut off from intercourse with all my fellow-men ; cast 
upon a desert island, without even the comforts and neces 
sities that my predecessor in history had given him to his 
hands, with nothing but the few miserable trifles that I 



DREAD OF SAVAGES. 77 

have enumerated ; cast on shore, to care for myself, pro 
tect myself, and live for whatever God might have in 
store for me. The bitter tears ran through my fingers at 
the desolate picture my imagination had conjured up. 
Why was I punished in this manner ? what had I done 
that I should be imprisoned in this solitude ? But then, 
on the other hand, what should prevent me from building 
in the future a boat or raft and escaping from my prison, 
or why should I despair of some day seeing a vessel 
within sight of my island that I could hail ? 

My greatest fear, I found in consultation with myself, 
was the fear of savages; that the island was inhabited. 
This made me shudder with fright; I felt that I should 
never rest easy till I had explored it from end to end ; I 
felt that I must do this, and at the very earliest moment. 
I knew, too, that I ought each day to have crossed to the 
breakwater and to have looked for some passing ship, but 
my fire and water and weapons had taken all my time and 
attention. I made up my mind to attend to this better in 
future, but then again my sailor's knowledge gave me little 
to hope for from this source ; nothing but the accident of 
the ocean, or exploration, or discovery, would, I felt con 
fident, ever bring a vessel in this direction. This gave me 
the horrors again, for my mind convinced me that I might 
live my lifetime on this island without any reasonable hope 
of ever seeing a vessel approach it. The very fact of its 
not being laid down on any chart in so late a year as 1865 
proved to me conclusively two facts, one that it must be 



78 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

quite small in extent, and the other that it was wholly 
and completely, as I felt that it was, out of the course of 
vessels engaged in any pursuit, and the chances of its dis 
covery exceedingly small. 

My meditations were abruptly ended by the hissing of 
the ashes in the heel of my pipe, and I sadly arose and 
placed it carefully away, and betook myself to my labors 
for the day. I knew that it must be at this time about 
low water, and as the clothing I had on was already quite 
wet, I started forth, without undressing, to the beach, and, 
armed with my harpoon, waded in and headed for the 
breakwater. I found, as I supposed, that with the ex 
ception of about fifteen or twenty yards in the middle, 
which I was compelled to swim, I could wade the whole 
distance. I soon arrived at the opposite side and clam 
bered up the rocks. I could see but little way seaward 
on account of the rain and slight fog, but at my feet was 
the same uneasy, treacherous sea, that had swallowed up 
my shipmates. I could find no sign of the boat or of 
them, and I knew that whatever articles lay at the base 
of these rocks would by this time either be buried deep 
from human eye or destroyed by the everlasting motion 
of the undertow. The bottom also, to judge by the sides 
of the rocks, was no doubt covered with kelp and rock- 
weed, amongst which, even on land, it would be almost 
impossible to find anything ; how much more so at the 
bottom of the ocean ! I gave up all thought of ever re 
covering anything more from the boat, and sadly and 



PLANTING. 79 

silently retook my way back to my hut. This trip, and 
looking after my fresh water and lamps and fire and wood, 
took up my forenoon and brought me to dinner, which, 
although lonely, I enjoyed. I took this opportunity to 
also cook some spare pieces of the turtle and to gather 
them together in layers, with salt between, to serve me 
for food in my proposed exploration. I cooked and pre 
pared quite a quantity, as I did also of the boiled eggs. 
After dinner and the cooking and preparing of these 
rations, I started forth upon a more important business. 
I went to my field in the rear of the hut, and picking out 
one corner where the soil seemed fair, I, by the aid of the 
fluke of my anchor, turned up the soil in some twenty-five 
or thirty places, in a circular form, some twenty-four 
inches in diameter, and carefully removed the turf. I 
knew that with my tools I could not expect to plough or 
spade up any portion of great extent, so I took this means. 
I left the sward intact, except in these circular places, 
some six or eight feet apart, which I prepared for my 
seeds, and sparingly from each I planted the following : 
in five of them, apple seeds; in another five of them, 
pear seeds; in another five, grape seeds; and in the 
same and other ones, cucumbers, beans, squashes, celery, 
blackberries, strawberries, tomatoes, lettuce, etc. My 
wheat, rye, and rice, I carefully kept on hand, with the 
exception of one plat that I sowed with wheat wholly, 
simply as a precaution to preserve the seed if it should 
mature. Having finished this labor, I commenced upon 



80 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

another task, one that was to tax my ingenuity, namely, 
a compass. I did not feel like undertaking the examina 
tion of the island without this useful instrument. I first 
procured some nice, strong, birch-bark, sound and well 
seasoned, of which there was plenty in the grove, and by 
means of my sharpened nail awl and manilla thread soon 
had formed a nice little box of about three inches in 
diameter and two high, with a good-fitting cover to same. 
By means of a piece of manilla thread held firmly by my 
thumb on a nice, flat piece of bark, and the awl fastened 
to the other extremity, I had no difficulty in marking out 
a disc that would fit within the circumference of my box. 
I soon cut this out with my knife, and by means of a 
straight stick and a small piece of charcoal and some 
little measurement, soon had it marked off into thirty-two 
points; making the north point with an arrow-head to 
distinguish it, and the other cardinal points large and 
black. I soon had quite a respectable compass-card be 
fore me. I then took one of the wrought nails from the 
boat-planking, and, in spite of the rain, soon had it beaten 
out on my anvil into a narrow ribbon, which I hardened 
and converted into steel of the length of the diameter of 
my compass-card or disc. By repeated poundings and 
drawing this ribbon over my knife from heel to point, I 
magnetized it so that it would adhere to iron or steel quite 
forcibly. I fastened this upon the underside of my com 
pass-cover with fine manilla thread near each extremity. 
I should have said that whilst this ribbon was red hot, I 



MAKING THE COMPASS. 8l 

had forced, with another nail, quite a large hole, perhaps 
three-eighths of an inch in diameter, through its centre. 
I broke out one of the teeth of my horn hair-comb and 
lashed it firmly for an upright into the centre of my box, 
and over the centre of my compass-card I cut out a hole 
of about an inch in diameter, and over this fastened a 
little cone about the size of a woman's thimble, only com 
ing to a peak, instead of a round head, and about an inch 
in height, also made of bark. Into this cone I forced a 
small piece of the polished lip of one of my sea shells, as 
an agate or face upon which my horn pivot was to rest 
and the disc rotate. Passing the disc into the box and 
the horn pivot up through the hole in the magnet into the 
inverted cup or cone containing the small portion of shell, 
I found that I had a real, quick, and good compass. The 
card had to be balanced by placing, with my glue, small 
portions of bark on its underneath surface till it floated 
evenly upon its pivot, and my task was done. I felt that 
with this implement I could not get lost in my explora 
tions, and although rude in construction, its value was as 
sterling as one made of brass and with paper disc. I filled 
the whole box with the soft cotton of my milkweed pods, 
both above and below the card, and put on the cover so 
that there could be no motion to wear the pivot. I only, 
of course, intended to use it in case of necessity, and I had 
then only to carefully open it, remove the card and cot 
ton, and set it back upon its pivot, after placing it care 
fully on the ground and protecting it from any sudden 



82 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

blast of wind. I was proud of ray instrument, and felt 
much more secure, in its possession, as to my ability to 
explore the island successfully. 

This ended my day's work, and the setting sun gave 
signs of a pleasant day for the morrow. I felt pleased 
that I had planted my seeds during the rain, which would 
give them a good start, and sat down to my supper with 
a feeling that I had again overcome some of the difficul 
ties that surrounded me. I visited my oyster-shell out 
side the eaves, and although the sky had been for an hour 
or two fast clearing up, I saw that I had several gallons 
of pure rain water, for which I was, 1 hope, duly thankful. 
I meditated upon the morrow. Upon my exploration 
depended all my security for the future. Should I find the 
island innabited, a long farewell to all content. If unin 
habited, I could, I felt certain, take care of myself till it 
pleased God to remove me from the solitude to which 
I was tied. I envied the old Robinson Crusoe, to whom I 
likened myself, and thought, why could not I have been 
as fortunate as he; if the "Good Luck" must be des 
troyed why could she not have come ashore on this island 
where I could have saved something from her, and, more 
precious yet, some of the lives of my shipmates? How 
many years must I stagnate on this island? But I am 
young and determined to improve my position. Have I 
not a book of all the practical sciences to aid me in forc 
ing Nature to give up her secrets? Why should I not be 
able to improve my condition far beyond that which my 



REVIEW MY POSITION. 83 

predecessor in history had been able to do ? He had not 
the education of the nineteenth century to aid him ; he 
knew nothing about the science of steam, railroads, steam 
boats, telegraphs, etc., whilst I had a book treating of 
these and a thousand other subjects of infinite interest. 
I could not help thinking that if I could find iron, I could 
do almost anything, and why should I not be able to find 
it? I knew that it was a metal like gold, disseminated 
throughout all parts of the earth. By my labors as a boy 
in it I felt that I could, as a mechanic, do almost anything 
if I could discover this ore, and coal to smelt it. If I 
found water, I felt assured of the future, and I could not 
but believe that my exploration would enable me to dis 
cover that. It was impossible that so large an area as my 
eye could gather in should be without it. Once found, I 
felt no fears for food. I felt assured of my physical well- 
being, and the climate, I felt convinced, could not be very 
severe in the winter months with such delightful weather 
in this spring month of November. I could in time build 
some kind of a boat, and reach the Society Islands to the 
northward of me, or the South American coast to the east 
ward, or even New Zealand to the westward. I was not 
without hope, and, although far from cheerful in my dread 
ful solitude, I could not but think that I should be com 
paratively happy and contented if I felt sure of my island 
being uninhabited ; but I dreaded, in my exploration about 
to be undertaken, to come suddenly upon some savage 
village, that would destroy all my desire to still live, and 



84 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

almost put me in a mood to take my own life with my 
own hands. 

My nerves were unstrung now all the time, and the 
slightest noise caused my heart to palpitate with fear, as 
it had never before done in the severest gale at sea or in 
face of the greatest practical dangers. I was fast becom 
ing a coward, and felt that I should continue to be one 
till my problem was solved ; then, if successful in ascer 
taining the extent of the island and its freedom from 
savages, I felt that I could resign myself with fortitude to 
the designs that Providence had in my behalf. These 
thoughts brought me well into the evening, and, com 
mending myself to the divine care, I lay down upon my 
sea-weed couch and dropped to sleep. 



CHAPTER IX. 

Exploration of the island : First day. Fresh water at Rapid River. Wild 
goats, quail, tortoise, tobacco, wild ducks, trout, sweet potatoes, mussels. 
Name the island and principal points, etc. 

I AEOSE very early in the morning and saw that 
I was to be favored with a very pleasant day. I went 
to the seaside and took my usual bath; thence to my 
lamp-tower and arranged all the wicks and reservoirs for 
a long burning ; then to breakfast, which I quickly dis 
patched, and then my preparation to start, which consisted 
of the following: I first filled my powder canister with 
nice, pure rain-water, and fitted it with sennit straps of 
manilla to hang on my back, taking care to put the screw 
in the head solidly home, so that it would not leak. In 
my bag made of sedges I stowed my boiled eggs and 
turtle-steaks, already cooked, also several other articles 
of value rolled up in different parcels of birch-bark, 
including my fishing-line and hooks, and some spare 
manilla strands, and bradawl, and carefully wrapped 
up my compass and several large pieces of birch-bark 
and charcoal, intending to make a sketch of the island 
as I explored it, being in my younger days quite a good 
draughtsman. In my trousers pocket I placed my pipe 



86 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

and tobacco, my flint and steel, and my tinder, tied up 
in my milkweed pod. I then slung over my back my 
bow and arrows, the latter in a light quiver of birch- 
bark that I had made for them; secured my knife in 
its shark-skin sheath about my waist, and took my har 
poon in my hand, and, thus accoutred, started forth. 

Before I advanced in any direction I bethought myself 
that I would commence by naming the island and all 
prominent parts that my eye could take in, and to con 
tinue this during my exploration. Accordingly I walked 
down and faced the breakwater, and, drawing forth a 
piece of birch-bark and charcoal, sketched rudely the 
outline before me. Determined as I was to succeed, and 
remembering that I had overcome the want of water and 
fire, I deliberately named the island Perseverance Island. 
The point that ended the breakwater slightly to the west 
ward of me I named Point Deliverance; the reef in 
front of me, the breakwater ; the water between me and 
the Breakwater, Stillwater Cove, on account of its uni 
form quietness, being almost land-locked. 

Having finished this I gave one long look of affection 
upon my miserable hut, and, with a mental prayer for 
aid and assistance, struck out on the pure, white, sandy 
beach towards the eastward part of the island. I went 
naturally in this direction first, for I was too good a sailor 
to walk around the island leftrhanded, or, as we say at 
sea, " against the sun." I had just enough superstition 
to believe that such a course would have brought me bad 



DISCOVER GOATS ON THE ISLAND. 87 

luck. I followed my beach about one mile and a half, 
having on my left hand Stillwater Cove, and on my 
right hand small groves of tree with long vistas between 
them, giving me a view into the interior of the island, 
and over fields of natural grass. I often left the beach 
to inspect these openings, which I approached with 
perfect awe, expecting every moment to chance upon 
some native village, or other sign of the presence of 
man. But nothing of the kind occurred. And yet 
before I reached the end of my beach I met with so 
startling an adventure that I was unmanned for over 
an hour, and had to sit down and rest before proceeding 
on my journey. Approaching one of these openings or 
glades I peered in as usual, keeping myself on my hands 
and knees, to see if I could find any signs of my dreaded 
enemies. But the place was as peaceful as any of the 
others, and, standing up to my full height, I gave vent 
to a sigh of relief, when, without a moment's notice 
or warning, some three or four forms jumped from the 
long grass where they had been concealed and made 
for the thickets further inland. I was so frightened that 
I sank to the earth nearly senseless. But as my mind 
was just about to leave me I had force of character 
enoiigh to observe that they were not savages, but 
animals. The revulsion, however, was too great, and 
I sat down in a faint and sick state, as I have related. 
When I could collect my mind I easily recognized the 
shapes I had seen as some species of goats, and delighted 

(370) G 



88 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

indeed was I at the discovery. But it immediately set 
me thinking, How could there be goats on this island? 
I well knew that they would not be here naturally ; that 
they must have been put here, and probably by some 
whaler, for those vessels I well knew often carry several 
of these animals with them. But if they had been placed 
upon the island thus, why was it not reported, why was 
it not known ? I could conceive of only one reason, and 
that was that the unfortunate vessel that had discovered 
it had afterwards been lost, and therefore its existence 
had again become unknown. But this was only theory 
on my part. The quickness with which they left me 
showed that they were wild, and probably had been 
many years upon the island. If I should see only this 
flock of four or five I should feel as if some of the human 
race had, within a comparatively short time, visited the 
island. But if in my explorations I should fall upon 
more of these creatures, I should know that they had 
propagated and increased through untold years, and from 
a commencement that would never be revealed. 

Having completely overcome my faintness, and rejoiced 
at my discovery, I passed back to the beach, and in a few 
moments came to a place where it turned abruptly to the 
right. The land also, being quite rocky and of some ele 
vation, obstructed my view, and, preparing my bow and 
arrow in one hand and my harpoon in the other, I crept 
round the bend cautiously on my hands and knees. A 
beautiful sight struck my eyes. To my right hand, and 



FRESH WATER AT LAST. 89 

within a hundred yards of me, a dashing, sparkling water 
fall of some eight or ten feet in height, and fifteen or 
twenty wide, poured its waters into Stillwater Cove; 
and beyond and inland as far as my eye could reach, till 
the river mixed with the foliage on either bank, and 
was undistinguishable, I saw smaller and less abrupt falls 
of water coming down the gorge between the hillsides ; 
in short, a large mountain brook or small river, bubbling 
and gurgling its way to dash itself at last over a fall 
into Stillwater Cove. 

I forgot all about savages and natives, and, dashing down 
my weapons, I rushed towards the fall, where it fell into 
the cove, and, holding my hands under it, filled them with 
what my mouth proved to me to be soft, pure, fresh river 
water. I danced, I sung ; I was for a little time as crazy 
as a loon, and here had I been distilling water and rack 
ing my brains for days to provide, and a bubbling, run 
ning brook, almost a river, within at least two miles of 
me all the time. But in my happiness I soon forgot my 
past labors and distress, all that was gone by. Here was 
a supply of water that kind Heaven had granted me, in 
exhaustible, and of delicious coolness and taste. Having 
returned a little to my senses, I went back for my weapons, 
and sat down and enjoyed the scene before me. It wa"s 
indeed beautiful. I saw that I was at the head of Still- 
water Cove, and that by crossing upon the stones below 
the fall I should be on the side of the Breakwater, which 
I now saw was part of the mainland, being a narrow 



90 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

peninsula running nearly east and west, and enclosing Still 
water Cove, and joining the mainland at the spot where I 
now was seated. 

Oh, what a lovely spot I found myself sitting in. I 
named the beautiful stream Rapid Hiver, and drew out 
my birch-bark chart and sketched and located it. I felt 
that this would be my home ; and could anything be more 
beautiful. As I sat upon a large stone near the river this 
is what I saw round about me. To the westward, I knew 
that just around the bend, but concealed from my eyes as 
I sat, was the long, beautiful beach of Stillwater Cove, 
with its inland glades that I had just passed over ; to the 
northward and eastward, a gradually ascending grade of 
land, covered with lovely groves of trees in full foliage ; 
on both sides of the river a beautiful valley of some quar 
ter of a mile in extent, covered with a natural turf and 
fringed at its circumference with these beautiful groves ; 
farther to the right a mountain that seemed of con 
siderable magnitude. Birds passed me in their flight from 
one portion of the grove to the other, and I distinguished 
the wild pigeon and wood-dove and several others that 
were familiar to my eye. I observed that they came to 
one of the upper falls to drink, and after enjoying to the 
full the beautiful scenery round about me, I followed them 
there and tried to get a shot with my bow. I found that 
I could get quite near to them, say within twelve or four 
teen yards, but I fired many times before I was successful 
enough to kill one, and even then I should not have been 



BOAST PIGEON. 91 

able to have succeeded if it were not for the innumera 
ble number that came to drink and replace those whom I 
frightened away by my repeated bad marksmanship. Each 
shot, however, improved me, and I had also a determina 
tion to become skilled, and therefore studied and discov 
ered the error of each shot, and improved upon it by the 
next. Looking down upon the terminus of Stillwater 
Cove from this upper fall was superb ; there it lay, a pure 
basin of white sand, with this mountain stream dashing 
into it. Having feasted my eyes, I got out my flint and 
steel and built me a nice fire in a short time without any 
difficulty, and soon had my pigeon roasting at the end of 
a long stick over the blaze. He eat so very nicely that I 
took to my bow again, and after a few shots killed an 
other, which I devoured in the same way. 1 found 
that the air and exercise and my wanderings here and 
there had made me very hungry, and I added to the roast 
pigeons several of the boiled eggs and a long draught of 
pure water from the running river at my feet. Having 
feasted abundantly, I arose, and leaving my heavy powder 
canister of water behind me, I crossed Rapid River just 
below the lower falls, and found myself on the further side 
of Stillwater Cove. I turned to the left and walked to 
wards the Breakwater, and soon found myself heading for 
the place where the boat had first struck on the reef, and 
opposite to my late residence. Upon arrival there I could 
look across to my little hut, but I kept on till I came to 
the end of the Breakwater and to Point Deliverance. As 



92 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I walked along the Breakwater I noticed on the inner side 
large masses of mussels nearly a foot in length, larger 
than anything of the kind I had ever seen before, the 
shells of which would make capital dishes. I stored the 
fact in my memory for use hereafter. I stood at last upon 
Point Deliverance and looked out to sea, but no sign of any 
friendly vessel met my eyes. I turned to the westward and 
saw a large bay, formed by my island, at least three 
miles across and three or four deep, bounded on the north 
western side by a slight promontory, which I concluded 
not to name, from the distance at which I now stood, and 
on account of the uncertainty of what lay behind it, now 
not to be seen from my present position ; and as I was 
determined to pass round the whole island I knew that I 
should come to it in due season. The bay before me, into 
which Stillwater Cove poured its waters, I named Perse 
verance JBay, and marked the same upon my birch-bark 
chart. Having gazed about me and seen nothing to ex 
amine further, I retraced my steps to Rapid River, and 
again sat down at the upper fall, refreshing myself with a 
good long pull at the pure water. I started up the gorge 
and penetrated for about a mile into the interior of the 
island, and found that the river became smoother and more 
level as I advanced, and that the groves of trees in places 
receded, leaving meadows of grass, and long vistas often, 
on each bank. I made on this trip of a mile or so several 
discoveries, the most important of which was that there 
were plenty of goats upon the island, for I started several 



TEREAPIN AND TROUT. 93 

herds, one numbering as large as ten or twelve, from the 
long grass of the bottom land. This convinced me that 
years must have passed since they had been put upon the 
island, as they were evidently very numerous. I saw also 
a great many terrapin, or land tortoises, and saw in them 
a luxury for the future. I felt convinced that sea turtle 
would not often come to my island on account of its 
southerly position and climate, and I looked upon the one 
I had captured as an exceptional case ; still, further in the 
summer they might be more plenty, their presence would 
prove my theory correct about the mildness of the climate, 
and I hoped it might prove true on every account. 

In the pure limpid waters of Rapid River I saw several 
fish darting about, some of which I was convinced were 
similar to brook trout, but I had not fine enough fishing 
gear to try for them. In the long grass of the meadow, 
near the bushes on the border, I started a veritable bevy 
of quail, or such I took them to be, and I had known the 
bird well in boyhood, and when they flushed and whirled 
into the air a feather would have knocked me down. My 
nerves were, however, getting stronger and stronger, for 
I reasoned that no human being could be on the island 
and allow such a paradise as this to remain uninhabited. 
I recognized amongst the trees, pines, hemlocks, maples, 
elms, oaks, etc. ; and amongst the bushes and plants 
several with which I was familiar. On one of the smooth 
reaches of the river, passing from the meadow to higher 
and firmer ground, I disturbed a large flock of ducks. On 



94 PBESEVEEANCE ISLAND. 

the left bank of the river, which was not wooded, I came 
upon what I believed to be a joyful discovery for me, 
namely, the tobacco plant. I was not sure, but I had 
seen the weed growing in Virginia, and I felt sure that, 
although stunted, and dispersed here and there, this 
was the veritable article. I determined at my earliest 
opportunity to test some of it by curing it, and in fact 
plucked a small portion of the leaves for that purpose and 
thrust it into my bag. The taste in the green state 
confirmed me in my opinion, and I felt sure I was right. 
This discovery would be a great solace to me in my lone 
liness, and I felt very thankful for it. 

I crossed the river by wading and jumping from stone 
to stone, and descended it on the other side, still seeking 
for new discoveries. My friends the goats were often 
disturbed by me, and I saw with pleasure that they were 
very numerous. They were, however, very shy, and ran 
away with great speed and evident fright, and gave me 
no opportunity to shoot at them. It was on this side of 
the river that I made the discovery that gave me bread, or 
rather something in lieu of it. I noticed a running vine 
upon the ground, and my memory told me that it resem 
bled that of the sweet potato. I pounced upon it, and, 
plucking up the root, held in my hand the evidently half- 
grown bulb that I was in search of. It had not yet 
matured, but it was bread for all future tune. I felt that 
I held in my hand the sweet potato of Virginia and the 
Carolinas. This set me to thinking again, Was this 



TOBACCO AND POTATOES. 95 

nature or man? Who had planted these two things, 
tobacco and potatoes, that I so much desired, God or 
man ! I felt that I should never know. The shades of 
evening were by this time beginning to fall around me, 
and I made my way back to the second fall on Rapid 
River and arranged for the night, gathered wood for my 
fire, and grass for my couch, which I placed under the 
overhanging and low branches of a cedar, similar to the 
one near my hut, which I concluded to call the Landing 
Place, and so marked it upon my chart. I was pleased 
with my explorations so far, and foresaw that I could 
gather everything about me in the way of comfort that a 
man could desire, except that one great instinct of our 
nature, companionship with our fellow men. I ate my 
supper of turtle steaks and eggs with great satisfaction, 
and by the light of my fire sought my humble couch 
and slumber. 



CHAPTER X. 

Exploration of the island : Second day. Find coal and sulphur, seals, 
more turtles, gulls, etc. 

THE next morning the sun rose with his customary 
brilliancy and brought to poor me another beautiful day. 
I arose from my hard and humble couch, and raked apart 
the ashes of my last evening's fire, and putting on some 
fresh wood I soon had a cheerful blaze. I stepped down to 
the river and soon with my bow and arrows had two or 
three of my wild pigeons despatched, which I quickly 
plucked and soon had roasting over my fire. So far I 
had been more successful than I could have hoped to have 
been ; no savages, no noxious or deadly animals, but all a 
seeming paradise. I soon finished my simple repast, and 
strapping my canister upon my back and taking my har 
poon in hand I commenced my pilgrimage round about 
the island, which I was determined to accomplish before I 
undertook any other task. 

I passed across Rapid River and pressed towards the 
sea coast and finally, after a walk of about a mile in a 
northeasterly direction, came out upon a bold shore with 
quite a promontory on my right hand. How wistfully 
I looked out upon the ocean, the day being so clear that I 

9 



DISCOVERY OF COAL. 97 

could see to a great distance ; but my view encountered 
no welcome sail, only the everlasting waste of waters 
spread out before me. With one long sigh of repining at 
my fate, I passed on to the right and commenced ascend 
ing the promontory before me. I trudged on through open 
land and small groves of trees till I arrived at the summit, 
which was barren and gave me a great view seaward and 
convinced me that I was on the extreme northeastern 
extremity of my island ; for I could see nothing to the 
northward of me, but in my rear and to the eastward I 
saw another projection extending into the sea, to the south 
ward of which I could not observe. From my elevation 
I was able to see somewhat of the interior of the island, 
and this was what met my view : to the south of me and 
at about two miles distance, as I should judge, I saw quite 
an elevation, and far away to the southwest another large 
hill, almost a miniature mountain. The island seemed 
well wooded in all directions and presented a beautiful 
appearance in the brilliant morning sun and pure clear 
air. I looked long and anxiously to the eastward for 
land, but saw nothing : and my friends the goats seemed 
to have deserted me in this part of the island, for I saw 
no signs of them. I turned to pass to the southward and 
eastward along the coast-line, when I was attracted by 
the appearance of the ground round about me, having in 
seams amongst the rocks a dark appearance. I stooped 
down and by the aid of my knife broke off some portions 
of this familiar looking substance, when lo and behold I 



98 PEBSEVEBANCE ISLAND. 

I held in my hand veritable anthracite or bituminous coal, 
I was not expert enough to know which, although I 
thought it to be the former. What a discovery was this 
for me, and yet what a natural one, after all. I could not 
rest satisfied with my own convictions that it was really 
coal that I held in my hand ; but then and there drew out 
my flint and steel and started a wood fire, at which I had 
become expert, and digging up large fragments with my 
harpoon and knife, which I took care not to break or dull 
in the operation, I cast them upon the flame. Yes, it was 
true past peradventure, I had found coal, veritable coal, 
that burned readily in the midst of my wood fire where I 
had piled it in the glowing embers and flames. Every 
once in a while it seemed to give off quick jets of flame, 
and this led me to examine the specimens before me more 
carefully to ascertain the cause. And upon breaking 
open, with a stone, quite a large fragment, I saw within it 
a large broad streak, as wide as my finger, of a yellowish 
cast, which I instantly recognized as sulphur, and in fact 
my memory told me that the coal received from the 
island of Formosa, in China, especially from the surface 
collections, abounded in sulphur, sometimes so much so as 
to be disagreeable for house use. But one thought flashed 
into my mind upon this discovery , matches ! matches ! 
matches ! Yes, here was before me the foundation of all 
lucifer matches, and I had only to consult, on my return, 
my Compendium of Useful Arts and Sciences, to avail 
myself of it and find out how to combine it with the other 



I FIND SULPHUB. 99 

necessary articles to have real bond fide matches. I was 
overwhelmed with joy, and blessed the hour that had 
been so fruitful in comforts for me, should I have to 
remain upon this island. 

I went to work and soon had sufficient of crude sul 
phur or brimstone I do not know which it should cor 
rectly be called to answer all my purposes for experi 
ment, and carefully wrapping it up in some leaves and 
fastening it with a thread of my manilla, I placed 
it in my bag. I thought how rapidly my fortunes 
were changing : here had I within a few hours insured 
myself against cold and loss of fire by the few gifts of 
nature laid at my feet. I tried, in spite of my miserable 
solitude, to be thankful. Before leaving the promontory 
I drew out my birch-bark chart and named the point East 
Signal Point, as it was evidently a capital place at 
some future day to erect a signal of some kind upon, 
being high, bold, and barren, and overlooking the sur 
rounding country. The place where I had found the coal 
and sulphur, I simply named the Coal Mine. 

Having marked these carefully down, I rolled up my 
chart and took my way towards the easterly cape to the 
southward of where I stood. After a walk of about a 
mile and a half, I found myself upon what was evidently 
the extreme eastern end of my island, not nearly so high 
as East Signal Point, but well elevated and barren to 
wards the sea, backed with a thick forest inland. Stand 
ing on this point, which I named Eastern Cape, I saw 



100 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

that this was the limit of my island in this direction, and 
by figuring in my head and looking at my chart I esti 
mated that I was about six miles from my landing-place 
in a direct line, and about eight by the coast line. 

I saw nothing here to attract my attention except many 
seals on the southerly shore, which was now opened to my 
view for the first time. On the broken and jagged rocks 
of this coast-line I saw great numbers of these animals of 
different sizes, and I should think of different species. 

It being by this time about noon by the sun, I sat down 
and opened my bag and regaled myself upon turtle steaks 
and cold boiled eggs, for I did not go to the trouble of 
lighting any fire ; this, washed down with water from 
Rapid River in my tin canister, formed my frugal meal. 
Towards the southwest I saw trending a long sandy beach 
similar to the one inside the breakwater, except that this 
was lashed by the long regular billows of the ocean with 
out any intervening barrier. After taking a good long 
rest, I got upon my feet and started again upon my jour 
ney. I soon came down upon the hard sea sand from my 
elevation, and the seals that I had seen from above seemed 
little inclined to move at my approach, and I passed quite 
near to several amongst the rocks before reaching the 
beach. No one can credit what pleasure I experienced in 
simply observing these poor dumb creatures so near me, 
with their great, beautiful black eyes, and I lingered near 
them for over an hour, so fascinated was I by them ; they 
seemed almost like companions to me, so subdued and 



SEALS AND TURTLE. 101 

lonely had I become for want of the society of my fellow- 
creatures, even in these few days. I talked to them, and 
they answered me by snorts of surprise, and by gazing at 
me with their great staring eyes. I would not have hurt 
one of them for all the wealth of the world, and when I 
left them I took off my clumsy hat and bid them good-by 
as I would intelligent beings. 

After leaving the seals behind me I became despondent 
again, and cursed my cruel fate. My loneliness rushed 
upon me with renewed force ; however, I tried hard to 
thrust it from me, and before I had made a mile upon the 
beach was in better spirits again. I saw flying round about 
me several birds that I recognized as gulls, and ahead of 
me a turtle made his way into the sea, but I made no at 
tempt to stop him, having plenty of food and to spare, 
but I was glad to see that my expectations, or rather de 
sires, were more than fulfilled, and that my capture upon 
the other side of the island had not been an exceptional 
one, and I could look to this creature also for food ; but 
that question, as well as the one of water and fire, was 
fast disappearing from my mind, as the certainty of pro 
viding all, easily, was being hourly forced upon me. I 
foresaw that I should not want for any of these things, 
that I should, with a little care and labor, have comforts 
undreamed of when I first found myself cast on shore. 

The question of savages even was fast being settled, for 
I reasoned that I could not have made such a distance 
round about the island without finding some traces of 



102 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

human beings, if there were any upon the island ; still I 
cannot say that all my nervousness was gone, I was yet 
too lonely, depressed, and solitary, and knew yet too little 
of the whole island, to have recovered all my usual and 
natural evenness of temperament ; but I was improving, 
and my head was already filled with ideas of boats, bal 
loons, and I know not what, in which I was in some way 
yet to escape. After walking about three miles along 
this lovely beach I came, upon turning a slight elevation, 
to the mouth of a small trickling brook not over three feet 
wide, which found its way to the ocean from a back 
ground of forest trees. I sat down by the side of it, and 
soon ascertained that the water was pure, cool, and fresh. 
I almost smiled at the fury with which I had attacked 
this problem of water upon my first arrival upon the 
island ; but on the other hand I felt pleased to think that 
I had also overcome it, and had made Nature serve me. 
I took quite a rest at this point, and, after sauntering 
about, concluded, as the sun was sinking towards the 
west, to make it my resting-place for the night. For this 
purpose I went a little further back from the beach under 
the trees, and carried up there large quantities of good 
dry seaweed, and made me a nice comfortable bed, 
lighted a good fire, and after a quite good supper of 
my eggs and turtle steak, which I warmed in the ashes 
and roasted over the hot coals, I took out my pipe and 
tobacco to smoke and meditate. With the precious weed 
that I drew from my pocket I mixed a small quantity of 



NEW AND OLD CKUSOES CONTRASTED. 103 

the wild weed that I had found, and having of course had 
no time to cure it I first shrivelled it up over my hot embers 
and then mixed it with my tobacco. By the scent and 
fragrance, whilst it was being dried in this manner, I had 
no longer any doubt but what I had found the veritable 
article, and when I came to mix it in my pipe I felt con 
vinced. 

It being early, and feeling that I surely had a sup 
ply of this luxury, I indulged in a second pipe-full, 
and whilst I was puffing away I was also trying to 
look into the future. My remembrance of the original 
Robinson Crusoe was that he was a bungler at anything 
and everything that he undertook, whilst I felt that I was 
a good mechanic, thoroughly versed in the use of all tools, 
and especially in working in iron ; that I had a fair, sound, 
common-school education, and that I had been ingenious 
and inventive both on sea and land from my boyhood ; 
that I had had good experience in navigation and sea 
manship, and intercourse with many nations ; that I knew, 
and had acquired, the little every-day habits of many 
curious people, and that I had seen numerous ways of 
doing the same things in different parts of the world. 
Besides all this I had a valuable book which would serve 
me in the very points in which I was deficient, and I felt 
that with it I could do thousands of things that the old 
Robinson Crusoe never dreamed of doing. I felt that if 
there was iron to be found in the island there would 
practically be no end to the improvements and comforts 

(370) H 



104 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

that I could gather about me ; with tools of iron and steel, 
with my knowledge of mechanics, what I could not 
make would almost be the question. 

I felt convinced that there must be iron upon the 
island, even if not in large quantities, enough for my pur 
pose if I could only find it. I knew that the Japanese 
islands had plenty of it, that Formosa and New Zealand 
abounded in it, and I was determined to find it if it was 
to be found. 

I had already made up my mind to move to Rapid 
River for my home, unless future discoveries showed me 
a different state of affairs in the western part of the island 
than I expected to find. 

I wondered, as I sat, whether my famous lamp tower 
was performing its duties during my absence, but it did 
not trouble me any longer even if it were not, for I found 
that my flint, steel, and tinder were all-sufficient for my 
purpose, and was I not soon going to make real matches ? 

Sitting smoking, and revolving all these thoughts in 
my mind, I saw the sun sink into the western ocean, and 
shortly after wrapped myself up in my seaweed covering, 
under the shelter of a bunch of low shrubs, and dropped 
asleep. 



CHAPTER XI. 

Exploration of the island. Third day. Stalking goats. Mirror lake and 
river and bay. Sad moonlight thoughts. 

I AWOKE to still another pleasant day, having scarcely 
moved in my seaweed bed during the night. My first 
duty was to make my way to the running brook and have 
a good wash, and then to look about me for breakfast. I 
bethought myself all at once of the turtle that I had seen 
on the beach the previous day, and I made my way back 
to the place where I observed the marks of its ingress 
into the sea, and, looking about carefully, I soon found its 
eggs nicely covered up in the sand. I took as many as I 
wanted and turned about and made my way back to 
camp, and soon had them roasting in the ashes. 

After breakfast I pushed my way a little into the island, 
and found pleasant groves and fields, in one of the latter 
of which I observed a flock of goats feeding. They did not 
see me, and I found by the direction of the wind that I 
was to leeward of them, and therefore beyond their scent, 
and I determined to stalk them, or creep in upon them, 
and try to get a shot with my arrows. For this purpose 
I divested myself of all extra articles, and, armed only 
with my bow and two arrows, and my knife in its sheath, 

106 



106 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I got upon my hands and knees and commenced the task. 
At first this was not difficult, for the animals were at 
least two hundred yards distant from me, and by taking 
advantage of different clumps of trees and shrubs I soon 
approached within one hundred yards of them ; but then 
my labors commenced. I felt that I must get very near 
to be sure of my aim with arrows, at least within twenty- 
five yards, to pierce them sufficiently deep to produce 
death. 

I made progress for some twenty or thirty yards quite 
well by keeping within range of intervening objects, but 
when I found myself within about sixty or seventy yards 
of them I found my task difficult, and I had often to lie 
upon my belly and drag myself along, inch by inch, so as 
not to be seen, and with one hand to clear the ground 
before me of the smallest twig or anything that would 
make the slightest noise when my body was passing over 
it. It took me a full hour to make twenty-five yards in 
this manner, which brought me within, as I should judge, 
thirty-five yards of them. Here my precautions had to 
be increased, and it was with infinite labor, and the 
expenditure of at least another hour (but what was time 
to me) before I found myself behind a low clump of 
bushes, on the other side of which, not more than twenty 
yards distant, I could hear the goats feeding. Silently I 
fitted an arrow to the string, and rising inch by inch till 
the muscles of my arms and thighs were nearly worn out 
from immovability, I saw through the thin tops of the 



GOAT-SHOOTING. 107 

bushes one of the goats not fifteen paces from me. I was 
at a fever heat of excitement, and drawing my arrow 
silently to the head, and with the utmost force of my arm, 
I launched it at the game, and saw it pierce the goat 
through and through, who fell upon his side, but immedi 
ately regaining his feet made off with amazing swiftness ; 
its companions, to the number of some six or eight, scat 
tering in all directions. I followed as fast as possible on 
foot, and saw with satisfaction that my game had not 
gone more than one hundred yards before it began to 
waver and to lose its speed, and within the next fifty 
yards, in the open field, to fall upon its side, and, just 
before I arrived, expire, in its fall breaking the arrow short 
off. I looked down upon the creature with exultation, for 
it was food, and good food, and I had won it by honest 
and persevering labor, and by means of what in our day 
was considered a contemptible weapon. 

I took out my knife and cut the creature's throat and let 
the blood escape, and then taking him for it was a 
buck by the hind-legs I threw him over my back and 
started for my camp on the rivulet, where I dumped him 
down beside my fire and commenced to skin him. This, 
with my knife, I soon completed, and, cutting off some of 
the tender chops I soon had them roasting on the coals, 
for, although I had breakfasted a few hours before, I 
could not resist the temptation of tasting fresh meat, 
which, on account of my sea voyage, it was so long 
since I had enjoyed. I found it exceedingly good in 



108 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

flavor, but a little tough, my customer evidently being 
far from young. He carried a very handsome pair of 
curved horns, and a long, majestic beard. The hair was 
of rather a finer texture than I expected to find it, and 
was not very long or thick ; another proof, I thought, of 
my theory of the mildness of the climate. The animal 
was such a true, commonplace goat, such as one sees on 
whalers, that I felt convinced that the breed had at some 
long-distant day been left on the island in this manner, 
but no signs had I yet found of the island having ever 
been lived upon or explored. Then, again, it might with 
great probability have been stocked fifty or sixty years 
ago, and any signs of persons having been here, except 
they had left enduring monuments of some kind, would 
long ago have been effaced or destroyed. I made up my 
mind to accept the blessing without puzzling my brains 
any more to find out how it happened that they were 
here. I was pained to know what to do with the large 
mass of flesh that I had remaining, and having, at Buenos 
Ayres, seen the jerked beef of the prairies, I cut large 
portions of this creature into strips and hung it on the 
surrounding trees and bushes to dry and cure in the 
pure air. A large portion of what was left I roasted and 
put in my bag, throwing away the remainder of the turtle 
steaks and gulls' eggs, of which I had become somewhat 
tired. All this brought me to the afternoon, and, packing 
up all my articles, after a good long smoke, harpoon in 
hand I started forth again, heading towards the westward. 



MIRROR RIVER, BAY, AND LAKE. 109 

Two miles' walk brought me to an elevation running out 
into the sea, which was evidently the southern extremity 
of my island, and I marked it upon the chart South Cape, 
and the hill-top Watch Hill, for the reason that I could 
see from this position much further in both an easterly 
and westerly direction than from any point upon the 
island that I had yet reached. 

To the right of me as I faced to the southward was a 
beautiful and lovely bay, at least a mile and a half deep 
and three-quarters wide, as smooth as glass, in which the 
shadows of the surrounding shores and hill-tops were 
pictured. I marked it down upon my chart as Mirror 
Bay. Long and steadily I looked to the southward before 
leaving South Cape, but no sign of land met my longing 
view. To the westward, on the other side of Mirror Bay, 
trended the white sand beach, backed by groves of beauti 
ful trees which were in full verdure. Drinking in all the 
beauties of Nature round about me, I turned my steps 
towards the head of Mirror Bay, and in about a mile and 
a half came to a river of considerable size pouring into it, 
which seemed of some depth, and was at least thirty or 
forty yards wide. I followed this stream about a mile 
and a half more, when, struggling along by the side of the 
river, which I named Mirror River, through a short under 
growth of a sort of scrub oak, I all at once came out upon 
the most lovely lake imaginable, fringed round about by 
beautiful groves of trees, and looking like molten lead or 
silver in its quietness and calm, I named it at once 



110 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Mirror Lake> but in forcing my way to its margin, alter 
having for a few moments enjoyed its beauties, I started 
up from its borders innumerable flocks of birds, amongst 
which I distinguished geese, swans, ducks, and other birds 
of which I knew not the name. I sat down upon the 
borders of this beautiful sheet of water and contemplated 
it in silence. 

After having enjoyed its beauties to my fill, I passed 
again to the river bank to pass over and get again to the 
seaside, but I found the water rapid and quite deep, 
although not over my head, and I was obliged to undress 
and carry my things over one by one, and to make several 
trips before I stood with all my weapons round about me 
on the southwestern bank. This lake I should say was 
about one mile in extent and half a mile wide, of nearly 
an oval form, and its waters, which I tasted and found 
excellent, singularly pure and limpid, with hard, sandy 
shores, and free from any slime or stagnant water. A walk 
of a mile brought me again to the seaside, and I trudged 
on, I should judge, about three miles, till I saw a ledge of 
rocks jutting into the sea and confining my vision as to 
the extent of the island in that direction. As I drew 
nearer I saw forms upon the rocks that looked like human 
figures, like soldiers in full uniform, but singularly 
small in size. For just one moment I was deceived, nay, 
even frightened, but the next my sailor's eyes told me 
they were penguins, and sure enough, as I approached, my 
soldiers gravely plunged into the ocean and swam out sea- 



PENGUIN POINT. Ill 

ward. I named the point, Penguin Point, being the first 
of these birds that I had seen. From this point the coast 
ran in a northerly direction in almost a straight line, but I 
had no time to examine it further on this day, for the 
beautiful sun was fast dipping into the western ocean 
before my eyes, with nothing to veil the magnificent sight. 
Eagerly did I look for land as its lower limb touched the 
water and set it all in a blaze, but nothing met my 
view. 

I did not find here the thick, shady trees of the re 
mainder of the island ; but short, stumpy cedars and pines, 
and I noticed that the land was flat and sandy. I built a 
small fire so as to light my pipe and enjoy its company, 
and gathered together my customary bed of seaweed. 
The stars came out in all their brilliancy, and by and by 
the moon came creeping up behind me over the island, 
but I could not sleep as usual. I was too solitary and 
desolate to enjoy that luxury of forgetfulness, and I sat 
for long hours into the night, listening to sounds that, in 
any but a sailor's ear, would have created fear and anxiety; 
for on the ocean side I heard the never-ending pulsations 
and throbs of its ceaseless breathing, and inland the name 
less noises of the night which I had learned years be 
fore in anchor-watches in some distant river of a far- 
off clime. I was not afraid, but I was lonely, and in the 
agony of my spirit I prayed for rescue from my living 
tomb ; but better feelings came to my mind as the night 
wore on, and I thought over how much I had to be thank- 



112 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

ful for, and how many comforts I could get round about 
me with a little industry and foresight. I suppose that 
it was about midnight when I put out my pipe and fell 
asleep ; at any rate, when I awoke it was broad daylight, 
and the pun at least two hours high. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Exploration of the island : Fourth day. Finish the exploration of the 
island, and build stone house at Rapid River. 

I SOON had my fire in a blaze and my breakfast de 
spatched, and started forward on my explorations. As I 
advanced, I saw that I was on a smooth, hard sand-beach, 
with a scanty growth of cedars and pines on my right 
hand inland. After walking a few miles I turned to the 
right and walked inland, expecting, from the formation of 
the land, that the part of the island I was upon could not 
be very wide ; and sure enough, after a short half mile 
through the stunted cedars, I came out upon Persever 
ance Bay, and within plain sight of Point Deliverance 
and Stillwater Cove, some three miles distant. I found 
that I was upon a narrow tongue of land which formed 
the western boundary of Perseverance Bay and ended 
in the promontory that I had seen from Point Deliver 
ance in looking across the bay on the first day of my 
explorations. 

I did not consider it worth while to pass back again to 
the west shore, but kept along on the beach on the margin 
of Perseverance Bay towards the point to the northward. 

113 



114 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

In a mile or two more I reached it, and found that it con 
sisted of quite a sandy elevation, covered with stunted 
cedars, and evidently the extreme northern point of my 
island. I named it West Signal Point. Here I sat down 
and took a review of my situation. I had virtually made 
the circuit of the island; for from where I sat I could 
see the margin of Perseverance Bay, which, if I followed, 
would end in landing me at the mouth of Stillwater 
Cove, near my hut. 

I saw that my task was completed, and that I was alone 
on my island, the only living human being, the latter-day 
Robinson Crusoe. My feelings were those of joy and 
grief, joy, that it had pleased Providence to keep me 
out of the hands of savages, where I could pass my life 
in peace, if it was so willed ; grief, that I should be forced 
to this lonely and solitary life. I sat many hours at this 
spot, thinking over plans for the future, and what I 
should do to make myself comfortable and protected 
from wind and weather, and from future enemies, should 
any ever visit me. On the whole, I found my mind much 
relieved at the positive proof that I had of the island 
being uninhabited, and when I arose and started for 
home it was with a freer step and lighter heart than I 
had had since my landing. 

A trudge of about seven miles, as near as I could 
judge, brought me to Stillwater Cove without adven 
ture of any kind, although I passed many objects in 
the way of birds, trees, and vegetables that were of 



HOME AGAIN. 115 

intense interest to me. From thence, a walk of about a 
mile brought me to my hut at about five o'clock by the 
sun, hungry and tired, but perfectly well and strong. 
Convinced as I was of the utter solitude of the island, still 
it was with care and almost awe that I approached my 
hut, almost expecting to see some strange creature, either 
human or savage, within its walls. Nothing met my ear 
or eye. Quietness and solitude reigned, and everything 
was exactly as I had left it. I examined my lamp 
tower, and found that two of the lights had gone out, I 
suppose on account of the wick, but the others were burn 
ing well but dimly. I immediately gave matters here my 
attention, and soon had all to rights and "ship-shape." 
I had even a feeling of comfort as if I had arrived 
home, and I went about the matter of getting supper 
and starting my fire with a cheerful feeling ; and whilst 
doing so I caught myself at one time quietly humming 
an old sea ditty. 

I saw plainly that my residence at this point was at an 
end, and that Rapid River was the place for me to make 
my home. So I took little care to arrange matters about 
me on this evening, but sat down in a matter-of-fact way 
and ate my supper, whilst the sun was sinking into the 
west ; but when night came on, with my pipe as a solace, 
I thought of everything, and these are a few of the thou 
sand and one things that coursed through my mind. I 
gathered together the following facts : 

First. That the island was uninhabited, fruitful, and 



116 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

fertile, abounding in everything that could conduce to 
my comfort ; pure fresh water in several localities, birds 
and fishes of many varieties, goats, trees of all sizes and 
growth, tobacco and sweet potatoes, coal and sulphur; an 
evidently mild and even climate, and many useful things, 
no doubt, which I had not yet discovered in my hasty 
circuit of it. 

Second. That I was the only living soul upon it, and 
that all these natural treasures were mine to avail myself 
of by industry, ingenuity, and perseverance. 

Such being the facts of the case, what should be my 
future course, and what my plans and duty? Amongst 
the many that flashed through my mind, I picked out 
these, as forming the most important to first receive my 
attention. 

First. To erect a strong, serviceable habitation at 
Rapid River, which I had already in my mind concluded 
to call the Hermitage. 

Second. To ascertain at as early a day as possible, by 
the best means at my service, and by the assistance of 
my " Bowditch's Navigator," the latitude and longtitude of 
my island, as near as I could come at it. 

Third. To project a chart from the "Epitome," and find 
out how far I was from other lands. 

Fourth. To never desist from seeking for iron ore at 
every opportunity, for with that I could do almost any 
thing. 

Fifth. To study out some way of building a boat, of 



SEARCH FOR INK. 117 

size and strength, without the use of iron or timbers to 
strengthen her. 

/Sixth. To take the greatest care of my seeds, and 
watch with the utmost solicitude those which I had 
planted. 

Seventh. To capture at as early a date as possible one 
or two of the wild goats, so as to be able to breed up 
tame ones for my use. 

Eighth. To procure at once some kind of ink, and keep 
up my journal and reckoning on birch-bark leaves. 

These were amongst the first tasks that my brain gave 
my body to execute, and although thousands of others 
ran through my head, they all more or less depended 
upon the consummation of these cardinal ones. At a late 
hour I sought my seaweed couch in my hut, and fell 
asleep. The next morning I commenced work in earnest. 
I had my idea about ink (which, if my memory served 
me right, the old Robinson Crusoe had so much difficulty 
about and was unable to make), and wending my way to 
the beach of Stillwater Cove, with my harpoon in hand, 
I waded in, and commenced looking carefully for squid or 
cuttle-fish, feeling positive that the ground was too good 
for them not to be found there, having seen them 
frequently lying dead in the seaweed whilst passing 
around the island. 

I had not long to hunt before I saw several on the 
pure white sand before me at the bottom of the water, 
about the usual size of those at home, say some six inches 



118 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

in length, but when I attempted to strike one with the 
harpoon it darted out of the way, backwards, just as they 
used to do in my boyhood days, ejecting at the same time 
the fluid from his body which I desired to preserve. I 
saw that it was useless to try and get any of these in deep 
water, and therefore waded ashore and commenced look 
ing for them in the numerous shallow pools that the re 
ceding tide had left near the margin of the water, and I 
was successful in finding five nice fellows embayed in a 
small, shallow pool, not six feet in circumference, whence I 
had no difficulty in kicking them out upon the sand, 
opening them with my knife, and pouring the contents of 
their dark fluid (which is the sepia of commerce) into a 
deep mussel-shell. I had the foundation for good ink, and 
with the addition of a little water, and a quill made from 
the feathers of my friends the gulls, I was easily fitted 
out with pens, ink, and birch-bark, which was all I needed 
for many a long day to come. 

This task ended, and a trial made of my new ink by 
making some notes and entries of my doings up to this 
time, I commenced upon another, and that was the 
building of the Hermitage at Rapid River. I selected a 
beautiful spot a short distance below the fall, the noise of 
which was delightful to my ears, and laid out the founda 
tions for my future residence. I was at least three weeks 
preparing all the materials for the building of the same, 
passing over each day to my task and back to the hut to 
sleep. I was determined that my future residence should 



MAKE MORTAR AND BEGIN BUILDING. 119 

be strong and well built, and able to withstand the action 
of wind and rain, and for this purpose I passed my time 
in gathering large masses of clam and oyster shells, and 
reducing them to lime by the action of fire. This was long 
and laborious work, but I needed lime to make mortar, 
and I could only get it in this way. I also wanted some 
hair to mix into my mortar, and this puzzled me for a 
day or two, but I bethought me of the goat's skin that I 
had brought home with me from near Mirror Lake, and I 
at once put it to soak in one of the large sea-oyster shells 
in water impregnated with wood ashes and some of my 
lime to make the hair come off, which it readily did after 
a few days. I then went about, whilst burning my shells 
for lime, to capture some more of the goats, and by means 
of numerous snares made of my manilla rope, and placed 
in the localities that I found they frequented, I had 
no difficulty in capturing as many as I desired, all of 
which I killed and cut the flesh into narrow strips and 
cured it in the air for future use. The lye in which I 
soaked the skins gave me the hair for my mortar, and the 
skins remaining, although not tanned in a proper sense, 
were useful to me in a thousand ways. 

When I had gotten together a sufficient quantity of 
lime, hair, and nice dry sand, and an immense pile of the 
largest stones that I could move, I commenced to build 
my house. 

I marked out a parallelogram of what I should judge 
by my eyes to be about twelve feet in width by eighteen 

(370) I 



120 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

feet in length, and upon these staked-out lines I dug a 
trench some three feet in depth, and into it I pushed 
my heaviest stones for the foundations, taking care to 
place particularly large and smooth ones at the corners. 

Luckily building material was plenty and at no great 
distance. Rocks of all sizes were to be found at the base 
of the rocky point that was just below me on Stillwater 
Cove. Of course I used much larger stones than I could 
lift, which I got to where I wanted them, and into place, 
by means of small rollers, which were sections of quite 
large tree-limbs, that I had cut off with infinite care and 
patience with my knife, into the requisite length, and 
large, strong stakes of wood, made in the same manner, 
which I used as crowbars, or as we sailors should call 
them, and more properly, handspikes. After my first 
tier was laid round about the whole trench, I rolled in 
other stones on top, putting mortar between them before 
I pried them into place. When the trench was filled I 
commenced to use smaller stones, but still ones that were 
quite large and almost unmanageable; and as the walls 
got higher, I had to content myself with stones that I 
could lift with my hands. But then, again, I at this 
point commenced to double my wall, using two stones 
side by side where I had formerly at the base used one. 
In this way my house, gradually, after some three months 
incessant labor, began to take shape. On the front, sides, 
and rear, at proper distances and height, I inserted large 
timbers so as to form windows. These timbers, which were 



COMPLETION OF MY HOUSE. 121 

often as large as my thigh, I obtained by finding dead 
trees that would suit my purpose in the woods, and burn 
ing them off at the proper length, so that I could handle 
them. Of course a foot or two or a burned end was of no 
consequence, as it was laid upon the wall in a horizontal 
position, and mortared into its place with the stones 
that were piled upon it. In this way I formed rough but 
strong uprights and cross-pieces for my door and windows, 
all of them firmly built into the wall, and forming part of 
the solid walls themselves. 

At the end of some three months, after incessant and 
exhaustive labor, I had the satisfaction of seeing the stone 
work to my house all done, the top of the walls being at 
least two feet above my head, and I should say at least 
twelve inches thick ; this was all mortared up both on the 
outside and inside, and was as strong as a fort. The last 
layers of stone gave me the most trouble, but by means of 
a large, nearly round stone, upon which I stood, I was 
enabled to finish my task, although at great pains. The 
erection of the roof was comparatively an easier matter, 
although that also took me a long time and was only 
completed after great patience. I found growing on the 
shores of Rapid River a species of cane, and I found that 
I could cut these down without difficulty, and gather 
ing a large number of them, I spliced them together 
for my uprights and ridge-pole, with manilla yarns, and 
then laid the remainder close together from the ridge-pole 
to the eaves, projecting over the latter some two feet. 



122 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

These were secured to the ridge-pole by manilla strands, 
and in the centre of my house a strong forked tree as 
large as my leg received the ridge-pole from both ends of 
the house, and sustained it. This cane roofing, which was 
both light and strong, I thatched heavily with sedge, 
similar to that with which I had covered my hut. I 
fastened up the openings that I had left for windows with 
goat skins for the present, hanging them on wooden pegs 
which I could remove when the weather was fine. At the 
rear end of my house I had, I should have said, built me 
a nice open fire-place and a tall chimney, which I had had 
to finish after the roof was done, so as to stand upon the 
latter to carry the chimney up high enough to make it 
safe to carry away the sparks from my thatch. Into this 
large, dry, airy, and clean room, I brought by different 
trips all my worldly goods. I had put out the lamps in 
the tower at the landing-place hut long ago, having no fur 
ther need of it, but I still kept it as a receptacle for my 
spare flint, steel, and tinder, and knew that I could go 
there to obtain them to start a fire should I by chance be 
without them on my own person. 

Whilst my house was in course of construction I had 
not been idle about a thousand and one other things, 
but I had let nothing of importance interfere with this 
to me imperative duty. After my house was all 
finished I commenced setting out round about it, at 
about fifty paces distant, a species of alder, which I 
noticed grew rapidly and thickly, and which I foresaw 



WINTER APPROACHING. 128 

would in a very few years entirely conceal my habita 
tion. When I had gotten things well about me, I found 
by my journal that I was in the month of March, in 
other words, that the summer had passed and that I had 
been none too soon in preparing myself for the winter, 
which was yet to visit me. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Make a hatchet of my iron hammer. Make matches and utensils for 
house. Team of goats, chairs, table, etc. Birch-bark canoe. Arrange 
ments for winter. 

I HAVE said that when the Hermitage was finished 
the summer had passed away. Let me describe what the 
weather had been, and something concerning the climate 
and fruits and plants that had been coming to maturity, 
whilst I was hard at work on my house. 

I found the summer days often hot, but never very un 
pleasantly BO. I experienced the usual amount of rainy 
weather that it would be natural to find in a similar lati 
tude in the northern hemisphere. There were days, of 
course, in which it was very hot, and there were other 
days in which large quantities of rain fell, but upon the 
whole the climate was delightful, more like that of the 
inland sea in southern Japan than anything else to which 
I can compare it. The island was singularly free from 
fogs and mists, but then I might reasonably look for these 
later in the season. When the day was very sultry, I had 
always the beautiful sandy basin of Stillwater Cove to 
bathe in. So far I had nothing to complain of on this 

124 



A STEEL HATCHET. 125 

score, and felt confident that the winter would be mild 
and short. It was about this time that I felt the need of 
more tools, and especially a hatchet, which I finally con 
cluded to make out of my hammer, which, be it remem 
bered, I had constructed out of the boat's anchor. I took 
this hammer, and by repeated heatings and beating with 
a piece of the remaining shank, I forged it into the shape 
of a hatchet, still leaving the eye as it was when used for 
a hammer. I then went to the place where I had been 
cast on shore, and procured some clay like that from which 
I had made my lamp tower, and formed some rough cru 
cibles by burning them hi hot wood fires. Into one of 
these I put my hatchet-head and filled round about it with 
small pieces of charcoal and slips of the skin of my goats 
and small pieces of unburned, soft wood, and carefully 
sealed up the orifice with a quantity of the moist clay, and 
cast the crucible into a hot fire ; not hot enough to fuse 
the iron, however, and kept it there, watching it carefully 
from time to time, nearly three days, when I dragged it 
out of the flames, broke open the crucible, and took out 
my hatchet-head, converted into excellent steel of superior 
hardness and temper. I soon procured a soft species of 
stone as a whetstone, and by the labor of a few hours 
brought the edge to a fine degree of sharpness, and, having 
fitted a handle by means of my knife, I had a splendid 
instrument to aid me. No mortal ever looked upon the 
works of his own hands with more admiration than did I 
upon my steel hatchet, Many things which I had not 



126 PERSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

before deemed possible I could now attempt. After I 
had made my hatchet I commenced many improvements 
round about me. I made several trips to my vegetable 
garden, and saw with the utmost satisfaction that all 
my seeds had sprouted, and I supplied myself with all 
kinds of vegetables during the whole season. I took 
great care to preserve carefully a great plenty of the seeds 
of each species, and thought more of that than enjoying 
them, but they were so plenty that I had ample of nearly 
all for food. My wheat, however, I saved every kernel of 
for sowing next year. 

I had by this time several very tame goats tied up about 
the hermitage, and I made up my mind to break a span 
or two of them to harness, and for this purpose, as I could 
not construct wheels, I made a sled by bending two small 
limbs in the shape I desired, and fastening them by cross 
pieces, all of which I held together by straps of manilla 
lashings and by holes burned with a hot nail from one 
part into the other, into which I drove small pegs of hard, 
seasoned wood, and finally turned out quite a respectable 
sled, about twice as large as a boy's common sled, and the 
runners much wider, so as not to sink into the soil. To 
this I attached my four goats, making the harness out of 
the hides of those that I had killed, which I sewed to 
gether in good shape with strong manilla twine by 
means of my bradawl, making real good, strong work. 
The traces I made by laying up small strands of the 
manilla rope, and ended by turning out four sets of 



A TEAM OP GOATS. 127 

breast-plate harnesses; strong and durable, and easily 
adjusted. 

I found very little difficulty in breaking my team into 
drawing this sled, and by means of it I brought home 
many useful acquisitions for my winter's use, but chiefly 
coal from my coal mine, which was about two miles dis 
tant. I used to carry my sled across Rapid River, be 
low the falls, and then drive over my team upon a sort 
of rocky causeway that I had built, so that they did not 
have to tread very deep in the water, and then, harness 
ing them up, I used to start for the mine, and by means 
of the anchor-fluke, I dug out coal easily enough in a 
short time to load my sled, and dragged it home to the 
river, whence I transported it across in a basket of willow 
twigs that I had made in my leisure moments. In this 
way, before winter, I had at least two tons of coal near 
the door-way of the hermitage, all handy for winter use. 
With this same sled and team, I gathered also a large 
amount of wood, which I could now cut into proper 
lengths with my hatchet. I constructed of small stones 
and mortar in one side of my large fire-place, a sort of 
grate, with a chimney made of sections of pottery pipe 
manufactured of clay from the landing place, that led 
up into the main chimney, in which I could burn my 
coal if I wished to, or make a wood fire beside it. I 
found very little difficulty in making several clumsy but 
useful vessels of clay, which I baked successfully and 
glazed with salt ; my book of useful arts and sciences 



128 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

giving me an idea how to do it. My next task was to 
make matches, and the information necessary for this I 
also procured from my book. The wood I easily obtained 
by splitting up small, thin sections of well-seasoned pine 
with my hatchet, and these again I sub-divided into 
matches with my knife. I then caught a quantity of fish 
with my harpoon, which I had no difficulty in doing at 
any time, especially the small dog-shark species, and 
chopped up the bones of the head with my hatchet, plac 
ing them at a distance from my habitation. These I 
allowed to putrify till they were luminous with phosphorus, 
which I gathered carefully in the night-time by separating 
it from the putrid mass and carefully pressing it. I then 
procured some turpentine from the resinous trees near to 
me, and made a mixture of sulphur, phosphorus, and tur 
pentine, which I heated, and into which I dipped each 
match singly, and laid it aside to dry. I afterwards 
dipped each into a melted solution of pure spruce gum, 
very thin, to preserve them from the weather. I made 
several attempts before I was successful, but at last I 
obtained the right proportions and made me a stock of 
matches that worked well if they were used with care, 
and if the weather was not too damp, when I was often 
driven to the use of my flint and steel. For winter pro 
visions I visited, with my sled and team, the sweet-potato 
fields, and laid in a large stock, also picking a quantity of 
the tobacco plant and curing it for my own use, and thia 
was my greatest solace in my loneliness. 



TANNER, TAILOR, AND SHOEMAKER. 129 

I found upon the island a species of gourd, and I soon 
had in my home a set of these useful utensils, which, by 
dividing, I also made into bowls and saucers. I also, 
from Breakwater ledge, procured any number of the large 
deep mussel-shells, nearly a foot in length, which were 
useful as receptacles for all sorts of things. 

I found no difficulty, by a treatment which I found in 
my book, in preserving, by means of tannin procured from 
the inner bark of a species of scrub oak with which the 
island abounded, all the skins of my goats, and I soon 
gathered together a stock of both tanned and untanned 
ones, some with the hair on and some with it removed. I 
hated to attack my friends the seals, and yet it was about 
this time that I made a trip across the island and killed 
ten of them for the purpose of procuring their skins, 
which I added to my stock. 

I found no difficulty, by means of my knife, in cutting 
out quite a respectable pair of trousers, and a sort of hunt 
ing jacket from the goat-skins ; but the sewing of them 
together was a harder task. Still, before winter set in, I 
was clothed in quite a nice buckskin suit, and had, with 
my seal-skins and goat-skins with the hair left on, the 
withal to make at any time a winter suit that would 
protect me from the cold, so that I had that trouble 
off my mind. As for shoes, I easily made me a pair of 
moccasins of the goat-skin, with the hair side within, 
which were very comfortable and useful. I also from my 
skins made me a much more useful and ornamental cap to 



130 PEESEVEEANCB ISLAND. 

replace the one of rushes that I had worn throughout the 
summer. 

I also made me a nice tobacco pouch, and several other 
useful articles of skin, including a sort of game bag, which 
I carried over my shoulder by a broad skin band ; this 
latter was especially useful to me. I also made from my 
clay several useful but rather clumsy pipe-heads, and with 
a reed stem I was fitted on this score and had no more 
fears about breaking my old clay one. For meat for the 
winter I laid in large stocks of my dried or jerked goat's 
flesh, and I had little fears on this score, as I could always 
procure fresh meat now, when I desired it, for my goats 
had begun to propagate already. From them I already 
obtained milk, in larger quantities than I had any use for, 
but had too many things to think of, of more importance 
than to try at this time to make cheese. I caught in the 
river large quantities of a species of herring, and also a 
few fine salmon, which visited the river, but only for a 
short time, being unable to ascend the falls. All of these 
I cured by smoking, by building a hut round about them 
and keeping them for a long time in the densest smoke by 
burning green wood underneath them. I cured also in 
this way some few hams of my goats. 

After having gotten these things about me, I tackled 
others of less importance, perhaps, but necessary for my 
comfort. In one of my excursions to the coal-mine I dis 
covered what I felt convinced was limestone, and upon 
bringing a piece home, and testing it by fire, I found I 



HOUSE FURNISHING. 131 

was correct, so here I had all the lime I should ever need 
for any purpose, easily procured by burning the stone and 
gathering up the residue. I now commenced upon the 
interior of my house, and in the first place made myself a 
nice hammock of four goat-skins, with the hair inside, 
which I stretched from the central post of my room to 
one of the window jambs. I then went to work upon a 
bed, and cut first with my hatchet four uprights with 
forked ends, like the letter Y, from as many limbs, about 
four inches in diameter and three feet high ; into these 
forks I placed two long poles, some two inches in diam 
eter, and fastened them there securely by means of 
manilla strands. I then braced the ends and sides by 
lashing, both lengthwise and endwise, poles about one 
foot from the ground, which kept the whole in shape, and 
although it was not so strong as if dovetailed together by 
a cabinet-maker, it answered all purposes, and when 
pushed up against the wall, in the corner, was further 
supported upon two sides. Across this I stretched cords 
of manilla, and over them I laid long, soft, pliable rushes, 
and over them again seal-skins, with the hair side up 
ward ; and I had at last a capital bed. My chairs did not 
give me so much trouble, for I found two old roots of trees, 
that, with a little hacking off here and there with my 
hatchet and a goat skin for a seat, made as easy chairs as 
any body ever sat in ; of course they were too heavy to be 
moved about, but for all practical purposes they were per 
fect, and I could rest in them with the greatest comfort 
and ease. 



132 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

With my clay I easily baked some shallow dishes 
with a handle, into which I poured my sharks' liver oil 
and fitted with pith wick and had no want of light. One 
of these lamps I suspended from the ridgepole in nearly 
the centre of the room, just clear of the upright, and two 
or three feet above my head, fitted with three wicks, 
which, when lit at night gave me a pleasant and abundant 
light. I made favorites of one or two of my young goats, 
and used to allow them to occupy the house with me, and 
became much attached to them, and in the evening when 
not too busy, amused myself by teaching them to walk on 
their hind legs, and other playful tricks which seemed for 
a moment to make me forget iny loneliness. I was not 
satisfied with what I had yet done for the interior of my 
house, and I therefore went to work and made myself a 
table on the same plan as the bed, except that it was 
higher and much lighter, and across this I stretched a 
large section of birch bark which I stripped from a tree ; 
this table pleased me so much that I went to work and 
made a lighter one still for my ink, pens, and books, etc., 
retaining the other for eating purposes. In fact, before 
the winter was ended I had four of these tables in the 
house, which were very handy, and yet after all were not 
difficult to make. For a door, I cut several canes and 
lashed them together with manilla rope strands, and hung 
it by the same material, but it would not open or shut 
very well, and I was forced to lift it carefully, but then I 
only closed and opened it once a day, morning and night. 



CEMENT FLOORING. 133 

The floor of my house troubled me more than anything 
else, but finally I covered it with a coating of clay that I 
brought on the sled by repeated trips to the clay field ; 
this I mixed with a quantity of lime and sand and put it 
down whilst moist, and it formed a sort of cement, and 
goon became hard and firm, but it was always dusty to a 
degree and not as clean as I could have wished, but it did 
very well, at least, I could think of nothing to im 
prove it. 

It was at this time, when I seemed to have gotten 
everything well about me for the winter, which was sen 
sibly approaching, for it was now the month of May, and 
some of the days had been quite chilly and unpleasant, 
that I was taken with the insane idea of building a boat. 
I do not know for what earthly purpose I desired one, ex 
cept, possibly, I might coast along in Stillwater Cove 01 
the margin of Perseverance Bay and if I found anything 
that I needed I could transport it better in the boat than 
any other way. I was well aware that I had no tools to 
make a boat with, but for that very reason I was de- 
termined to make one. I had made up my mind, if I 
must play the part of Robinson Crusoe, that I would at 
least prove to myself, if to no one else, that thousands of 
things can be accomplished by a little ingenuity and con 
trivance that seem difficult upon first view. For instance, 
I thought at once of several ways in which I could make 
a boat : one, by hollowing out a log with my hatchet and 
by means of fire ; another by making a light frame of 



134 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

twigs and stretching skins over it; or still another and 
very much the best method, by taking the bark from a 
birch tree and making an Indian birch-bark canoe. This 
latter was the easiest and simplest, and a plan that I knew 
something about, so I went about in the woods till I 
found a splendid great birch that pleased my eye, some 
two feet or more in diameter, with a bark seemingly 
without a flaw. It took me nearly a day to build up a 
kind of platform of wood and stones, so as to reach high 
enough up the trunk of the tree to make a circular in 
cision with my knife at about fifteen feet from the 
ground, and then one perpendicular till within about two 
feet of the ground, where I made another round about the 
tree, leaving me a strip of bark some thirteen feet in 
length. This I forced off, using great care not to tear or 
split it, by means of a series of wedges which I forced 
in under the bark with my hatchet. At last the piece 
lay before me upon the ground, and the worst part 
of my task was done, for I soon brought the ends to 
gether, filling them first with melted pitch, and lashed 
them with thin withes of a kind of willow which I split 
for the purpose, the same as the Indians do ; and having 
sewed and lashed up both ends, after cutting the bark 
with my knife in the right shape, I split up with my 
hatchet long, limber, thin pieces of a species of ash, in 
the green state, something like hoops to a flour barrel, but 
somewhat wider and stronger, and with these cut in 
different lengths, and inserted within the bark, I gave the 



BIKCH-BARK CANOE. 135 

canoe its shape, the longest, widest, and strongest ones 
being in the centre, from which they shortened towards 
each end. Inside of the gunwale the whole length on 
each side I stretched a pliable cane pole, rolling the bark 
round about it and sewing the whole down with manilla 
strands and green withes of willow. 

It was amazing to see what a beautiful, light, and 
graceful boat I had produced with only about a week's 
labor; one that I could put upon my head and carry 
towards the water with ease. I soon, by means of my 
hatchet and knife, fashioned out a paddle, and my canoe 
was complete. I launched her in Stillwater Cove, and 
she floated like a duck, and was besides of a beautiful 
model, and, as I well knew, would stand terrific weather 
if properly handled, being one of the best sea-boats in 
the world, not excepting the famous Nantucket whale- 
boats. I was delighted with my success. 

I did not gather all these things about me without many 
bitter hours of loneliness and despair; but their construc 
tions and the reading of my book, which I consulted 
almost nightly, kept me often from miserable repinings. 
I felt that I was gaining, and that I had not yet done 
making nature, ingenuity, and industry improve my con 
dition and increase my comforts. 



(370) 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Make chairs, and arrange my house, seal-skins, and goat-flkins. Provide 
provisions for winter. Discover wild grapes, and make wine and vinegar. 
Find potassium, or saltpetre. Make gunpowder, and by means of my com 
pass discover iron. Thoughts of the future. 

THE completion of my canoe, which I named the 
" Fairy," was a great delight to me, and I made several 
trips in her along the coast in Stillwater Cove, and made 
an exploration near the place where I had first landed. 
Somewhat into the interior of the island, I came upon 
what was a great discovery for me, although I had 
the seeds amongst my stores, and had already planted 
some, and that was grapes, in large and abundant 
clusters, growing wild and naturally. Here was both 
food and drink for me, and they were at this time in 
their prime. From them I could make vinegar, wine, 
and raisins. I gathered a large quantity, which I placed 
in the canoe and transported to the Hermitage, and 
although late in season hung up many bunches to dry in 
the still quite warm sun, and from the remainder I 
extracted the juice by pressing them between my hands 
and catching the liquor in several of my numerous earthen 
jars. The flavor of these grapes was a little wild, but 
pleasant and agreeable. I knew that fermentation would 

136 



MAKE WINE AND NEEDLES. 137 

take place, and that in time I should have a light claret 
wine, and thereafter good wine vinegar. To cause fer 
mentation, and to improve the flavor, I put a piece of 
goat's flesh into each vessel, and covered up the mouths 
with earthen covers that I had made to each. 

I was no longer in any fear about expending my manilla 
rope, for I had some tune since begun to use strips of 
rawhide of the goats skins for lashings, than which no 
thing could be better, and I also cut many skins into very 
fine strips after they were tanned, which served me for 
smaller strings, and even thread for rough sewing. For 
finer sewing I often used the sinews of these creatures, 
and I had by this time converted several of my nails into 
steel, after having pierced them with an eye, and by 
grinding them down and polishing them upon stones 
I had made several very good sail-needles, which were 
extremely useful, and it was a small matter to make a 
" palm," or sailor's thimble, from the skin of a goat, to go 
upon the right hand, to force the needle through any 
material, exactly the same as is done by sailors in all 
their stitching and sail-making. In place of the little 
round thimble fixed into the centre of the palm, to receive 
the head of the needle in pushing, I inserted a flint-stone 
with a roughened surface, which answered the purpose very 
well, and I could now do all kinds of rough sewing with 
out the use of my awl, which had been a slow and labo 
rious manner of proceeding. From this time forth I had 
no difficulty in sewing my jackets and trousers with strong 



138 PEKSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

sinews, which held them firmly together in the seams. It 
is scarcely credible how many things I gathered around 
about me that were useful as well as ornamental. 

Before I had done completely furnishing my house I 
set about making me a movable chair, as well as the easy 
ones that I had made of old roots, and this I did by means 
of my hatchet. I procured four smooth limbs of trees, two 
of which were about four feet in length and two about 
one foot six inches. The latter were to serve as the front 
legs, the former as the back legs and also the back of 
the chair. These limbs were about two inches in diameter, 
as I did not wish the chair to be heavy, but light and 
portable. Into all these uprights I bored holes at proper 
distances by means of my anchor shank, heated to a red 
heat, which I thrust through them, and cutting smaller 
round limbs for rungs I forced them into the holes made 
by the hot iron, and soon had the skeleton of a nice light 
chair made to my hand. I was so pleased with it that I 
set about another immediately, and soon had it also 
finished. It was not at all a difficult job for a mechanic. 
For the seat of these chairs, upon one I wove rushes thick 
and strong, and upon the other I laced a fine piece of seal 
skin with the fur left on. They were both useful and 
comfortable, but rather straight in the back, like the 
old ancestral chairs that I used to see in the attics in 
Vermont. 

I had got tired by this time shooting at the wild pigeons 
with my arrows, and found no difficulty in capturing all 



IN SEARCH OP IRON. 139 

I wanted by means of snares, made from the hair of my 
goats, which I set at the watering-place whenever I wanted 
any of them for food, and gave over firing ten or fifteen' 
shots before I could kill one, when I could capture a dozen 
in an hour should I need them. 

I took down my goat-skins at the windows and replaced 
them by thin skins of the same animal, almost parchment, 
which gave some light through them, and fastened them 
up with thorns, driven into the wood, for the winter, the 
open door giving me, with their subdued light, enough to 
see by so as to perform all the work that I wanted to 
inside, and when night came I had my lamps in full blast, 
for oil cost me nothing. 

I made, before winter set in, several excursions, in all 
directions, and especially one in the direction of the 
mountain that lay upon my right hand, only about a mile 
from the Hermitage, when I went to the coal-mine. 
This mountain I made up my mind to ascend, and see if 
I could not make some new discovery. I fought my way 
up its steep sides till I had arrived at nearly one-half the 
distance, apparently, from its summit, when I was halted 
by the appearance of a small brook that trickled past my 
feet. I noticed that the water and the stones were both 
of a brown, rusty color, and it flashed upon me that it 
must be caused by iron. If I could only find that sub 
stance I thought that I could be almost happy, even in my 
solitude. What could I not do with that metal to aid me? 
the handling of it would be to me child's play. I could 



140 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

make of it cast-steel, and of cast-steel all manner of tools 
by means of moulds. This working in iron had been my 
trade, and I had no occasion to consult my book to know 
how to avail myself of it should I be so fortunate as to 
find it. I followed this little trickling brook, not over 
six inches wide, till it branched into two smaller ones, 
and, still following the smaller one, traced it till I came to 
a place where, in a bubbling spring, the water issued from 
the mountain's side. The discoloration of all the stones 
near me proved to me that I was near iron, and that the 
mountain whence the tiny streams issued contained it; 
but in how large masses I could not judge. 

I left my little stream and looked about me carefully, 
to the right and left, for I did not want to pierce the moun 
tain whence the water issued, as I wanted a dryer spot to 
make my explorations, and knew that if there was iron 
it would be found near by the brook as well as in the 
exact spot whence the spring burst forth. I finally, at a 
little distance to the left hand and rather down the hill, 
found a place that looked as if it might prove a good 
locality to prosecute my search. The ground was cov 
ered with boulders, of different sizes, and there was quite 
an opening on the mountain side, the undergrowth being 
only shrubs and plants, with the trees and groves below 
me in larger groups. In this opening I set to work, 
turning over such boulders as I could lift, and there were 
many that by aid of a handspike, cut from a sapling with 
my hatchet, I was able to remove and send bounding 



A LUCKY FIND. 141 

down the mountain side. I scratched into the side of 
the mountain in this way till I had made quite a little 
excavation, but I was obliged to give it up and return 
home for my pickaxe, as I called my anchor-fluke, and with 
this instrument, and carrying my dinner with me, I 
attacked the mountain the next day and made more 
progress. After working some little, in an irregular way, 
into the mountain side, for I had to avoid the heavier 
boulders and solid stone, I came upon a crystallized 
mass between two rocks that seemed to be exuding from 
the mountain side. It looked something like common 
salt, and I put some of it in my mouth to see if I could 
recognize what it was by the taste. It had hardly reached 
my palate before I sank down upon the earth where I 
stood, with the excitement of the knowledge of the dis 
covery that I felt sure I had made. My sense of taste told 
me plainly that I had found saltpetre, and saltpetre meant 
gunpowder! GUNPOWDER ! and gunpowder meant strength 
to protect myself with and power to blow the mountain 
to atoms to come at my iron should nature try to resist 
me by enfolding it concealed in its bosom. I grasped 
my pickaxe and picked out quite a lump of my precious 
discovery, and started hastily for home. 

It was too late to do much on that day, as my usual 
household cares and the milking of my goats and getting 
supper took up most of my time ; besides I wanted to con 
sult my book as to the proportions in which to mix my 
ingredients to make gunpowder. I knew nearly the right 



142 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

proportions, and felt confident that I could get it exactly 
by repeated experiment, but I also knew that my book 
would give it to me exactly and save me much loss of 
time in this direction. I knew also that willow or alder 
made the best charcoal for gunpowder, and, thank God, 
there was no lack of these trees upon the island. If I 
obtained gunpowder I could make some kind of a gun, for 
I knew that, in ancient history, cannon even had been 
made of leather, and fired repeatedly without bursting. I 
could certainly make a tube of some kind, so strongly 
reinforced with skin and twine and raw hide, that it would 
stand the discharge of a small quantity of powder with 
out bursting, and if I found iron I would soon solve all 
the difficulties about a gun barrel, let me once get hold of 
the raw material in any quantity. 

A thought struck me in this connection. I would soon 
prove whether there was iron in the mountain side by 
taking my compass there on the next trip, and seeing if it 
was drawn from the true north towards the mountain side, 
and if so, in what direction : this would tell me how to dig 
towards my treasure, and not waste time by going in any 
wrong direction. This seemed a happy thought, and I was 
jubilant over having conceived it. The only thing that 
I did to help things along for the morrow was to pick out 
carefully, from my wood-fire ashes, small pieces of char 
coal that I thought would serve my purpose, and to pick 
off from several pieces of my coal a quantity of sulphur 
all ready for my experiments. The next morning I set to 



GUNPOWDER. 143 

work in good earnest, and having discovered the propor 
tions in which to add my different ingredients, I soon had 
the pulverized charcoal, sulphur, and saltpetre together, 
and then, moistening the mass slightly, I kneaded them 
together till they were completely incorporated. I then, 
by a slow heat, dried my gunpowder cake upon hot stones 
that I heated at the fire and then carried to a distance, 
first carefully dusting them, and placed my gunpowder 
paste upon them in an earthen jar to be dried. As my 
cake was not very large, I was not very many hours in 
doing this ; and as I knew that I ought not to use any iron 
or stone in pulverizing the mass, whilst this was going 
on, I procured a smooth rolling-pin made from the round 
branch of a tree, and smoothed quite a surface on the 
upper side of a large fallen tree with my hatchet, so that 
I had a sort of table to roll my powder upon. Again, to 
prevent all accidents, when my cake was thoroughly dry, 
I carried it bit by bit, having broken it by a blow of my 
wooden rolling-pin, to my fallen-tree table, where I 
crushed it under the roller, putting pieces no larger than 
my thumb-nail under the roller at one time, so if there 
should be an explosion, it would be on so small a scale 
that it would not injure me in the least, should it take 
place. As fast as this small amount was pulverized, I 
carried it again to a distance and placed it in a gourd for 
safe keeping, but I pulverized very little before I inter 
rupted my task to rush with quite a handful to my fire, 
and, taking a pinch, I cast it into the flame, and, puff, puff, 



144 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

puff, it ignited as it struck the fire, just as the particles 
used to do in my boyhood days. Even this did not, how 
ever, satisfy me. I laid the rest down upon the floor, and 
standing at a distance with a coal in one end of a cleft 
stick, touched it, when it exploded as quickly and com 
pletely as any ever turned out by any mill. One more 
proof and I would be convinced. I ran and got from the 
sea-shore one of the large shells for which I have no name, 
but which I had formerly used as lamp reservoirs, and 
going to my powder table, soon pulverized enough to 
pour a handful into it, and to close up the lips with moist 
clay, except one orifice; to this I laid a piece of manilla 
soaked in the dampened powder as a slow match, and 
having set fire to the same, and retired to a safe distance, 
I awaited the result. It seemed an eternity before the 
slow match burned to the orifice, but when I had almost 
given up hope, in one instant, with a loud report, the sea- 
shell was burst into a thousand fragments. I was success 
ful ; power and strength were added to my resources. I 
lay down upon the sand by the sea-shore where I had 
retired to watch the explosion, and fell into a brown 
study, which enwrapped me, body and soul, for many hours, 
till I was called to myself again by the decreasing light of 
the setting sun. The next day I sallied forth, armed with 
tny compass, for the mountain side, and upon arrival I noted 
the direction of the magnetic north by my compass, the 
card of which I had released from its packing and set upon 
its pivot. Having carefully ascertained this, I entered the 



I IMPROVE MY GUNPOWDER. 145 

small hole that I had made in the mountain side, and held 
the compass in several places against the earth, when the 
needle turned perceptibly away from the magnetic north 
and pointed in towards the interior of the mountain, and 
by several experiments I found out in just what direction 
I ought to advance, and by the attraction of the needle I 
felt sure that the ore, which I now was convinced was 
there, could not be very far distant from where I stood, 
and that one large blast would lay it open to me. I 
therefore went to work and gathered quite a quantity 
of the saltpetre and started for home to make my gun 
powder for the blast that was to open up to me my long- 
sought treasure, valuable to me far beyond any other 
metal on this earth in the circumstances in which I was 
placed. 

In five days' time I found myself in possession of over 
twenty pounds, I should judge, of good gunpowder. I 
found by my book that it was not at all peculiar to find 
potassium as I had found mine, and further, that to purify 
it I needed to mix it with equal parts of wood-ashes, and 
then add water and allow it to stand a few hours, and 
then draw off the lye and place it for three days in the 
sun, in shallow vessels, to evaporate, and then boil down 
what was left, to procure absolutely pure saltpetre, all 
of which I did. And when I had manufactured my 
powder, and observed by experiment that it was much 
sharper and louder in explosions than before, showing the 
improvement of purifying the saltpetre, I placed the 



146 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

whole lot in my goatskin bag and started for the moun 
tain. Arriving at my excavation, I looked about to see 
what I could do to make my explosion effectual and do 
the most good. By examination, I found that there was 
quite a space between the two inner boulders that ob 
structed my way, and a sort of vent-hole that led, I knew 
not where. Into this I commenced to pour my powder, 
and used up over two-thirds of all I possessed before I 
saw any result. Finally, the crevice, just as I began to 
despair and thought I had thrown away and lost it all, 
showed that it was full by refusing to receive any more. 
As soon as I noticed this, I knew that I had an excellent 
chance to make a good blast, and I therefore pushed in the 
powder in sight, and was able, by shoving it downwards, 
to add at least two pounds more. I then carefully inserted 
a strand of manilla previously soaked in wet powder, 
and dried, into the mouth of this crevice, and well down 
into the powder ; I then stuffed the whole with small peb 
bles and moist earth, and finally placed quite a large rock 
against the vent, and, with a prayer for success I lighted 
the fuse and retired to a safe distance to watch the effect. 
As before, it seemed as if it would never ignite, and I 
waited and waited, taking care to be well distant and 
well sheltered behind a large boulder, till finally, with 
a dull, low, smothered noise, the charge exploded. I 
was disappointed, and was afraid that my powder was 
too weak or ill-made, but when I arrived at the spot I 
was amazed at the execution that had taken place : the 



THE EXPLOSION. 147 

whole roof had been uplifted and thrown open, and 
the boulders that had resisted my further entrance cast 
to one side, and the whole side of the mountain pierced 
and opened in a wonderful manner. I dashed into the 
opening that had been made, and the first fragment 
that my hand closed upon was pure iron ore. I was like 
one mad with joy. I acted as insanely as I had once or 
twice before since landing upon the island, and danced 
and sang, and ended by sitting down and bursting into 
tears. Upon further examination I was inclined to believe 
that the whole mountain was composed of iron, and that 
I only needed to pierce the crust in any direction to get 
the precious metal. My discovery lay just about one mile 
from my home, and quite accessible. 

I found that the blast had brought to view quite a large 
surface, on one side, of my saltpetre, whilst further to the 
southward appeared the iron ore in masses that I could pry 
out with my pickaxe. After having feasted my eyes long 
enough upon my treasure, I started down the mountain, 
smoothing the pathway wherever it was rough, and open 
ing up a way for my team and sled to bring down the ore 
to the hermitage. 

I absolutely saw no end to the improvements that I could 
make now that I had iron to work with. I could do any 
thing within reason, and make anything I chose to make. 
A thousand and one schemes of escape by its means rose 
up before me. If at this moment I could have had the 
companionship of my fellow-kind, I should, I think, have 



148 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

been unable to ask any blessing to be added to my lot. 
Here was I in evidently one of the finest climates of the 
earth, with everything about me even now to sustain life, 
and with many of its luxuries, and with the foundation 
laid for many more. 

Upon a close examination of the specimen that I had 
brought away with me in my bag, home to the Hermitage, 
and by consultation with my book, I felt convinced that I 
had discovered what is called magnetic iron ; that is, iron 
ore that is most universally dispersed over the earth. The 
action of the compass added to this belief, and the lime 
stone formation was exactly fitted to this kind of ore, 
which is the same as is generally called the Swedish iron 
ore, one of the best-known irons in the world. The color 
was a sort of black iron shade, and the ore brittle and 
attracted by the magnet of my compass ; whereas, if my 
iron ore had been hematite it would have been of a dull 
steel color, and probably without magnetic properties. 

How I revelled in what I was going to do. First, I was 
to build my kiln and put the ore through that to purify it 
of sulphur, arsenic, water, &c., then to a blast furnace, to 
be heated with a flux of limestone and coal, and in the 
melted form run into pigs in the sand of the smelting- 
room. Once in this melted form I could make, from 
moulds, chisels, axes, hatchets, plane-irons, and saws, by a 
treatment of the melted iron ore. By means of blasts of 
cold air I could change the whole mass into Bessemer 
steel. With the tools I have named, in my hand, I could 



DAY-DREAMS. 149 

go to work at once to erect a sawmill on Rapid River, 
near the Hermitage, and with the greatest ease saw out all 
the plank I should want for any purpose under the sun. 
Then my thoughts strayed away to nautical instruments, 
some kind of a quadrant, then the latitude and longitude 
of my island, and then a chart on Mercator's projection 
from my Epitome ; and then turning-lathes, iron boats, 
electric wire, gunmaking, steam engine and propeller boat, 
torpedoes for defence, and all the means to escape from 
this miserable solitude. All these things, I say, ran through 
my head like wildfire. Nothing was now impossible. I 
had got my genie, and I was determined to make him 
work. The weather was getting cooler and cooler, and 
one or two storms had already warned me of the approach 
of winter. The leaves began to fall, and the whole island 
commenced to look dreary and forsaken ; the grass, how 
ever, retained its freshness in a remarkable degree. 

It was in the latter part of May that I discovered my 
iron ore, and I knew that this was the same month com 
paratively as November would be in the northern hemi 
sphere ; and although there had as yet been no actual frost, 
much less any ice or snow, yet I saw signs, not to be dis 
regarded, that the weather would be more severe and 
colder before the spring days would come, and yet evi 
dently I had not much to fear from a very great degree 
of cold, as my theory concerning the climate had so 
far been singularly correct. I commenced, therefore, 
at once, without loss of time, to collect my ore by means 



150 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

of my team of goats, and transport it from the mountain 
to Rapid River. I did not bring it over as I had the coal, 
for I determined to erect my blast furnace and kiln on 
the further side, and opposite to my home, as being more 
convenient in many respects. 

I worked hard myself, and worked my team hard, in 
bringing to Rapid River both the iron ore and coal, and 
also quite a large quantity of the potassium, which I care 
fully took into the hermitage till I should need it to make 
more powder. It did not take very many trips, however, 
after all, to get the iron ore that I should use during the 
winter, at least, but the coal to smelt it took me longer. 
After I had gathered all of each that I thought I should 
need I gave my goats a rest, and set to work to make ar 
rangements for my smelting-furnace, kiln, and smelting- 
room, and how I proceeded I will now go on to relate. 



CHAPTER XV. 

Make a mould for bricks. Build a brick-kiln and make bricks. Build a 
smeltiug-house, blast-furnace, kiln for cleansing ore. Meditations. Build 
water-wheel and fan-wheel, and set my machinery for an air-blast to reduce 
the ore. 

IN the first place I went to work, and with my knife 
and hatchet fashioned out two quite smooth pieces of 
wood about four feet long, three inches wide, and per 
haps one inch thick. I smoothed these on one side with 
a great deal of care, and finished them off by means of 
dry shark's skin, which stood me admirably in place of 
sandpaper. I placed these two slips of wood parallel to 
each other, about four inches apart, and fastened them 
in that position by means of blocks of wood of the same 
size and thickness, placed between them at equal distances 
of about six inches, which subdivided the whole into eight 
equal compartments, fastening the cross-pieces in by means 
of hardwood pegs driven into holes in the side, made by a 
red-hot nail. When my labor was finished my affair looked 
like a set of pigeon holes, such as are used in an office, 
except they were open on both sides and had no back, and 
each compartment was four inches wide, three inches deep, 
and six inches long. This was an insignificant looking 
thing in itself, and, except the smoothing of the inside in 

(370) J5] L 



152 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

all parts, was not a labor of any great magnitude, and yet 
by means of this instrument I intended to make a great 
stride forward in civilization. The thing that I had made 
was a press or mould for bricks. I do not know the tech 
nical name, but I knew that if I placed this instrument 
upon the level hewn side of any fallen tree for a table, 
and filled each compartment with clay properly moistened, 
I should at each filling and emptying turn out eight 
equal-sized, unburned bricks, all ready for the kiln. 

To enable me to prosecute this work I moved for a few 
days to the landing-place, where clay in abundance was to 
be found, and where my old hut would give me shelter. 
When I say I moved there for a few days I should say 
that I came home to the Hermitage every second day to 
care for my flock of goats and look after my household 
cares. Upon my arrival at the clay pits I soon set to 
work, and my clay was so pure that I had little trouble in 
moulding it ; and, after having fixed a smooth plane upon 
a fallen tree as a table for the bottom of my mould, by 
levelling the same with my hatchet, smoothing with my 
knife, and finishing with my shark-skin sandpaper, I set 
to work moulding, getting my water at a short distance 
inland from a boggy piece of ground abounding in springs, 
which existed right under my nose, a little to the left, 
when I was so anxiously distilling water upon my first 
arrival at this very spot. I transported this water, by 
means of gourds and my canister, easily, to the clay pits, 
and soon haa a fine array of bricks, the moulding being 



I TURN BEICKMAKBE. 153 

pimple, and I found I could work quite fast; and by 
means of my knife and a sharp clam-shell or two, and with 
a large mussel-shell for a shovel, I had no difficulty in fill 
ing the mould quickly and trimming off all superfluous 
clay very rapidly. As fast as I finished one set I dashed 
the mould over with fresh water, so that the next lot 
moulded would slip out easily after being carefully pressed 
in. As fast as I made the bricks I allowed them to lie for 
a day or two in the air till they hardened, and then com 
menced to pile them up in shape to be burned and per 
fected into bricks. As a boy I had often examined brick 
kilns, and I knew that I must make, or rather leave, a sort 
of oven under them, and, throughout the whole pile, aper 
tures through which the flames and heat would penetrate 
so as to bake the whole mass. I built my kiln with care 
and on the above principles, and in less than a week had 
a goodly array of bricks all built up in complete form. I 
then with my goat team drew to the kiln all the old dead 
wood I could manage, and with my hatchet cut it into 
suitable lengths to be thrust into my ovens, for I had three 
of them in the whole pile, and with great glee set fire to 
them all one evening, and saw that they had a good draft 
and burned fiercely. I worked like ten men to keep these 
fires perpetually going, and, prepared as I had been in the 
commencement by laying in a large supply, I, with the aid 
of the team of goats, was able to keep up with them and 
feed them regularly. I do not remember now how many 
days I burned these bricks, but it was very easy to exam- 



154 PEBSEVERANCB ISLAND. 

ine them and see when they were sufficiently hardened 
and burned; and when they suited my eye, and I ex 
perimented upon several by breaking them open, I let 
the fires gradually go down, and found myself in posses 
sion of a nice stack of bricks, fit for any purpose. These, 
as they cooled, I transported in the canoe to the landing 
opposite to the Hermitage, where I had determined to 
arrange all my appurtenances for smelting the iron ore. 
In the first place I commenced a house or workshop, 
about twenty feet long and twenty wide, by building up 
walls of stone, as I had done for my Hermitage, but in 
a much rougher and coarser manner, without foundations, 
and very much lower, not over six feet in height. Over 
this I erected the usual bamboo roof and rushes for thatch, 
with one opening for a window, and one for an entrance, 
in opposite sides. The floor of this room I covered with 
pure white sea-sand for one half, and the other half 
with soft, pulverized, dry, clayey loam that would do 
me for castings. In one end of this smelting-house, as 
I called it, with the feeding-place outside, I built, in an 
aperture in the wall left for that purpose, a solid blast 
furnace of my bricks, which I lined with my pottery 
cement, and made in every way complete to receive the 
ore and smelt it. This was to me, except the manual 
labor, boy's play. The opening for the fused iron was 
within the smelting-house, and I could run the ore on to 
the sandy floor in channels made for that purpose, and 
thus procure my pig iron or Bessemer steel as the case 



- BLAST-FURNACE AND BOASTING-KILN. 155 

might be. In this blast-furnace I left several channels to 
be connected in some way with a blast of cold air, for with 
out this blast I could not of course expect to smelt the 
ore. To improve the draught, and to have Nature help me 
all possible, I built the chimney or cone of the blast 
furnace at least twenty feet high, of bricks, tapering the 
same in a cone form from the base to the apex. I worked 
upon this matter like a beaver, and felt well satisfied with 
my work when it was done. My smelting-house stood 
quite near to Rapid River Falls on the further side, for 
I had foreseen that I should have to use some power to 
get up speed to move some kind of a fan wheel, and I 
knew that I could only do it by means of water, and had 
therefore, for that very reason, placed the house near to 
the bank and had built the blast-furnace on the end of 
the house nearest the river. 

After finishing my blast-furnace completely I left it to 
dry and harden, and set to work at my roasting-kiln, on 
which my ore was to be first purified and cleansed. This 
was comparatively an easy affair, and was made wholly 
of bricks, underneath which large fires could be built, and 
through the numerous interstices the flame would reach 
the ore placed upon the bed above ; the flame, after pass 
ing through and over the ore, to be carried out at the 
other end of the bed by means of a brick chimney about 
twelve feet in height, high enough to give a good draught. 

As soon as I had my kiln done I commenced drying 
it by lighting a fire under it, and found that it had a good 



156 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

draught and would answer my purpose admirably. I then 
went to work again with my team of goats, and dragged 
near to the smelting-house all the dead wood and there 
were large quantities of it that I could lay hands upon, 
that was anyway near or convenient. Being now in the 
month of June, I found the mornings often quite snap 
pishly cold, and was glad of a little fire often in my home. 
But I worked so hard in these days that I scarcely had 
time, after finishing my supper, to smoke a pipe of tobacco 
before I was ready to throw myself upon my seal-skin bed 
and fall asleep. In these times I worked so hard and 
persistently that I often cooked enough corned meat 
to last me a week at a time, and could always draw 
upon my stores of salted fish and smoked salmon, and goats 1 
hams, vegetables, etc., whenever I needed them. Of 
course many days I was unable to work in the open air 
on account of rain and storms. Those were the times 
that I took to improve my clothing, patch up my moc 
casins, and make up warm skins for the cold weather; 
look after my little flock of goats, which often strayed 
away short distances, but by being careful to feed them 
each night regularly on a little delicacy of some kind, 
mostly sweet potatoes, they always came back to the 
shelter of a nice warm shed that I had constructed for 
them near my home, made on exactly the same principle 
as my hut at the landing-place. 

It would take too long to enumerate the various little 
articles that I had gathered around about me, and how 



BRIGHTER PROSPECTS. 157 

perfectly my mind was at rest on the following subjects : 
First, that I could not suffer for want of food, for I had 
enough and to spare of everything ; amongst many others 
the following principal ones, dried goats' flesh, jerked 
goats' flesh, smoked goats' flesh, smoked goats' hams, 
wild pigeons, eggs, fresh fish for the catching, smoked 
and salted herring and salmon, sweet potatoes, cab 
bages, turnips, beets, etc., vinegar, wine, salt, milk, etc. 
Second, that I had a large quantity of nice skins, both 
cured and uncured, of seals and goats, to last me a life 
time; with fuel, light, and covering against all contin 
gencies, and tobacco for my solace. Third, that I felt 
confident and perfectly satisfied that the island was un 
inhabited and unknown, and I went to sleep each night 
without fear of being interrupted on the next day. My 
nerves had wholly regained their tone, and I was grown 
strong, rugged, and hearty, whilst my experiments with 
my iron ore and my hard work upon the smelting-house 
gave me the necessary incentives to keep me from thinking 
of my own sad fate. I saw such a future before me, could 
I have iron in all its forms ready to my hand, that I was 
kept in a state of excitement just right for my tempera 
ment, and was restrained thereby from gnawing at my 
own heart with bitter regrets which would avail me 
nothing. I do not mean to say that I did not have 
bitter and dreadful moments of despair and utter hope 
lessness, but these occurred usually in the evening when 
I felt my loneliness the greater than when I was at work 



158 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

in the open air. But I began to dispel this even by giving 
another current to my thoughts, making my pet goats go 
through their little series of tricks to amuse me and draw 
me away from myself. A good smoke at my pipe, and 
a glass of quite fair claret wine used often at these times 
to freshen me up and dispel my mournful thoughts. 
When these would not work I used to seek oblivion from 
my thoughts by plunging into my " Epitome " and study 
ing out some problem that would aid me in, at some future 
day, fixing the latitude of my island, or else amused 
myself by reading something from my book of useful 
arts and sciences that might be of service to me some 
time. 

Up to this season of the year no snow had as yet fallen, 
but ice had skimmed the little fresh-water pools outside 
of the main river, and some few nights had been cold 
outside; but, thanks to God who had been so merciful 
to me, I was warmly clothed and housed, and had nothing 
to fear from wind or weather. 

During some of the stormy days I puzzled over the 
problem of how I was to get blasts of air forced into my 
furnace. And this is how I did it eventually. I cleared 
away a small portion of the fall of Rapid River, so that 
the water rushed with great force through a sort of flume 
of about four feet in width and three feet deep. I secured 
and regulated this floor by means of a series of gates and 
pieces of wood that I drove into the soil on either side. 
I procured them by cutting a tree, about twelve inches 



FLUME AND WATER-WHEEL. 159 

in diameter, into sections of about five feet in length 
with my hatchet, by infinite labor, and splitting them 
with hard-wood wedges into long rough clapboarding 
or scantling about an inch thick and I had no time 
to smooth them, but had to use them as they came 
to hand, rough from being split with the wedges ; but as 
the wood was straight-grained I got quite a quantity of 
very fair pieces of board that suited my purpose, although 
not smoothed. I drove these, as I have said, into each 
side of the flume in the dam to protect the sides from 
being washed away, and arranged a sort of gate so as to 
keep all water from passing through when I so desired. 
It was a bungling sort of a job, and not very strong, but 
answered my present purposes quite well. I then went 
to work upon my water-wheel, which I intended to hang 
in this flume, and, by opening the gate above, allow the 
water to flow down upon it with great force and turn it, 
so as to obtain motion, and power to which to connect 
pulleys and wheels on the land side upon the axle of the 
wheel. I studied long over the formation of this wheel, 
and finally constructed it by taking for the axle a smooth, 
strong limb of a hard-wood tree, about four inches in 
diameter, and apparently perfectly circular in form. From 
this I stripped the bark, polished it with shark's skin, and 
cut it off so as to leave it about seven feet in length. I 
then, by means of rawhide and willow withes, fastened, at 
right angles to this axle, light but strong arms made of 
cane, extending about three feet in each direction from the 



160 PEESBVEEANCB 

main axle. These I again strengthened by means of cross- 
pieces parallel to the main axle, which I bound across the 
arms, and over these again lighter canes yet, crossing 
the whole fabric from the extremity of one arm to the 
base of another, till I had a framework of a wheel, light 
and fragile to be sure, but very tough and well bound 
together, and each withe and rawhide string set well taut 
and securely fastened in real sailor style, and sailors can 
make immensely strong articles bound together only with 
string, the secret being that they know how to make each 
turn do its work, and how to fasten the whole securely. 
I sunk into the ground on each side of the flume a strong 
post of wood some eight inches in diameter, each ending 
at the top in two natural branches, or a crotch, like the 
letter Y, which I smoothed out by means of my knife and 
fire so as to receive the axle of my wheel and allow it to 
revolve in them. These posts I set in the ground very 
deep and very securely, and battered down stones around 
their foundation, and braced them also with other stakes 
driven into the ground near to them, at an angle, and 
lashed securely to them. Upon my framework of the 
wheel I tied on, with rawhides, slats or "buckets," as 
they are called, of my split clapboarding, to be acted upon 
by the water and cause the wheel to revolve. Outside 
the axle, upon the shore side, I fitted a wheel of cane, 
about three feet in diameter, constructed in the same 
way as the main wheel, but not more than six inches in 
width. This was to receive a belt to communicate the 



MIDDLE OF WINTER. 161 

power and motion of the water-wheel to a series of pullieg 
that I was yet to make. After getting the wheel in place, 
and the axle set in the crotches of the two uprights, I 
opened my gateway and saw with pleasure that it revolved 
very rapidly, evenly, and with great strength. I also 
observed that the paddles were submerged just as they 
ought to be, only about a foot hi the water, and that the 
rest of the wheel revolved in air. I also discovered that 
I could regulate the speed exactly by letting a larger 
or smaller quantity of water into the flume by means 
of my gate. I did not do all this without infinite detail 
and hard work, and it was at least a month before my 
wheel was completed and hung in its position. This 
brought me into July, and now I commenced to see ice 
form in the smooth pools near the river, and once, upon 
the fifteenth, was visited with a severe snow storm, but 
a day or two of pleasant weather soon carried it off. 
There were days also in this month when storms arose 
and lashed the ocean into monstrous billows, and at these 
tunes I visited the breakwater and East Signal Point and 
looked upon its grandeur. These were the days in which 
I felt blue and dispirited. But I also knew that the 
winter must ere this have reached its greatest severi 
ty, and although it was now really cold and everything 
frost-bound, yet it was not like zero weather at home. 
There were more mild and pleasant days than cold and 
unpleasant ones. There was evidently a warm current 
of the ocean embracing the island and keeping the climate 



162 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

mild. I felt confident that cold weather would soon be 
gone, and that I had nothing to fear on that account, for 
I found no difficulty in keeping myself perfectly warm 
at any time in the open air by a little exercise. As for 
my moccasins, they were warmer than any shoes I had 
ever worn, and my skin clothing was, even in this winter 
weather, uncomfortably warm, and on mild days I often 
used to change my sealskin coat that I had made myself 
for one of pliable goatskin leather without any hair upon 
it. My water-wheel I found was, although wonderfully 
light, of excellent strength, and when I constructed it 
I was well aware of the tough properties of the cane used 
in its formation, which might writhe and give, but would 
not break. I kept the axle down in the crotches or 
" journals " formed for it, by means of greased straps of 
rawhide, so that it could not jump upward, and yet would 
revolve easily without being bound or cramped. My next 
task was to connect my water-wheel with a series of 
pullies on the shore and near to the blast-furnace, so as to 
force a column of air into and through the ore that I 
intended to smelt, by means of the different channels that 
I had left for that purpose when building it, all of which 
ended or entered into one opening in the side nearest the 
water-wheel. 

Near this opening I built, at about three feet distant, 
a little room completely of brick, about two feet wide 
and six feet high, with the narrow end pointing towards 
the opening in the blast-furnace that connected with all 



THE FAN-WHEEL. 163 

the interior air-channels that I had left when build 
ing it. This room I covered on top with flat stones 
firmly cemented down, and closed it up air-tight, ex 
cept an opening left in the brickwork at the top, six 
inches in diameter. Opposite the opening into the blast 
furnace, which was at the same height, and on the two 
sides of the structure, equidistant from the ground and 
the top, I left two similar holes in the brickwork, and 
opposite to them planted two stakes in the form of the 
letter Y. In other words, I constructed this building 
to contain a wheel similar to my water-wheel, about six 
feet in diameter, which was to revolve in air instead of 
water, and force a column into the blast-furnace. I should 
say that I made such a wheel with paddles and hung it 
in its bearings before putting on the top of flat stones 
or building up all around it. When completed I had 
a wheel enclosed in an air-tight place, the paddles of 
which would, when revolving, push the air into the 
opening left at the top of the end facing the blast 
furnace. Around about the axle on each side the open 
ings were not closed, purposely; for it was here that 
the machine was to suck in the air which it discharged 
into the blast-furnace opening by means of a tube made 
of goatskin which connected the two together. On the 
outside of the axle I built a small and very light wheel 
of cane, only a foot in diameter, to receive the pulley for 
the wheel on the axle of the water-wheel. I had only 
to connect these two together and my task was done. 



164 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

The two pulleys were distant about fifteen feet, and 
I had to make a band of goatskin, about three inches 
wide, over thirty feet in length, to connect the two. 
This I did by cutting strip after strip and sewing them 
strongly together in length till I completed my band. I 
had only to place this upon my pulleys, open the gate, let 
on the water, and the task would be finished. Having 
arranged everything so as to be all ready the next day, I got 
across the river on my stepping-stones, and went to my 
home to think matters over. I knew, as a mechanic, that the 
affair would work, and that I had much more power even 
than I had any need of. But I could not rest. I should 
not be content till on the next day I saw all the wheels, 
already greased and lashed into their sockets with raw 
hide, revolving by the mere motion of my lifting the 
gateway and letting on the water. I smoked and thought 
and paced my room for hours, and finally, when I went 
to bed from sheer weariness of mind and body, I passed 
a disturbed night. Morning saw me bright and early 
upon my feet, and, snatching a hasty morsel of food, I 
started for the smelting-house, got out my band and 
stretched it from pulley to pulley, and with trembling 
hands went to the gateway at the dam and let on the 
water to my undershot water-wheel. It did not hesitate 
a moment to obey the force of nature and the law of 
mechanics, and the volume of water had scarcely struck 
the paddles before the whole apparatus began to work, 
the axle to revolve, and the band to move. 



THE MACHINERY COMPLETE. 165 

I let oa a very little head of water first, and rushed to 
my fan-wheel. There it was, moving with great rapidity, 
and the connecting goatskin bag was evidently distended 
with air. Thence I rushed to the other side of the blast 
furnace, where the feeding-place for fuel was, and by 
casting in small, light objects saw them sucked up the 
chimney at once. I was successful. I had at least ten 
times the power that I needed for my purpose. I rushed 
back to the dam and cut off the water, perfectly content 
with the experiment without bringing any shock upon 
my machinery by putting on a full head of water, which 
I saw I did not need, as my fan-wheel, as I supposed, was 
turned with the utmost ease, having no resistance except 
the air. I could do nothing more this day but admire 
my handiwork, and arrange little matters here and there 
to perfect the whole affair and get ready for my first 
smelting of the ore. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Smelt ray iron and make Bessemer steel and all kinds of tools. Erect an 
anvil and forge. Build a saw mill, and plant a farm and kitchen garden. 

HAVING gotten everything all ready for my purpose, I 
placed, as nearly as I could judge, about a ton of the 
broken ore in ray kiln to be roasted or calcined, and after 
this was accomplished, I transferred it to my blast furnace 
and added to the calcined ore about a ton and a half of 
half-burned coal, and one-third of a ton of limestone ; these 
being the proper proportions, as I was well aware. Under 
this, and around it, I placed a large amount of coal fuel, 
and having ignited it by means of a large quantity of wood 
placed under the whole mass, I went, when it was well 
started, to my gateway on Rapid River, and set my 
machinery agoing, which started the fan-wheel, which 
immediately created a terrific blast, and the whole furnace 
was soon in a glow. I kept this up by feeding new fuel, 
till by certain signs I felt confident that the mass of ore 
was smelted, when I shut down my gateway so as to regu 
late the blast to its minimum and keep the fan-wheel just 
revolving. I then dug away the clay at the orifice of the 
blast-furnace that opened into the smelting-room, and had 
the supreme satisfaction of seeing the molten ore flow out 
like water into the furrows of sand that I had formed 

166 



MY FIRST SMELTING. 167 

and excavated to receive it. I had made this fur 
row for a purpose also, and had something in mind 
when I formed the sand mould, something like a foot 
in depth and eighteen inches in length, exactly under 
the nozzle of the delivery orifice of the furnace. The 
molten ore ran into this rapidly and soon filled it, 
forming a rough block of iron a foot thick, a foot 
wide, and eighteen inches long. When the fiery fluid 
had completely filled this, I shut off the discharge by 
thrusting some moist clay into the orifice. This block 
that I had just made was to be my anvil, and as it was 
large and would take tune to cool, I directed the orifice 
of the furnace to one side by means of a clay channel, so 
that the next discharge should not interfere with it ; and 
as my desire was now to get steel in smaller quantities so 
that I could use it, I drew narrow and shallow channels 
through my sand at quite long distances from the blast 
furnace, but all coming together in one deep channel 
under the orifice, but spreading to different parts of the 
smelting house, as the ribs of a fan do from the point at 
which they are collected. Into these channels I allowed 
the remainder of the molten ore to flow, and it extended 
itself through all these minor channels, and when it was 
cool I had several long bars of cast steel that, on my anvil, 
I could work up into any form. 

After a few days, when my anvil was perfectly cool, I 
mounted it upon a block of wood and commenced to build 
a forge near by it, of brick and stone, into the fire-place 

(370) M 



168 PBESEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

of which I led a branch flexible tube of goat's skin 
from the fan-wheel, which I could easily detach and con 
nect, and which gave me a blast instead of the usual bel 
lows. At this forge I worked for a week steadily, turning 
out the simplest and most necessary tools, such as chisels, 
hammers, hatchets, axes, nails, bolts, plane irons, gouges, 
etc., which I tempered and hardened when needful. I 
also made myself tongs and shovels, pickaxe, and crow 
bars, and as fast as one tool was made at my forge, such 
as a pair of tongs and a hammer, I had means to make 
others better and rapidly. In this week I saw treasures 
gather up about me fast, and, having finished my iron 
work, I set to, to arrange them into tools. In the first 
place, by means of cold chisels, I cut out from a large 
mass of soft stone, that seemed as if it would suit my pur 
pose, a grindstone some two feet in diameter ; this I set 
up on t>vo standards and connected with my water wheels. 
By means of this I could sharpen and bring into shape all 
the rough pieces of iron tools that I had forged out, and I 
had no difficulty in sharpening all my axes, planes, hatch 
ets, chisels, etc., and, when necessary, giving them a finer 
edge on a whetstone, which I had found to suit my pur 
pose. After getting these all in shape, my next task was 
to affix handles to them. This was not difficult to do, and 
it is hardly credible how soon I had my shop hung 
round about with useful tools. I soon had my planes in 
order, and my work then commenced to have a finish that 
it had before lacked. I did not stop here, however, for I 



MAKING TOOLS. 169 

was now in my element. I was ambitious of producing 
much better tools than I had yet finished by the very means 
that I already had, made to my hands, for creating them. 
I hope it is understood that the result of my smelting was 
not common iron, but what is known as Bessemer steel. 
By the numerous air passages through the ore and my fan- 
wheel, I had been enabled to turn out the result in steel 
in bulk by what is called the Bessemer process, leaving the 
metal all ready to my hand for tools, etc. This steel was 
not hard enough for some purposes for which I needed it, 
and having forged some pieces into the proper shape, I 
treated them to the crucible and blast, having beforehand 
stamped them with a cold chisel, and finally turned out 
some splendid files, which was what I most needed to 
advance in my iron work. As a boy, I used to be expert 
in this case-hardening of files and steel, and my knowledge 
now stood me in excellent need. 

As soon as I got my files made, I felt as if I could make 
anything, and my next smelting procured for me for it 
only took about twelve or fourteen hours to smelt some 
ihin sheets of steel, which I set to work upon to smooth 
by means of my grindstone, so as to make hand-saws ; and, 
of a larger and thicker piece, two fine up-and-down saw 
mill saws, destined for my sawmill yet to be built. All of 
these I sharpened and hardened to the necessary temper, 
and by this time I discovered that my iron was of an ex 
cellent quality and as tough as possible. I had never seen 
finer, even in imported Swedish iron so much sought for 



170 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

at home. I think that the pleasantest noises I had yet 
heard since arriving on the island was my axe cutting into 
the side of a tree ; my saw splitting the same into small 
boards when needed; and my planes smoothing these 
easily to a fine level surface. I did not attempt to saw 
out one board more than I needed, for I intended that my 
sawmill should do all that for me, and the planing too 
without much trouble on my part. So I set to work at 
this matter in earnest and cast me an axle for my water 
wheel, which I concluded to erect on my own side of the 
river. This wheel that I made was not much like the 
other, but was of wood and iron, strong and well built, 
and fastened with iron bolts, and set in iron sockets. 

I dug away quite a space of the natural fall of Rapid 
River, and erected a strong flume and gateway, so as to 
control my wheel perfectly. I took little pains with the 
covering of my mill, making it hastily and with little care ; 
but the foundations I laid out well and strong, and built 
it parallel with the side of the river, and had running 
down into the latter, from the mill, smooth timbers at an 
angle of about forty-five degrees, on which I intended, by 
means of my goats or the machinery of the mill itself, to 
"parbuckle" the logs up into the mill in front of the saw. 
For a mechanic the arranging of my mill was an easy 
task, not easy in its details, being laborious and hard, but 
easy I mean in its mechanical construction, which did not 
give me a moment's thought. About six weeks saw it all 
finished and everything in place ; revolving knives for my 



ENTER THE LUMBER BUSINESS. 171 

planing-machine and a splendid up-and-down saw for my 
log-splitting. Of course all my machinery was of a differ 
ent style, now that I had means to work with, than the 
rude wheels on the other side of the river. I had before 
me a good, substantial sawmill rather rough, to be sure, 
in some details, but I did not care for that. Nobody, I 
am sorry to say, would ever look upon it and find fault 
with its want of finish. 

Having this all done, I launched the " Fairy " above the 
falls and paddled up the river for about half a mile, mark 
ing on either bank with my axe the trees I wished to cut 
down some of pine and cedar, and others of a hard, dark 
wood, like walnut, that I knew not the name of. A week's 
hard work with the axe saw some twenty of these in the 
water and floated to the dam, whence I rolled them out of 
the water as I needed them, and cut them into the requi 
site lengths for my sawmill, when I pushed them by hand 
spikes again into the stream, and floated them in front of 
my inclined planes, up which they soon mounted by roll 
ing themselves over and over in the two bights of a rope 
at each end, being slowly wound by the machinery of the 
mill on a drum inside, or, in other words, as sailors would 
say, " parbuckled " into the mill, where a few movements 
of the handspike put them in position on the cradle in front 
of the saw. Let it suffice for me to say that in a week or 
two I had all the planed boards that I should need for 
years, and also plank and joist nicely piled outside the 
mill, and covered with a light roof of rushes and cane 



172 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

from the rain and gun. It was a great thing for one man 
to be able to do so much, but then I had now got a start 
where nothing could stop me. Nature was under my 
thumb ; I was the master. 

All these works in iron, steel, and mill-building brought 
me to spring-like weather, in the month of October, and I 
began to see signs of returning summer. I hastened, 
therefore, to drop all these matters, and put myself and 
goats seriously to work to provide for my coming wants 
in the vegetable line, and for this purpose went to the 
landing-place and cleared a space of I should think an 
acre with a light subsoil plough and two yokes of goats, 
and planted the whole with different kinds of the seeds 
that I still had on hand, and which I had preserved. 
About this open space, or natural glade, were the usual 
trees and shrubs of the island, and with my axe I made 
them serve at distances for posts, filling in the inter 
vals with limbs and shrubs, and, where absolutely neces 
sary, using some of my precious boards, till I had made 
a very coarse, rough, but serviceable fence about my 
garden that goats or other animals could not get through 
and destroy the young vegetation when it should sprout 
up. It was here that I sowed some of my precious wheat, 
retaining a little in case of accident. In this garden I 
planted seeds that would mature late in the season, and 
would in a measure take care of themselves. Near the 
Hermitage I laid out a similar garden, with the same kind 
of fence, but not more than one hundred feet square. In 



A RETROSPECT. 173 

this I planted all the little things that I needed at hand for 
my table, such as cucumbers, tomatoes, beans, radishes, cel 
ery, blackberries, strawberries, lettuce. 

I found that my apple and pear seeds had taken root, 
for I visited them before winter had set in, and I took this 
opportunity, in ploughing, to manure with chopped fish the 
circular places that I had planted before the winter, and 
care to avoid turning up with the ploughshare any of the 
soil where these precious seeds were buried, and where the 
small, slight stems, leafless, now protruded. Spring came 
rapidly forward, and I found myself in almost warm wea 
ther and pleasant days before I had finished all my garden 
ing, which was near the end of November. 

These tasks nearly finished the year for me, within a 
month and a few days, and what had I accomplished ? On 
Thursday, November 9, 1865, I was, by the providence of 
God, saved when all my shipmates were lost. I had been 
preserved for some good purpose evidently, or else the 
hand of the Almighty would have swept me out of exist 
ence with my messmates. 

On that terrible day in November I was cast on shore, 
with scarcely any food, no hat, no coat, and without water. 
With no aid but that given me by God, and by the use of 
my own hands and brain, I was to-day sitting in front of 
my home, erected by myself alone. In this short space 
of time, one year, I had wrested from Nature many things, 
showing the supremacy of mind over matter, and knowl 
edge, over ignorance and sloth. I had in this year made 



174 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

fire without the aid of matches, distilled salt water to pro 
cure fresh, made myself implements of defence, and erected 
towers of perpetual lamps, made myself flint, steel, and 
tinder, bows and arrows, fish-hooks and lines ; discovered 
coal, sulphur, saltpetre, and iron, and captured goats, fish, 
seals, birds, etc., and at the end of the year found myself 
sitting at my house door surrounded with my flock of 
goats, my garden and farm planted, my mill and smelting- 
house in running order, my canoe at my feet in the 
quiet water of the cove, and everything about me that 
could please or charm the eye. From absolutely nothing 
I had created everything ; that is to say, the ground was 
now so laid out that in the future I saw no end to the 
daring attempts that I should make, and could make with 
every chance of success. I felt, now that the year was 
ending, that my hardest work was done; that I had 
so much now to do with, that all that I should now 
undertake would be comparatively easy ; but then, on the 
other hand, my ambition was so great that I could see 
things in the dim future that would tax the strength and 
brain of any man to consummate, but which from my tem 
perament and loneliness I knew I should be forced to at 
tempt. Many problems were already turning themselves 
over in my head, and from them I picked out this one, 
What is the position of your island in latitude and longi 
tude? 

I gave myself this as a special task, and whilst I was at 
work at little matters around about the Hermitage my 



WHEEE DOES THE ISLAND LIE? 175 

mind kept asking me (for it had no one else to talk to), 
What is the position of your island in latitude and longi 
tude? and it was repeated so often and so persistently 
that I tried to answer it, which I did in the following 
manner, as you shall hear. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Make an astrolabe, and obtain the latitude of the island, and, by an 
eclipse of the moon, the longitude also. By means of the Epitome make a 
chart on Mercator's projection, and find out the distance from any known 
land. 

I FOUND in my book a description of an instrument 
used by the ancients to ascertain altitudes and to measure 
angles, called an Astrolabe, which, upon careful study 
and examination of the cut, I felt confident would serve 
my purpose admirably. So to work I went, and in this 
manner. I made first a strong four-legged stool or bench, 
about three feet in height and four feet long, and two feet 
wide upon the top. I then took some nice planed pieces of 
my dark hardwood and made a smooth surface about an 
inch thick and five feet square. On this, afterwards to be 
erected on the stool at right angles like an inverted letter 
T, I drew a circle with a pair of immense dividers that I 
made for this purpose, taking in all the area possible, 
which made my circle about fifty-nine inches in diameter, 
leaving a margin of one inch, supposing my inches to 
have been of the right length ; and this I determined by 
the length of the knuckle of my thumb, which I formerly 
used for quick measurement, and from which standard I 

178 



HOW TO MAKE AN ASTROLABE. 177 

constructed the only rule I ever have used on the island. 
How nearly correct it is I have no means of knowing. 
This groove I impressed into the wood by repeatedly 
turning the dividers around the circumference. I then 
went to work and subdivided this circle into degrees and 
minutes, which I did by marking the circle once across at 
any angle passing through the centre mark, and then by 
another mark crossing this one at exactly right angles, 
which I determined by means of my dividers as laid 
down in Bowditch's Epitome by the use of them at 
equal distances from the centre on the line already 
marked, sweeping them till the two lines crossed beyond 
the circumference, making a small mark there so as to 
erect a perpendicular on the base already drawn. This 
cut my circle at once into quadrants of 90 each, and 
these were subdivided again in like manner. I made the 
circle large on purpose, so as to be able to mark it plainly 
to sections of one minute each, and by its size to avoid 
any error in any angle, the chances of which were greatly 
decreased by every inch of diameter. As I constructed 
it, I had nearly one-half an inch of circumference to mark 
sixty minutes upon, and as I only subdivided one of the 
quadrants it did not take me very long, each degree 
being represented by a space slightly smaller than a half 
inch, which was a good large scale to work upon. Hav 
ing finished the marking of my board I nailed it firmly to 
the stool in an upright position, with the quadrant, that I 
had carefully subdivided on the marked circumference, 



178 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

pointing with one of its angles to zenith, and the other on 
a line with the top of the stool. I then procured a nice 
straight piece of cane some six feet in length and about 
an inch in diameter, and with a heated rod of iron burned 
out all the pith between each joint till I had made a nice 
tube of that length. Just within the aperture at one end I 
fastened with a little fish glue a large strong hair from the 
beard of one of my goats. I then fastened, by means of a 
hole through the centre of my upright disc, this tube or 
telescope to it on the side that was subdivided into 
degrees, and about an inch from the face. I fastened 
this so that it was held firmly in place, and yet could be 
moved upon its centre by the pressure of my hand on 
either arm. This tube I then furnished with a small deli 
cate pin on the outside, in an exact line with the stretched 
hair inside the tube, and pointing to the degrees and 
minutes on the marked circumference on the disc, which 
it almost touched. In other words, if I moved one arm 
of the tube, the needle on the outside would follow the 
grooved circumference on the disc, and upon being re 
leased would mark some given degree or minute. Hav 
ing gotten this machine all in order and complete, I 
placed it one day so as to examine the sun near noon, 
and here is how I obtained my latitude. What I was 
doing now was not so very difficult. I well knew that 
there were several ways to determine latitude. I was 
aware that the difference of a minute or two even in my 
altitude, as apparently observed, would not disturb my 



TAKING A MERIDIAN ALTITUDE OF THE SUN. 179 

computation more than a mile or so. In fact each minute 
marked upon the disc practically stood for one mile of 
latitude, and the mean of several observations would cor 
rect even any errors from this cause. 

I waited till I knew that it was nearly noon by the ap 
pearance of the sun, and then commenced operations. In 
the first place I aimed my tube at the sun, and to be able 
to do so without injuring my eye, I would say that I had 
fitted the orifice of the tube nearest to me with a piece of 
smoke-colored membrane or backbone of the squid, which 
is as transparent as glass, and very thin and delicate. 
Having, by moving the tube with my hand, brough* the 
sun so that it seemed to stand upon the hair in the outer 
end of the tube, or like a great capital O upon a base line 
ii, I left it carefully in that position for a moment or 
two, and then applied my eye again, and found, as I sup 
posed, that the sun no longer seemingly rested upon the 
hair in my tube, but had risen, which forced me to again 
lower the arm nearest me and elevate the other extremity, 
and proved to me that it was not yet noon, and that the 
sun had not yet reached the meridian. This I did many 
times, till at last the sun seemed for a minute or so to 
stand still, as sailors say, and I knew that it was at meri 
dian. I took good care not to touch the instrument, but 
waited quietly till, by glancing through it, I saw in a few 
moments the disc of the sun, or lower limb as it is termed, 
begin to drop below the hair in my tube, and I was then 
positive that it had passed the meridian. Being assured 



180 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

of this, I went carefully to the marked circumference on 
the upright disc and noted carefully the degree and 
minute to which the needle in the side of the tube 
pointed, which in this case was 54 51'. Having care 
fully marked this down with ink upon birch bark, I went 
again to the other end of the tube, and, elevating it, 
brought the outer end down toward the sea till the hair 
and the horizon seemed to be one. I then again carefully 
observed the degree and minute at which the needle 
pointed, which in this case was 7 16', and my task was 
done ; for, by subtracting 7 16' from 54 51' I obtained 
47 35', which was exactly the apparent altitude of the 
sun at noon on September 22, 1866, civil account; and, 
having that, it was easy to determine the latitude in the 
following manner : 

At noon observe the altitude of the sun's lower limb 

bearing North 47 35' 

Add for semi-diameter, dip, etc 12' 



47 47' 
Subtract from . . , . 90 00' 



Sun's zenith distance 

Declination for longitude, say 115 TV. 




Latitude by observation 42 21' S. 

Thus I demonstrated the latitude of my island; but 
now for the longitude. To obtain that I knew that I must 
first ascertain the time at the island : I could do nothing 



A WOODEN CLOCK. 181 

without that ; for longitude was, as I well knew, simply 
time changed into degrees. I thought of fifty different 
ways to obtain correct time, but believed none of them 
sufficiently accurate for my purpose. I could make a sun 
dial for one thing, find out the length of the day by the 
Epitome and Nautical Almanac, make caudles to burn such 
a length of time, sand to run down an inclined plane at 
such a rate, but none of these would do. 

The difference of a minute, or one-sixtieth of a degree, 
in an observed altitude would only affect, as I have said, my 
latitude just one mile, whilst an error of time of one min 
ute from true time would, as I was well aware, throw my 
longitude out just fifteen miles ; hence it behoved me to 
have exact time if I desired to get exact longitude, and 
therefore I saw nothing for it but that I must construct a 
clock, and at it I went. It was not such an enormous un 
dertaking after all. Of course I should make it of wood, 
and in my boyhood I knew many wooden clocks that kept 
excellent time ; besides, if I could only construct something 
that would keep time for an hour or two without much 
error, it would answer my purpose. If I had a clock that 
I could set at noon by my observation, nearly correct, I 
could correct it perfectly by an afternoon observation, and 
have for an hour or so true time, even if it did gain or 
lose a few minutes in twenty-four hours. So to work I 
set, and soon turned out the few small wheels necessary, 
and the weight and pendulum for the same. I spent little 
tune upon the non-essentials, but put it together inside my 



182 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

house on the wall, open so that I could get at it, and fur. 
nished it with wooden hands and a thin wooden face. 

After I had arranged it and found that it would tick, 
and by observations at noon for a few days been able to 
regulate the pendulum, I went diving into the Epitome and 
the Nautical Almanac as to how I should utilize it so as 
to get my longitude, after all ; when one evening, in turn 
ing over the Nautical Almanac, which was calculated for 
1866, 1867, 1868, and 1869, my eye fell upon the follow 
ing, and I felt that my task was done : 

Total eclipse of the moon, September 30, 1866, invisible at Green 
wich, visible in South America, South Pacific Ocean, and parts of 
Africa, Asia, and Indian Ocean. 

FORMULA (CIVIL ACCOUNT). 

Day. Hour. Min. 

Moon enters penumbra 30 5 44 A.M. 

Moon enters shadow 30 6 53 

Total phase begins 30 8 49 

Total phase ends 30 9 39 

Moon leaves shadow 30 10 45 

Moon leaves penumbra 30 11 55 

This was all I needed to verify my longitude past per- 
adventure, and I went to work at once, calculating when 
the eclipse ought to take place, nearly, with me. 

At a rough calculation I knew that my island was situ 
ated somewhere between the 110 and 120 of longitude 
west of Greenwich, that is to say, in the neighborhood of 
seven hours' difference of time later than Greenwich time. 
Therefore I knew that if the moon entered the penumbra 
at Greenwich (although invisible) on the 30d. 5h. 44min. 



AN EVENTFUL DAY. 183 

A.M. that I ought to look for it to occur visibly to my eyes 
somewhere from one to two o'clock in the afternoon of 
the same day, or seven hours later. The exact difference 
in the time between Greenwich and that to be observed 
on my island, changed into degrees and minutes, would, 
of course be the true longitude west of Greenwich. 

It was with the utmost anxiety that I awaited the com 
ing of the 30th of September, for it all depended upon 
pleasant weather whether or not I should be able to make 
my observation. I placed my astrolabe so as to be able to 
move it quickly in any needed direction, as I intended 
to use the tube to look at the sun through so as not to 
blind my eyes. I also prepared my birch bark in the 
house, and commenced practising myself in counting sec 
onds, for I should have to leave my instrument and go to 
the house, counting all the time to note the time marked 
by my clock. I found upon practice that I could not 
make this work very successfully, and that according to 
the state of my feelings or excitement I counted long and 
short minutes. This would not do ; I must invent some 
thing better ; and I finally bethought myself of counting 
the beatings of my pulse with the finger of one hand upon 
the wrist of the other, and applying the proportion to the 
interval between the observed time by my clock. 

The morning at last came that I so much desired, and 
nothing could be more beautiful than the balmy, spring 
like day that surrounded me. The sky was cloudless and 
the sun shone down in splendor through a clear and pure 

(870) K 



184 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

atmosphere. The morning passed slowly away, and it 
eeemed as if the moon and sun would never approach each 
other ; but finally, in the afternoon, the heavens showed 
me that the eclipse would soon take place, and I made my 
arrangements to take four observations, as follows : Time 
when moon entered shadow ; time when total phase 
began; time when total phase ended; time when moon 
left shadow. 

Nothing could have been better than the afternoon I 
experienced to make these observations, and in less than 
six hours the whole affair was over, with the following 
result, I having carefully regulated my clock as near as 
possible by an observation at noon : 

Day. Hour. Min. 

Moon enters shadow at island (civil account) . 30 2 50P.M. 
Moon enters shadow at Greenwich .... 30 6 53 A.M. 



Difference 7 57 

Total phase begins at island 30 4 48 P.M. 

Total phase begins at Greenwich 30 8 49A.M. 

Difference 7 59 

Total phase ends at island 30 5 34 P.M. 

Total phase ends at Greenwich 30 9 39A.M. 

Difference 7 55 

Moon leaves shadow at island 30 6 41 P.M. 

Moon leaves shadow at Greenwich .... 30 10 45A.M. 



Difference 7 56 

Hours. Mln. 

Sum of differences, four observations 31 47 

Hours. Mln. Sec. 

Mean of same 7 56 45 

Which, reduced to time, gives the longitude of the island 119 
11' 15" west of Greenwich. 



THE PROBLEM SOLVED. 185 

There, my problem was done and I was for the moment 
happy. Perhaps some will wonder why I cared to obtain 
the latitude and longitude of my island at all. Let me 
explain. My Bowditch's Epitome gave the latitude 
and longitude of all prominent capes, harbors, headlands, 
light-houses t etc., in the whole Pacific Ocean. In other 
words, knowing now the latitude and longitude of my 
own island, I had only to project a chart on Mercator's 
projection, pricking off the relative positions of the land 
on all sides of me, as well as the position of my island, to 
have a practical and useful chart. Of course I should 
not be able to draw the coast line or the circumference of 
any island, but my chart would show just what latitude and 
longitude Easter Island was in, for instance, and just how 
far and in exactly what direction my island lay from it. 
Also, how far I was from the American coast, and the 
exact distance and course from any of the principal ports 
such as Lima, Valparaiso, Pisco, etc. How far from New 
Zealand and the Society Islands, and in what direction 
from them. 

Having marked the exact latitude and longitude of 
each of these places, which were fully given in the Epi 
tome, on my chart, I could call upon my memory often to 
fill in the coast lines, and even if I should in the case of 
the islands, make them even imaginary, there would be no 
harm done, for the little black star on each would show 
me where the latitude and longitude met exactly, and 
I should be furnished with a practical chart as far as sea 



186 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

navigation was concerned, but not one that would be of 
much account in entering any harbors. 

I cannot say that at this time I had any fixed plan of 
escaping from the island, but I very well knew that noth 
ing in the world would aid me so much in the attempt as 
to know the position in latitude and longitude that the 
island occupied, and a chart of the surrounding seas, with 
its numerous islands and headlands on the main land. It 
can well be conceived that my first task after determining 
the position of my island was to turn to the Epitome to 
ascertain the nearest land to me there marked down, and 
after diligent search this is what I found : 

Easter Island Peak," 27 8' south latitude and 109 17' 
west longitude. 

" Island," 28 6' south latitude and 95 12' west longitude. 

"Group of Islands," 31 3' south latitude and 129 24' 
west longitude. 

"Massafuera," 33 45' south latitude and 80 47' west 
longitude, which I speedily worked out, by the principles 
of Mercator's sailing, to be in course and distance from 
my island, as follows : 

Course. Distance. 

Easter Island Peak . . N. N. E. J E. . . 1,040 miles. 

Island N. E. | E. . . . 1,440 " 

Group of Islands . . . N. W. f N. . . . 840 " 

Massafuera . . . . N. N. E. 1 E. . . 1,540 " 

Of these four places only two ever had a name, and I 
did not know whether Easter Island was inhabited or not, 
and about Massafuera I was totally ignorant. 



CHART MAKING. 187 

Easter Island, I knew, of course, was one of the so-called 
Society Islands, and was the nearest practical land to which 
I could escape. But how was I safely to pass over a 
thousand miles of water? This investigation only proved 
to me what I had so long feared, namely, that my island 
was out of the track of all trade, and that it would be a 
miracle should I be preserved by the arrival of any vessel. 
I knew now that I must really give up all hope in that 
direction, and set to work seriously to help myself. 

I therefore applied myself with great vigor to my chart 
which I outlined upon nice goatskin parchment, which I 
glued together till I had a surface nearly four feet square, 
upon which I could lay out all the Pacific Ocean on a nice, 
large scale, by Mercator's projection. I went on with my 
daily work, and made this matter one for evening amuse 
ment, and as I pricked off the latitude and longitude of 
some well-known place, that I in former years had visited, 
my heart swelled within me with grief and mortification, 
and I had often to stop and wipe the tears from my eyes 
before I could proceed. 

Release from my prison seemed farther from me than 
ever, as I advanced in my task, and although I had a sort 
of morbid pleasure in my work, and a fascination to linger 
over it, yet I saw plainly that I was indeed cast away ; 
for what could I do alone in a boat, even supposing that 
I could build one strong enough to resist one thousand 
miles of water ? Who was to steer when I was asleep ? 
and then supposing I should be able to arrive at Easter 



188 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Island, what guarantee had I that I should not be mur 
dered at once by the natives ? 

No, here I was fixed beyond fate upon my own island, 
where, with the exception of companionship, I had every 
thing that human heart could wish for. But on the other 
hand, without companionship I lacked everything that is 
worth living for in this world. I felt that the problem of 
all problems hereafter to me would be how can I escape 
to eome civilized country in safety? And from what I 
now knew, it seemed as if it would remain a problem till 
my bones were left whitening in the Hermitage. 

My discovery of the latitude and longitude of the island 
had brought me no comfort, and I felt much more uneasy 
now than I did before finishing my task. But as the 
summer weather came on, I regained to a degree my good 
spirits, keeping, however, the problem of escape contin 
ually working in my mind, for I knew that there must be 
some way to solve it, especially with the resources that I 
had gathered around about me. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

A resum< of three years on the island. Daily routine of life. Inventions, 
discoveries, etc. Fortification of the Hermitage. Manufacture of cannon 
and guns. Perfection and improvement of the machine shop. Implicit 
faith of ultimately overcoming all obstacles and escaping from the island. 
Desire to accumulate some kind of portable wealth to carry with me, and 
decide to explore the island for its hidden wealth and the surrounding ocean 
for pearl oysters. 

I SHALL not become tedious by inflicting upon my 
readers the routine of each day, or even of each month 
or year that I have passed on this island, but shall pick 
out the most startling events of my life here, both as to 
the inventions that I have made and the accidents and 
adventures of which I have been the victim and hero. 

Of course my discovery of iron gave me wonderful 
power to advance and preserve myself. After my first set 
of tools were made, as I have enumerated in detail, all 
other work, even if slow, was comparatively easy. 

My next task, after making the common tools that I 
needed and various castings that were useful to me, was 
to erect a turning lathe, one for wood, which was 
quite simple, and one for iron, which was a work of some 
magnitude, and a whole year elapsed before I had it 

189 



190 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

perfected to my taste. The castings were rough, but 
solid and useful, and the other parts were, with care and 
attention, at last made mathematically true, and this, with 
a drilling machine and some iron rollers to roll out my 
metal when coming from the furnace, completed my iron 
foundry, as I was now pleased to call it. 

Having all these things about me it was a small matter 
to cast several small cannon, of some four or six pound 
calibre, and bore them out on my turning-lathe and table. 
These I mounted on wooden trucks, and placed one on 
East Signal Point, one on Eastern Cape, one on South 
Cape, which I transported there by water in the canoe 
Fairy, one on Penguin Point, and one on West Signal 
Point. It was fun for me to make these things, and there 
fore, to protect myself still more, I made a number, of 
smaller calibre even, which I placed pointing out through 
embrasures in a wall with which I had encircled the Her 
mitage, and surrounded with a strong picket fence, made 
of cast-iron, which I found no difficulty in casting in sec 
tions of nearly ten feet in length. At all the stations at 
the extremities of the island I hid a little amount of ammu 
nition, near the cannon erected, and also a flint and steel 
and a limestock or slow-match, so that at any time, if 
needful, I could load one of these cannon at once and 
discharge it. The touchholes I covered nicely with a 
piece of goatskin, so as to protect the guns from the 
weather, and fitted all the muzzles with a wooden plug, 
so that the interior would be kept clear and dry. 



MOUNT MY CANNON. 191 

In the wall that now surrounded my Hermitage I built 
a strong iron gate, that I could see through and yet too 
strong to be broken down by any savage hands. The iron 
fence or comb which ran round the summit of this wall, 
and of which I have spoken, crossed also above the gate 
way, and made my house impregnable to anything except 
artillery. My doorway facing this, in the Hermitage itself, 
had long been replaced by a nice hard-wood one, with iron 
hinges, with several loopholes left, through which I could 
poke a gun-barrel or discharge an arrow. 

I had six cannon mounted on my wall, two in front, two 
on each side, and one in rear, which was, however, nat 
urally protected by a thick and almost impenetrable grove 
of trees and undergrowth. These guns were mounted in 
a peculiar manner upon carriages that allowed the muz 
zles to be depressed at least thirty degrees, and I kept in 
store, to load them with, quantities of iron ball castings, 
from the size of an English walnut to a common musket 
bullet, which at close quarters would do fearful execution. 
I approached these guns, from the interior, by means of 
step ladders, made of wood, leading up to each from 
the enclosure, and an oval hole, like an inverted letter 
IT, was left in the iron fencing to allow the muzzle to 
protrude over the wall. This opening, however, was 
small, and not large enough to admit even the head of a 
man, much less his body. The erection of the whole wall, 
which was some nine feet high, cost me infinite labor and 
patience. 



192 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

The fencing on top of it was, as I have said, rapidly 
turned out from the casting mould, and gave me, compara 
tively speaking, little trouble. To further protect this my 
fortress from any assaults, I brought the water under 
ground from Rapid River into the Hermitage, through a 
eeries of pipes made of pottery thoroughly baked, glazed, 
and made so as to fit one into the other, and controlled 
the flow by means of a stopcock fixed into a piece of cane. 
The signs of this underground connection with Rapid 
River I took care to thoroughly efface. And, furthermore, 
I made it a duty to always keep at least six months' salted 
provisions in store, ahead of all demands, such as salted 
and smoked herring, salmon, and other fish, with corned 
and dried goat's flesh, and some few preserved vegetables 
such as I might have on hand. 

In rear of my house, between the end of the house and 
the wall, I dug a subterranean passage, leading under my 
wall, and coming again to the surface in the midst of a 
seemingly impenetrable thicket of undergrowth, some 
thirty yards away from the wall. This outlet was care 
fully closed by a trapdoor, and soil even strewed on top 
and grass allowed to grow over it. I did not know but 
what there might come a time when I should have to use 
this passage, as the last recourse, to save my life ; and 
although now in security I built it carefully, to be pre 
pared for what might happen in the future. 

After all these tasks for my defence were finished I 
commenced upon a set of guns and pistols, or rather rifles, 



RIFLES AND PISTOLS. 193 

for I had not the slightest use for a shotgun, being able, 
in a hundred ways, by means of steel-traps and similar 
devices, to capture all the birds and animals I needed, 
which I desired to protect myself against any human ene 
mies, should such ever appear. To this end I easily bored 
myself out some four nice rifle barrels, and some half 
dozen of a smaller size for pistols ; these I had to stock, 
and mount with the old-fashioned flint and steel, for I had 
no means of making any percussion-powder. I worked 
at these for a long time, but at last I had them all in good 
order, and used to amuse myself by practising with ball 
at the pigeons on the trees, and the ducks on the river. 
I did not make the best shooting in the world, for, not 
being able to procure lead, I was forced to make my bul 
lets of steel, and to revolve them in a cylinder for a long 
time with sand, to make them globular and regular. 
The barrels of my guns and pistols also had to be smooth 
bored to use these projectiles ; as a rifled barrel, if I could 
have made one, would have been ruined by cast-steel 
bullets; still at a hundred yards, with a nice greased 
patch, I was able to make good execution, and the pistols 
shot with strength at a distance of at least twenty yards. 
Both weapons suited me practically, and with my guns I 
had no difficulty in shooting several of the wild goats, and 
also seals, whenever I needed their meat or skins. 

My flock of tame goats all this while had grown and 
increased, and I added to my home comforts cheese and 
butter; but I made the wheel on the further side of the 



194 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

river do all the churning by a simple application of the 
machinery to a revolving clapper in an upright churn. 

The parchment windows in the Hermitage had long 
since been reinforced by iron shutters on the outside, that, 
if needed, could be bolted securely on the inside, and the 
roof had been refitted and made of timber and boards, 
and the whole covered with tiles, so as to be fireproof. 
Up through this roof I had also built a tower, of brick, 
not very large but quite high, some feet above the ridge 
pole, which I mounted to by a flight of stairs from the 
attic ; for the upper part of the house was floored off and 
completed when I erected the new roof, having no want 
now of either boards or timber. 

Up to this tower I trotted every morning before unbar 
ring the door of the Hermitage or the gate of the enclo 
sure. From this lookout I could see quite well in several 
directions, and notice if anything had been touched or 
changed from the evening before. I missed, I think, at 
this time, books more than anything, but then, again, 
from the very want of them, I was forced to study with my 
Epitome and Book of Useful Arts and Sciences, which 
possibly I might have thrown one side for less useful but 
more entertaining ones if I had had them. Wanting 
them, I was becoming versed in many things which when 
I came upon the island I knew nothing about, and I was 
pleased to think that, although alone, I was improving, 
and the usefulness of a really good book was brought for 
cibly before me each day, for I could not open either of 



ADVANTAGES OF CLIMATE. 195 

mine without finding food for reflection and study. I 
had always had my head full of vagaries of different 
kinds that I should like some time to try and experiment 
upon, and here seemed my opportunity; and it will be 
observed, in its proper place, further on, that I attempted 
many things. 

It was, I think, in my third year that I felt that my 
daily routine was fixed for life, as far as concerned com 
forts and food; for by that time I had wheat for my 
bread, and all kinds of vegetables and fruits that I have 
before enumerated, in profusion. My apple and pear trees 
would soon begin to bear, and in a year or two more I 
should have them to add to my comforts. I had already 
commenced to preserve blackberries, strawberries, etc., 
and found that my maple trees, in the spring, were just 
as prolific as those in my Vermont home, and that I had 
no difficulty in obtaining all the sugar I needed. Roasted 
wheat had, however, to stand me instead of Java coffee, 
but this made me quite a pleasant drink. 

All these comforts were enhanced by a climate so uni 
form in temperature that it was a pleasure to even exist, 
the winters bringing scarcely an inch of snow or ice with 
them, and the summers even and mild ; warm, to be sure, 
but still far from being hot or oppressive. As I have said 
so often in this narrative before, what in the world could 
one want in excess of all this but companionship ? Ah ! 
it is little known how many bitter hours of solitude I 
passed in gathering all these comforts about me, and how, 



196 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

with ft tenderness almost womanly, I made friends with 
every kid, duck, young bird, seal, and living animal that 
I gathered around me, and made pets of them all. My 
hardest duties were to destroy these animals for my 
own consumption, and I latterly destroyed what I could 
with the gun rather than touch one of those that were 
domesticated. Some of these I could not bear to lay 
my hand upon, especially my young kids and team of 
goats ; but thank God there was no need of it. I could 
easily destroy one of their species, when I needed the 
flesh, with my rifle, for I veritably believe that I should 
have gone without animal food rather than touch one 
of these pets. Two of the kids, especially, followed me 
about all the tune, and even into my canoe when I took 
short trips abroad. 

I had by this tune, by means of snares, captured seven 
species of birds which resembled our blackbirds and bobo 
links of the north, and I took great delight in feeding 
them in the cages I had made for them, and listening to 
their music in the morning and evening hours. Long 
search had taught me to feel sure that the island 
had no venomous insects or reptiles, and it was also 
wholly free from that nuisance the horse-fly, which is said 
to follow civilization, and that other pest, the mosquito, 
was wholly unknown. In their stead there were a few 
sand-fleas, a sort of wood-tick, which troubled the goats 
somewhat, and a small black wood-fly, that was not trou 
blesome except in some seasons, in the woods, and on the 



EFFECTS OF MY SOLITUDE. 197 

coast. In December and January, green-headed flies were 
apt to take hold of me once in a while, but not BO as to 
incommode me. 

The air was so pure that meat would keep a long 
while without putrefaction, even in the warm weather, 
and having nothing better to do to take up my mind, I 
had, during the past winter, collected quite an amount of 
thin ice from Rapid River, which, in a small subterranean 
ice-house, roofed over with planks, and covered with saw 
dust, I had stored for summer use, and on very warm 
days luxuriated in. 

This life of solitude had made me tender to even inani 
mate things, and it was wonderful to myself how the 
passion, self-importance, and arbitrary manner of one 
accustomed to command at sea was dying out in me. I 
began to almost have a reverence for flowers and all beau 
tiful inanimate things, and many hours of my life were 
passed in my garden and on my farm, but especially the 
former, in examining and cultivating some beautiful wild 
flower or trailing vine that I had transported hence from 
the forest. I felt even that the bearing of my body was 
changed from what it used to be when in days gone by I 
trod the quarter-deck in all the pride and majesty of power. 

I cannot say that I was at this time contented, but I 
can say that I was much more patient, and the impetu 
osity of my temperament was greatly subdued, and many 
things, both animate and inanimate, were becoming, in 
spite of myself, very dear to my eyes. I even at times 



198 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

began to feel homesick when I was absent over a day, in 
my canoe, from the Hermitage, and came back to its com 
forts with an exclamation of gratification and a swelling 
of the heart with joy when it came in view, and showed 
itself intact during my temporary absence ; and the wel 
come given me by my goats, tame pigeons, ducks, and 
birds was very touching, and, as I have said, endeared them 
to me greatly. Still for no moment did the problem of 
escape leave my mind. Although without relatives or 
children, I often dreamed of escaping from the island and 
returning with friends to enjoy it with me and end my 
days here in peace. I often thought how happy I could 
be here, far from the cares of the world and all its vain 
excitements, could I see around about me smiling faces of 
my fellow-men, who would look up to me as their bene 
factor and ruler, for I had yet left some of the seaman's 
instinct of desire to rule. 

Up to this time I had done little exploring of the island ; 
my first trip around about it had been my last, and my 
excursions into the interior had been short, and without 
making any material discovery of moment. This was 
caused by the great tasks that I had given myself near 
home, and the consummation of which had taken all my 
time. I had worked very hard to accomplish all that was 
laid out before my eyes, and had had little time for wan 
dering about or being idle. 

No sign of any vessel, or canoes of savages, had ever 
disturbed me. I had often, during the last year, visited 



APOSTEOPHE TO THE OCEAN. 199 

the points of my island nearest to me, i. e., East and West 
Signal Points and the breakwater, but no welcome sail had 
ever met my eye. The sight of the ocean also from these 
points always gave me the blues, and sent me home 
troubled and discontented, for the intellect given me by the 
Creator on such occasions rebelled against my fate, and 
the ocean seemed my enemy, whom I must overcome, and 
whom I could overcome if I could only think of the 
means, for I would never acknowledge myself beaten, but 
only unable for the present to cope with my adversary ; 
and I used to talk to it, and say: " Some day, thou mighty 
gea, with God's help, I will overcome and conquer thee, 
and compel thee to carry me wherever I desire to be 
borne. Power has been given man over the beasts of the 
field and over all nature, and I have only to use my mind, 
with which God has endowed me, to some day make thee, 
now my master, my slave. Roll on, therefore, for a day 
shall come, God willing, in which thy billows shall carry 
me, and the winds of heaven waft me to civilized lands, 
where the Creator of both thee and me is adored and 
worshipped. You shall not always separate me from the 
place whence I came. "With my strong hold that I have 
obtained I will yet overcome thee, and make thee my steed 
of deliverance, instead of, as now, the boundary line of my 
imprisonment." 

My daily life at about this time was something like 
this. I arose in the morning, and, if the season would 
admit of it, took a plunge in Stillwater Cove, first, how- 

( 370 ) O 



200 PEESEVERANCB ISLAND. 

ever, visiting ray tower to see if everything was all 
right in all directions. I usually, with a sailor's 
habits, arose early, and with the sun. After my bath I 
proceeded to feed my numerous flock of goats, kids, 
pigeons, etc., and then to the cares of my dairy, milking 
my goats and conveying the result of my labors to my 
ice-house, near by, to be kept there, and at proper season 
to be made into butter and cheese. Then to my break 
fast, which I could change in many various ways, as my 
appetite dictated, always commencing the same, in these 
days, by thanking God for his preservation of me, and 
expressing gratitude for the food before me, and hopeful 
ness of ultimate delivery from my island prison. After 
breakfast I went about any work that might be on hand, 
such as fishing, gunning, or arranging my household 
things, working in my iron ore, conveying coal or iron from 
the mines, or running my sawmill, or else digging in my 
garden or attending to my farm near the landing-place, 
and the thousand and one daily things that had to be 
done with one pair of hands, to keep my establishment in 
order. 

When I thought it noon by the sun (for I soon gave over 
the attempt to keep my clumsy clock agoing after I had ob 
tained my latitude and longitude) I repaired to the Hermit 
age, and if the weather was warm and pleasant made my 
meal in the outer air, under the shade of a fine large tree 
of the maple species, surrounded by my domestic birds ; if 
in winter, by my fireside, inside the house. After dinner 



DAILY OCCUPATION. 201 

I again commenced my daily toil, first taking a good long 
smoke of my favorite pipe, which, all things considered, 
was my greatest solace, and after this taking up the work 
that I had laid down at the dinner hour. I kept myself 
employed till sunset, or nearly so, for I did not now 
overwork myself as I used to in the beginning, in my 
impetuosity, but took everything mildly, quietly, and com 
fortably, when I again called my flock together and 
attended to my milking. I knew that cheeses would keep 
a long while, and, looking always forward to an escape, 
I was gradually laying up a stock of this nutritious arti 
cle for use in the future should I ever need it, knowing 
well how palatable and refreshing it always is at sea. 
After the milking was finished, which was not till I had 
gathered the flock from their feeding pastures, I entered 
my house for the night, taking with me one or two of my 
favorite kids, and barring the iron gate in the enclosure 
wall carefully behind me, and doing the same with the 
door of the Hermitage. 

Once within, I lighted my lamps and gave myself plenty 
of light, and took my supper, followed by the inevitable 
pipe, and often a glass of my claret wine, as I called it, 
made from the pure juice of the grape. Then I got out 
a sheet of parchment and commenced a history of the 
day's proceedings, which I wrote down in detail, and from 
which this narrative is condensed. This was a very im 
portant task, for upon the daily performance of it rested 
the accuracy of my calendar. This often carried me well 



202 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

into the evening, and if it did not, and I was not very 
tired, I got out my Bowditch's Epitome and solved a 
problem or two, and then turned to my Book of Useful 
Arts and Sciences and stored my mind with some new 
fact, or tried to decipher some of the things that were 
daily becoming more clear to me, and which I had com 
menced by understanding scarcely a word about. When 
I found myself nodding over this work I quietly betook 
myself to bed, preferring, as a rule, my upright bedstead 
to the swinging hammock. I never put out the lights 
and only removed my outer clothing when I slept, but 
then the latter was a very natural act to a person who had 
for years turned in " all a standing," as sailors say, and 
ready for a call at any time of the night or day. My 
arms and ammunition were placed within easy access of 
my hands, and, commending my soul to God, I used to 
sleep. 

In winter I kept of course more within doors, and 
busied myself upon my clothing and such things as 
needed sewing and lashing together, fixing little nicknacks 
of shell and wood around about the room, to hold flowers 
and ferns, or any little thing that had attracted my eye, 
or would please me in my solitude. On rainy days I 
almost always went to work in my smelting house at the 
forge, and if there was nothing else to do I would busy 
myself in the making of nails for future use, I having to 
beat out each one on the anvil ; but when finished each 
of my nails was a wrought one, and worth a dozen cast 



WORK IN THE FOUNDRY. 208 

by machinery. I always found plenty to do here, but I 
worked leisurely, always looking toward the future. I 
got together a large quantity of rolled iron, of about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness, and in sheets nearly two 
feet wide and some eight or nine in length. This work 
shop I kept improving till I had, besides my forge and all 
its tools, turning-lathes both for wood and iron, many 
other useful things, which I had constructed at odd times, 
such as a small but very strong derrick, which I fitted 
with iron blocks and chains and with a winch and band, 
BO that I was able to handle large masses of iron with 
ease. My rollers, also, for rolling out the iron when at 
a white heat, were in this room, and I had long since 
improved and strengthened my water-wheel, so that I had 
all the power at any time that I needed or desired, to 
move any or all of my machinery. 

Besides gathering together these sheets of iron I put 
them under my drilling machine and punched the edges 
with holes of an uniform size, so that they could at some 
time be riveted together, for I had an idea in my head 
what I should use them for. The making of a large 
number of rivets to fit these holes also took plenty of my 
time, as did the making of different sizes of spikes, and 
once in a while some new tool that I felt the need of. 
My files, also, once in a while had to be re-marked and 
again hardened, and thus I found myself always with 
plenty to do whenever I entered the smelting-house ; and 
it was there that I enjoyed myself the most, for I was a 



204 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

born mechanic, and I liked the work, and nothing pleased 
me so much as to see something turning out under my 
hand from a crude mass of iron into some useful tool, or 
article of which I had need. Therefore when the stormy 
and rainy days came it was with absolute pleasure that I 
walked into my smelting-house and set to work. It was 
here that I saw my deliverance must be worked out, and 
never a day passed but what my machinery was improved 
or increased in some way, and made more perfect and 
reliable. A great deal of it, to be sure, was crude, but 
it was also practical; and when a piece of machinery 
would not perform well I went to work, and kept at it 
until it would, and in the end had not the slightest trouble 
in rolling, casting, drilling, planing, and turning iron or 
cast-steel, in all reasonable shapes. To be sure my ma 
chinery was not painted, or even well finished, except in 
the working parts, but to those sections I gave a me 
chanic's care. I not only worked here, however, on stormy 
days alone, but also nearly every spare moment that I had 
from other duties that were also pressing. 

As my riches began to accumulate I began to think 
seriously of exploring the island for its hidden wealth, 
and see if I could not during these years that 1 was 
waiting for escape which I had made up my mind was 
sure to come lay up enough wealth, in some shape, to 
take with me when I should depart, that would make 
me rich for the remainder of my days. Knowing that 
such wealth, to be conveyed away by me, must necessarily 



A NEW IDEA. 205 

be in a small compass, I was working out a problem at 
this very time to explore the bottom of the ocean around 
my island, and see if I could not hit upon some pearl- 
oyster beds, whence I could draw riches to carry away 
with me when I should leave this island, and the theory 
that I had gotten into my head, and which I was trying 
to put into actual practice, was the following : 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Construct a submarine boat, to be propelled by goat power and to make its 
own air, to examine the bottom of the ocean near the island for pearl-oysters. 

YES, as I have hinted in the preceding chapter, I had 
fully made up my mind to explore the bottom of the ocean 
that surrounded my island, and I did not intend to com 
mence in the stupid way in which the former Crusoe went 
to work, and build me a boat and then be unable to launch 
it. Far from it. My very first care was to erect ways 
running down into Stillwater Cove, made out of large 
square timbers, placed at a considerable decline, so that I 
felt confident that what I should erect upon them could 
be launched by me into the water without difficulty or 
trouble. These ways I bolted strongly together, and made 
firm and enduring, and upon them erected a kind of raft, 
which I kept in place by means of upright iron bolts 
through the timbers of the ways, which prevented it, for 
the time being, from slipping into the water if it should be 
BO inclined, but which, when the bolts were removed, and 
the three timbers upon which it rested well greased, I felt 
sure would, at the proper moment desired, slip into Still- 
water Cove. 

206 



BEGIN UPON A SUBMARINE BOAT. 207 

Upon this raft I commenced to construct my submarine 
boat. These launching-ways were erected near the smelt 
ing house, and not far below the falls, just where the water 
became deep enough for my purpose, and yet as near as 
possible of access to my forge and shop. The raft that I 
built and erected upon the ways was only as a cradle to 
support my submarine boat so that I could float the whole 
affair to the mouth of Stillwater Cove before allowing 
the latter to be submerged ; for where I now was there 
was not water enough for my experiment, and I well knew 
that if my boat, which was to be of iron, was once 
launched, and should, by its displacement or specific 
gravity, go to the bottom, that I should be unable to raise 
it again, and that in the water directly in front of the 
ways it would touch the bottom even before it would be 
submerged. On the other hand, if I should erect my 
ways running into deep water at some place near the 
mouth of Stillwater Cove, and opposite Point Deliverance, 
I should have no means at hand to complete it, all my 
forges, iron-work, tools, and shop being too far distant for 
such an undertaking. I saw, therefore, that I must con 
struct it near to my foundry, and hence I chose this 
method of a cradle, or raft, to carry out my plan. This 
raft, or cradle as I shall call it in future, was of itself 
quite an undertaking, for I had to make it of mortised 
pieces of wood, so that at the proper time I could take it 
to pieces, and allow its load, the submarine boat, to drop 
into the ocean, at some place yet to be determined, to which 



208 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I should tow it, where the water would be smooth, and 
protected from the billows of the ocean, and not too deep 
for my experiment. 

I had also another care in forming this cradle, and that 
was, that it should be buoyant enough to sustain the sub 
marine boat, and not, when launched, go to the bottom of 
Stillwater Cove with its precious freight, on account of 
the weight of the latter. This cradle, therefore, took 
both time and care to make, and long hours were passed 
by me in figuring out the weight of the iron boat I was 
about to build, and how large and extensive my cradle 
ought to be to sustain it. By studying my book, and by 
experimenting in different ways with small vessels of pot 
tery and bladders blown up with air, that I submerged, I 
got at what I thought would be about the weight of my 
submarine boat and its relation to the cradle, and I saw 
plainly that the latter would have to be improved in some 
way to sustain the necessary weight. So this is how I 
went to work to overcome this obstacle. 

On the two long sides of the cradle running parallel to 
the timber ways, beyond which they extended several feet 
(although the ways themselves were some six feet wide 
from the outside of one timber to the outside of the 
other, by my island rule), I lashed firmly with iron bands 
and bolts two water-tight iron tanks, which I constructed 
of my rolled iron, riveted together, fully six feet long, 
three feet wide, and three feet deep. The dimensions of 
the cradle itself were about these: Ten feet wide and 



MAKING THE CRADLE. 209 

eighteen feet in length, resting firmly upon the three 
declined timbers or ways, which were six feet wide from 
side to side and some forty feet in length from where they 
commenced on the shore to their terminus under the 
water in Stillwater Cove, at a depth of about eight or 
nine feet at high water. They were kept in place by their 
own weight, being of as large a size as I could handle 
with my team of goats, and of hard-wood, the inclination 
they received from the shore ends forcing the outer ends 
to the bottom of the water. Of course these ways were 
not made of one piece of timber but of several, which 
were as large as I dared cut them with any hope of being 
able to handle them, and were fished together to make 
the required length, being first sawed out at the mill, 
planed upon the upper side by hand, and then let down 
again over the inclined planes of the mill into Rapid 
River, and thence thrust over the falls into the shallow 
water and conveyed to their place, where I pulled them 
on shore by means of rollers and my team of goats, till I 
had each in place and mounted upon short uprights of 
other timber, that I had placed at equal distances from 
each other, and higher one than the other as they were 
erected landward from the water. 

The underpinning of my cradle was exactly like the 
wooden underpinning of a house, and consisted of a par 
allelogram, eighteen feet by ten feet, with timbers of 
about eight inches square. Across these timbers were 
placed smaller ones in sockets, exactly as slats are placed 



210 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

across a bed, and this was to form the foundations upon 
which I was to erect my boat. 

When I desired to submerge it I had only to saw away 
each of these slats, on either side, and it would drop into 
the ocean, leaving the outer framework or bedstead, if 
you please floating; for my boat was to be built, of 
course, less than eighteen feet long and ten wide, so as to 
rest wholly upon these slats and not upon the framework 
of the cradle that supported the slats. This took me a 
long time to finish ; but what was time to me whilst re 
volving the problem of my escape, which was not yet 
solved. Till I knew how I was to escape I should never 
again be in a hurry. 

To build my boat I commenced by making two water 
tight tanks, each sixteen feet long and two feet square, 
and two smaller ones, each six feet long and of the same 
dimensions otherwise as the long ones ; these, placed upon 
the slats of my cradle, gave me a parallelogram composed 
of four water-tight tanks, all made out of my rolled iron 
and riveted together firmly. I had to erect a derrick to 
hoist them into place, but once in the cradle I had only to 
bind the two ends of each extremity of the long tanks to 
the short ones placed at right angles to them and I had 
the foundations of my boat laid. I bound the small tanks 
in place, as also the large ones, by bands of iron, several 
in number, which I brought together on one side by means 
of what is called a turn buckle, such as is often seen on 
iron bridges, both ends of the bands being formed with a 



NOT SO WISE AS I THOUGHT MYSELF. 211 

Bcrew-thread, and fitting into this turn-buckle nut on both 
sides, which could be then tightened by means of a lever, 
so as to bring an immense binding force upon each band. 

Upon the outer edge of this parallelogram of tanks I 
had left a sort of comb of iron, some three inches in 
height, already pierced, or rather punched, ready to receive 
the roof of the boat, also air-tight, to be bolted to it, so that 
when all was done my platform of tanks would be nearly 
two feet wide within the boat, and allow me plenty of 
margin to rest any kind of a movable platform upon, or 
deck over the space that was left open, some fourteen feet 
long by six feet wide. 

The nearest description that I can give of this roof is, 
that it rose in all directions at an angle of about forty- 
five degrees till it was bolted to a large flat surface made 
up of several sheets of rolled iron, which formed the top, 
which was ten feet long and four feet wide. This flat 
roof was fitted with a manhole, somewhat large in pro 
portion to the rest of the boat, at least two feet square, 
and fitted over a raised rib of iron, which was packed 
with greased milkweed floss, and closed on the inside by 
set-screws, that were worked with a short iron lever, so 
as to make the opening perfectly air-tight. 

I commenced this chapter by saying that I did not 
intend to make such a fool of myself as the old Robinson 
Crusoe did, and that I was not going to make any errors 
either of judgment or figures; and yet I had not my boat 
completed as far as I have described before I discovered 



212 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

that I had been a silly ass, fully as silly as it was possible 
for a mechanic to be, and one day it flashed upon me that 
my whole cradle, with its air-tight chests, was an egregious 
folly ; that I had not the least need in the world for it, and 
that I had wasted time, labor, and patience in perfecting 
it. Carried away, as I was, with the means I intended to 
employ to sink and raise my boat I had totally overlooked 
the fact that as now being built, and as it would be 
launched, that it would float itself, the size of the four 
air-tight tanks being sufficient to float five times the upper 
structure built on top of them. 

As I am writing a veritable history, and no fable, it 
behooves me to tell the truth, and it was with feelings of 
both mortification and mirth that I surveyed my partially 
finished work. It was the mental contemplation of a 
series of air-cocks, weights, pumps, etc., to be hereinafter 
described, that had led me astray as to the buoyancy of 
the boat as it now stood, and it was what I was going to 
use the tanks for, rather than what they now were, that 
had led me to this error. But then there was no great 
harm done. I had not to change the plan of the boat in 
the minutest particular, and the cradle might after all be 
advantageous in launching it, and preserve it from any 
casualty. Therefore, with the exception of my loss of 
time, I was nothing the worse ; still I was rather crest 
fallen to think what a mistake I had made. But after 
mourning for a short time I set to work with renewed 
ardor to complete my task. 



THE SUBMARINE CRAFT. 213 

After having strapped the four tanks together and cov 
ered them with the iron roof, as described, I went on to 
complete the remainder of the boat, in this manner. In 
the interior, which I could easily reach by getting up 
from underneath the ways through two of the slats of the 
cradle, I arranged the following : The space in which I 
had to work was about fourteen feet in length, six feet 
wide, and eight feet high from the bottom of the tanks to 
the flat roof, which contained the manhole, which, for the 
present I left open, to give me both light and air. In the 
first place I connected all these four tanks together by 
means of a half-circular arm of piping some three inches 
in diameter, which I placed hi each of the four corners of 
the parallelogram formed by the interior of the boat, 
leading from one tank to the other, where the latter met 
at an angle, so that the air that each contained was put 
in direct communication with the others. These con 
necting pipes were fitted in with a flange and riveted, 
and were placed a few inches from the bottom of the 
tanks, thus making really one tank of the whole. As the 
roof was fastened to the outside of these tanks, I had a 
seat or margin running round all the sides of the interior 
two feet wide, from the outer or further side of which 
arose the roofing. I could, therefore, easily lay any kind 
of a movable deck over this open space of fourteen feet 
by six feet, resting the ends of all my planks upon the 
top of the tanks in any direction. 

Having connected all the tanks so as virtually to form 



214 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

one, so far as concerned being one air-chamber, I then 
went to work and pierced the perpendicular side of one of 
the tanks quite near the bottom and inserted a similar 
pipe to the horizontal ones that connected the tanks at 
the angles. This pipe, however, was in the form of a right 
angle, or rather its two ends were at a right angle, the 
bend being of a circular form. It pierced the tank near 
the bottom, as I have said, extended in a horizontal line 
some eight inches, and then gradually turned in a circular 
manner till the other end, about one foot in length, 
pointed downward, in an exact right-angle from the end 
entering the tank. This was put on with a flange, and 
made water-tight, and in the top of it, about three inches 
from the tank, was fixed a stopcock, with a long rod, which 
arose inside the boat, parallel with the side of the tank, 
till it ended in a handle, situated some ten inches higher 
than the top of the tanks. Near this, also, I erected 
another piece of pipe, which entered the top of the tank 
and pierced the roof of the boat, which was also fitted 
with a stopcock. Still another pipe pierced the roof, 
which was fitted with a stopcock outside as well as inside, 
and depended down into the boat some four feet from the 
roof. These four pipes, with their stopcocks, were so 
arranged as to be all near to each other, so that I could 
control them all without moving in my position, and were 
made at about the middle of what I called the starboard 
side of my boat, though it would be hard to say which 
side starboard was, as both ends of the boat were exactly 



EXPLANATION OF APPARATUS. 215 

alike up to the present time. But as I was eventually to 
have a propeller and rudder, which would define the 
stern, I had already concluded that the part of the boat 
nearest the water should be the bows, and hence I knew 
which to call the starboard side and which the port side. 
Added to the pipes and stopcocks already enumerated 
was one which was simply about a foot in height, 
which pierced the tank on the top, some few inches from 
the inner edge, and near the others. It was also fitted 
with a stopcock, and, that my readers may fully under 
stand the uses to which I put all these appliances at 
a later day, it will be well, perhaps, to name them, so that 
when used it will be possible to understand to which of 
the numerous ones I refer; and to prevent confusion, and 
to make myself understood, I will say that the pipes at 
the angles of the tanks I took no note of, they not being 
fitted with any cocks, and only made to connect all the 
tanks together, so that any action I might make with any 
of the stopcocks would be communicated to the whole 
system of tanks, of which the foundations and main part 
of the boat was formed. 

The pipes with stopcocks I named as follows : The one 
leading down into what would be the water when the 
boat was launched, and below the bottom of the tank 
some inches, fitted with a long rod and handle, I called 
the water-pipe and stopcock ; the one that connected the 
tank with the roof, the tank air-pipe and stopcock ; the 
one that pierced the roof and depended into the interior, 

(370) P 



216 PEKSEVEEANCB ISLAND. 

the atmospheric pipe and outer and inner stopcocks ; the 
one that stood erect, ten inches in height, the pump-pipe 
and stopcock. So that I had four pipes and five stop 
cocks to my boat, all of which had their uses, as shall be 
related. 

Besides all these four pipes I also made near to them an 
opening into the tanks, which was fitted with a screw 
thread, upon which I could, when occasion demanded, 
erect a quite large and powerful pump, that I had made 
for the express purpose. 

One more thing remained to be done, and that was to 
make all around the boat inside a sort of movable step, 
that would ship and unship. I was well aware that, unless 
the centre of gravity was kept well down, my boat would 
capsize and spill out all the air when in use, and to prevent 
this I made these movable steps, which it is difficult to 
describe. They were made of an upright piece of wood 
that was over four feet in length, and on the top of which 
another piece of wood was nailed horizontally, some 
twelve inches in width, like one arm of the letter T, 
whilst at the other end of the upright of four feet in 
length was nailed another horizontal piece, some twelve 
inches in width, on exactly the opposite side, like the let 
ter L ; so that when the whole was done the upper hori 
zontal board rested one foot on the top of the tanks, 
whilst at the other end of the upright, two feet below 
the bottom of the tanks, was the other horizontal board, 
facing in towards the centre of the boat in all directions, 



GOAT-POWER. 217 

and forming a kind of step or shelf, upon which weights 
could be placed so as to prevent all chance of the capsiz 
ing of the boat, the vomiting out of its air, and perhaps 
the destruction of its constructor and inventor. I had 
this so arranged that I could speedily ship and unship it 
in sections, for it was of course greatly in the way, and 
of no use except when the boat was launched. 

I then completed my deck, which I made of light 
planks, marked and arranged so that I could readily board 
over all the space in the interior or leave part of it open. 
Upon further thoughts, some of this deck I made perma 
nent, leaving only a space of about six feet by four open 
in the forward end, which I could cover or uncover. 

I then entered upon another part of the programme, 
namely, the motive power by which I was to move this 
submarine monster, but that I had long ago solved in my 
own mind. For some months I had been practising two 
fine young goats upon a treadmill fitted to their size and 
strength, all the time having in view the end of using 
them to create the motive power of my boat ; and for this 
purpose I had left the manhole two feet square so as to 
be able to take them down with me into it. I now went 
to work and transported the treadmill to the boat, and, 
having fixed it in place, I each day conveyed the goats on 
board and set them to work, so that they might get used 
to it. They were already used to the motion of the mill, 
and I noticed that with the precision of step of their race 
they worked the rounds of the mill much better than 



PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

horses usually do, and they soon became accustomed to 
the boat and worked rapidly and well, obeying the least 
word of command. In fact they were to me almost com 
panions, and it would be amazing to relate, if I had time, 
all I have taught these really sagacious and gentle crea 
tures since I have been on the island; not these very 
ones of which I am now speaking in particular, but several 
of their race. Perhaps before I am through with my 
narrative I may give an idea of the many interesting 
things which I taught them. 

For a long time I allowed the mill to be turned daily, 
without making up my mind just how I would connect it 
with the wheel or screw that I foresaw that I should have 
to make to propel the boat. I at last fixed upon a pro 
peller, to work in the open space of water in the interior 
of the boat, and which I readily set up with good strong 
gearing, that I could as readily take down by hand when 
needful. By means of bevelled gearing I obtained several 
revolutions of my propeller to one of the balance-wheel 
of the treadmill, and I saw, as a mechanic, that my boat 
would move forward, perhaps not very fast, but still at the 
rate of three or four knots an hour, which would answer 
all purposes. 

I had one more necessary thing to make, and that was 
a rudder, which I connected to the outside of the rear 
tank of the boat, bringing the tiller or steering rods into 
the interior of the boat under the bottom of the tank. I 
took care to fasten the heel of the rudder, which was 



HOW TO RENEW THE AIE. 219 

quite wide, above the line of the bottom of the tank, so 
that if the boat grounded it would not be injured or 
destroyed. 

And now I came to the most important part of my boat, 
and, in fact, upon the success of which, and practical ap 
plication, rested the actual consummation of all my efforts. 
It was to obtain a supply of air whilst under the surface 
of the water without connection with the atmosphere, 
from which I was of course debarred. This problem 
solved, I had, I felt, the whole matter under control, 
and let it not be believed that I had proceeded thus far 
in my self-imposed task without seeing a way out of this 
difficulty. The following every-day facts were easily 
ascertained from ray Book of Useful Arts and Sci 
ences, and upon the following conclusions I had based 
my invention. It is well known that oxygen is the por 
tion of atmospheric air which supports life, and that it 
composes nearly twenty-two per cent of the same, whilst 
nitrogen, the remaining portion, is incapable of sustaining 
life. It is also well known that water also contains oxy 
gen, in the proportion of two parts to oue of hydrogen, 
of which two gases water is composed ; or, in other words 
whilst atmospheric air holds only twenty-two per cent of 
the life-giving principle, water contains about sixty-six per 
cent, or, by weight, eight-ninths of oxygen to one-ninth 
of hydrogen. I also ascertained that the specific gravity 
of nitrogen is 0.94, whilst that of hydrogen is only 0.0692. 
Now if I could release the oxygen in the water I could 



220 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

make new air and at the same time precipitate the nitro 
gen and carbonic acid in the boat, that might be in the 
atmosphere, that had accumulated by my repeated 
breathings. Now the only problem to solve was evidently 
how to release this oxygen with which the water was so 
freely impregnated, charged, or made up of, and by the 
breathing of which fishes sustained life. And this is how 
I set about to do it. I made a very light paddle-wheel, 
full six feet in diameter, with many, but light arms, and 
only six inches across the face of each paddle j this was 
arranged so as to ship inside the boat, upon sockets 
arranged so that the lower paddles would just touch the 
water, and was adjustible by set screws, so that the jour 
nals could be lowered or elevated as the pressure of the 
water in the boat might show itself, higher or lower, 
according to the depth the boat might be at. By this 
arrangment I could have the paddles, which were more 
like a set of large-teethed combs than paddles, dip just 
such distance into the water as I desired. This wheel was 
connected by series of light wheels to the drum of the 
treadmill, so that I could obtain many revolutions of the 
water-wheel to one of the latter. My idea was this. By 
violent motion of the extreme ends of my comb-paddles 
through the water I intended to throw up into the inte 
rior of the boat a mass of minute spray, that in that form 
would itself release the oxygen that it contained, or at 
least a large part of it, and grant to my exhausted air the 
vitality it needed by new oxygen, or the life-sustaining 



AIR, COMPASS, AND LIGHT. 221 

principle, and at the same time precipitate the carbonic 
acid that the used-up atmosphere might contain. By this 
simple contrivance I intended to renew my air, and thus 
remain just as long below the surface as I might desire. 
The test that I should have that my air was becoming 
impure would be the dimness with which the candles 
would burn, with which I was to furnish the boat ; and if 
after the use of the spray-wheel they again flashed up 
brilliantly, I should know that my theory was correct. 

I had only one more thing to make to complete the 
whole affair, and that was a compass, which, having fin 
ished, I took within the boat to see and note its vari 
ations from the true north on account of the attraction of 
the iron, and to regulate it so that I might be aware 
always of my true course, for upon the exactitude of this 
instrument rested the responsibility of my ever again 
reaching land should I dare to go out into the ocean, sup 
posing that the boat should work according to my desires 
and theory. 

For light I had nothing but the light contained in the 
water and my candles. I could only pass from spot to 
spot by compass alone, and in case of utmost disaster 
plunge into the water within my own boat and try to 
reach the surface by coming up outside. It was not my 
intention to propel the boat near the bottom but only 
when near the surface. When near the bottom a turn or 
two of the propeller would send me in any needed di 
rection. 



222 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

A few blocks of iron to place upon my hanging shelves, 
and four anchors with strong rawhide hawsers, completed 
the appurtenances of the boat, and it was finished. By 
examination of my diary I found that I had been just 
nine months and eleven days in completing it from the 
day I had started to work upon the ways. 



CHAPTER XX. 

Launch the submarine boat. Experiment with it in Stillwater Cove. 

HATING completely finished and arranged my boat, my 
next task was to launch it and arrange for a series of 
experiments to ascertain its practical value. So one fine 
morning I went forth, with a beating heart, from the Her 
mitage, and waited patiently till nearly high water, and 
having greased my launching ways, and confined the cra 
dle with a long and strong rope of rawhide, so that its 
momentum, when launched, should not carry it across 
Stillwater Cove without being checked before it reached 
the other side, I, with anxiety and almost fear, withdrew 
the iron bolts in front of it on the ways, and, going to 
the upper end, applied a crowbar to the still stationary 
mass, and after a few motions of the bar it began to move, 
and with one grand rush, not very fast, and yet majestic 
and striking, the cradle, with its precious freight, dashed 
into the water, and, being brought up by the long rope of 
rawhide fast to it, in a moment or two rested quietly upon 
its bosom. 

I took the canoe " Fairy " and paddled all about it and 
saw that it sat well balanced, and secure, and that it 

223 



224 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

floated beautifully. I then made fast to it with a short 
piece of rawhide rope, and commenced towing it to the 
mouth of Stillwater Cove, where the water was deep but 
smooth, to still further carry on my experiments. It was 
a good hard day's work to tow the heavy cradle to the 
place that I had fixed upon, which was at the mouth of 
Stillwater Cove, just within the breakwater, and about one 
mile beyond the landing-place and two or three miles 
from the Hermitage. This place was admirably fitted for 
my purposes, the shore being of a smooth sand and the 
water gradually deepening towards the centre of the cove. 
Nothing but clear, pure sea-sand on the bottom, and no 
rock to injure the boat or interfere with any experiment I 
might choose to make. Having arrived, I was glad to 
anchor the whole concern safely, and to make my waj 
home in the canoe. 

The next day, fitted out with all I thought I should 
need, including my two goats for the treadmill and pro 
visions for a day or two, I made my way back again in 
the canoe to the floating cradle. I found everything all 
right, as I had left it, and proceeded to prove the practical 
efficiency of my invention. In the first place I took the 
goats on shore and tethered them, so that they could feed, 
but not escape. I then went to work and anchored the 
cradle in about twelve feet of water, it then being nearly 
low tide, or slack water. After having secured both it 
and the boat also, I went to work sawing off the slats of 
the cradle upon which the latter rested, and in less than 



THE LAUNCH COMPLETED. 225 

two hours the last one was off, and I had the satisfaction 
of seeing my boat floating in the water, drawing only a 
few inches, certainly not over six, with the manhole open, 
sustained wholly by the confined air in the tanks, which 
held up the superstructure bravely. After the slats were 
cut away I drove out the pins from the mortised frame 
work of the cradle and left my iron boat floating calmly 
on the bosom of the smooth waters of Stillwater Cove. 
Floating the timbers to one side that had formed the cra 
dle, I allowed them to drift up stream with the now 
incoming tide, the boat being securely anchored by two 
anchors, one in advance and one at the stern, which were 
made fast to two ringbolts on the roof, placed at each 
extremity. 

And now for my final test. I had made up my mind, if 
the thing was not a success, that I did not intend to be 
personally implicated in any disaster. Two things only 
could happen ; one, that the boat might capsize, and if so 
I was prepared to go on board with little clothing, so that 
if it vomited me up I could easily reach the surface and 
then swim ashore, which was distant only a few rods ; the 
other, that I should be unable to improve my air, once 
vitiated or used up. In the latter event I had only to 
dive out from under the boat and again make my way to 
the shore, losing, however, the lives of my poor goats. 

I commenced my work by going on board of the boat 
by means of a short ladder, which reached from the man 
hole to the deck beneath. In the first place I shipped or 



226 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

hung the wooden shelves on each of the tanks, and loaded 
them with several iron weights, and also large smooth 
stones and the two anchors that belonged to the boat. 
This made it very firm, and sunk the tanks at least two 
inches more. I then went on shore and brought off my 
goats in the canoe and passed them on board through the 
manhole, which I had made large for this very purpose. 
I then went to work in the interior and fixed my compass, 
steering-gear, treadmill, and propeller, taking great care 
to see that my spray-wheel was all in order, and at hand 
ready to be hung. 

I also conveyed on board some candles, flint and steel, 
matches, and provisions, and as the last thing took in the 
stern anchor, so that the boat lay with the tide, tailing up 
stream. The other hawser I conveyed also by means of 
the canoe and with a boathook under the forward tank, 
so that I held the end within the interior, and could cast 
it off at any time. It was by the sun about eleven o'clock 
when I gave one glance around me, and, standing on the 
last round of the ladder, I drew the manhole cover over 
my head and commenced screwing it down on the inside, 
which having done I lighted several candles, although 
I had a fair light reflected from the water and the 
bottom of the cove, formed of white sea-sand, directly 
beneath me, and distant, I should judge by the state of 
the tide, some twenty to twenty-five feet. My goats had 
become so accustomed to the boat that they showed little 
surprise at the rather dim light, and stood ready to per- 



AN EXCITING EXPERIMENT. 227 

form their part whenever I should put them to their cus 
tomary task. 

My heart beat rapidly, not with fear, but with excite 
ment and expectation. Here I was, already shut out 
from the outer air, and in a little world of my own. I 
hesitated to complete my experiment, and before going 
further I turned to my provisions and took a good long 
drink of claret wine to strengthen my courage and steady 
my nerves. If I was in a scrape I could get out of it, 
but my poor goats ! they, I was afraid, would have to pay 
for any error in judgment on my part. Having regained 
perfect composure, I made up my mind to make the first 
test of the practical value of my boat, and that was to 
see if I could descend to the bottom of the ocean, that 
lay beneath me. By moving around I felt convinced 
that my calculations about the centre of gravity had 
been correct, and I felt that the boat would not capsize. 
It was remarkably stiff and steady, and would, I felt 
confident, remain so when submerged. This bugbear was 
already off my mind, and gave me confidence to proceed. 
So, moving to the place on the starboard side where all 
my pipes and stopcocks were congregated, I commenced 
by opening the stopcock of the water-pipe, which, as I 
had foreseen, brought no perceptible change. Some little 
water rushed into the tanks, but only what was sufficient 
to compress the air to the extent of the weight of the 
superstructure of the boat. This experiment did not sink 
it one particle ; its buoyancy remained exactly the same, 



228 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

for the same air remained in the tanks, although com 
pressed, and was not able to escape on account of the 
position of the outlet of the pipe that had opened com 
munication between it and the water, pointing, as it did, 
directly to the centre of the earth. After waiting a little, 
and seeing that this all worked well, I placed my hand 
upon the stopcock of a more important pipe, namely the 
tank air-pipe, which led from the tanks to the outer surface 
of the superstructure. 

Now, or never ! Upon turning this cock I should de 
scend or my theory would be incorrect. The moment my 
hand opened this valve the air would be expelled by the 
pressure of the boat upon the water, conveyed to the ait 
in the tanks by the water-pipe, which was already open ; 
and, as it was expelled, so the buoyancy of the boat would 
be decreased, and I should descend. The fatal moment 
had come, and with a firm hand I opened the tank air- 
pipe, and plainly heard the escaping air, the incoming 
water, and felt the boat descending, and saw the sandy 
bottom apparently approaching me. I cut off the discharge 
of the tank air-pipe, and with a slight rebound the boat 
arose again a few inches towards the surface, simply re 
gaining its true position in equilibrio, that it had for a mo 
ment passed, by the momentum of its descent. By little 
turns of this stopcock I discovered, as I expected, that I 
could move the boat in a descending direction even an 
inch at a time. The movement was a perfect fascination, 
but each delivery of air was bringing me nearer the bot- 



TESTING HEK BUOYANCY. 229 

torn, and as yet I had tried no means of rising again to the 
surface. 

When I had gotten to within about six feet of the for 
mer I thought it time to see if I could again rise towards 
the surface. I was well aware that, having used up this 
air, it was so much loss to me, but I was in hopes to be able 
to replace it ; and even if I could not replace it to make 
the boat rise to near the surface without it. I could do 
this in one way, by casting overboard the anchors and 
weights lying upon the wooden shelves ; but this, if done 
to any great extent, might cause the capsizing of the whole 
affair. No ; I had a better way than this, and at it I went. 
In the first place I closed the water-pipe, and then, having 
opened the screw-valve in the connected tanks, I screwed 
upon it the pump and commenced discharging the water 
from them that had run in to take the place of the dis 
charged air into the water of the ocean, which formed, 
in one sense, the interior flooring of my boat. 

To make this pump work I of course opened, and left 
open, the pump-pipe, so that the air from the interior 
rushed in and filled the tank as fast as the pump discharged 
the water, and at each stroke of the pump, after the first 
few, the boat, as I had hoped, began to rise ; the water, 
having been just so much ballast to carry it down, being 
discharged by the pump, was just so much thrown over 
board in weight to allow it to rise. By persistent pumping 
I made my boat rise quite near the surface, but not to the 
buoyant position it at first maintained, for I had in my 



230 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

descent used up considerable of the air in the tanks, which 
I had as yet not replaced, or rather what I had used from 
them had been replaced from the air of the interior when 
I pumped out the water, which I could only do by allowing 
the connection between the tanks and the interior to be 
open, so as to make the pump work. In short I had lost 
just so much buoyancy as was equal to the escaped air ; 
but still I had been able to make the boat descend and 
ascend. 

These experiments took me over two hours, and I com 
menced to feel the need of new air, and to notice that my 
candles began to burn a little dimly. I was thus warned 
that my air was being used up and charged with carbonic 
gas, and that it was time for me to renew it. So I un 
screwed the pump and closed the valve, opened the water- 
pipe, and placed my hand upon the tank air-pipe and pre 
pared to descend. One effect I should have noticed of my 
loss of air, and that was that the water in the interior of 
the boat rose considerably, and a large portion of the tanks 
was now submerged. A few turns of the stopcock of the 
tank air-pipe carried me near to the bottom, where I 
desired to be, to try my last and most important experi 
ment. 

Arriving to within a few feet of the bottom I rigged 
my spray-wheel, and connected it with the drum of the 
treadmill and set the goats at work. And it was time, for 
my breathing had become oppressive, and the animals 
themselves seemed dull and frightened. I had waited 



THE HARDEST PROBLEM SOLVED. 231 

almost too long. My candles also commenced to burn 
more dimly, and I prepared to take my plunge into the 
water and come up outside of the boat should my experi 
ment now fail. But wonder of wonders ! my spray-wheel 
made but a few revolutions, dashing large quantities of 
minute spray into the interior by its rapid motion, before 
my lungs were relieved, the candles renewed their bril 
liancy, and the goats recovered from the lassitude under 
which they had a moment before seemed to be laboring. 

The problem was solved. I had made my own air. I 
could remain below the surface as long as I desired. 
Everything about me was rather damp and moist from 
the dashing of spray about the interior, and several of the 
candles, that I had not protected, were put out ; but two, 
in the extremity of the boat, were preserved, and now 
that my problem was solved I did not again light the for 
mer, the two remaining ones being all-sufficient. And in 
fact I did not need them ; my own lungs, I found, were 
sufficient as a guide to tell me in future when to renew 
the air. Still it was fascinating to see these two candles 
burning brilliantly that had but a moment before been so 
dim. The reflected light from the pure sandy bottom 
just below me was amply sufficient for all purposes. 

I imagined, by the slight shadow that the boat cast on 
the bottom beneath, from the brilliant sun that I knew 
was shining overhead, and from counting up in my mind 
all I had done since leaving the surface, that the air had 
lasted me, as nearly as I could judge, two hours ; and that 

(370) Q 



232 PEESEVEEANCE ISLAND. 

seemed to be the extreme limit to which I could go and 
not renew it. I also knew by the quantity of tallow con 
sumed in the candles that it must be nearly that amount 
of time. I also noticed that the spray- wheel had not only 
purified my air, but that whilst it was in operation the 
boat had slightly ascended, proving that I had gained a 
lighter gas for the nitrogen and carbonic acid precipitated. 
One more thing remained to be tested, and I should 
feel that my labors were complete. In the first place I 
made the boat ascend as far as possible, by means of the 
pump and stopcocks, as before described, and then I went 
to work and rigged my propeller and set the goats at work. 
I got the boat as near the surface as possible before com 
municating motion to it, so as not to run against any 
obstacle if possible. But then the body of water in which 
I was submerged was so pure, and free from anything of 
that nature, that there was little danger after all. With 
a feeling of confidence that I had not had in all the other 
experiments, I cast off the hawser affixed to the anchor 
that held the boat, and started the goats. Mechanics did 
not trouble me, and it was with no surprise, but only 
gratification, that I saw by the bottom that the boat was 
moving forward, and that it readily obeyed the helm. I 
turned it completely around by the tiller, and made an 
excursion of fully half a mile, I should think, up Still- 
water Cove, once in a while getting out of the channel, 
when by stopping the goats and reversing the propeller I 
was able to back into the channel again, and finally to turn 



ON SHOEE AGAIN. 233 

around by a series of forward and backward motions till 
I again arrived at the place from which I had started, 
which I knew by the anchor lying in mid-channel. By 
observation of the bottom I should say that the boat was 
propelled at least three miles an hour, which was sufficient 
for all my purposes. 

After arriving back to my first position I pointed the 
boat towards the sandy beach, and when the hanging 
shelves touched the bottom I carefully removed them and 
their weights to the top of the tanks, in the interior, and, 
with a short pole, pushed the boat still nearer the shore, 
till the tanks rested on the sand j and this I did with care 
and quickly, for I was a little afraid of a capsize when the 
hanging shelves were removed, which was only for a mo 
ment or two, however, before the boat was at rest on its 
own foundations, on the sand. I then forced down under 
the water from the interior quite a large block of wood 
under the tank that had the water pipe protruding, so that 
the latter should not be hurt by being driven into the 
sand when the whole boat was stranded at low water. 

The tide being now at ebb, I knew that I had not long 
to wait before the whole boat would be high and dry upon 
the sand. But having gotten my piece of timber under 
the tank to protect the water pipe, I opened the atmos 
pheric pipe and let the whole boat sink solidly to the bot 
tom, in all its parts, as well as the forward part that was 
resting on the sand. I then cautiously opened the man 
hole, ready to close it immediately should it yet be below 



234 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the surface ; but, as I supposed, it was out of the water at 
least six inches, and, throwing it open, I once again 
emerged into the open air of day. 

I released the goats and carried them on shore, and as 
the tide receded all the water left my tanks through the 
water pipe, which I then closed, and there was my boat 
as buoyant again as when it was first launched, with all 
the tanks full of air, and ready to be towed to an anchor 
age as soon as the next incoming tide should float it. 

I lay down upon the sea-side and contemplated my work, 
and wondered if it would not make me a rich man if I 
could transport it to some civilized portion of the earth. 
Was it possible for me to make a boat of this kind on a 
large scale, with a team of goats, fifteen or twenty in 
number, and traverse the depths of the ocean till I arrived 
at some Christian land? One thing at least was in its 
favor : I need fear no storms or any dangers of the ocean 
from waves or wind, and one other great obstacle would 
be overcome. I could leave the helm at any time and go 
to sleep, feeling sure that my boat would not be driven 
about by waves and winds, but repose peacefully in eqi- 
librio till I again awoke, and forced it forward upon its 
passage. 

There was matter for great thought in all this. But on 
the other hand, should my air fail me, or my tanks leak, 
or steering apparatus get out of order, I should either be 
stifled to death, drowned, or left beneath the ocean to 
wear out a miserable existence till death relieved me. 



LOVE FOR MY ISLAND HOME. 235 

The risk was too great. Besides I had no means but a 
compass of ascertaining where I was going, no glass lens 
to give me any light ; but perhaps I might possibly make 
the latter. It was all well enough for me to venture out 
from my island where at the worst I could escape and 
swim ashore ; and, if the truth must be spoken, I found my 
self too much in love with my island, and all its comforts, 
to hazard too much to escape from it. I cannot say that 
I did not long and long to escape, and that I did not 
mourn for companionship ; but I must also confess that I 
had begun to love my island home also, in one sense, and 
I could see far enough ahead now into the future to ac 
knowledge to myself that, should I escape, it would be only 
to return with companions to here end my days. 

These were different feelings than what I had when 
first cast on the island, as will readily be perceived by 
perusal of this manuscript, if ever, by the mercy of God, 
it comes to anybody's hands to read. But what could I 
an old sailor, but not an old man, who had banged around 
the world ask for more than I could obtain on my island 
except companionship ? Nothing. 

Having secured the boat, and put the goats and spare 
traps into the canoe, I at the close of the day paddled 
myself back to the Hermitage, determined on the morrow 
to make an excursion out of Stillwater Cove into the 
ocean, and see what I could discover. To be doubly 
secure I made up my mind to tow the canoe with a long 
rope of rawhide on the surface of the water, astern of 



236 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the submarine boat below it, so that if I did meet with 
disaster or shipwreck I could get into the former and 
make my way to the shore in safety, in fact this arrange 
ment would take away all danger from the enterprise, as I 
felt confident that I could always escape from the boat, 
and it would be well worth while to have the canoe at 
hand to jump into, if I had to do so. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

Explore the bottom of the ocean In the vicinity of the Island with my sub 
marine boat. Discover pearl-oysters, and invent a great Improvement to my 
boat. 

I ABOSE early the next day, and started in my canoe, 
accompanied by my two goats, to the mouth of Stillwater 
Cove. It was a beautiful day, and one just suited for my 
purpose. I had made up my mind to make my way out 
of the cove into the open ocean, and along the coast line 
of the breakwater, taking care, if possible, not to get too 
near in, so as to be troubled with the undertow. To enable 
me to do this I was first obliged to land on the breakwater, 
and with my compass to lay out some of the bearings and 
directions of the land and shore line so aa to be able 
to make a kind of chart upon a piece of birch bark that I 
had brought for that purpose, to enable me to find my way 
back into the cove, or, missing that, at least to bring up 
somewhere on the shores of Perseverance Bay. Having 
gotten everything arranged, I went on board of my boat, 
which I found floating and in perfect order, having first 
recovered my anchor in the stream and taken that also on 
board. Once in the interior I shipped the hanging shelves 
and distributed the weights in their usual places. My 

887 



238 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

goats evidently took everything as a matter of course, 
and quietly remained where I had fastened them, near the 
treadmill. I put my movable deck in good order, saw that 
my fresh water, provisions, and candles were all right, with 
a bundle of hay for the goats also. I then carefully ex 
amined all the stopcocks, the steering apparatus, and spray- 
wheel, and finding everything in order, and a fine, sun 
shiny day overhead, I made fast the " Fairy " to a ringbolt 
on the outside of the boat, and paid out a long scope of 
rawhide rope, so that I could sink at least forty fathoms 
without drawing her after me. Then, giving one more 
look at everything, and lighting a candle in case I should 
need one in any emergency, I shipped my propeller, at 
tached the band to the treadmill, cast off my moorings, 
started the goats, and got under way, standing out in a 
westerly direction into the ocean. 

As soon as I was clear of Point Deliverance, and when 
about a hundred fathoms seaward to the eastward, I 
changed my course to the northward, all this time moving 
along with the manhole wide open, out of which I often 
looked to see how I was proceeding, and in what direction 
to steer. But I had scarcely got the head of the boat to the 
eastward before a heavy sea broke all over me, and came 
dashing down the manhole, but did me no harm, falling 
back, as it did, in the interior, into its own element. The 
inside deck was rather spattered, to be sure, and the goats 
evidently began to be surprised, if not frightened, at the 
motion of the boat, and I saw that the tune had come to 



SEARCH FOR RELICS. 239 

submerge it ; but I kept on, for I was determined to keep 
above the surface, if possible, till I found myself opposite 
the place on the breakwater at which I had first been cast 
on shore, and which I well knew ; for it was there that I 
determined to make my first descent, and see if I could 
not find some remains of the articles that were in the 
whaleboat when I was cast away. So to keep out the 
water I closed the manhole cover, but once in a while ran 
up the ladder, opened it and looked about me, till I at 
last found myself opposite the spot, and not more than a 
quarter of a mile distant. 

I then, by a word, stopped the goats, and shut down the 
cover of the manhole, and screwed up the set-screws, 
opened the water-pipe, and placed my hand upon the air- 
tank stopcock and allowed some of the air to escape. In 
one instant the boat that had before been buffeting about 
upon the billows was as quiet and steady as a rock. I did 
not descend far before I shut off the escape of air, and sat 
down to think. In the first place I saw that by a series 
of experiments I could easily, in the future, tell just how 
far I was descending by the rise of the water inside of 
the boat upon the sides of the tanks ; for, as I descended, 
the pressure upon the air was of course increased, and 
therefore compressed, so that the water rose higher within, 
and nearer to the movable deck. 

Having examined my compass I started the goats again, 
and made for the outside of the breakwater, hoping to 
strike the very place where the whaleboat had formerly 



240 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

been destroyed. As I advanced towards the shore I found 
that I was not deep enough down to see the bottom, so I 
again descended till I could plainly see it below me, 
not ten feet distant. I spoke to my goats and had them 
relax their speed, and moved slowly forward. The bottom 
laid out to my view was composed of sand, rocks, and an 
infinite variety of sea plants. How can I expect to con 
vey to anyone the beauties of this submarine view. The 
water by its transparency and the light that I obtained 
by reflection could not have been more than six fathoms 
deep, and in fact I knew that it was in that neighborhood, 
for I had often, in my canoe, been outside of the break 
water before, fishing and for other purposes, and I knew 
very nearly what water I ought to have. 

Although anxious to explore I could not resist the temp 
tation to stop and gaze upon the beauties that lay before 
me, in all their marvellous freshness, unseen before by the 
eyes of mortal man since their creation by the Almighty. 
Many of the plants before me, that seemed like sparkling 
gems, I knew well would look so only as they now stood, 
in their native garden, surrounded by water, and that, taken 
from the element or cast on shore, would fade ten times 
quicker than any land plant. Fishes of various sizes 
darted in every direction, and simply to please my own 
conceit I deliberately dropped a line amongst them and 
captured several, which I again allowed to escape. But 
even in my own solitude I could not help smiling at the 
idea of a mortal man sailing along at the bottom of the 



A NEW WOELD. 241 

ocean and capturing its denizens at his leisure, the thing 
was too comical. 

Although I had stopped the goats, my boat still had a 
motion, or rather I should say that I could see that the 
tide was drifting it sideways to the northwest, but very 
slowly, not more than a knot an hour. I think that I 
could have sat hours and looked upon this scene. It was 
like a new world opening up before me. Everything was 
plain, for no ripple blurred the surface of the water in the 
mterior of my boat, and no wind of heaven rushed over 
it to destroy, for a moment even, its transparency. It was 
as still and motionless as death, and as quite large rocks 
and new objects seemed to pass by below me, I was 
sometimes startled at their beauty and grandeur. It was 
a panorama. I seemed to be stationary, fixed, as immov 
able as the foundations of the earth ; and these objects 
passed in review before me exactly as if moving along in 
space. It was difficult to disabuse my mind of the fact 
that I was not stationary, but that the objects upon which 
I was gazing were. This feeling was increased in a marked 
degree by the absolute stillness and want of motion, in 
itself, of my submarine boat. 

I hated to break in upon this deathlike silence by the 
motion of my propeller, but I was being swept by the tide 
slowly away from my destination, and it would not do to 
proceed too far, so as to lose the true course by compass. 
Reluctantly then I spoke to my goats and put the boat in 
motion, and proceeded upon my way. I had not advanced 



242 PERSEVERANCE ISLA2HX 

far when I perceived that I was entering a perfect forest 
of submarine plants and kelp, the long tendrils of which, 
sustained by the water, reached upwards towards the sur 
face. I saw that I was upon dangerous ground, and there 
fore stopped the treadmill and reversed my propeller, and 
backed out from my position. I then rigged my pump 
and made the boat ascend so as to pass over their heads, 
and again forced the boat towards the breakwater, 
but this time I found that I was getting into the 
undertow, and the forest beneath me warned me not to 
descend ; so I had nothing to do but to back out seaward 
and give up all idea of exploring the place of my ship 
wreck. 

When I had pushed back so as to be clear of the tangled 
plants that seemed to surround the margin of the island on 
this side, I commenced again to descend, and allowed the 
boat to rest within a few feet of the bottom, and, rigging 
my spray-wheel, went to work to renew and purify my 
air, which I had no difficulty in doing. I then moved 
about in different directions, taking care all the time to 
keep a reckoning by my compass of the courses sailed and 
the distances passed over, by dead reckoning. During one 
of my stationary moments I had a complete view of as 
large a shark as I have ever seen. He passed directly be 
neath me, and took no more notice of the boat than if it 
had been a stationary rock. He was at least sixteen feet 
in length, and would have made but a mouthful of poor 
me. 



SOUNDING UPWAKDS. 243 

I wish that I could describe the sights that I saw. It 
seemed as if I was in another world, and had passed from 
this existence to one more advanced, in which I floated in 
space. The extreme silence of all about me, and the rigid- 
ness of all objects seen, was very striking. At each mo 
ment some beautiful fish or plant struck my view, of which 
I had never before had any knowledge. I moved about 
in all directions, trying to find, if possible, some bank of 
pearl-oysters, and I had a good idea of how they ought to 
look, for I had once, in my younger days, descended with 
the divers in the East Indies to the pearl-oyster beds, and 
knew the whole practical science of the business. At last, 
at a point by compass and dead-reckoning about northeast 
from Point Deliverance, and distant two miles, I came 
upon what I wanted, or rather what I hoped was what I 
wanted, namely, a perfect bank of oysters, in thousands, 
clustered together. My first act was, after stopping the 
boat, to throw over a light anchor, to hold it in position ; 
the next to cast into the water a small grapnel, to which 
was attached a long piece of rawhide rope, fully forty 
fathoms in length, ending in a wooden buoy, shaped like 
a tenpin in a bowling-alley, and of about the same size. 
This, after dropping the grapnel, by means of a short boat- 
hook I thrust under the tank of the boat, and saw it rap 
idly take up the spare line as it ascended towards the 
surface. And as it was so ascending it flashed upon me 
that here was also a practical way of determining at all 
times the depth of water; for this buoy only took out 



244 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

about seven 01* eight fathoms of the line before it became 
stationary, evidently having reached the surface. I used 
this buoy to anchor the reef, so as to be able to find it in 
future trips, when I had only to stand out towards it, on 
pleasant days, on the surface of the water, and, when I 
found it, descend and find myself on the reef. 

And for measurement of my depth below the surface I 
had only, in future, to fasten a light, buoyant piece of 
wood to a small cord, marked off into fathoms, which I 
could at any time thrust under the tanks and allow to 
ascend to the surface, and note how many of the fathoms 
of line were taken up, which would denote my depth 
below the surface, and then draw my sounding-buoy back 
again into the boat for further use, simply reversing the 
method that is used on shipboard. That is to say, instead 
of throwing a lead with a marked line to the bottom of 
the ocean, I threw a buoy to the surface. Nature seemed 
to be capsized, and everything upside down, as used to 
appear in using the inverted telescope in my first attempts 
to take the altitude of the sun with a sextant. If I had 
not lived so solitary a life I could have laughed at many 
of the things that befel me in this submarine boat. 

Having gotten the boat securely anchored, and the buoy 
thrown out as I have related, I went to work gathering 
the oysters. I had taken care to bring with me a lio;ht 
pickaxe, a crowbar, and a sort of hand-rake, similar to 
ones used by East Indian divers, which I proceeded to 
employ upon the mass of oysters below me. I had no 



GATHERING PEAEL OYSTEES. 245 

difficulty in detaching all I wanted of them, and filling 
my decks, and particularly the hanging shelves, which I 
relieved of their stones and weights, replacing them by 
masses of the oysters. I made a long job of this, and, 
having gotten all I desired, I drew up my anchor and got 
again under way, ascending as near as possible to the 
surface before advancing towards the land. During all 
this time, whenever necessary, I had renewed my air by 
use of the spray-wheel. 

Being near the surface, which I was made aware of in 
several ways, such as the increased light, the disappear 
ance of the bottom from view, and a slight noise of the 
waves above me, and a little motion of the boat, caused 
by their agitation, I put the goats at full speed, feeling 
sure that for at least two miles nothing was in my way. 
After I had, as I calculated, gone this distance, I slowed 
d6wn, and proceeded more cautiously ; but after an hour's 
work I made no land, nor found any great shallowing of 
the water. Here was a pretty scrape. By my chart I 
was past Stillwater Cove, and even in the interior of the 
island, and not a sign of the land or shallow water could 
I find. I began to be seriously troubled, and I foresaw 
that unless I soon made some shallow water I should be 
obliged to dive under my tanks, and look about me and 
Bee where I was. But before I did this I descended and 
anchored, and found out for the first time that I was at 
last in a strong current, setting towards the westward. 
This frightened me still more, and I ascended at once, 



246 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

stripped off the little clothing that I had on, and plunged 
into the water and came up buoyant as a cork on the 
surface, and pulled the canoe towards me and got into it 
without much effort. One glance showed me what the 
trouble was. I had gradually, during the whole day, drifted 
to the westward, and had passed West Signal Point, and 
was, in the direction I was pursuing, leaving the island on 
the port hand, behind me. One glance in the open air 
cleared my brain, and gave me a true idea of where I was, 
for I confess that the many courses that I had sailed 
beneath the surface had rather confused me. 

Taking one more good look about me, I plunged into 
the sea under my tanks, and was again inside my boat, 
which I speedily started in the right direction, and in less 
than two hours made shallow water, when I once more had 
to dive out of the boat and look about me, when I found 
that I had made a pretty good landfall, as I was in Perse 
verance Bay, not more than a quarter of a mile from the 
mouth of Stillwater Cove, having overrun it ; and as I was 
so near home I dove back again, started the goats, and 
soon had the pleasure of finding myself in the cove, some 
part of the bottom of which I already recognized ; and I 
foresaw that if I should make many trips I should be able 
to recognize the bottom just as easily as one recognizes 
familiar objects on land. 

I stranded my boat in the usual manner, and waited for 
the tide, which was now at an ebb, to leave the top exposed, 
for the buoyancy of the boat was not very great from my 



DISCOVERING THE PEAKLS. 247 

frequent use of the air-tank stopcock. During this time 
I busied myself in casting the oysters to the bottom, and 
then moving the boat, which was thus lightened, a little 
to one side, so that, when the tide returned, the former 
would be exposed clear of the boat. I then unshipped the 
movable shelves and put everything in order in the inte 
rior, and sat down and ate a hearty meal, after which I 
tried the manhole, which, by the pressure of the tanks 
upon the sand, I felt confident was above the surface, which 
proved to be the fact. I soon had the goats ashore, who 
seemed to be glad to escape from the confinement of the 
boat, and gambolled about me. I waited patiently for the 
tide to go down far enough for me to get at my oysters, 
which I conveyed to the land, above high-water mark, and, 
sitting down, commenced with my knife to open one or 
two of them. I think it was the third that I was opening 
when my knife-blade struck against something that made 
my heart beat. I laid open the oyster, and there within 
it, nestled near to the upper shell, was as beautiful and 
perfect a pearl as anyone could desire to see. It was not 
very large, perhaps the size of a common pea, but of a 
pure cream color, and of perfect oval form. I knew at 
once that it was a jewel of value and price, and I care 
fully hid it away in my clothing. This prize sufficed 
me. It proved to me the importance of my discovery, 
and I was determined that the sun should do the re 
mainder of the work for me, and therefore left the oysters 
where they lay, to be made putrid by exposure, when 

(370) R 



248 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the pearls that they might contain could be very easily 
washed out. 

I was not wholly satisfied with my boat. I did not like 
the idea of having to dive overboard to find out where I 
was, as I had had to to-day, and I commenced racking my 
brains to overcome it ; and at last I accomplished it in 
theory, and it may be as well to state here that it served 
me perfectly when put in practice on many future occa 
sions, and in fact almost took the place of the spray-wheel. 
It was this. I arranged, in the first place, a sort of air- 
boat, in the shape of the half shell of an English walnut, 
but shallower, nearly four feet in length. This boat was 
made of very thin sheet-iron, but perfectly airtight, and 
upon it was lashed, in a horizontal position, a cylinder of 
sheet-iron, closed at one end and open at the other, a foot 
in diameter, and in length the same as the shallow, air 
tight, walnut-shaped boat that sustained it. At the end 
of this boat, just below the mouth of the cylinder, was 
affixed a solid iron ring, and to this was spliced a strong 
rawhide rope of great length. To utilize this machine I 
made two long bars of iron, which I could arrange in the 
interior of the boat, across its greatest diameter, in the 
form of the letter V, pointing downwards towards the 
bottom of the ocean, and at the point of contact was ar 
ranged a block through which the rope attached to the 
air-boat could be rove. This inverted derrick, in the form 
of a letter V, was still further braced by another bar, 
leading to one of the short diameters of the boat, in the 



A SUPPLY OF FKESH AIR. 249 

interior, forming a tripod. To use the air-boat I had only 
(at any time when beneath the surface and in need of air, 
either to purify that surrounding me or obtain enough to 
force the boat out of water on the surface, after having 
used up the air in the tanks) to reeve the rawhide rope 
through the derrick, as above, and erect the same in an 
inverted form, pointing towards the bottom, and then put 
the air-boat in the water in the interior of the submarine 
boat, force it bodily down in a horizontal manner till the 
cylinder was filled with water, and then start the goats so 
that the rope attached to the nose of the air-boat, leading 
down to the inverted apex of the tripod, through the 
block, and thence to the drum of the treadmill, would be 
tautened, and cause it to erect itself in a perpendicular 
manner, and be forced down under the water towards the 
apex of the tripod. When submerged enough to clear 
the bottom of the tank I slackened the rope gradually, 
pressing it at the same time out and clear from the tank, 
and yet keeping enough strain upon it to prevent its 
touching the latter ; when, as soon as it was clear, I slacked 
the rope wholly, to allow it to arise to the surface outside, 
which it rapidly did on account of the confined air in the 
air-tight shell. Of course immediately upon its arrival at 
the surface it righted itself, and presented the appearance, 
on a small scale, of a barrel with one head out, placed in 
a horizontal position upon a small sled or vessel. In this 
position all the water that had been in the cylinder was at 
once discharged, and, to get a measure of fresh air exactly 



250 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

equal to the dimensions of this cylinder, I had only to set 
the goats to work, to take the rope to the drum of the 
treadmill, the first effect of which was to depress the nose 
and open mouth of the cylinder on the air-boat, at the sur 
face, and the next to drag it down under the water in a 
perpendicular position, with the cylinder charged with air, 
which could not escape. As soon as it appeared clear of 
the outside of the tank, against which it rubbed in its 
descent, and was brought down near to the inverted 
apex of the tripod, I commenced slacking the same rope 
till it arrived at the surface of the water within the sub 
marine boat, when I cast off the rope and it righted itself 
violently, discharging at the same time the contents of 
the cylinder in the shape of new air, and I had only to 
repeat this process of conveying fresh air from the surface 
to obtain all I needed, taking care only, in sending the 
apparatus to the surface, to see that, when the air-boat was 
first pointed under water ready to ascend, it took back 
with it none of its precious freight, which was easily 
obviated when it was held in a semi-perpendicular state, 
and half submerged ready to ascend, by pushing upon the 
part out of water till it was forced into a horizontal posi 
tion, the air from the cylinder discharged, and replaced 
by water, when, after descending towards the connecting 
points of the tripod and pushed clear of the side tank, it 
was allowed to ascend to the surface, discharge the water, 
and descend again filled with air. 
With this apparatus I found that I could even compress 



THE STJBMAEINE BOAT A SUCCESS. 251 

the air in the interior, and in many future expeditions I 
had no trouble in making my submarine boat, at any time, 
self-sustaining on the surface of the water, and I could by 
a little labor come to the surface, open my manhole, and 
look about me and see where I was. 




THE AIR BOAT. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Manufacture glass. Build a steam yacht, and circumnavigate the Island 
Lay up large stores of valuable pearls obtained from the pearl oysters. 

APTBE I had perfected my submarine boat I used it 
often to gather the pearl oysters, and it was not difficult 
to steer straight to the buoy on the reef, fill the shelves 
of my boat, arise again to the surface, and return home. 
After allowing my first load to putrify, I went to work 
upon them and washed them out in the water of Still- 
water Cove, obtaining nearly a handful of seed-pearls, 
some twelve of the size of peas, and four very handsome 
and perfectly-shaped larger ones. This induced me to 
keep on ; for here was portable wealth such as I could 
take away with me when I left the island. Let it suffice 
to say that, during repeated trips at intervals, I ended by 
obtaining probably the finest private collection of pearls 
in the world. I had some eighteen of enormous size, 
nearly as large as English walnuts, but as perfect as if from 
the turning-lathe, except one that had a slight blemish, 
and one that was irregular in form, and I much doubted 
if there were more perfect and larger ones in any royal 
crown. They were regal in size and appearance, and 
were, I knew, of immense value. Besides these sixteen 

252 



HIGH LIVING. 253 

perfect gems without price, I had at least four hundred 
and sixty as large as a small filbert nut, and several hun 
dreds as large as common peas, not to speak of vast 
quantities of seed-pearls, too many to enumerate. If I could 
escape from the island, these treasures would keep me in 
ease and comfort in any part of the world. 

During the year succeeding the finishing of my sub 
marine boat, I was taken up with many new inventions 
almost too numerous to mention. I enclosed another 
large piece of ground as a pasture for my goats, of which 
I had now as many as I chose to keep ; in fact, I loosed 
many of the she-goats and kids into the woods to return 
to a state of nature, having more than I could attend to. 
From the remainder I made cheese, butter, jerked meat, 
etc. It may be possible that some persons have lived as 
well as I, but at this time I had everything that could be 
desired. I improved upon my ways of preserving my 
fruits, and from a ground-nut that I found on the island 
extracted a most delicious oil, which I used in all my 
cooking. I had by this time, by repeated breedings, 
brought the wild quail, that I saw when first arriving 
at the island, to a state of barnyard fowl, and I had their 
delicate flesh and eggs added to my larder. From my 
grapes I was able to make several kinds of pleasant light 
wines. In fact I had everything but companionship. 

But by my temperament I could not keep still, so 
I must yet invent something new that would be of use to 
me. What I wanted most at this time was glass, plate- 



254 PEKSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

glass for my submarine boat, and I was determined to 
have it. So, with my book to guide me, at it I went. 
I knew that silicic acid, practically glass, was represented 
by sea-sand. I also knew, or rather discovered from 
perusal and study of my book, that this sea-sand, freed 
from iron, formed the base of glass. Also that silica, 
silicic acid, or oxide of silicon exists in great abundance 
in nature, being the principal constituent in rock and 
stone, and that crystal and quartz held it in its purest 
forms. This, combined with potash or soda, and sub 
jected to a powerful heat, would, I knew, make glass, if 
mixed in the right proportions. 

In the first place I gathered some five or six hundred 
pounds of the finest, purest, and whitest sea-sand that I 
could find. This I carefully washed in some seven or 
eight waters of Rapid River, till it was purified of all its 
salt, and then it was placed in my ore-cleansing kiln, and 
burned, or rather heated, to a red heat, to get rid of all 
vegetable matter, and then sifted through wire screens to 
get rid of any pieces of fuel with which it might have 
become charged. Having thus gotten my sand all in 
order, purified, and cleansed, I went with the goat team, 
and a handy little cart with cast-iron wheels and frame, 
that I had made during odd times, to the coal mine, to 
bring home some of the chalk there to be found, of which 
there were large quantities, and of a fine quality. This I 
brought home and reduced to a fine powder by pounding 
it up with hammers, and sifting it through fine sieves. I 



GLASSMAKING. 255 

then went to work and built some large fires upon the 
seaside, upon which, when in full blaze, I placed large 
quantities of kelp or barilla, which was finally converted 
into ashes. After I had burned sufficient of it, I allowed 
the fires to go out, and gathered the ashes carefully, to 
which I added a quantity of fresh water and stirred it 
about carefully, preserving the fluid in open iron pans, 
which I placed upon fires and evaporated, and had car 
bonate of soda as the result; and, although on a desert 
island where there is supposed to be nothing, my book 
informed me that kelp or barilla was the best article from 
which to make carbonate of soda, and some kinds of sea- 
sand the very best base of which to form glass. Having 
thus procured the component parts of which to make my 
glass, I set to to make a large clay pot in which to fuse 
it, that would fit in the base of my iron-smelting furnace, 
so as to be surrounded by the air blasts. My clay pits 
fitted me out with this without any trouble, and I then 
had to manufacture a level plate of iron, about two feet 
square, with a raised rim of some inch and a half in height, 
and this I placed in a horizontal position in front of the door 
of the furnace, and rigged above it a large iron roller to 
work by machinery, that could be passed over its face. 
I then mixed my ingredients by hand in the following 
proportions : 

Prepared sand 400 Ibs. 

Carbonate of soda 250 " 

Ground chalk. , . 30 " 



256 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

and put the empty clay pot into the furnace and started 
an immense fire around it. As soon as it was at a white 
heat I filled it with my mixture, placing it in the pot by 
means of a long iron spoon some six feet in length, pro 
tecting my face with a mask of goatskin, and my hands 
by gloves of the same material. When vitrification was 
complete, which took place in about eighteen hours, and 
which I ascertained by plunging a long rod of iron into 
the pot, I ladled out a lot of the mass by means of a clay- 
lined, long-handled, iron ladle, and poured the rapidly- 
cooling but pliable substance upon the iron table con 
structed for it, and, pressing the iron roller upon it in all 
its parts, soon rolled out a sheet of glass two feet square 
and at least an inch and a half thick. Allowing this to 
cool, I repeated the process after removing it, till I had 
made six large squares. I then changed the roller so as 
to come lower down to the iron plate, and by this method 
commenced turning out sheets of plate glass two feet 
square and about one quarter of an inch thick. My task 
was done. I had all the glass I should ever want as long 
as I should live ; enough for the side lights of my boat, 
and also for windows to the Hermitage. Fully satisfied 
with my task, I allowed my fire to go down, and the large 
slabs of glass to cool. 

On the next day I set to work to polish the glass I had 
made, and this I found a laborious and slow task. But 
it had to be done, and I commenced with fine pulverized 
and sifted sand, or rather quartz, and ended with chalk. 



PLATE GLASS. 257 

It was many weeks before all was done, for I needed 
emery to help me in this task, and could find none, and 
had to make other things do. But at last I had four fine 
slabs of plate glass quite well polished and clear, each two 
feet square, and one and a half inches thick; and sev 
eral that were of a quarter of an inch in thickness, many 
of which I had broken in attempting to polish them. The 
latter were soon fitted into position as window lights in 
the Hermitage, and pleasant enough they made the inte 
rior look. The former were made to fit into four holes 
cut out of the solid iron of the boat and fitted with flanges, 
into which they were set with great care by means of 
what the Chinese call chenam, a sort of water cement 
made of lime, oil, white of eggs, and clam shells powdered 
fine, used by them in making all their vessels water-tight. 
These four panes of plate glass, each two feet square, and 
an inch and a half thick, were placed at either end and 
both sides of my boat on the slanting roof, and gave me 
a chance to see in what direction the boat was moving, 
to avoid obstacles, and aid me in submarine navigation. 
They were also thick enough to withstand a blow of great 
force, and not to be affected by the pressure of water 
upon them when at great depths ; but, to preserve them 
more fully from any danger, I built outside of them all 
a wire screen, the meshes of which were perhaps two 
inches apart, and distant from the face of the glass 
outwards some six inches, made of strong iron wire at 
least three eighths of an inch in diameter, so that if by 



258 PBESEVEEANCB ISLAND. 

chance the boat should receive a blow, or be forced 
upon or back against any object, these screens would re 
ceive the blow and not the naked glass, although I am 
ready to believe that the latter would have sustained an 
immense shock without breaking, it was so thick and 
perfect, without crack or flaw. I should have said that 
all my glass had just the faintest tinge of green, caused 
by the minute particles of iron in the sea-sand of which it 
was composed, of which I had not been able to completely 
free it, although I had used magnets to extract large por 
tions of it ; but enough remained to give it this very light 
tinge of which I have spoken. 

I had no difficulty in cutting my thin glass into any 
shape I desired, by means of case-hardened steel, which 
would scratch it deep enough to be broken off, although a 
glazier's diamond would have perhaps performed the ope 
ration better ; but a piece of sharp-edged chilled-steel an 
swered all practical purposes. Later on I had occasion 
to again make glass, but at this time I did not waste a 
moment in making household utensils, glasses, or bottles, 
my earthenware, woodenware, and ironware doing excel 
lent service for me, and I had need of no utensil that they 
could not supply. 

With my submarine boat perfected and supplied as it 
now was with its immense windows, I made many trips, 
and the sights under the water that my eyes gazed upon 
I could write thousands of pages about. I made no great 
discovery, however, in all my wanderings, except to find 



WONDEBS OF THE DEEP. 259 

two more oyster-banks, more to the northeast than the first 
one, but not so prolific. I saw often many creatures that 
never come to the surface, and for which there is no name, 
some of them small and seemingly harmless, and others 
quite frightful and startling. I passed over, upon three 
different occasions, enormous cuttle-fishes, or squids, with 
tentacles at least six or eight feet in length, and eyes three 
inches in diameter; but they never, upon any occasion, 
paid the slightest attention to my boat, but remained 
perfectly motionless, clinging to the stony bottom, wait 
ing for their prey, and I took good care never to disturb 
them. Immense crabs and lobsters, the very patriarchs 
of the ocean, often lay on the bottom to my view, and 
seemingly deformed and curious fishes, large and small, some 
like serpents and some like inflated balls, often met my 
view as I floated along with the tide a few feet above the 
bottom. I never wholly got over the sensation of being 
at the bottom of the ocean ; it always seemed as if I had 
entered another world, where all was changed, and in 
which every living thing was compelled to keep an eternal 
silence. 

Many parts of the bottom, especially that near the 
pearl-oyster reef and the approaches to Stillwater Cove, 
became, shortly after using my glass windows, as familiar 
to me as similar places would have been on land ; there 
being fully as many distinguishing marks, peculiar in 
themselves, as upon the rocks and protuberances of the 
island itself. I loved this lonely under-water drifting 



260 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

about, and indulged in it as a recreation as well as to 
increase my store of pearls. I sometimes watched for 
hours the habits and movements of the animals below me, 
that seemed not to care for my presence ; but quite often 
some huge monster of the sea would pass by me, making 
me hold my breath with awe, if not fright. But I often 
thought that my iron boat would be a hard mouthful for 
anything beneath the waters to attempt to swallow. 

I had long, long ago given over any idea of being 
attacked by savages, and my nerves had become again, as 
in my younger days, hard as steel ; yet I often used to 
think of how I could lie concealed in this boat, beyond 
discovery from any source, should I ever be attacked, or 
how, rising to the surface amongst a fleet of canoes, I 
could spread dismay by my appearance alone from the 
bottom of the ocean, among any body of savages, how 
ever numerically strong or valiant. 

No one will ever know the gardens of the ocean that I 
often sailed over, more beautiful far than anything upon 
the earth. 

My restless energy did not stop at the consummation 
of this submarine boat, but during this year I went to 
work upon a beautiful small steam yacht, to use for my 
pleasure and recreation. It was built partly of wood and 
iron, and constructed upon the ways from which the sub 
marine boat was formerly launched. This steam yacht 
was not very large, but it was of a fine model and grace 
ful lines. I built it twenty feet in length and six feet in 



BUILD A STEAM YACHT. 261 

width, and three feet draft of water, with nearly the 
whole decked over except the cockpit aft. It was fitted 
with one long mast, situated near the bows, and 
only to be used in case of emergency. The building 
of the boiler and engine, of about four-horse power, was 
to me a pleasure, not a labor, and the casting of the screw 
was the only thing that gave me any trouble. T3ut this I 
finally overcame, after a few trials with different moulds. 
The little house that contained the cabin and engine-room 
was lighted with small pieces of plate glass, and I fitted 
the interior with a nice cot to sleep upon, lockers for pro 
visions, coal, and fuel, a small cast-iron stove for cooking 
purposes, and all the handy appurtenances of a small 
yacht. My sail was not a very elegant one, and was made 
out of strong matting, light but coarse ; I having, as yet, 
not attempted to make cloth in any shape. My cable was 
of rawhide, and my anchors, of course, of iron. 

With this boat, after a preparatory trial of its engine, 
in company with one of my pet goats I set out upon the 
circumnavigation of my island. It was one fine December 
morning that I steamed down Stillwater Cove, the yacht 
moving rapidly and evenly along through the water, and 
the machinery and screw working well and smoothly. I 
had invented a sort of comb to retain the tiller in any 
given position whilst absent from the deck in the engine- 
room to put on more fuel or oil the engine, so that the 
yacht would proceed in a straight course till my return to 
the deck. I intended to make a complete circuit of 



262 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the island, and to be absent several days if needful ; so 
before leaving the Hermitage I put everything in order. 
As to my flocks and birds, they at this season could take 
care of themselves very well for a few days. I laid my 
course first for "West Signal Point, and, when I had doubled 
it, I pointed the yacht due north, and made quite an excur 
sion in that direction, fully twenty-five miles ; but, as I 
suspected, found no sign of any other land, although I 
climbed upon the mast and looked about me in all direc 
tions, the island astern being in the dim distance. I found 
that my little yacht was a splendid sea-boat, and, decked 
over as she was, plunged into the waves of the Pacific 
unharmed. Its rate of speed, in smooth water, I esti 
mated at fully nine knots, and in a seaway at least five 
or six. Having in vain looked about me for land, which, 
however, I did not expect to find, I put about and steered 
back to the island, leaving "West Signal Point on the port 
hand, and close aboard, making my way to the southward, 
and parallel with the western shore of the island, distant 
not over one mile. 

When off Penguin Point I again put to sea, at least 
twenty-five miles due west ; but as in the former case dis 
covered no land. "When I had again come up with the 
island the day was nearly spent, and I took the yacht into 
a small cove, just to the westward of Mirror Bay, and, 
having anchored in smooth water, ate my supper, played 
with and caressed my goat, and went to bed. In the 
early morning I again got under way and stood out to 



EXPLORING THE COAST. 263 

sea, to the southward, but no sign of land. Thence I 
proceeded to Eastern Cape, and from there made a trip 
seaward, to the eastward, but with similar barren results. 
From thence I made my way home to the Hermitage, 
pleased with my yacht and with the trip, but doubly con 
vinced that my island was alone and distinct, and not one 
of a series or group. As I passed Mirror Bay on this 
trip I was tempted to enter it and explore the island 
more fully in that direction, but as I found on the second 
day that my machinery of the yacht needed some slight 
alteration and change, I made my way home, as I have 
said, determined to make a new trip for this very pur 
pose, and therefore, upon my arrival, I immediately went 
to work upon those parts of the engine that did not 
exactly please me by their working, and improved and 
perfected them in my workshop, by means of my turning- 
lathe and other tools, till they suited my mechanical tastes 
and worked perfectly to my satisfaction. I fitted my 
yacht with two nice iron howitzers, of about three pounds 
caliber, and had hung up in the cabin a harpoon and 
lance, with two of my smooth-bored guns and plenty of 
ammunition. The coal that I had stored on board would 
last me many days, for there was at least three tons, and 
the furnace of my little boiler did not use more than one- 
quarter of a ton daily, if as much. I had also on deck a 
very light small boat, not over six feet in length, in which 
I could reach the shore whenever I anchored the yacht 
near it. 

(370) 8 



264 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Thus fitted out, which took me several days, I started 
again upon my exploration, and it was upon this trip I 
made one of the most startling discoveries yet since I had 
been shipwrecked ; one that changed all my views about 
the island, and the future, and carried me completely out 
of my every-day life into a period of excitement, curios 
ity, and amazement, and which, as will be disclosed, had 
a marked effect upon all my future "movements. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Discovery of a human habitation. The skeleton and manuscript. 

IT will be remembered that I had never been able in 
my own mind to account for many things that I had found 
upon the island ; amongst others, the goats, sweet pota 
toes, and tobacco. I could not disabuse my mind of the 
impression that some one else had been before me on this 
lonely spot of earth ; that man at some age of its exist 
ence had placed his foot upon the soil. I little knew when 
I started on my trip to Mirror Bay how soon some of 
these mysteries, that had so many years confused me, 
would in a moment be made plain. I looked forward to 
no startling adventure, and yet I was, without knowing it, 
sailing straight towards the solution of many problems, 
guided, unknown to myself, by a mightier hand than 
mine. 

I arrived safely in Mirror Bay, and proceeded up to 
wards the river, the machinery of my yacht working beau 
tifully. When I arrived at the mouth I found that I 
could still ascend, but thought it best to anchor near the 
western bank, just inside the mouth, and not a stone's 
throw from the bank. I had come by the way of the East 
ern Cape, and having started early in the morning, at day- 

265 



266 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

break, about four o'clock, I found myself at anchor at 
about seven o'clock by the sun, having made the run in 
three hours, or at least six knots an hour, the distance 
being, as near as I can judge, eighteen miles. 

When my yacht was nicely anchored, and the fire put 
out and the engine placed in order, I took my little flat-boat 
and went on shore with my goat, intending to walk inland 
in a northwesterly direction, towards Mirror Lake ; but I 
had scarcely taken ten steps into the open woods before 
I recoiled with a sensation of fear, such as I have never 
before experienced, and made for my boat, but before I 
reached it my horror had become curiosity. Turning 
about, I faced the direction from whence I had come ; and, 
taking my shot-gun from my shoulder, I looked carefully 
to the flint to see that it was all right, eased a knife that 
I carried at my belt in its sheath, and thus, with my mind 
collected, but with my brain almost confused with excite 
ment, I advanced slowly towards the place from which I 
had just retreated in so startled a manner. Yes ; there 
could be no mistake ; looking through the boughs of an 
intervening tree of small growth, I saw A HUMAN HABITA 
TION, and the habitation evidently of a civilized, or at least 
semi-civilized, being. Before me in ruins, to be sure, 
but still unmistakably the work of human hands, and skilled 
ones, too stood a stone hut at least ten feet square, 
and with dilapidated stone walls at least eight feet high, 
without roof, and with evident remains of a door and two 
apertures for windows facing towards the sea in the direc- 



DISCOVERY OF THE STONE HUT. 267 

tion I stood. I leaned against the tree that I stood near, 
faint and overcome with emotion. A thousand thoughts 
rushed through my mind, but I soon convinced myself 
that this habitation had been deserted by man for long 
ages of time. Should I ever know how long? Every 
thing about the hut denoted extreme age and decay; 
trees were even growing from the interior, and showed 
above the walls where the roof ought to be ; rank weeds 
and grass grew in the open doorway, and vines crept 
around the dismantled walls; yet there it stood, a monu 
ment unmistakable of a human presence at some previous 
time, and a civilized one, too. No savage hands ever 
erected those walls or pierced those apertures for door 
and windows. I sat down, still gazing at the hut, and 
tried to gather my wits together and to overcome my agi 
tation. Fifteen minutes in this position brought to me 
a certain amount of composure, for nothing presented 
itself that I could fear, and it seemed as if little informa 
tion could be gained by a closer inspection. 

Those who had built this hut had long since departed 
whence they came, or were stilled by the hand of death ; 
there was nothing left for me, no companionship, no in 
formation, nothing but the knowledge gained that the 
island had been inhabited either by chance or by coloni 
zation, and those who had visited it had built this hut, 
and, no doubt, brought the goats, tobacco, and sweet pota 
toes that had so long puzzled my brains to account for. 
Was this hut all, or was it one of a seriee ? Was it the 



268 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

preparatory discovery to many others, or lone and solitary? 
Alas ! I knew not. 

Having completely recovered my composure and stilled 
my beating pulses, I advanced to examine more minutely 
the cause of my amazement and fright. Passing within 
what had formerly been the door, I found myself in a 
space of at least nine feet square, enclosed within rough, 
strong, but ruined walls. The remains of shelves were 
plainly visible upon the walls, and evidences of a pro 
longed occupation at some former day by civilized persons 
met my view. The hut had evidently never had any floor 
ing, and in its place a long and luxuriant grass flourished. 
Passing further into the interior, I moved towards the 
southerly wall the door opening towards the eastward 
and proceeded to examine that portion. My eye caught, 
half way up the wall, a sort of projecting shelf, with some 
thing evidently made by human hands still clinging to 
its battered and weather-worn surface. I rushed eagerly 
towards it, but, before my hand could grasp it, I was almost 
thrown down by catching my feet in an obstacle hidden 
in the long grass, between me and my object. Regaining 
myself with difficulty, I glanced down to see what had 
obstructed my progress, and found my feet mixed up 
in the bones of a human skeleton. I was not fright 
ened, but shocked, and, clearing my feet with care, I 
stepped back and examined these mute witnesses of 
former life. Here then, thought I, are the remains 
of one at least who has lived and died upon my island 



GRAVE THOUGHTS. 269 

long ages ago. How did he come here? How long 
did he live here ? Why did he die ? Would this event 
ually be my fate, and should I some day have to lie 
down and die, too, with no one to inter my bones ? This 
human being was either alone or else the last to suc 
cumb, or otherwise his bones would have been interred 
and not left to whiten the surface of the earth. Would 
this be my fate? To be sure, I had not as yet been 
sick one day so as to be confined to my bed, and had 
only suffered from minor ills, such as colds and slight 
summer attacks, but how long was it to be before I 
should be laid up in my own house, with fever or deli 
rium, with none to care for me ? To be sure, I had care 
fully arranged affairs about my bed in case of such a con 
tingency, having arranged a shelf, upon which I had 
placed simple remedies, such as I had been able to collect, 
near to my hand, such as sulphur and saltpetre, with a few 
steeped herbs enclosed in jars ready for use to my hand, 
with spare matches, and lamps, and some preserved suet, 
etc. I had done everything that I could do to preserve 
myself should I be taken suddenly and dangerously ill ; 
but what was to prevent me from at last coming to this 
very state before me, to die in my bed, and remain a grin 
ning skeleton for some future generation to discover. 
Nothing but Divine Providence could keep me from this 
pitiable end. For if I did not escape it was only a mat 
ter of time when I should appear before others as this 
poor mortal appeared before me. I could not and would 



270 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

not believe that I was reserved for so cruel a fate. I was 
unwilling to believe that God, who had endowed me with 
enough intellect to construct and invent the many useful 
articles I had gathered around me, would allow me to 
perish, alone, uncared for, and unwept. My courage arose 
as I gazed upon the skeleton before me, and I moralized 
thus : You must have lived in an age when God had not 
granted to mortals the permission to discover and utilize 
many of the arts and sciences of my day; you did not 
live when steam was the motive power, when the light 
nings of the heavens were made obedient to man to con 
vey his demands and requests, when the paddle-wheels of 
floating steamers beat the waters of all the oceans of the 
earth. All of these things, and many others, were un 
known to you. My case is not as bad as yours was, if you 
were shipwrecked. I, of this century, on this same island, 
have gathered about me, from nothing, strength and power. 
You, seemingly, have had only this rude hut over your 
head. I have chances of escape ; I doubt if you ever had 
any from the first day of your arrival, for I cannot con 
ceive of your having willingly remained upon this desert 
isle. And now, poor mortal, passed away so long ago, 
let us see if you can do anything for me, your living pro 
totype. 

And, thus ending my musings, I kneeled down and com 
menced cutting away with my knife the long grass that 
surrounded and that was even interwoven with the bones. 
The clothes, if there had ever been any at the time of 



THE SKELETON'S LAST WILL. 271 

death, had long since been destroyed and blown away by 
the winds of heaven. From the narrow bone of the mid 
dle finger of the left hand, which was nearest me, I drew 
off a handsome gold-chased ring, with a fine carbuncle for 
a jewel, the whole in a state of perfect preservation. This 
at once announced that my unfortunate was a civilized be 
ing and one of some importance. Moving towards the right 
hand, I found the bones of the fingers imbedded in a tuft 
of grass, and, releasing them, I ascertained that they 
grasped some object in their clasp, which remained partly 
buried in the ground and soil that nature had piled up 
around it. Taking the point of my knife, I released it, 
and held in my hand a beautifully chased silver snuff-box, 
encrusted and soiled by exposure, to be sure, but in a re 
markable state of preservation. I forced open the lid, 
and took out a small piece of parchment, which almost 
crumbled under my fingers. Being, however, warned by 
my discovery, I acted with caution, and took the box and 
its contents to a smooth stone outside the hut, and com 
menced examining the contents with care. The wrapper 
of parchment that crumbled under my fingers disclosed 
another within it that was much better preserved, and, 
noticing carefully that there was no writing upon the outer 
covering, I cast it away and commenced opening the sec 
ond, which was also of parchment, but in a good state of 
preservation. This was also blank, but within it was en 
closed a third piece, not more than six inches square when 
opened, on which were written these words : 



272 PBKSEVEKANCE ISLAND. 

Anno Dom. 1781, 

Dec. ye 17 th. 
* 

Being neare to death I putt this on record in hopes that some 
God-fearing ntann maye find it and become my heir. I have 
hurried under ye foot of ye large tree, distant 27 pases from ye 
sou-yeste corner of this hous, a fulle and complete hystorie of 
my life and where my treasur lyes. Alas / at ye bottom of the 
sea, but hence it maye by skill and forty tude bee recovered, 

Who he be that redes this, if of Christan breeding, I pro 
claim heir to me. If not Christan I hope he wille nott be able 
to read this, or discover my secret. Lette my bones be burried. 
Wy curse upon htmn who uses this treasur butt for good, which 
I acquired by yeares of ofoodshed. Wille God ever forgive me ? 

THOMAS SUTLAND. 

As I finished reading the above I glanced out beyond 
the ruined walls, and saw before me the tree that was 
mentioned, but I did not move to solve the mystery fur 
ther. Here was matter enough for thought before me 
where I sat. What had been this mortal's life that he 
should here set down that he had gained a treasure 
through bloodshed? I examined carefully the ink with 
which the document was written, and made up my mind 
that it was composed of blood, that this human being had 
probably written these lines with blood from his own 
veins some eighty years ago; and, although the charac 
ters were faint, they were perfectly legible. Treasure! 
what was treasure to me that was at the bottom of the 
sea? Ah! but I had a submarine boat with which I 



RELIC-HUNTING. 273 

could seek for it. My curiosity began to be aroused, but 
my thoughts were still so conflicting that I did not yet 
fully grasp the information that the parchment conveyed. 
After a long musing I commenced again my search 
around the hut, and, in the first place, took from the shelf 
the article that had attracted my notice, which proved to 
be a perfectly formed clay pipe, of heavy and ancient 
pattern, but as well preserved as the day it was laid upon 
the shelf. The stem, of whatever material formed, had 
disappeared, but there was the bowl, just as used eighty 
years ago. I put it carefully one side, and again com 
menced my explorations of the hut, which I began, by 
clearing away all the grass and shrubbery from within, 
and exposing, as far as practicable, the former flooring. 
Suffice it to say that, after a long day's work, this was the 
amount of my discoveries and collections, one rusty 
gun-barrel, with stock and lock gone ; the rusty remains 
of two large pistols, and one cutlass ; the remnants of an 
iron pot, and open fireplace ; and parts of a steel-plated 
helmet or fighting hat; with smaller pieces of iron and 
steel, of which it was impossible now to distinguish the 
use or form, a golden ring, a silver snuff-box, a pipe, a 
mass of useless, broken, rust-eaten steel and iron utensils, 
and a human skeleton. This was all, when gathered 
together, that my explorations brought to view, except 
the precious document that was to explain the whole. 
With a sad and despondent heart I called my pet goat 
to my side, and descended towards the yacht, and went 



274 PEKSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

on board to think over my strange adventure. This 
island then had been known eighty years ago, had been 
inhabited, even. Had this unfortunate been cast on shore 
alone as I was? No; his arms, hut, and utensils told 
another story. Why had he remained in this solitary 
spot? To expiate some horrible crime? By the con 
fession before me, it seemed like it. How much charac 
ter did this parchment, on the face of it, proclaim ? In 
the first place, a bloody and savage nature, by its own 
confession ; second, a fair, but not over excellent, educa 
tion ; third, a superstitious or cowardly fear of the 
Almighty in the hour of death, after confessed deeds 
of blood; fourth, a love of display, as exhibited in the 
snuff-box and ring; fifth, authority and command of 
some degree, as shown by the remains of costly weapons. 
Thus I gave my brain excitement all the night, instead of 
indulging my curiosity by trying to discover the history 
referred to. My life had been so lonely that I postponed 
as long as possible the final revelation of the life of this 
man. I played with the sensations that my discovery 
had evoked, as a cat does with a mouse, or as a sailor 
with his last piece of tobacco at sea, or a miser his gold. 
The sensation was so intoxicating to have something to 
think about out of the usual run that I did not choose to 
have it solved, and yet was on fire to solve it. In the 
morning, after a restless, sleepless night, I plunged into 
the waters of the bay and took my customary bath, and 
then to breakfast, after which I commenced the prose- 



DISCOVER THE HISTORY. 275 

cution of my search with vigor. I proceeded to the south 
east corner of the hut and paced off twenty-seven paces, 
which brought me to the tree that my eye had already 
picked out as the one alluded to. "With some iron uten 
sils that I had brought from the yacht, including the iron 
coal-shovel and poker, I commenced making an excava 
tion in the ground. I dug a hole at least four feet deep 
before I found anything out of the ordinary, but when at 
about that depth, my shovel struck upon something that 
was not earth, as I felt assured, and I soon laid open 
before my eyes the top of what was evidently a wooden 
box of some foot or two in diameter, but so interwoven 
with the roots of the tree that had evidently grown 
about it since it was placed there, that I was unable to 
extricate it. I therefore went on board of the yacht and 
returned with a hatchet, and soon cleared away these 
obstructions, and dragged to the surface a rough wooden 
box, of an oblong shape, made of wood, of at least two 
inches in thickness originally, but now worm-eaten, rot 
ten, and ready to be broken to pieces with my hands 
alone. With a slight use of my hatchet I forced this 
carefully apart, and found, within, a package rolled in 
what had evidently at some former time been birch bark. 
Peeling this off, I came to a glazed earthen or porcelain 
pitcher or jug with a large mouth and with handle, that 
would hold at least two quarts, the color of which was a 
dirty white or dusky brown. The mouth of this jug 
was closed with parchment, once carefully tied down, but 
now in a state of decomposition. Grasping my prize, I 



276 PBBSEVEKANCB ISLAM). 

went on board of my yacht to examine it more fully at 
my leisure. This whole adventure had so worked upon 
my nervous system that I even went to work and got up 
steam and buoyed my anchor, ready to cast off at a mo 
ment's notice, before I would proceed further with my 
examination. Why I did this I cannot tell. It was a 
sort of sailor's precaution, engendered by years of care 
and prudence. My reason told me I had nothing to fear ; 
my nerves told me to get ready for any emergency. 

Having seated myself quietly on deck, after making all 
the above arrangements, I took the jug again in hand 
and commenced to tear off carefully the parchment at the 
mouth. The outside one, being removed, disclosed another 
in a better state of preservation, and this second a third, 
which, when removed, showed a large soft-wood plug or 
cover, fitting into the mouth of the jug, and profusely 
covered with a sort of pitch, which had evidently been 
melted and poured upon it, and was probably made from 
the resinous gums with which the island abounded. I 
soon had this started by repeated knocks of my knife- 
handle, and the plug exposed, which, with the point of 
my knife, I had little difficulty in extracting; having 
done which, I emptied upon the deck a roll of parchment, 
tied up with a broad band of the same material. With 
intense emotion I opened the roll, consisting of several 
sheets ; and, written in black ink, but with similar errors 
and ancient spelling, as in the first document, I found 
the following, which, corrected into modern English, 
read thus : 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

The Pirate's Manuscript. 

ISLAND IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN, 
October, 1781. 

IN grief and sorrow, and great bodily pain, I write 
these lines, fearing that I shall not recover from my 
wounds, and that death will soon seize upon me. I ask 
Christian burial for my bones, and that God will forgive 
me my many sins. 

I was born an Englishman and passed an adventurous 
life till, in the year 1778, 1 found myself, after a life of 
villainy and piracy, captain of the armed brig " Rover," 
at the age of thirty-three, and cruising in these seas. It 
would take too long and be of little interest to relate how 
through years of bloodshed I had arrived at this emi 
nence. It is enough to say that for the last ten years of 
my life I have spared neither man, woman, nor child, and 
that God in his power has at last brought this retribution 
upon my head. I could relate scenes of horror, and hair 
breadth escapes, that would not be believed or credited, 
therefore I skip them all and come to the causes of my 
being imprisoned on this desolate island. The brig that 
I commanded had on many occasions been successful in 
preying upon the Spanish galleons of this coast, and many 



278 PEESEVERANCE ISLAND. 

a South American city had even been put under contri 
bution ; but to the immense wealth and plunder thus ob 
tained was to be added still another capture. On the 
morning of the 14th of August, 1781, the brig "Rover" 
lay in near the coast of South America waiting for the 
passage of two galleons, loaded with treasure from the 
Northern mines of El Dorado, for Valparaiso. From 
spies in that city I had found out that the treasure was 
estimated at twelve millions, in gold and silver bars, and 
that these galleons were armed with six eighteen-pounders 
each, and with a crew of Spaniards and natives, number 
ing sixty men. Two long weeks had we been lying near 
the coast standing out in the morning, and in towards the 
evening, waiting for our prey; when, on this fatal 
morning, after heading seaward for four hours, we dis 
covered the enemy on the horizon to the northwest. The 
" Rover " was a strong, well-built brig of three hundred 
tons, and was manned by one hundred and twenty human 
devils, drawn from all nations, but mostly Englishmen, 
with a few South Americans and natives. We carried 
eight eighteen-pounders, and one long thirty-two pivot 
gun amidships. Our vessel was fast and a splendid sea- 
boat. We were favored with a wind from the southeast, 
which put the enemy to leeward of us, and we boldly 
clapped on all sail to come up with him, which perceiving, 
and also that we had the weather gauge, the cowardly 
Spaniards put up their helm and kept off before the wind, 
hoping to outsail us; but before they commenced this 



THE PIRATE'S STORY. 279 

manoeuvre we had approached near enough to be sure 
that they were what we had been waiting for, and there 
fore, rigging out stu'nsails on both sides, we bowled along 
before the wind to the northwest, after the retreating 
enemy. 

It was soon apparent that the " Rover " was the faster 
sailer, and also that one of the galleons was a much better 
sailer or better handled than her consort ; for we were 
coming up hand over hand to one of them, whilst the 
other, some two miles ahead, held her own much better. 
As we neared the sternmost and lagging galleon, we com 
menced firing from our bow-chasers, but without apparent 
effect. I think to this day that if the two had kept 
together they might possibly have beaten us off, but, sepa 
rated as they were by their own cowardice, they would, 
I felt convinced, fall an easy prey to our designs. As we 
gradually neared the galleon, the crew of the " Rover " 
became more and more excited ; and the cursed thirst for 
gold, and subsequent license and revel that was sure to 
follow its acquisition, glowered in each countenance. The 
time had come for our usual unholy rites, and, ordering up 
the steward, the usual cask of brandy was hoisted to the 
deck, the contents poured into two large tubs, and one 
of them transported to the quarter deck, whilst the other 
was left at the main hatch, and, at a preconcerted signal, 
the two bow-chasers were discharged at the enemy, the 
Wack flag run up to the mizzen peak, and all hands called 
upon to splice the main brace, or in other words, to crazft 

(870) T 



280 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

their brains by partaking of the fiery liquor poured out 
before them ; the quantity on the quarter deck having 
been mixed with gunpowder, to be distributed at the 
guns during the coming conflict as I might deem best or 
proper. We were now rapidly advancing upon our prey, 
but none of our shot seemed to have taken effect and as 
yet she had made no reply. 

Commanding silence fore and aft, I ordered more sail 
crowded upon the " Rover," and stood on till we were 
nearly alongside, and not a gunshot distant, and then, 
having brought all the eighteen-pounders to the starboard 
side, had them loaded with grape and canister. I ordered 
in sail, running in all the stu'nsails, and clearing the deck 
for action ; but at last the enemy seemed to have waked 
up, for, whilst this was being done, she poured into us her 
broadside, killing and wounding several of the crew, but 
doing no further damage, and then immediately came to 
the wind, close hauled on the starboard tack. We fol 
lowed rapidly, but, as all the guns were on the starboard 
side, I ran under her lee rather than try to keep the 
weather gauge, and at short pistol distance sent the con 
tents of eight eighteen-pounders into her sides and rig 
ging. The result was to have been anticipated: down 
came her top hamper and light sails, and she lay a wreck 
upon the water. Shooting ahead in the " Rover," I short 
ened sail, and, crossing her fore foot, held my vessel with 
the main topsail to the mast and poured in six broadsides 
of canister and grape, raking the enemy fore and aft, to 



BOARDING THE GALLEON. 281 

which she could not reply with a single gun, and at the 
termination of which she lay a complete wreck upon the 
bosom of the ocean. Without a moment's delay the main 
yard was squared away, and, turning upon her heel, the 
" Rover " made all sail for the other galleon. It was four 
hours before we came up to her so as to be within shot, 
when a discharge from our pivot gun cut away some of 
her top-hamper, so that we commenced overhauling her 
rapidly ; but this one, although she had run away hi the 
commencement, now evidently meant fight, and she re 
plied to our broadsides with bravery and vigor, so much 
so that I saw that there was nothing for it but to board 
her and carry her by assault, as we were being cut up 
in a fearful manner, and my crew dropping at each dis 
charge. Seeing this, I sung out to the helmsman, " Lay her 
alongside," and, with a crash, we in a few moments struck 
her fore chains, having the weather gauge, and in a 
moment were securely lashed together. Mounting the 
taff rail, I sung out " Boarders away," and jumped upon 
the deck of the galleon, followed by my crew. It was 
with the same results I have so often seen before : no 
mercy, no quarter, and down under the blows of the 
cruel Rovers soon fell the Spaniards, and the galleon was 
ours. It was time, as she was evidently commencing to 
leak badly. Some of the crew were ordered to the 
pumps, and the main hatch was burst open, and, under 
threat of instant death, the position of the treasure was 
pointed out by the Spanish captain. The amount, esti- 



282 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

mated at some seven millions, was passed by sixty hands 
as fast as possible to the hold of the " Rover," down the 
companion way ; and, when all was over, freeing the brig 
from the galleon, I took position near to her, crashing 
into her broadside after broadside, till she, with her 
wounded, dying, and living, sank beneath the waves. 
We had scarcely finished our awful work when night set 
down upon us, and, taking the bearings of the other 
wreck, we moved slowly forward toward her under 
shortened sail, so as not to pass her in the darkness. 
Upon mustering the crew it was found that twenty-seven 
had paid the penalty of death, whilst seventeen were 
seriously wounded, and twenty-one slightly. 

When morning broke, there lay the other galleon, not 
one mile distant broad on our weather bow. We soon 
came up to her and saw that she showed no signs of life, 
and, hauling off, we commenced repairing injuries that we 
had suffered in the conflict with her consort, and, having 
everything in as good order as possible, ranged up along 
side preparatory to boarding, and in fact made fast with 
grappling-irons to the wreck ; but not a man opposed us. 
Pouring in upon her decks, and questioning the wounded 
still on board, we ascertained that all remaining alive 
not over twenty in number, it seemed who were not 
wounded so as to be unable to do so, had escaped during 
the night in the shallop and made for the coast, trusting 
to the mercy of the sea rather than to ours. We soon 
had the bullion w were after exposed to view and rapidly 



THE ROVER AT THE ISLAND. 283 

transferred to the " Rover," which amounted, by the reck 
oning of the wounded Spaniards, to about five millions, 
so that the "Rover" had actually under hatches the 
enormous weight of some eighty tons in solid silver, and 
twenty-five tons in gold, all in bars, so as to overflow 
the usual stronghold and necessitate stowage in the 
hold, as one might stow cargo. 

Having helped ourselves to all the casks of wine and 
brandy on board, we cut adrift from the wreck, and in 
spite of the cries of the wounded upon her decks, by 
numerous well-directed broadsides sent her to the bot 
tom of the ocean, where dead men tell no tales. After 
this horrid crime was perpetrated, we set sail upon the 
" Rover " to the southward to avoid any vessels that might 
be sent for our capture, as I made up my mind that we 
should keep well to sea and out of the way of all traffic 
till search for us had been given up. To this end I 
steered in a direction out of the track of all known 
land, till on the 15th September, in the morning, we dis 
covered this unknown island dead ahead, and, finding 
that it showed no signs of being inhabited, I passed 
around to the southward and eastward to see if there 
was a good bay for anchorage, determined to allow the 
crew to go on shore and have their carouse, if such was 
the case. We soon opened this bay, where this is writ 
ten, and, having sent a boat on shore and ascertained 
that there was good fresh water and evidently no inhab- 



284 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

itants, I brought the "Rover" well into the bay and 
anchored her in six fathoms. 

This being done, a detail of the crew was made to 
build this hut for my accommodation. The weather 
being cool, and thinking that we had found a splendid 
stronghold for the future, I commanded several goats 
to be landed, and as my men strolled hither and thither 
they were instructed to plant a sweet potato once in a 
while, of which we had plenty on board, and some 
seeds of the tobacco plant were also planted, I believe, 
at nearly the other side of the island, near some river. 
I made up my mind that this should be our rendezvous 
in the future, for I could not find the island put down 
upon any chart, and I believed it utterly unknown. I 
made known my resolves to my subordinates, and they 
to the crew, which seemed to please them much; and 
now, having gotten everything in readiness and a watch 
set aboard the vessel, casks of brandy were hoisted from 
the hold and landed upon the island. To these were 
added a large stock of provisions ; and an enormous tent 
was erected of spare sails. Details by lot were made of 
men to cook, and a watch to keep guard in the vessel, 
and then for three days all discipline was relaxed, 
and drunken orgies too fearful to be related commenced, 
at the end of which a new detail of the most sober 
was made for the watch on the ship and the cooking, 
when the same recommenced. During these six days I 
withdrew with one servant from all this into this hut 



THE MUTINY. 285 

that I had ordered built, and passed the time as pleas 
antly as I could, with trips once in a while to the vessel 
and back. Each day I received the usual report of so 
many men killed in drunken brawls or so many wounded ; 
but I never moved a finger to stop the affray, feeling 
that this was the best way to allow them to work off 
their bad blood and passions. It was, however, on the 
seventh day that I saw cause for alarm, and, alas! too 
late. I had noticed that there seemed to be some trou 
ble brewing, and that my second in command, when he 
came to make his daily report, had not the air of respect 
that he used to have, and that the reports of serious 
fights were more frequent than on former carousals of a 
similar nature. Why, here were some five men killed 
and seven wounded since we had been on the island, 
and upon inquiry I found that they were all men whom 
I knew were devoted to me, if a pirate may use that 
term. All at once it flashed upon my brain that my 
second in command was inciting the crew to my down 
fall and his own elevation. In fact, the matter was 
made too apparent on that very day; for, after hearing 
the report, I was sitting at the door of this hut when an 
unearthly confusion and din commenced at the large 
tent and the air was filled with the report of pistols 
(all guns being positively forbidden on shore), and shouts 
and cries of men in terrible earnest mixed with the 
screams of the wounded. I buckled on my cutlass and 
picked up my two pistols, and, calling upon my servant 



286 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

to follow me, made for the tent ; but before I arrived 
there I was met by a retreating body of my men who 
were making for my hut, crying out, " Treason, treason, 
treason ! " followed by another portion of the crew, at 
the head of whom was my second in command, all dis 
guise now thrown off, cheering his part of the crew on 
to my destruction. I gathered about me the retreating 
men loyal to me, and we faced the rest. The first man 
who advanced I shot dead, the second also, and the day 
had almost turned in my favor when, with a well-directed 
pistol-shot and with a curse mingled with the report, 
my rival brought me to the ground, the ball having 
passed through my chest and out at the back. I fell 
to the ground, and in one instant my prestige of years 
was gone. When I say gone I mean that it was so far 
gone that it barely saved my life, for the men still stood 
quite firm upon my side, when, with the wit and talent 
worthier of a better cause, my rival moved between the 
conflicting lines and called for a truce, uttering at the 
same time the following words : " Now look a-here, ship 
mates, what is the use of our cutting each other's throats 
any more ? There lies your late captain, still alive to be 
sure, but good for nothing more. I am bound to be 
captain of the ' Rover,' and you see I have more men 
to back me, and a head to them also, than you have. 
What 's the use of our cutting each other's throats when 
we have some ten or fifteen millions to spend? If yoo 
don't like to give in I only admire you the more for it ; 



DESERTING THE CAPTAIN. 28T 

and if you will join my side and lay down your arms, I 
promise before you all not to injure one hair on the head 
of our late captain, but to leave him here on this island 
without further molestation. Come, that is a fair offer. 
You have done enough for honor. Do you accept? 
Why, who have you on your side that can navigate a 
vessel ? Who will give you as much liberty and money 
as I will ? We will live in common, and have no more 
of this damned supposed superiority. But as for Captain 
Sutland, dead or alive, he and I can't sail in the same 
vessel again. I will do all I say, and swear it," and 
amidst the wildest cheers of excitement and drunken 
enthusiasm, I found myself lying deserted and, as I be 
lieved, bleeding to death. After some little hand-shaking 
and congratulations, however, I was, by order of my 
rival, carried carefully to this hut, where my wound 
was examined by the doctor and proclaimed not neces 
sarily mortal. Food and water in profusion, fuel for my 
fire, and anything that I should naturally require during 
my convalescence, should it ever take place, was, with 
the reckless generosity of sailors, piled up near me ; and 
with a few farewells from some who really cared for 
me, I was left alone, my whole crew, under the com 
mand of their new leader, working like beavers to take 
down their tent, get on board and to sea, and thence 
to some haven of rest, where they could as quickly as 
possible squander the wealth so criminally acquired. 
They had placed me upon my wooden bed, so that I 



288 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

could look out of the open window upon the bay and 
ship, and see their departure. It was nearly sundown 
before they had everything ready, and with a heavy 
heart I heard them at work weighing the anchor, leav 
ing me alone to solitude, my outraged God, and prob 
ably death. 

Lying on my bed of pain, I saw the topsails mastheaded 
and everything made ready for a start, and as the sun 
sank to rest in the west, shedding a glow upon the waters, 
the " Rover " got under way and stood out to the south 
ward and eastward, leaving me upon this desolate island 
to live or die. I knew what would be the eventual end 
of their reckless career, for I knew that the pirate who 
had superseded me, although of great animal courage, 
had very little education, and that he was wanting in the 
art of practical navigation. The sun had not been down 
an hour before the whole heavens changed their appear 
ance, and dark clouds from the southward commenced to 
overcast the stars. The wind began to moan amongst the 
trees, and the sea to give forth that solemn sound or 
breathing that often forbodes a storm. In less than three 
hours it was blowing heavily from the southeast, the di 
rection the vessel had taken to clear the island, and 
exactly opposite to the light northwest wind that had in 
the first part of the evening wafted her off the island's 
coast. At midnight it was blowing a hurricane, and still 
I gazed from my bed through the open casement towards 
the sea. There was not much rain, and what there was 



THE WEECK OP THE EOVEE. 289 

did not reach me, my bed being some distance from the 
window of the hut. At this time, in spite of my misery 
and the fever of my wound, I, after drinking a draught of 
water placed beside me, fell asleep, or rather dozed, from 
which I was awakened by the sound of guns, yes, great 
guns. Wounded, feverish, as I was, I moved in my bed 
to glance into the outer darkness. The tempest was rag 
ing with increased fury, and as I looked into the inky 
blackness seaward, not more than four miles distant as I 
should judge flashed the discharge from a cannon, and in 
a moment after, the dull but deadened report met my 
ear. I kept my eye fixed upon the spot, for I knew that, 
if it came from anywhere near the same spot again, the 
" Rover " was on a reef, and that there would be little 
hope for her. In a few minutes another flash occurred, 
and I saw that it was in the same situation. Good God, 
and had your retribution met them then so suddenly ? I 
saw in my mind at once the actual state of affairs as 
readily as if I had been on board. 

The " Rover " had stood to the southeast with a fair 
wind, and all the crew under their new master, being with 
out discipline, had allowed themselves to be caught by the 
gale from the opposite direction with all sail set, or too 
much at least ; that she had either been taken aback and 
lost her masts at once, weakened in previous conflicts, or 
else, before she could be squared away before the blast, 
been cast on her beam ends, and for safety had had them 
cut away. After which, unmanageable with a drunken 



290 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

crew and an incompetent master, she had drifted in the 
trough of the sea, back slowly but gradually towards the 
anchorage she had just left, until, brought up upon some 
sunken ledge outside the harbor, she was pounding out 
her life upon the jagged rocks concealed beneath the 
water. This was, I felt, the case, and would any be saved 
to be my companions on this desolate island ? I knew 
that not a living soul would be left to tell the tale. The 
mighty roar of the wind and the noise of the surf on the 
beach, with the groaning of the trees, extinguished all 
hope. 

No more firing was heard, and nothing but the black 
ness of night surrounded me, and the cry of the angry 
blast filled my ears. I became insensible and fell back in 
my bed without life or motion. When I again opened 
my eyes, the light of a bright spring morning flashed upon 
them, and although the wind had gone down, the angry 
rush of the surf was still to be heard thundering upon the 
shore ; and there, yes there, not far at sea, and plainly 
beneath my sight, and in full view, lay part of the hull of 
the once famous "Rover," dismasted, dismantled, and 
beating her ribs out upon an outer bar or reef. I saw 
that she could not last long, and that no human being 
could have survived the preceding night. I should have 
said that, before the pirates sailed, they had buried the 
men who had been killed upon the island; but I saw 
plainly that many bodies would now be swept on shore 
that would never see Christian or any other burial but 



TAXING THE BEARINGS. 291 

that of the white, glistening sands of the beach, and the 
maws of insatiable sea monsters ; whilst I thought even, 
the vessel was fast breaking up under my eye, each mighty 
wave, hitting her seaward bulwark, was thrust high into 
air, passing over and burying her in an ocean of spray and 
water such as no handiwork of man could long resist. At 
each succeeding appearance, masses of the hull had dis 
appeared, and it was only a question of time how soon 
some twelve million of dollars in gold and silver, guarded 
by a crew of some eighty resolute men when in their 
senses, who had gone before, would be buried in the ocean 
forever. I could not take my eyes from the scene, but 
mechanically felt for my jar of water with one hand, 
whilst I kept my attention fixed upon the wreck. 

After looking and dozing for hours, I again fell asleep, 
and when I awoke it was nearly sundown, and yet the 
cruel sea was beating over the remains of the hull, which 
were greatly diminished, and I bethought myself weak, 
sick, and feverish as I was to line the position from my 
hut before she had wholly disappeared. This I did by 
moving my head and body slightly till I brought the frame 
of my southerly window on its southeasterly side to range 
with a small fir-tree that stood some thirty feet distant, 
which was in a line with the wreck. I scratched with my 
thumb-nail a mark upon the window-frame where my eye 
glanced, and upon the trunk of the tree I picked out a 
small peculiar branch which aligned upon the wreck. I 
then, with my right hand, cast some wood that waa within 



292 PEBSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

my reach upon the fire not far distant, and, over-exerted 
by all this, fell again into slumber and unconsciousness. 
It was well into the next day before I regained my 
senses, and my first glance was for the brig, but not a 
vestige of her was to be seen, although the ocean was as 
calm and blue as an inland lake, and nothing but my 
bearing told me the place where she had gone to pieces. 

My wound was a very peculiar one. It will be remem 
bered that the ball had passed completely through my 
body, breaking no bone, and only injuring my left lung 
above the heart and just under the shoulder blade. I had 
not lost much blood, and the doctor, when he left me, gave 
me strong hopes of recovery, if I could lie perfectly still 
for at least a week. On this morning I found my fever 
much better and my appetite returning, and my wound 
much less painful, but stiff. I crawled from my cot with 
the greatest care, and renewed my fire from the hidden 
hot ashes, and soon had a good blaze ; for it was chilly dur 
ing the nights, although I had ample bed-clothing of all 
kinds heaped about me. I remained in bed for three days 
more, when I mustered courage to leave my cot and stag 
ger to a chair, where I sat down near the fire. I remained 
here during the day, and at night crept back again to the 
bed and closed the shutter of my open window (the door 
and other window had been closed during all my sickness) 
and dropped to sleep. The next day I was able to move 
aboiit quite well, and the orifice of my wound in the back 
had healed, but the front still discharged and was not 



THE PIBATE'S END. 293 

closed. I was troubled with a hacking cough, but with 
the exception of this, on the tenth day, could waddle 
around, and even into the open air, and procure some of 
the pure spring water near the hut. Thus I went on till 
the first of October, getting better and better each day, 
and making rapid progress towards health. The first ex 
cursion I made was towards the shores of the bay, but not 
a sign of my late comrades in crime could I discover. I 
also carefully cut upon the fir-tree, with my knife, a notch 
deep and enduring in the trunk, that lined or ranged upon 
the place where the wreck had last been seen by my eyes, 
and at the exact height to have the range pierce the 
water at the very spot, not more than four or five miles 
distant. After these two first cares, I began to look about 
me and see what I had to live upon. My arms were left 
me, as also was a small bottle of ink that I had brought 
on shore to keep the daily account of the crew, tides, etc., 
and several sheets of parchment. These, with my pipe, a 
little tobacco, quite a quantity of ammunition, my cutlass, 
a tomahawk, and knife, formed my little store. To be 
sure I had my wooden cot-bed and plenty of bedding, but 
this was all. I knew that sweet potatoes had been planted 
upon the island in several places, and that at least three 
female and one male goat had also been landed; and as I 
was fast getting tired of my dry bread and salt provisions, 
I commenced taking small trips upon the seashore, bring 
ing home eggs, fish, oysters, mussels, etc., and thought at 
one time that my troubles were all over, and that my 



294 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

wound was healed, but as the orifice closed, I commenced 
to cough more violently than before, and in the morning 
my throat was filled with phlegm. And as the middle of 
the month advanced, I became weaker and weaker, and 
felt that my end was near, or, if not, it was important 
that I should guard against all accidents, and for that rea 
son I have written this short memoir of my life and placed 
it here, to stand as a witness for me, in case of accident or 
death, that my solitude and wound have brought me to a 
proper state of mind to view my life with utter abhorrence, 
and to pray to God in my poor miserable way to forgive 
me, if it be possible to forgive so great a sinner as I. On 
this, the 20th of October, 1781, I place this jar in its rest 
ing-place, having had the hole to receive it long excavated. 
I am too weak to even get in and out of my bed, and have 
spread my clothing upon the floor of my hut, where I can 
move about easier in the night and get at anything I may 
want. I close this history here, and I ask all good Chris 
tians to pray for my soul should God take me away. It 
will take me days now in my weak state to cover this up 
so that the weather and water cannot reach it. I feel that 
my days are numbered. May the finder of my riches 
make good use of them, and give largely to the poor, and 
have masses said for the repose of the blood-stained 

soul of 

THOMAS SUTLAJTD. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

Finding of the Sunken Wreck. The Submarine Explosion of the Hull. 
Recovery of over Ten Millions in Bars of Gold and Silver. 

THIS, then, was the history of my predecessor ; and his 
legacy consisted of millions of dollars at the bottom of 
the sea. He no doubt thought that some of it could be 
recovered, as he said, " with skill and fortitude ; " per 
haps by anchoring some boat over the reef, and fishing for 
it, or in some such lame way as that. He had little idea, 
when he wrote this eighty years ago, that it would be 
read by a mortal who had invented a submarine boat, and 
built it from materials drawn from the very bowels of 
this very island, and who could descend and examine 
every part of his famous pirate ship. The reading of 
this history set my impulsive nature to work at once to 
acquire the lost treasure. But, to do this, I must first find 
out where it lay, its exact locality ; and I very much 
feared that time had effaced the marks that aligned upon 
the spot, and, if so, I might search for it in vain. 

But what was the use of my regaining it ? Inside of 
my brain I was continually answered, " You will escape ! 
you will escape! and with this treasure, added to your 
stock of pearls and ownership of the island, with its 
mineral wealth of coal, iron, saltpetre, and sulphur, you 

(370) 295 U 



296 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

will be the richest man in the world. With these in 
dustries once developed, your submarine boats multi 
plied, and pearl oysters procured by thousands, and your 
island peopled with contented and happy working people, 
not even the Rothschilds or Barings will be able to com 
pete with you." 

Having carefully put aside the manuscript that I had 
just finished reading, I went on shore to see if I could 
find any signs of the bearings upon the spot where the 
" Rover " had formerly gone to pieces. On the window- 
frame mentioned, I found, although defaced by the 
weather, a deep cut made in the general direction 
pointed out, which was no doubt the one referred to; 
and, encouraged by this, I picked out with my eye several 
trees of the species referred to in the manuscript, between 
me and the sea, that I thought might be the one desig 
nated ; and, having chosen three that seemed likely ones, 
I went towards them to look for the notch that I ought 
to find cut in one of their trunks. I found it instantly on 
the first tree I approached, which had seemed to me the 
most likely. There it was, plainly marked upon the side 
of the trunk, grown over, to be sure, and the tree evi 
dently old and time-worn, but showing that the wound 
in its side had been made with deliberation and care, and 
such as would occur from no natural cause. Being 
satisfied upon this point, I went back to the hut and 
placed my eye along the bearings, and found that my 
sight struck the ocean at some four or five miles distant. 



BURYING THE SKELETON. 297 

This was sufficient for the present ; so, getting back to 
my yacht, I went to bed and to sleep, it being now nearly 
dusk. In the morning I got under way, and stood out 
of the bay and rounded Eastern Cape for home, and soon 
ran up Stillwater Cove, and found everything all right at 
the Hermitage. I then went to work and made two 
sheet-iron discs, about three feet in diameter, which I 
mounted upon iron rods fully fifteen feet in length. I 
whitewashed one of these with a preparation of lime, 
and left the other its natural dark color. I then, after 
caressing, feeding, and attending to my flock of goats and 
barn-yard fowl, again set out for Mirror Bay, taking these 
targets with me. Arriving safely, I soon had them on 
shore, and, after an hour or two of measurements and 
calculations, had them driven into the ground so as, when 
in line with each other, to point to the same position on 
the surface of the ocean, as the old marks were supposed 
to do, except that they stood clear of all intervening 
trees or obstructions, and could be seen from the sea 
ward perfectly well. Having these all arranged, I went 
to work, and, with care and decency, transferred the 
bones of my predecessor to the hole excavated under the 
tree, and, reverently placing them within, I said a prayer 
or two for the repose of his soul, and covered them care 
fully up. This being done, I made my way back to the 
Hermitage, and arranged everything about the submarine 
boat to start early the next day to look for the pirate 
ship beneath the waves of the ocean. 



298 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

Bright and early I started down Stillwater Cove in the 
steam yacht, carrying my treadmill team of goats and all 
necessary things for my trip. At the mouth of the cove 
I hauled alongside of the submarine boat lying quietly at 
anchor, and, leaving the "Fairy" and steam yacht, I 
went on board, rigged the pendant steps, and started my 
goat-power propeller, and headed out of Perseverance 
Bay and around Eastern Cape. The day was a beautiful 
one; so smooth was the ocean that I did not have to 
descend beneath it, but held on my way with the man 
hole wide open ; and my goats by this time, by repeated 
trips, had become quite good sailors and did not seem to 
mind a little swell any more than old salts would have 
done. My progress in this clumsy boat was not as fast as 
in the beautiful and graceful steam yacht; and I was 
seven hours making the neighborhood of where I ex 
pected to find the wreck. I stood on till I obtained a 
good view of my white and black discs. The one nearer 
the sea being black, I sailed along, in the first place, till I 
brought the two in line, and then, the white disc appear 
ing above the black one, I commenced sailing in towards 
the land, still keeping them on a line, till the former 
gradually sank down, seemingly, behind the face of the 
latter, when I stopped the boat, fastened down the man 
hole, and descended. When I arrived near the bottom I 
let out my buoy line to the surface, and found that I was 
in nine fathoms of water, and no sign of a reef of any 
kind, a firm sandy bottom appearing before me. I there- 



SEARCHING FOB THE WRECK. 299 

fore still pointed the boat by compass towards the shore, 
and commenced slowly creeping forward. I had not 
advanced more than a few hundred yards before the 
abrupt walls of a solid reef met my view. I ran near to 
it, and then, by pumping, ascended towards the surface, 
along its face, till I arrived at the top, which I found by 
my surface lead line to be not quite three fathoms be 
neath the water. If any reader should ask how I knew 
how much a fathom was, I would simply say that every 
sailor becomes used to measuring off fathoms of rope 
during his sea life, and finally becomes so skilful as to 
measure fifty and sixty fathoms of line, and not be but a 
few inches out of the way, by grasping a piece of rope 
and stretching it at arm's length across the breast, which, 
with two inches added, in a man of my stature, should be 
just six feet, or one fathom, and by this measurement as a 
standard was my floating surface lead line marked, and 
it agreed substantially with the foot standard that I had 
made from my thumb joint, as heretofore described. 
When I arrived at the top of the reef, I knew in a mo 
ment that if I had lived on this side of the island I 
should in some heavy gales have seen the surf break in 
this spot ; for, by calculation of the tide, which was now 
nearly at high water, this reef must at times be within 
eight or nine feet of the surface at dead low water ; and 
in gales of wind I could readily believe that the surf 
would break over it. Having made all these discoveries 
and calculations, but with no signs of the wreck, I again 



300 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

descended half way down the nearly perpendicular face 
of the reef towards the smooth bottom at its base. It 
was a strange formation, rising abruptly from the bottom 
of the sea, five or six fathoms, like the walls of a citadel. 
I saw plainly that a vessel could at one moment, by a cast 
of the lead, get nine fathoms, and in the very next find 
herself hard and fast upon the reef, if she drew over eigh 
teen feet of water. Holding myself in equilibrio at about 
half distance from the surface and the bottom, I moved 
cautiously along the face of this wall to the eastward, 
looking for my prize. I went nearly a quarter of a mile 
in this direction without result, and, turning about, I 
retraced my steps and made to the westward, feeling sure 
that at the base of this barrier lay the sunken pirate ship, 
and that she had never probably passed above its surface ; 
for, having nothing else to do, I had already calculated 
by means of my Epitome what the state of the tide 
would have been on the evening of the 23d or 24th of 
September, 1781, at midnight; and, knowing by the 
pirate's manuscript that it was probably on one of those 
nights that the " Rover " was lost, and that an error of 
a day would only make one hour error in the calculation, 
I was enabled to find out that it was high water on those 
days at 5 or 6 p. M., and that the vessel must have struck 
the reef at very nearly, if not quite, dead low water, 
when it was within a few feet of the surface, and, being 
bilged, the rising tide would not, even during the storm, 
lift her one inch, but only hold her upon the jagged 



BUOYING THE ROVEB. 301 

edges, whence she must eventually drop to the tranquil 
waters at the base. I felt confident that this theory was 
correct, and that I had only to move along this rocky 
face till I came to the spot where the vessel had finally 
fallen back to the bottom of the ocean ; and such was the 
case, for as I was thinking out the problem in my own 
head, lo ! and behold ! there lay the wreck nearly beneath 
my feet, not fifty yards distant. 

I approached it with awe, and held myself suspended 
in the water above it. I then descended and circum 
navigated it in all possible directions, and ended by 
dropping a grapnel near to it, attached to a good 
strong line ending in a buoy, which I pushed under 
the tanks, and allowed to ascend to the surface to 
mark its position for me in the future. I then set my 
air-boat at work, and soon had enough new air to fill my 
exhausted tanks, and to rise to the surface and take off 
the man-hole cover and look about me. I saw that my 
discs were a little off, and that the wreck lay a little 
nearer shore and more to the southward than where they 
pointed. But they had fulfilled their part; they were 
henceforward useless. I had found the wreck, and had 
it buoyed so as to be able to again find it, and should I 
lose it by the buoy being washed away at any time in a 
storm, the very variation in the discs from the true direc 
tion, now known, would show me where to look. I again 
descended and commenced examining my prize. She lay 
upon her side, perfectly free from sand or rocks, and had 



302 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

evidently not moved since she sank back from the rocky 
summit to her cradle at the base. She was terribly beaten 
and worm-eaten, and both masts had evidently been cut 
away, as the pirate captain in his manuscript supposed. 
Her ribs were exposed, and her decks torn up, and innu 
merable barnacles and shell-fish had fastened upon her 
timbers. Still falling back into this comparatively tide- 
less and quiet abyss, she had changed very little, I should 
think, from the day she sank, over eighty years ago. And 
as she lay I saw that I had another problem to solve, and 
that was to get at the riches she contained still confined 
in her hull as in an immense casket. I saw plainly that I 
should have to blow open the hull to get at what I wanted 
and expose it. In the meanwhile I was fascinated with 
the thousand and one old-fashioned shapes about the hull 
that struck my eye, the peculiar long brass eighteen 
pounders, some of which lay beside her, covered with 
barnacles, but yet showing their shape and general forma 
tion; the blunt bows of what the pirate captain had 
termed a fast-sailing vessel; the comical anchors, and 
peculiar formation of the decks, that to me, as a sailor, were 
very interesting. She looked to me more like Noah's ark 
than the vessel of a civilized nation. How rapidly and 
almost imperceptibly had we advanced in this science 
since this tub was called a vessel, fast, strong, and staunch ; 
and how many hours would she have been able to keep in 
sight a modern clipper-ship, much less overtake her. In 
comparison to the latter she seemed like a ship's jolly-boat. 



PREPARE A SUBMARINE BLAST. 303 

And so indeed she was, being about 300 tons, as against 
the 2,000 and 2,500 tons ship of my day and time. 

Having satisfied my curiosity and seen that the grapnel 
to the watch-buoy held all right, I drew in some new air, 
rose to the surface, and made for Mirror Bay, not over 
four miles distant. I ran up to the river's mouth near the 
hut and came to an anchor, and made all snug about the 
boat, and then, tethering out the goats on the shore, I 
struck out manfully for home across the island, for I saw 
plainly that I should have to make Mirror Bay my head 
quarters for some time to come, and that I must get home 
and bring together all the powder I possessed, and the 
steam yacht. 

I had a pleasant walk home of about four miles with 
out difficulty, as during the last two years I had several 
times before crossed the island in this direction, but not 
often. I put everything to rights at the Hermitage, and 
then with the steam yacht I visited Eastern Cape, East and 
West Signal, and Penguin Points, and gathered together 
all the gunpowder placed there beside the cannon mounted 
at those stations. I added to this stock nearly all I 
possessed at the Hermitage before starting, and at the end 
of two days made my way back to Mirror Bay, stopping 
at South Cape, and getting all the powder there. Arriv 
ing at Mirror River, I found my poor goats glad enough 
to welcome me back. Putting all the powder I possessed 
together, I should think that there was perhaps fifty pounds 
in all. This I put carefully by itself in the deserted hut, 



304 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

and, taking the steam yacht, returned to the Hermitage 
and my workshop. It was busy days with me now, and I 
scarcely gave myself time to eat and drink. In my work 
shop I made a thin cylinder of sheet iron that would con 
tain my fifty pounds of powder, but before bolting it 
together, and making it water and air-tight, I arranged in 
the interior two flint locks, exactly like the locks to a gun, 
only larger. My cylinder was in the shape of a paint 
er's large oil can, which it resembled. Out of the mouth 
of this can came four strings, two of which would cock 
the locks, attached inside, and two attached to the triggers 
would fire them off, or rather release the hammer so that 
the flint would strike upon a steel plate attached to the 
side of the interior. These were kept free also from the 
powder with which the can was to be filled, by placing 
the latter, when to be exploded, upon its side, with the 
locks uppermost and clear ; the capacity of the can being 
much greater than the amount of powder to be placed 
within it, at least one third. 

Having my infernal machine all made, and having ex 
perimented with the strings leading out of the mouth, and 
finding that I could cock one or both locks and fire them 
by pulling the opposite string, I set sail again for Mirror 
Bay. I had made my infernal machine with two locks 
simply that, if one did not explode the charge, the other 
might. Arriving, I went on shore with it and filled it 
with the powder there stored, taking good care first to 
see that the hammers of the two locks in the interior were 



A DANGEKOUS EXPERIMENT. 305 

down upon the steel, and not cocked ready for a discharge. 
Till they were cocked, the powder was as safe in the can 
as in any other utensil in which it could be stored. And 
now, being all ready, I went on board the submarine boat 
for my final test. 

I made my way to the wreck, and, descending, was soon 
balanced opposite the mouth of the main hatch, which was 
partially open, and large enough to admit ten cans of the 
size of mine. And now came the dreadful moment in 
which, under the sea, and far from any helping hand, I 
must cock these locks within the can, surrounded, as they 
were, by the powder. It was a supreme moment. I loved 
my life in spite of its solitude. If anything was wrong 
in my mechanism, I should in a moment more be blown 
to atoms, and, if not now, perhaps whilst lowering the 
machine into the hold of the vessel. I finally mustered 
up courage to pull upon the string attached to one of the 
cocks, first placing the can upon its side, and heard it 
cock inside ; but with fear and trembling I slackened the 
cord that cocked it, and I did not have nerve enough to 
cock the other, but, forcing in a plug at the orifice, which 
had already been fitted and had grooves for the four 
strings, I smeared the whole over with resin that I melted 
in a lighted candle near me. With a sailor's caution the 
four strings leading into the can had been nicely coiled 
upon the tanks ready to pay out of themselves as the can 
should descend into the hold of the vessel through the 
open hatchway. Lashed to the outside of the can, I 



306 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

should have said, was a large bar of iron, sufficiently 
heavy to make it descend in spite of the air it contained. 
It was with a beating heart that I dropped the whole 
concern into the water, by a line attached to the middle, 
and commenced shoving it with my boat hook into the 
hole in the main hatch where it was to be exploded. 
During all this time I had the pleasant sensation that if 
the small cord attached to the trigger should become 
entangled in any way, and pull with any strain, the 
charge would be exploded, and I should be blown to 
atoms. The cold perspiration stood upon my brow, but 
finally, with a careful but strong push, the can entered the 
open hatchway and descended quietly to the side of the 
vessel, where it rested. I immediately cast off from 
the grapnel that held me near the wreck, and let the sub 
marine boat float away with what little tide there was, 
paying out, as she drifted, the small line attached to the 
trigger, a pull upon which, any time during the last fifteen 
minutes, would have been certain death. As the line 
began to run out quite freely I began to breathe again ; 
and when several fathoms had run out, so that I knew I 
was some way distant from the wreck, I began to find 
relief to my overtaxed brain, and felt that I was again 
safe, and even as I paid out the small line I thanked God 
fervently and sincerely. Feeling now sure that I was 
beyond harm, I commenced to work the pump and to 
ascend, and at the same time to drift further away, as I 
did not know what the result of the explosion might be. 



THE EXPLOSION. 307 

When I had arrived at as near the surface as the 
pump would carry me, and felt confident, from the 
amount of string I had paid out, that I was far 
enough away to be out of danger, I gathered in all 
the slack line, and then, with one strong, quick jerk, 
I proved the practical value of my machine. In one 
instant the result was conveyed to my ears by a subdued 
murmur, and the effect by a motion conveyed to the boat 
as if she had been upon the surface of the ocean instead 
of beneath it. I was perfectly well aware that, when I 
pulled the string, the sealed plug in the orifice of the 
can, through which the string led, would be pulled out, 
and let in the water; but the same action would also 
discharge the flint upon the steel inside and cause the 
explosion at the same instant, before one drop of water 
could enter, or else I should have fifty pounds of powder 
wasted. But the muffled roar and the commotion of the 
water told me that my mechanical ingenuity had not 
failed me, and that my powder had been exploded if 
nothing else had been accomplished. 

I commenced to descend again and make my way 
towards the wreck, but was met with such a mass of 
muddy, stirred-up water, that I was glad to throw a grap 
nel to the bottom, and lie quietly till it had passed by with 
the slow motion of the tide. When the water had become 
again clear, I advanced, and, arriving at last over what had 
been the hull of the wreck, I looked down upon what 
might have been considered a vast bird's nest, of which 



308 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the late timbers of the hull formed the twigs, outline, and 
shape of the nest, inextricably locked together and inter 
laced, and in the centre of which appeared, in place of 
enormous eggs, in relative size to the bird's nest, a large, 
irregular mass of still yellow and shining metal, although 
in many places tarnished and dim* that seemed in quantity 
greater than the mind of man had ever conceived. I 
descended upon this treasure and hooked up bar after bar, 
which I placed upon my hanging shelves till I could take 
no more, and, renewing my air with the air-boat, I made 
my way to Mirror Bay, and landed my precious freight. 

My next work was to bury my treasure where it would 
be safe, and for this purpose I excavated a large, square 
hole in the earth near to the ruined hut. Suffice it to say 
that after many weary trips, extending through months, I 
had recovered and buried in safety at least ten millions of 
money, besides having saved six of the brass eighteen- 
pounders, and a large quantity of copper spikes and bolts. 
Whilst at this work I came often upon the skulls and 
bones of the men who had once manned this pirate craft, 
mixed hi with the debris of the wreck. Whilst I was 
engaged in this labor I had to make trips to the Hermitage, 
and look after my flock, and prepare food for myself, and 
this was by far the busiest year that I had ever yet had 
on the island. After carefully covering up my treasure 
I conveyed all the copper bolts and the old eighteen- 
pounders to my workshop at the Hermitage, on the steam 
yacht, where they would be extremely useful to me, as 



USELESS WEALTH. 309 

heretofore I had had no brass or copper, and I often felt 
the need of them in my mechanical arts. I also obtained 
from the wreck a small quantity of lead in different forms, 
which was also very acceptable. Having gathered all 
these riches about me, was I happier than before? I 
often asked myself this question, and was obliged to 
answer it in the negative. The very acquisition of this 
enormous wealth made me impatient of restraint, and 
more and more determined to solve the problem of my 
escape. I had the knowledge of being the possessor of 
this immense amount of money, and at the same time 
the painful conviction that at present it was worth to 
me no more than the sand on the seashore. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

Chess and backgammon playing. Fortification of the island. Team of 
white swans. Goats as servants, and opponents in backgammon playing. 

YES, here I was, with the wealth of an emperor around 
me, and not one penny available, in any shape or manner. 
The acquisition of so much wealth had changed my whole 
plans ; I no longer dared to leave the island, for fear that 
somebody might discover it during my absence and claim 
it for their own, and not even allow me to land upon it 
again, much less become possessed of the immense trea 
sure that I had buried upon it, and which I could only 
take away by the assistance of others, and they under my 
own command and discipline. Much as I had bemoaned 
my fate in being cast on shore, I now feared to leave the 
island that I had so long hated. The acquisition of riches 
had brought its usual curse, and from being almost happy 
and contented I had returned to a state of petulance and 
nervousness, similar to that which I suffered under during 
the first two years of my enforced captivity. 

The time had come when I felt confident that I could 
leave the island in some way, in safety, and I did not dare 
to, did not dare to run the risk of someone's coming to 
the island during my temporary absence, and remaining 
upon it. My common sense told me that I had waited 

310 



FOBTIFYTNQ THE ISLAND. 311 

years enough, and seen no one, and that no one would 
come in my absence, whilst my miserly cupidity and un 
natural nervousness told me that it would be just my luck 
to leave it and return and find it occupied, and all my 
labors lost ; for how could I expect to obtain any legal 
proceedings to help me, or prove my claim, should such 
happen. I well knew that in these seas justice was little 
recognized, and that my return and claims would be 
scoffed at by any who might have replaced me during my 
absence. I was at last placed in the woeful predicament 
of seeing myself aching and longing for freedom, and 
afraid to accept it should it be offered me. In fact, my 
cupidity overcame my other desires so greatly that I 
passed my time at this season in improving all my forti 
fications, and making myself as strong as possible to 
resist any attack that might be made upon me. I even 
went so far as to experiment in the direction of torpedoes, 
to be placed at the mouth of Stillwater Cove, and in Per 
severance Bay and Mirror Bay, to be exploded by elec 
tricity should I be attacked. I did not, however, con 
summate this work, but had it strongly in mind. 

I also, at this time, built a small harbor at the mouth 
of Stillwater Cove, and enclosed the entrance by old 
stumps and broken limbs of trees, to conceal it, into 
which I conveyed the submarine boat and steam yacht, 
when not in use. The "Fairy" I could easily conceal 
near the Hermitage, but then, if an enemy ever got as 
far as this, it would be impossible for me to conceal the 

(370) X 



312 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

sawmill and foundry, and other works below the falls. 1 
was so frightened at this time of being visited, that I 
built a battery of four guns, to rake the whole of Still- 
water Cove, about half a mile below the Hermitage, and 
to stop the advance of any enemy in that direction. I 
well knew that, if it was known what wealth I had 
accumulated, I should stand little chance of ever enjoying 
it, unless some man-of-war should discover me. It would 
be very easy for some trader or whaler to dispose of me, 
and acquire my wealth, and the world never hear of it. 
Thousands of tragedies occur in these seas of which the 
world never hears, as I was well aware. My gold and 
silver I had buried at Mirror Bay, and my pearls I now 
buried, with care, in a corner of the Hermitage. 

At one time I bethought me of making a trip to Easter 
Island, in my submarine boat, and see if I could not 
induce the natives, if any, to make me their chief, and if 
so, to return and, with their aid, build a large vessel, and 
carry off my treasure to their island, or carry back 
enough of them to mine to aid me in navigating me to 
some neutral port, having first fully armed her and taught 
them seamanship. But if I left the island, I had, in the 
first place, to run the chance of striking Easter Island, and, 
having done that, the greater chance of ever again being 
able to find my own island. This, added to the risk of 
submarine navigation, which I had before thought over, 
deterred me. I only seemed to be able to make up my 
mind to one thing, and that was to protect myself in all 



CHESS AND BACKGAMMON. 313 

possible ways from assault, and to try and study ont some 
way to escape with my treasure in safety. 

After some months of this worry, I commenced to 
return to myself again in a measure, and, having no 
work of any magnitude on hand, I amused myself in 
many ways to change the monotony of my existence. 
Amongst other things that I invented for my amuse 
ment were a nice chess-board and men. I had been 
fond of the game for many years, and I used in the even 
ing to pit myself against an imaginary opponent and set 
to work. I always played strictly according to rule, and 
never took a move back or allowed iny adversary to do 
so ; and it was amusing to see how hard I tried to beat 
my other self. I wiled away many weary evening hours 
in this way, and also with a pack of parchment cards, 
with which I played solitaire, to my heart's content. But 
my greatest game, and one in which I took the most 
interest, was backgammon, which I played with my pet 
goat. I had here to move for both the goat and myself ; 
but the excitement consisted in the fact of my making 
him take the dice-box in his mouth and shake out his own 
dice, so that I really played against somebody in part. I 
increased this excitement by pitting one goat against the 
other and making each throw the dice, when I would 
make the move and reward the winner by a little morsel 
of sugar, or something of which he was fond. I also 
managed to make myself quite a serviceable flute, upon 
which I performed by ear all the old tunes I could re- 



314 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

member ; and, to preserve them, I marked the notes in a 
rough style on parchment ; but, only knowing their names 
as A, B, C, etc., I simply marked down these letters to 
denote any tune, heading it with the name, as " Yankee 
Doodle," a, a, 5, c, a, a ##, e, a, a, 5, c, a, ##. I did 
not know enough about music to keep any other record, 
but by this method I felt that I could preserve the tunes 
that I now knew, so as to enjoy them in my old age, if 
God willed it that I should never escape from this cursed 
island. At this time I did not know what it was to want 
for anything: each year my harvests had been greater 
and greater, and 1 now enjoyed both apples and pears in 
great abundance. With saltpetre and salt, and my 
smoking-house, I was able to preserve all the meat of all 
kinds that I desired, and my larder and ice-house was 
overstocked instead of understocked, and I had every 
thing that heart could desire ; and yet, since my success 
ful attempt at both the pearl fishery and the sunken 
treasure, I had been unhappy and discontented. Up to 
this time I had scarcely seen an hour's sickness since 
being upon the island. 

It was wonderful how good God had been to me; 
but the delightful climate, and my out-door life and pure 
water and good wholesome food, had all tended to sustain 
me ; but, with my inventive mind, I did not intend to be 
caught napping, even in this respect, so to work I went 
to educate my goats as servants, in case I should be 
seriously ill. I taught one, after repeated attempts and 



MY GOAT SEKVANTS. 315 

great attention, to take a little pail that I had made for 
him, and, at my command, go to the river and fill it with 
water, and bring it to me at my bedside. After months 
of teaching, this goat would at last do this duty as well 
as the best trained servant, and finally I taught him so 
perfectly that I could get into my bed, touch a little bell 
that I had made, one tap, when he would immediately 
look about for his little pail, in whatever part of the Her 
mitage it might be, and, finding it, march off to the river, 
fill it with water, and bring it back, and place it always 
in just the same spot, upon the low sideboard or table, 
beside my bed. The other pet I taught to bring me a 
small bag of flour that was kept for that purpose. As I 
have before said, on a shelf near the bed I had already 
placed a lamp, spare oil, matches, flint and steel, and all 
the simple remedies that I had, with candles and a sort 
of night lamp that I had constructed, with kettle and 
basin attached. I did not know how soon I might be 
attacked at any moment with fever and delirium, and I 
was determined to do all possible beforehand, so as to be 
able to help myself in my days of necessity ; hence my 
teaching, so that, when too weak to move, I might rely 
upon my pet goats for good, pure, fresh water and a little 
food fit for gruel. This teaching was an amusement for 
me, and not a task ; and it was amazing how intelligent 
these animals became, and how fond I was of them and 
they of me. 

I had noticed that there were upon Mirror Lake, when 



316 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I had visited it upon several occasions, some magnificent 
swans, and, having nothing better in my head to do, I made 
up my mind to capture some of them to transplant to the 
Hermitage. I made many futile attempts before I could 
fix upon a plan to secure any of them. I could at times 
have shot some of them, for they were not very wild, but 
that was not what I wanted. Finally, after studying their 
habits, I ascertained exactly where they nestled on shore at 
night to roost, which was near some stunted trees on the 
westerly side of the lake. I made myself a large net of 
strong grass twine and rawhide, nearly forty feet square, 
with the meshes at least a foot apart, so that the work was 
not a very hard or laborious one. Armed with this in the 
daytime, whilst the swans were away, either in the centre 
of the lake or elsewhere, I visited their resting-place, and 
attached it to the trees and different uprights, and arranged 
it so that it could be drawn down and over them at one 
pull by a cord which I led out into the lake a long distance 
and buoyed there. Having arranged all my apparatus to 
suit me, I left it alone for at least a month, not even going 
near it ; when one fine moonlight night I started early, 
before sundown, across the island to the lake. Hiding 
myself in the long grass and trees on the border, I saw my 
friends the swans, about eighteen m number, take their 
way for their usual roosting-place, and as the light shut 
down I stripped off my clothing and swam out boldly for 
the buoy in the lake, which was not over two hundred 
yards distant from me, but at least four hundred from 



FIGHT AND CAPTUKE SWANS. 317 

them. Arriving at it, I grasped the line and gave one 
tremendous pull with all my strength, and such a flapping 
of wings and squalling was never heard. All the fowl in 
the vicinity and there were large numbers got on 
the wing and commenced making night hideous. I 
hastened ashore, and, slipping on a few clothes, made my 
way at a run to the place where the net had been 
sprung. It was as I expected ; several of the swans had 
become entangled, and, having thrust their heads through 
the large meshes, were endeavoring to make their enor 
mous bodies follow through the same hole, at the same 
time foolishly threshing about with their wings and trying 
to fly. It was well that my net was mostly of rawhide, 
for I found the creatures terribly strong and fierce, but 
after a fight of over two hours I was in possession of six 
fine large swans, as beautiful creatures as could well be 
imagined. All of these I bound with rawhide, with their 
wings to their sides, and small lashings around their bills, 
for I found that they could attack with them quite fiercely. 
After having carefully bound them so that they could not 
escape, and -for further protection drawn the net about 
them, I made my way home, leaving them where they lay 
for the night. 

The next morning early I appeared on the scene with 
the canoe, having come around in the steam yacht to the 
river, which I had ascended as far as practicable, and then 
taken to the canoe. I soon had my splendid great fellows 
all in the boat, and thence into the steam yacht in a very 



318 PEESEYEEANCE ISLAND. 

short time, when I proceeded leisurely home by the West 
ern Cape, as I wanted to see how that part of my island 
looked. I saw nothing strange or novel, except the pen 
guins on Penguin Point, who were drawn up as usual in 
martial array, and I could not help wishing that I had a 
few brave and devoted sailors with me at this time. How 
soon we would make the forests of this island echo with 
the stroke of our axes, and how soon would a strong, 
staunch vessel arise from the stocks at Rapid River ; one 
that could stand the weather well enough to make the 
trip with ease to Valparaiso or the Sandwich Islands, or 
some other civilized place. 

Arriving home, I made some arrangements for my new 
guests, and riveted upon one leg of each a long rawhide 
rope, which was made fast to a stake on the border of the 
river. For the first few days there was a great deal of 
fluttering, sputtering, and squalling, but, being careful not 
to feed them all this time, I soon brought them to sub 
jection, and in less than a month's time they would eat out 
of my hand. I then went to work and made a long, light 
whip, with which I educated them each day for two more 
months. In the intervals, I was at work in the workshop, 
and turned out two cylinders, shaped like cigars, about 
eight feet long and one foot in diameter, made of rolled 
iron little thicker than common sheet-iron. Upon these, 
placed distant from each other about six feet, I fitted a 
nice little deck and an easy, comfortable chair. Having 
this all completed and arranged, I launched it in Still- 



A TEAM OF SWANS. 319 

water Cove, and brought it over near the Hermitage. I 
then made a broad piece of skin that would slip over the 
head of each swan and rest against the breast, to which 
was attached a small cord. Putting one of these yokes upon 
each of my swans, I drove them down to where the boat 
or car was resting ; for I had trained them so that they 
would obey the whip just as well if not better than a yoke 
of oxen. Having arrived at the car, I attached them by 
yokes of two to a central rope attached to the car, and, 
cracking my whip, set off on a tour of pleasure down 
Stillwater Cove. Did ever man drive such a car and team 
before ? and yet it was by just such artifices as these that 
I kept myself from going mad and gave myself excite 
ment and pleasure. No one knows, till they have tried, how 
easily the birds of the earth are taught. I had often seen 
a Chinaman make the cormorant, fish for him all day long, 
and make his body of ducks that he was watching as obe 
dient as so many dogs. I knew that my team of swans 
was of no practical use to me, but it was a pleasure, and 
that was sufficient. They certainly made a magnificent 
sight, moving over the quiet, pure waters of Stillwater Cove, 
and I could not help thinking that, if I should be dis 
covered now, I should be taken for Neptune or some 
merman of the ocean disporting himself with his favorite 
team. Having taken a good long ride, I, with a snap of 
my whip, turned my team about and made towards home. 
Home! yes, that was the word; it had really become 
home, and more so than ever since I had become so rich. I 



320 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

could not make up my mind to try and solve the problem 
which, if solved, would separate me from my island and 
my riches, and yet I could not go on in this way ; I must 
make up my mind, and that quickly ; I must do something ; 
I must choose. If I feared to trust my submarine boat, I 
could make a catamaran on a large scale, almost exactly on 
the same plan as the car I was now seated upon, which 
could not capsize or sink ; a life raft, or, better yet, I could 
construct a boat wholly of iron, with water-tight compart 
ments ; but who was to steer whilst I slept, my goat ? 
and who was to take care of my island during my absence 
and keep it safe from all inquisitive eyes ? I suppose I 
should have, perhaps, used up years thinking of this matter, 
if my attention had not been drawn to other affairs almost 
as startling as any that had yet befallen me, making me 
almost believe that I was to be driven crazy by accumula 
tion of wealth which I was not to be allowed ever to enjoy 
or spend. It occurred to me to make a gunning expedition 
to Mirror Lake, to obtain some of the wild ducks that 
were so plenty there. And having now a little lead, I was 
able to make shot, with which I was more successful than 
with the steel bullets. With this intention I went to Mirror 
River in the steam yacht, prepared to stop for a few days 
and enjoy the sport, and what happened me there I will 
go on to relate. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

Discovery of gold. Turn the stream out of the lake, and build portable 
engine to separate the gold. 

I STABTED with the canoe to the mouth of Stillwater 
Cove, having first attended to my numerous flocks, and 
put on board two of my best guns, with some lead bullets 
and shot, and provisions for some time, and also carrying 
with me my two inseparable friends, the pet goats. When 
I arrived at the mouth of the cove, I entered the concealed 
harbor, and got out the steam yacht and commenced put 
ting her in order. I soon had a fire built under the boil 
ers, and in an hour's time was all ready to set out. Leaving 
the canoe behind me, I pushed out of the cove into Per 
severance Bay, and made my way to the west about for 
Mirror Bay. I arrived safely and in good season, and 
landed to examine my treasure-ground, and found the 
grass growing over it nicely, and it seemed well concealed. 
Going on board again, I pointed the yacht up the river 
towards the lake. I had heretofore always stopped before 
reaching the latter, for fear of striking the bottom on ao- 
count of shoal water, but I now made up my mind to 
proceed in a cautious manner into the lake itself, if pos 
sible. I thought that there was water enough if I could 
keep clear of any boulders or rocks that might possibly be 



322 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

concealed beneath the water. The yacht did not draw 
over three feet, and I felt confident that she could carry 
that draft to the lake if she could be kept clear from any 
unknown obstructions. So I steamed along very carefully 
and slowly, and often left the helm to rush forward and 
look over the bows, and, oftener yet, stopped the boat 
completely and examined ahead before proceeding. In 
this manner I advanced towards the lake slowly but 
surely, taking land marks as I went on to enable me to 
return without injuring my craft by running her upon 
any submerged danger. At last the lake opened before 
me, and with a few careful turns of the propeller, I soon 
floated upon its surface safe and sound. The moment the 
yacht came in sight, numbers of swans and other fowl 
commenced to rise from different parts of the lake, and 
take their departure to more quiet and distant places. I 
knew, however, that I had not disturbed them greatly, and 
that they would return during the day, flock after flock. 
I kept on across the lake to the mouth of a little brook 
pouring into it, not over fifteen feet wide, and, entering 
this, I ran on for about a hundred yards, till the water 
commenced to shoal and to be filled with numerous rocks. 
Here I moored the yacht carefully to the bank and went 
on shore. I had no occasion to build any fire or erect any 
habitation. The steam yacht served me for home, kitchen, 
bedroom, and parlor, and I had on board of her every 
thing that possibly could be asked for. Tethering out my 
two pet goats, I took with me two of my guns and quite 



DUCK-SHOOTING. 323 

a lot of ammunition, and the small landing skiff, and 
made my way back again to the lake. I carried with 
me also some twelve or fifteen nice decoy ducks, that 
I had made of wood and dyed with black and red 
colors, similar to the ducks that frequented the lake. 
These I anchored at an easy gunshot from the shore, and 
then, landing, took out my guns and ammunition, which 
I carefully placed on the sand, and, shouldering the 
boat, carried it into the bushes near by and concealed 
it carefully. I then went to work with a hatchet and 
cut down some of the small cedar and fir trees with 
which the back part of the shore of sand was lined, and 
soon had them driven into the sand near the edge of the 
water, and converted into a blind, from which I could 
shoot into the flocks of ducks and geese that might come 
to my decoys without being seen by them. Even whilst I 
was at work, several flocks were almost willing to alight, 
hovering over my decoys, but finally departing as they 
saw me at work. When I had everything to suit me, I 
retired into my blind and waited for a chance for a good 
shot. I used to shoot well with a percussion gun in 
younger days, but I had too little lead now, and too little 
practice, to try and kill these birds on the wing with a 
flint-lock gun, and my only chance was to wait till a 
whole flock settled down, when I intended, by a discharge 
of one gun whilst they were in the water, and another as 
they arose, to get as many as possible ; and that it may 
not be thought that I must have had a great stomach for 



324 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

ducks, I would say that I intended to pick and preserve 
these birds in saltpetre and salt, to use during the winter 
seasons, and to make of their feathers a nice soft mat 
tress. 

I had not long to wait before a small flock settled to 
my decoys, and, after sailing about a little, became dis 
gusted and made off before I could fire. But after them 
came a larger lot that settled boldly down, and as I had 
found out that they would not long remain ignorant of 
the cheats that had enticed them, I let drive at once into 
their midst with one gun, and gave them the other as they 
rose to fly away. As the result of my fire, I counted 
eleven large ducks dead upon the water and three badly 
wounded, which I soon despatched by hastening to the 
shore with my light landing boat and killing them with a 
boat-hook, and, picking up my dead, brought onto the 
shore fourteen nice fat ducks. I then drew up my boat 
and waited for more shots, but the discharge had made 
the others somewhat wary ; but finally my patience was 
rewarded with two other good shots during the day, in 
which I bagged three geese and seven more ducks. With 
this game I made my way back to the yacht, highly 
pleased with my day's sport. I had noticed, both to-day 
and in my former trips to the lake, that the species of 
duck that I had shot were divers, and seemed to get their 
food by seeking at the bottom of the lake for it, and par 
ticularly at this place where the spring water poured into 
it from this brook or inlet, which evidently arose in a 



MOKE GOLD. 325 

mountain back of me, and, fed by springs, enlarged so as 
to pour into the lake quite a volume of pure water. As 
I had to name everything upon the island, I called this 
brook Singing Water Brook, on account of the low musi 
cal murmur that was wafted to my ears from the miniature 
falls and rocks over which it bounded, gurgled, and found 
its way, further in the interior, where, from the sound, it 
evidently was more rapid in its descent from higher 
ground, but distant enough not to be noisy, but musical, in 
its progress towards the lake. 

I first went to work and picked my whole twenty-one 
ducks and the three geese, carefully saving all the feath 
ers. I then proceeded to open them preparatory to salt 
ing them away in casks which were on board of the yacht, 
that I had brought for that purpose. I had opened and 
dressed, I should think, some five or six, when I became 
curious to know what food they fed upon, and to know if 
it was to obtain it that they kept diving below the surface. 
To settle this problem I grasped with my left hand the 
gizzard of the duck that I had just dressed, and, observing 
that it was well inflated, I drew my knife across it to ex 
pose its contents. It seemed to contain the usual amount 
of sand and gravel, and a sort of semi-digested food that 
I was unable to determine as to whether it was fish, flesh, 
fowl, or good red herring. As I was picking the mass to 
pieces with my hands, I laid open to view quite a large 
pebble, fully as large as a pea, that was as yellow as gold. 
I pounced upon it, for I had seen too much virgin gold in 



326 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

California and Australia not to know it. I had it not one 
moment in my hand before my sight and its weight con 
vinced me that it was indeed, in verity, a pure golden 
nugget. 

Could it be possible ? I had heard before of gold being 
taken from the crops of chickens bought in Siam and on 
the coasts of Africa, but I never before had credited the 
stories ; but here before my eyes, in all its unmistakable 
purity, lay a piece of virgin gold. Then it was this that 
my ducks were gathering with their other food, mistaking 
it probably for some kind of grain. To work, therefore, I 
went upon all of the gizzards of my slain, and my search 
was rewarded by the finding of seven pieces more, two 
much larger than the first specimen obtained, fully as 
large as beans, and the others much smaller. When I had 
buried my treasure, I had kept out, to have on hand at the 
Hermitage, several of the ingots of gold and two or three 
of the bars of silver ; why, I do not know, but it was hu 
man to have a little amount of gold and silver near at 
hand, for what I cannot say; but it was natural, and pro 
bably arose from former education and habit. I was not 
yet perfectly content with the evidences of my senses or 
the malleability of the metal before me, which I tested by 
beating one of the pieces with a hammer ; but before I 
would wholly give myself up to the belief that my dis 
covery was really gold, I intended to make a certain and 
positive test. Stories ran through my head of vessels in 
olden times, which made voyages to the East Indies, re- 



TESTING MY DISCOVERY. 327 

turning home with what they considered gold ore in bal 
last, which only turned out upon arrival to be simply mica 
or silica. Whalers also, as I had heard, had given up 
whole voyages and filled their casks in different parts of 
the world with worthless earth, thinking that they had 
become possessed of the wealth of the universe. I was 
not to be deceived in this manner. I determined, as I have 
said, to make a final and complete test before I gave my 
self up to the excitement that would undoubtedly attend 
my magnificent discovery, if true. For this purpose I left 
all my ducks and geese, except two for cooking purposes, 
and made my way as rapidly as possible back to the steam 
yacht, and, although it was nearly sunset, got under way 
and started back to the Hermitage with my precious peb 
bles or nuggets with me. I arrived safely by the aid of a 
magnificent moon, and ran into Still water Cove and up 
to the Hermitage, when I moored the yacht and went 
on shore and into my bed ; but a restless night I made of 
it, and early morning saw me at work in the foundry at 
my proposed test. In the first place I went to work and 
made a nice pair of balances of steel, with little pans on 
each side to contain the substance to be weighed. I then 
went to work and made a mould of iron, by boring out a 
email oval hole with my steel drills in the face of two pieces 
of steel, which I hinged together exactly like a bullet 
mould, only much smaller. 

After having everything arranged I set to work and 
emelted a portion of one of my golden ingots, and whilst 

(370) Y 



328 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

in this fused state I moulded several golden bullets in 
my mould, some ten or twelve in number. I then put 
the remainder of the gold away, cleaned out the crucible 
perfectly, and put my nuggets in it and smelted them, and 
with them made also eleven impressions of my mould in 
the shape of bullets. I kept these far from the others, so 
as not to get things mixed. I then placed one of the 
true bullets of gold in one pan of the balance, and added 
small clippings of iron in the other pan, till it was exactly 
balanced. I then took it out and replaced it by one of 
the bullets made from the metal I had found. The prob 
lem was solved, they were exactly of a weight, or, rather, 
so nearly so that a minute atom of iron dust added to the 
pan preserved the balance, for my metal bullet, proved by 
the very slightest degree to be the heavier. Yes, this was 
gold, gold beyor.d peradventure ; but, to satisfy my mind, 
I weighed and weighed them by one and by twos, and by 
fours and by fives ; always with the same result, scarcely 
a hair's breadth between them. Practically, they were 
exact. I knew that no other metal could approach gold in 
weight so as to deceive me beyond this test. I was living 
on an island that was a vast gold mine, or at least contained 
it in large quantities ; for it would be impossible for me to 
have found seven nuggets in a few ducks unless the bot 
tom of the lake was strewed with them at or near the 
mouth of Singing Water Brook, which must have poured 
them into the lake for ages, carrying them along from 
their first resting-place, the mountain, to the westward 



PLANNING MT GOLD-MINE. 329 

from which it took its rise. Convinced that my discovery 
was real and true, I gave myself up to all manner of day 
dreams, and it was a week before I made up my mind to 
return to the lake and explore further. At times I gave 
up the idea of gathering any of this gold that I now knew 
lay at the bottom of the lake, and at others the desire to be 
possessed of it all swayed me also. But, finally, dreaming 
gave way to my natural temperament, and I made all pre 
parations possible to secure my prize. Should I pen in a 
portion of the lake opposite the mouth of Singing Water 
Brook, turn the latter aside, lay bare the bottom of the 
lake and sift and examine the sand? Alas, this would 
take great time and pains, and I was afraid also that the 
water would be forced back, after I had pumped it out, 
through the sand of which the bottom was formed Should 
I lower the outlet of the lake so as to draw off the water 
in a degree ? This was not very feasible, as it was already 
quite deep, and it would take great time and application 
to deepen it enough to draw off the water of the lake to 
any extent. No, I had another plan than this, which I 
finally decided upon, and that was to use the submarine 
boat. Having fixed upon the means, I hastened to put 
them into execution. I made all my preparations, and, 
taking the submarine boat in tow of the steam yacht, 
made my way back to Mirror Lake. I had some trouble 
it getting the former into the lake, but finally succeeded 
after considerable labor. I had provided myself with 
gome utensils, to pan out the sand with, and also a 



880 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

rocker, that I had built to be placed on shore, and worked 
by a belt from a driving-wheel of the steam engine of the 
yacht, which I had attached to it for that purpose only, 
intending to use it by anchoring the yacht, disconnecting 
the propeller gear, and leading the belt from the rocker 
on shore to the engine room of the yacht, and thence to 
the driving-wheel attached. Let it suffice to say here 
that during my long stay at Mirror Lake I made weekly 
trips to the Hermitage and attended to my flocks, but 
gave up all idea of making butter, and only brought a few 
of my female goats to this side to give me milk. 

Having gotten the submarine boat into the lake, I 
made a descent in it and examined the bottom. It was 
almost wholly of pure sand. The water varied from a 
depth of a few feet near the margin to about three 
fathoms near the centre. I saw several kinds of fish 
but none of large size. Having made this examination, 
I commenced upon the work before me of finding the 
gold. I went quite near to the mouth of Singing-Water 
Brook, and descended and filled the tops of the tanks 
with sand from the bottom, failing to find any nuggets 
with the eye ; but I afterwards found several in different 
trips, but never many or of very large size. Having 
loaded the boat, I arose to the surface, and beached 
her near the mouth of the brook, and landed my sand 
in baskets upon the shore. I then went to work with 
the pan and washed it in the mouth of the brook, and 
as the result of this one trip gathered together more gold- 



PLACEB-MINING. 331 

dust and small nuggets than I could hold in one hand. 
This was placer mining with a vengeance, the cream of 
all mining while it lasts. But I felt that I was going 
back-handed to work ; so the next day, instead of coming 
on shore with my sand, I took the pan into the submarine 
boat, and as I pulled it up with a sort of long-handled 
shovel, washed it then and there in the water of the lake 
inside the submarine boat ; but this again was, during a 
long day, tiring to my brain, as I had to keep renewing 
the air by rowing the boat ashore, for it was too shallow 
to use the air-boat, and I had long ago given up the idea 
of using the spray-wheel except in case of actual neces 
sity, the air-boat superseding it. 

Here I was in the ninth year of my captivity, working 
hard in my own gold-field. I worked nearly six months 
of this year, at all spare moments, in this manner, occas 
ionally shovelling sand into the rocker on shore, which 
I procured from the edges of the lake near the mouth 
of the brook, just under water, and extracting the gold- 
dust by means of a belt from the steam yacht. I was 
quite successful with this method also, but the largest 
quantity of the dust had evidently been for ages swept 
into the lake opposite the mouth of Singing Water 
Brook. I also ascended the brook several times during 
these months, till it led me to a mountain of some 
eminence, where it ended in little branches that tumbled 
down its side. 

I got "signs" of gold often, in fact almost always at 



332 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

the eddies of this brook, and even in its branches, but 
never in as large quantities as in the sand at the mouth, 
although I obtained one very large nugget in the sands 
of a quiet pool fully half a mile from the lake. I also 
ascertained that the mountain was composed mostly of 
quartz, which miners term the mother of gold, and 
all the little pebbles that I picked up in the running 
brooks were of this description, several of them being 
prettily marked with little veins of gold. There was no 
doubt whence the gold came ; it had been pouring down 
from this mountain side in these small trickling streams 
for centuries, veining the pieces of quartz that contained 
it till the latter, by friction and water, deposited itself 
in the shape of sand, and the released gold as dust or 
nuggets, at the mouth of the brook, having been, per 
haps, centuries making the descent from the mountain 
side to the lake, a distance perhaps of one mile. I 
knew perfectly well that the mountain contained the 
inexhaustible mine from which this precious dust es 
caped, but I also knew that without quicksilver it was 
beyond my reach to gather it. For in quartz-mining 
I should need iron stamps, fuel, steam-engine, amalga 
mator, rocking-table, etc., all of which I could supply, 
perhaps, except the quicksilver ; but this troubled me very 
little, for I knew that there was more gold at the mouth 
of the lake than I could gather in perhaps a lifetime, 
unless I could invent some way to come at it more con 
venient than the ways that I was now employing. I had 



DISSATISFIED WITH MY LUCK. 333 

often, at the end of a day's work, at this time, nearly as 
much gold-dust as I could hold in my two hands, much 
more than one handful, and in value, of which I could 
only guess, at least $200 to $250. After getting quite 
a quantity together, say a week's work, I used to 
transport it to the Hermitage, take it to the workshop, 
smelt it, and preserve the button by burying it within 
the enclosure of the Hermitage. 

I had at the end of some six months become greedy 
and was not satisfied with my daily gains, but longed 
to extend my operations. During these months I had 
not been idle, but had studied upon the problem of how 
to get at the bottom of the lake. I was thinking about 
this one day, when nearly half-way between the lake 
and the mountain side, passing the brook once in a 
while and looking into its waters for quartz-pebbles 
marked with gold. At once it struck me, why not 
turn the brook from the lake towards the sea, in a new 
direction. I struck my head with my fist to think what 
a fool I had been for so many months ; why, here, even 
where I stood, was a natural valley on my left, that 
would convey the water to the sea. I dashed down my 
pan and worked my way seaward. Why here was even 
a little mountain brook already tending in that direction, 
and, following it about two miles, I saw it pierce the 
sand of the seaside, at least two feet wide, and discharge 
its tiny current into the ocean. I was crazy with excite 
ment. I dashed back again to the point where I had left 



334 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

mv pan, and, picking it up, made for the lake. When 
I arrived, I went to the inlet and examined it. I felt 
that I had the whole matter under my thumb, and with 
out much labor, too ; for if I should turn the direction 
of Singing Water Brook so that it would not pour into 
Mirror Lake, the latter at its outlet would be exactly 
as low as the bottom, over which a rapid current was 
now flowing, but which would, by this process, be in one 
sense brought to the surface ; and, as it appeared, I could 
work upon it, and cut it down, and as I cut it down so 
would the lake be drawn off, till, if cut little by little, 
a passage-way which I could timber up to the depth 
of eighteen feet, all the water of the lake would be 
drawn off, and the whole bottom exposed to my view, 
and the golden accumulation of untold ages beneath 
my feet to pick and choose from. It was feasible, fool 
that I was, not to have thought of it before. The very 
next day, armed with axes, tools, and shovels, which I 
had to make two trips to convey, I found myself at the 
place on the brook where the natural valley leading 
towards the sea seemed to meet it, and where a little 
further on to the seaward I had found the miniature 
brook, trickling its way to the southward. At the point 
that I commenced work the brook was not over ten or 
twelve feet wide, rapid to be sure, but with not a very 
great descent just at this point. I commenced in the 
first place by cutting and opening on its southerly bank, 
towards the sea and into the valley. I did not cut the 



DAM THE BROOK. 335 

bank away so as to let the water in yet to its new 
channel, but worked a little distance from it. For two 
whole weeks I dug at this, making a good bed for the 
brook to rush into in its new passage that I intended 
to give it to the sea. Having this to suit me, I com 
menced cutting down trees to fall across the brook as it 
now ran, and these I filled in with pebbles and stones. 
It was hard work, but at the end of three weeks I had 
made such a dam across the original brook that I opened 
the passage for the water into the new one, and kept on 
strengthening the former till all the water in a day or two 
bounded down its new course to the sea as if it had always 
run in that direction. I restrained my curiosity, however, 
to look for gold in the now dried up bed of the brook, but 
felled more trees, and put in more stones, and banked up 
with more earth, till I felt convinced that even in a storm 
the brook would no longer seek an outlet in the direction of 
the lake over such a barrier, and with the bed of its new 
course so well dug out by itself even now, helped as it 
had been by my labor of two weeks, before allowing it 
to seek it. Finally I felt my work complete, and, 
breaking up my camp that I had so long made in the 
woods, I went back to the lake, looking once in a while 
into the now empty brook. I should have said that of 
course, before I undertook this work, I had taken the 
yacht and submarine boat out of the way, the sub 
marine boat to its old resting-place at Still Water Cove, 
and the yacht at anchor in Mirror Bay near the shore. 



336 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I had been living a hard, rude life in the woods, 
and had only come out once to go to the Hermitage 
for food and to attend to my flocks ; and I hurried 
down now to look at the lake, which I knew would be 
lowered to exactly the former depth of the water at the 
outlet, some four or five feet. As I came in view of it 
I saw at once the effects of my work ; it looked already 
woefully shrunken and belittled, but I did not stop to 
look at it, or for nuggets either. I felt convinced that I 
had passed many in the bed of the deserted brook, but 
at present I was intent upon my work of changing the 
face of nature. In two trips I had all my traps and 
tools conveyed to the outlet, and it was here that I 
established my new camp. I had to go to the saw-mill 
and get some plank, and by the aid of the goats and 
wagon finally, after bringing them around in the yacht, 
got them to the outlet where I needed them. I com 
menced digging in its bed, and the water soon began to 
pour out, as I did not have to dig a great distance, as 
the decline was quite sharp. I found that I should not 
need my boards till I had gotten considerably down, if 
even then, for my work consisted only in shovelling the 
bed of the late stream out upon each side and in making a 
channel lower than the water still remaining in the lake. 
Suffice it to say that in three months I had the lake 
drawn off, so as to expose a very large margin of the 
late bottom. It would take too long to relate how I 
travelled over these exposed sands and the deserted bed 



AN INEXHAUSTIBLE MINE. 887 

of Singing-Water Brook; it will be sufficient to say 
that my findings were immense, and in the bed of the 
brook I found several nuggets in what had before been 
eddies, weighing as high as two or three pounds, as 
near as I could judge. I soon, however, got tired of 
tramping over the sand to try and find nuggets by the 
eye, and arranged to go to work in a more thorough and 
satisfactory manner. To do this, I left my gold-fields 
for several months, and went to work at my forge to 
turn out a portable steam-engine, with a rocker or sand- 
washer attached. "When this was finished I took it, in 
pieces, to the bed of the lake and erected it on wheels. 
It was arranged with sections of pipe and hose so as to 
be placed near the sand that was to be washed, and the 
water pumped for that purpose from that still remaining 
in the lake, and which I had left for this very purpose, 
intending to draw it off and expose more bottom by 
opening the outlet whenever I should have been over 
the sands now exposed to view. It was well also that I 
should have had to make this engine, for the fishes 
contained in the lake had commenced to die, and the 
air was impregnated with their effluvia, and the sur 
face was covered with their dead bodies. "When I got 
to work with my rocker and engine it seemed as if the 
sands were inexhaustible. I often gathered, as far as I 
could judge, in one day's work, the sum of at least $500, 
and some days I must have gathered hard upon $1,000, 
not to mention the nuggets large enough to pick up 



338 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

with my hand, that I was continually coming upon. 
But at last I got absolutely tired of gathering this 
golden harvest, and abandoned it for other occupations, 
having already more than I knew what to do with, and 
of not one dollar's value to me unless I could escape or 
be rescued. After my fierce excitement was over in this 
direction, I returned to the old problem of escape. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

The sea serpent. Attack and capture one of the species, thus putting the 
question of its existence forever at rest. 

IT was in my tenth year of captivity that the following 
adventure occured to me, which is of such importance to 
the scientific world, and settles forever such a disputed 
question, that I cannot forbear to relate it here in the 
interest of science, and to set at rest all doubts upon this 
subject forever. 

I had started upon one of my trips to the pearl oyster 
reef in the submarine boat, to obtain some of those bivalves, 
to convey to the shore for examination. The day was 
beautiful, and the sky clear and almost without a cloud, 
with a light air moving from the northwest. I was 
standing out toward the reef from Perseverance Bay 
with the manhole open, and all goat power on, when all 
at once, as I was gazing about the horizon, I saw to lee 
ward of me and off the eastern end of the island, a strange 
commotion in the regular waves of the ocean. Some ani 
mal or fish was evidently splashing the water about into the 
air in huge quantities. At one time it looked as if the dis 
turbance was caused by porpoises disporting themselves in 
their native element, and following their leader, in a long 

339 



340 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

string ; but I soon saw this was not the case. At another 
moment it seemed as if a whole fleet of empty ban-els 
had been suddenly left bobbing about in mid-ocean, and 
then again as if detached quantities of dry seaweed had 
been floated seaward by the tide, and showed itself as it rose 
and fell upon the summits of different waves. Whilst the 
object was taking all these different shapes to my gazing 
eyes, I was steadily approaching it, having changed the 
course of the boat, and as I advanced I found that it also 
was coming towards me, and when within perhaps one 
half mile, the creature (for it proved to be an animal), 
suddenly raised its head at least twenty feet above 
the waves of the ocean, and looked about him in every 
direction. At once the truth flashed upon me. Here 
was in verity the sea serpent of which so much has 
been written and so much doubted. There was no 
deception ; all was too plain before me to deceive a 
child : but, to prove the matter beyond doubt, I stopped 
the boat and waited for his near approach. He happened 
to be heading so that he would naturally pass very near 
to me, and I got ready to clap down the manhole and 
descend into the ocean if he made any attack upon me. 
Just as he was coming along finely towards me, he sud 
denly plunged beneath the surface and was lost to view. 
Here was a pretty ending to all my desires to observe 
him. He had not as yet come near enough for me to 
describe him, so as to be believed. What should I do ? I 
hated to lose him in this manner, and I felt confident that 



THE SEA SERPENT. 841 

he had sounded, not on account of perceiving my boat, 
which he could have scarcely noticed, but, because he was 
at that moment in the humor or was feeding. Whilst I 
was uttering useless regrets at having lost him, and mak 
ing up my mind whether or not to descend myself and 
try to find him, I was disturbed by a loud splash astern 
of where I was looking, and, facing about, I looked into 
the eyes of the horrible creature, not forty yards distant 
from me. 

He did not, however, seem to notice me in the least, 
but to clap down the manhole cover and descend was 
with me the work of a moment, for I knew too little 
of his habits to trust him. I have perhaps before in this 
narrative stated that, when beneath the surface of the 
water, all fishes and animals seemed not to take the 
slightest notice of me ; either taking my boat for a sub 
marine rock, or else for a creature like themselves ; why 
it was so, I, of course, cannot say, but that such was the 
fact I can aver. I had often put my hand down into the 
water upon the back of quite large fish, when beneath 
the surface, and it was not till they were touched that 
they seemed to know that anything out of the ordinary 
was happening. I had been fully as near the sea serpent 
as I desired, and descended for safety ; his horrible eyes 
and face haunting me as I fell slowly towards the bot 
tom. Having arrived to within ten or twelve feet, I 
checked the boat, intending to wait a reasonable time for 
his lordship to depart, and then to rise to the surface and 



342 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

go on my way rejoicing that he had not injured me ; but 
I had not remained more than five minutes in my posi 
tion before I saw a sight that frightened me more than 
meeting this creature on the surface ; for, glancing about 
towards the bottom, my eyes fell upon the serpent making 
his descent from above, and moving along slowly on the 
bottom, evidently seeking for his prey. His horrible 
head passed within at least ten feet of the boat, of which 
he seemed to take not the slightest notice. As it passed 
from my view it was followed by the body, at least one 
hundred feet in length, and as large around as a common- 
sized flour barrel. I was too startled to move, but kept 
the boat quietly in position till the whole body passed 
slowly out of sight. As the tail went by me, my first 
impulse was to get out of the way, and ascend to the 
surface, and start for home ; my next was to remain 
where I was and see what would happen. Sitting down, 
I thought the whole matter over. My solitary existence 
had given me an inordinate appetite for excitement. I 
wanted something to stir my stagnant blood, something 
to call into action all my physical and mental powers. 
You who have never been cut off from the rest of man 
kind cannot credit this thirst for something new, some 
thing moving, something strange. The daily conversa 
tion, the crowded streets, the incidents of life, feed this 
desire and keep it satisfied ; but when there is nothing of 
this kind, the mind and body both ache to fill the void 
produced. Add to this such a temperament as mine, and 



PREPABING TO ATTACK. 343 

it can be understood that, just saved from an attack from 
this unknown monster, I determined to attack him, and, 
if possible, capture him. I don't know why I should 
have brought myself to this conclusion, or why I should 
risk my life, but such is man. From a state of fear I 
entered into one of fierce excitement, and made every 
preparation to attack the danger I had just escaped. 

I had always with me in the boat, two strong, sharp 
harpoons with long, seasoned, wooden staffs, in complete 
order, and also a lance and knife. To the harpoons was 
attached a raw-hide rope, some fifty fathoms in length, 
and with this I made up my mind to strike the serpent 
if I could get the chance. To the end of the raw-hide 
rope, I attached a wooden buoy, and, thus armed, I started 
the goats, and headed the boat in the direction the mon 
ster had taken but a few moments before, and in such 
a leisurely manner. I had not gone far before I saw the 
end of his tail coming in view, as he lay stretched upon 
the sandy bottom. I lowered the boat till I floated about 
eight feet above the hidden form, and, plucking up my 
courage, steered forward over him, with his huge body 
for a guide. As I arrived near his head I stopped the 
goats, and let the boat drift, the tide luckily being in the 
direction that I desired to go, that is, what there was of 
it, which was very little. As the head came slowly into 
view, I saw that the monster was engaged in quietly 
crunching in his horrible jaws a fish of some size, that he 
had evidently just caught, and, upon which his attention 

(370) Z 



344 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

seemed to be fixed. The moment was propitious, and, as 
the boat slowly drifted, not eight feet over the head of 
the terrible creature, I stood with the harpoon in my 
hand, and deliberately drove it downward with all my 
might through his head, just abaft the eyes. 

I did not stop to see the effect of my blow, but imme 
diately tumbled into the water, as fast as possible, several 
of the large stones that I used on the shelves for ballast, 
BO as to ascend at once towards the surface, casting over 
board at the same time the line attached to the harpoon, 
with the buoy at the end. Relieved of the ballast, the 
boat commenced to ascend instantly and rapidly, but 
none too soon, for, as it was rushing towards the surface, 
just below me came the sweep of the creature's terrible 
tail in its death agony. If I had been struck with it, it 
would inevitably have capsized my boat, and perhaps 
have killed me, or, at least, left me to swim ashore 
to the island, distant some miles, or else be drowned; 
but, luckily, the blow missed me ; the ascent of the boat 
was so rapid, the very moment I kicked and threw over 
some of the ballast. Having risen as near the surface as 
possible, I rigged my pump and ascended still further, 
and then, setting up my tripod and shipping my air-boat, 
I soon had air enough to rise completely above the sur 
face, and to open the manhole and look about me. Of 
course, my first glance was to discover my buoy. Yes ; 
there it lay, not fifty yards from me, without any motion, 
except what it received from the waves upon which it 



DEAD AS A DOOR-NAIL. 345 

floated. I could hardly credit that at the other end lay 
the sea monster, transfixed through the brain with my 
trusty harpoon ; but such, I felt sure, was the case. The 
mark had been too near and quiet for me to fail, and I had 
with my own eyes seen the iron driven in up to the staff 
through the centre of its head. I longed to find out the 
state of affairs, but did not dare to descend for fear of 
being caught in the folds of the dying monster. I steered 
for the floating buoy, and, getting hold of it, by means of 
a boat-hook thrust out of the manhole, I pulled it 
towards me, and gathered in all the slack line, till I 
could feel that I was pulling direct upon the harpoon. 
No vibration came to me through it, and I could slightly 
raise the weight evidently attached to the other end, but 
I was afraid of possibly drawing out the harpoon, so I 
did not attempt much in this direction ; but, being 
assured that the creature was dead, I finally mustered up 
courage to descend and look at him. As I came near the 
bottom, I stopped the boat and advanced in the direction 
that the line from the buoy trended in. Yes, there he 
was, dead as a door-nail ; but his whole body, that had so 
lately been stretched along the bottom, was coiled up and 
around the staff of the harpoon, which had pinned the 
head to the ocean's bed. I came near enough to see that 
the creature was really dead, and then, rising to the sur 
face, I made all haste for Stillwater Cove. Arriving, I 
got up Bteam on the yacht, and made all haste back to 
the buoy, towing the submarine boat behind me. When 



346 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

I got upon the ground, I descended in the submarine 
boat, and, by means of ropes, and pulling and hauling in 
each direction, I got the body of the serpent somewhat 
straightened out and the head clear. Around the neck I 
fastened a good, strong, rawhide rope and attached the 
buoy rope to it. I then, at a distance of some thirty or 
forty feet from the head, lashed to the back of the creature 
my air-boat, to sustain that part somewhat, so that it would 
not drag upon the bottom. I then arose to the surface 
and went on board of the yacht, and took the buoy rope 
to the balance-wheel in the engine-room, and hove the 
head of the monster nearly to the surface ; the water sus 
taining it, so that it was not very heavy. I trusted to 
my air-boat to help sustain the remainder of the body, 
and, thus accoutred, with the submarine boat towing far 
astern out of the way, I headed slowly for Stillwater 
Cove, towing my prey behind me. "When I arrived at 
the opening of the cove I drew the carcase as far as 
possible, by means of the steam yacht, on to the sandy 
seashore, where the tide would leave it out of water when 
it receded. I then liberated my goats, and moored the 
boat in the harbor near by, and, taking my pets on board, 
after anchoring the serpent safely, steamed towards the 
Hermitage, where I landed them, and took on board some 
empty barrels and knives, hatchets, and saws, to dissect 
my sea monster. "When I arrived back the sea had 
already fallen so as to leave the head and at least twenty 
feet of the body high and dry. After the tide had wholly 



DESCRIPTION OF THE MONSTER. 347 

gone down, I measured the monster, and these were the 
dimensions. Taking my measure of a fathom as a stan 
dard, the creature was twenty-two and one-half fathoms 
long, and, at its largest girth about two fathoms below 
the neck over one fathom and a quarter in circum 
ference. It is difficult to describe the monster, but I will 
try. The head was at least eight feet long, and the ex 
tent to which the mouth could be opened over six feet ; 
the gullet was small ; the teeth numerous, but small ; the 
nostrils large and prominent ; the eyes fully six inches in 
diameter, and with an expression that, even now that the 
creature was dead, I could not stand when I looked into 
them. In the stomach I found only small pieces of dif 
ferent kind of fishes, and, by the smallness of the teeth 
and gullet, I am inclined to believe that the creature is 
naturally quite harmless, like most of the mighty animals 
of the earth, as the sperm whale, elephant, etc., which 
never attack anyone unless disturbed. Beyond the head, 
and, for a distance of some ten feet, grew a sort of mane, 
formed of pendant tissues of flesh some five or six feet in 
length, exactly like those to be found on the sides of the 
mouth of the Mississippi cat-fish or smaller horn-pout. To 
wards the tail, and some distance from it, was an adipose 
fin, that was at least a foot high and fifteen feet long. The 
skin of the creature was of a mottled greenish hue, 
rough, and discolored, something the color of the shell of 
a very young crab, and at least a good quarter of an inch 
in thickness. Having taken all the dimensions of the 



348 PEESEVEEANCE ISLAND. 

monster, I went to work and cut off his head, and left 
it purposely where the fishes, lobsters, etc., would feed 
upon it at high water, so as to in time preserve its skele 
ton when all the bones were completely articulated. The 
remainder of the body I skinned in sections, at different 
times, and was glad to roll the rest of the body into the 
current of Stillwater Cove, to be carried out to sea. 

I have enough on hand, at the time of writing this, to 
prove to any one that I have both seen and captured the 
veritable sea serpent ; for, as I sit in the Hermitage, the 
whole skull, with jaws, teeth, and part of the vertebrae 
attached, is hung up near me, and below it a circular 
piece, nearly four feet long, of the hide of the animal at 
its greatest girth. The frontal bone of the skull, which 
is not very thick, is broken where the harpoon iron en 
tered and caused immediate death. With this exception 
the whole specimen is in complete order ; and I have also 
a sketch of the animal drawn upon parchment, from 
actual life, taken by myself before he was at all mutilated 
or cut up. 

I hope that this truthful, consistent, and convincing 
recital will close forever this mooted question ; for there is 
a sea serpent, and I have been able to capture and 
preserve one of his species. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

Make a Balloon and Flying Machine, In which I make a Successful 
Ascension. 

MY thoughts turned wholly now upon means of de 
fending my vast treasures in case of invasion, and devis 
ing ways of escape from the island. As to the former, 
I overhauled all my artillery at the different points, in 
creased my stock of gunpowder, and had each cannon 
well supplied with ammunition. I also perfected my 
battery at Stillwater Cove, and kept the armament 
on the walls of the Hermitage in excellent order. Not 
content with this, I went to work in the foundry^and 
turned out several cylinders, similar to the one I had 
exploded the sunken wreck with, which I fitted with 
flint and steel, ready to be filled with powder ; in short, 
a species of torpedo, which I had fully determined to take 
into the submarine boat and explode beneath the bottom 
of any hostile vessel that should dare to attack me, so 
much had the acquisition of vast riches changed my dis 
position. I felt that any vessel approaching and anchor 
ing would be at my mercy ; for in the night-time I could 
approach her, wherever she might be anchored, unknown 
to anyone, and, attaching one of my infernal machines, 
send her to the bottom with all on board. I do not 

849 



350 PEESEVEEANCB ISLAND. 

say that I should have done this, but I was prepared 
for all emergencies, and determined to defend my trea 
sure to the last. For means of escape I turned my 
attention to ballooning, a subject which I had thought 
much about, but heretofore had done nothing in that 
direction. For several years I had been quietly gather 
ing in all the dried pods of milkweed, floss, or silk that 
I could find, and large spaces of the island were cov 
ered with it, determined at some time to weave me 
some kind of cloth or silk from its fibre. I now com 
menced seriously upon this work, and took hold of it in 
earnest. It would take too long to relate how many 
changes I had to make in my loom, which I built of 
cast-iron, to be moved by water-power, before I could 
get it to work at all ; but I had the theory all correct, and 
it was only practice that I needed to make cloth. The 
machine for spinning the floss into threads took me 
the longest time, but I finally accomplished it. After a 
while, and with many failures, I commenced to turn out 
from my loom a sort of cloth, about a yard wide, which 
was very strong, flexible, and light, but of an uneven 
surface, on account of the irregularity in the size of 
my threads, and fuzzy, like coarse flannel; but for 
strength and practical use I found the material all that 
could be desired; and, having tested it, I set carding 
and spinning wheels to work daily to procure thread for 
my loom. After making some hundred yards of this 
cloth, I stopped all the operations to experiment in 



EXPERIMENTS WITH GAS. 351 

another direction. In my boyhood I had seen balloon- 
ascensions made by filling the bag with a gas, created 
by pouring sulphuric acid upon iron or steel filings in 
this manner : Several old hogsheads were brought upon 
the field where the ascension was to take place, and 
into each of them was poured a quantity of iron filings, 
scraps, etc., and upon this was poured sulphuric acid ; the 
casks were then headed up, and through a small orifice 
the gas engendered was led by a pipe from each to the 
balloon, which was thus inflated. If I could make this 
gas and successfully inflate a small balloon, it would 
then be time enough for me to advance with my cloth- 
making for a large one. I easily ascertained from my 
book how to make sulphuric acid. And this is how I 
did it : I got together a quantity of sulphur or brimstone, 
and setting fire to it in a closed vessel, with just enough 
draught for it to burn, I led the fumes into a closed 
vessel of water through a short funnel, where, combining 
with the water, I had at once sulphuric acid. To test 
this I tackled my friends the dog-sharks, in Stillwater 
Cove, and obtained several bladders, very thin and light, 
just suited for my purpose, which I blew up with atmos 
pheric air, and allowed to dry perfectly in the sun. 
When they were in proper condition I placed in one of 
my porcelain jars a few handfuls of iron and steel fil 
ings, and poured upon it some of the sulphuric acid 
that I had made, and then lashed the neck of the bladder 
to the orifice of the jar. I watched my experiment with 



352 VKR9EVERANCB ISLAND. 

subdued excitement. I felt sure that I was right in 
theory; would the thing work in practice? I had yet 
to see. After leaving the bladder on for a considerable 
time, I drew a string around it perfectly tight so that 
no gas could escape and released it from the jar. With 
fear and trepidation I loosed my hold upon it, and in 
one moment it shot up into the sky like a rocket till it 
was nearly beyond my sight, when it disappeared in a 
northeasterly direction before a strong wind that was 
blowing. I was as pleased as a boy with his first toy- 
balloon, and, like a child, I let off several of these blad 
ders as fast as filled with gas, perfectly fascinated to see 
them ascend and then disappear in the blue ether. 

Here was a means at once of sending up daily messen 
gers to all parts of the world, stating the latitude and 
longitude of the island, and asking for rescue. Aye, but 
there was the rub ; without my treasure how gladly would 
I have seized upon this method of letting my captivity be 
known, but with it I had become a coward. I wanted to 
escape, and did not dare to ask anyone to aid me. The 
knowledge that I could ask was, of course, a satisfaction, 
but as yet I did not dare to risk it, and put the matter on 
one side for further meditation at some future day. Find 
ing that my theory about the gas was correct, I went to 
work again upon my clothmaking, and worked hard at it 
nearly six months, when I had sufficient quantity for my 
purpose, which was to make a balloon of large enough 
size to make an ascension in myself. I did not have any 



AERONAUTICAL THEORY. 353 

foolhardy idea of leaving the island in a balloon and land 
ing I knew not where, but I was determined to make a 
series of experiments in several directions, that had been 
running through my head for years before, and to see 
what they were worth. In the first place I went to work 
and made a balloon, in the shape of an immense cigar, of 
the cloth that I had manufactured, which was some 
thirty feet long, and ten feet in diameter. My theory 
was this. In all balloon ascensions navigators heretofore 
had only been able to fill a sack with gas, and to ascend 
into the air, and descend by allowing the same to escape, 
in other words, to have but little control of the machine 
except to ascend and descend, and this in a limited degree. 
I had often noticed that, in the severest storms, sea- 
birds would remain poised in the air without moving a 
wing, facing the wind, and yet not recede before it, but 
by a slight motion of the wings, not up and down or a 
stroke, but a sort of elevation of the body, dart dead to 
windward against it. I had also noticed that, if a tin 
plate was thrown into the air against a strong wind, 
it would often, if at the right angle, increase its speed 
greatly after leaving the hand, and dart into the wind's 
eye with extreme velocity. Hence I thought that a 
balloon could be made to tack in the air exactly as a boat 
tacks in the water, except that the motion of tacking 
should be perpendicular instead of horizontal. Suppose 
that a balloon, cigar-shaped like mine, was poised in air 
at an altitude of one thousand feet, and that at each end 



354 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

of the car was arranged a light but large horizontal flat 
surface, exactly like a barn door laid upon the ground, with 
its hinges attached to the car. To advance against the 
wind why not elevate the one in front and depress the one 
in rear to the right angle, or till they were filled as we 
should say of sails, and then advance into the wind's eye, 
increasing at the same time the elevation, as the tin plate 
is forced forward ; and, having made a tack upward and 
forward, why not elevate the rear screen and depress the 
front one, and descend towards the earth at an angle, still 
eating our way to windward, and when near the surface 
reverse the action and mount again heavenward, but still 
to windward. Besides this, why should not my balloon 
be filled with gas till it would lift myself, the screens, the 
car, and all its apparatus within one or two pounds. That 
is to say, to have just enough gas in the balloon, not to 
raise the apparatus, but to so nearly raise it that another 
person, if present, could lift the whole in his hand; prac 
tically to reduce the weight of my body to that of a good 
sized duck ; then with small wings, not immense cumber 
some ones, the same size that would raise a duck, I ought 
to be able to raise myself, and sail in the air. Could it be 
done? 

After I had made my balloon bag I covered all the 
cloth and the seams with a fine varnish that I made from 
the resinous trees of the island. This part of my task 
caused me little trouble. Having finished it I went to 
work upon my car and its appurtenances, which I made 



MY AIK-SHIP. 355 

almost wholly of small cane, very strong but very light. 
I made also two immense screens or fans, which I 
fastened to either end, so that they could be elevated 
or depressed, and covered the light framework with 
cloth. Underneath the centre of my car wag hung verti 
cally a propeller, also made of cane, and the blades 
covered with cloth, and on each side a fan wheel some six 
feet in circumference and two wide. The shaft of these 
fan wheels and propeller was brought into the car, and, 
by a series of bevelled gear made of the lightest iron 
possible, was connected with a treadmill for one of my 
goats, motion upon which would give over five hundred 
revolutions per minute to the fan wheels and propeller. 
In this car I also fixed a jar of iron filings and a bottle of 
sulphuric acid to make gas, if necessary, to replace that 
which would in time leak out of the balloon if long in 
flated. I also provided the machine with sand ballast in 
case I should need it to keep up the equilibrium in case 
the gas should escape faster than I expected, when I could 
keep my elevation by discharging it. After this was all 
arranged, the next thing was to make the experiment. 

I have always thought that great advancement has been 
made in all the arts of navigating the ocean on account 
of the ease and safety with which experiments can be 
made, but to experiment in the air one must go into the 
air, and if the theory does not work in practice, down he 
comes, perhaps a corpse, on to the hard earth, whilst a 
capsize in the ocean in experimenting is nothing. Now I 



356 PBESBVEEANCE ISLAND. 

had made up my mind to go up in this machine, if pos 
sible, but I had also made up my mind that I would go 
over the water and not over the land, so that if anything 
did not work, I should only take a cold bath and nothing 
more ; besides, by my theory, I need not go high, and could 
keep a few feet above the surface of the sea, and if disas 
ter occurred I could swim ashore. I put my goat daily 
upon his treadmill and worked my machine theoretically 
till I was satisfied with it. I then made myself a nice 
life preserver of fish bladders, and put into the car some 
few provisions and water. The next task was to launch 
myself properly into space without any disaster. To en 
able me to do this I went to the mouth of Stillwater 
Cove and erected a sort of wharf from the shore out into 
the water at nearly high tide, about four feet wide, upon 
which I could rest my car with the fan wheels hanging 
over each side and the propeller clear underneath, the 
wharf not being planked, but consisting of a few uprights 
and cross pieces only. 

I carried here all my utensils for making gas and had 
everything prepared for a start. I needed in the first 
place a day with but little wind, but what there was to be 
from the southward so as to blow me off into Perseverance 
Bay when 1 should start. After some waiting, such a day 
came and I hastened to take advantage of it. In the first 
place I took the canoe in tow of the yacht, and anchored 
it nearly a mile from shore in the direction that the wind 
blew, so as to be able, perhaps, to reach it if I should find 



THE START. 357 

myself too far from land in case of disaster. I then re 
turned and went to work filling my balloon with gas. 
This I did on shore, till I had sufficient in the balloon to 
make it steady, when I conveyed it over the car upon the 
wharf, where I attached it by its numerous cords, and then 
connected it again with the orifice of the pipe that was 
supplying the gas. I had before in a rude balance ascer 
tained my own weight in sand-bags, and these I had in 
the car to represent myself. I put the goat on the tread 
mill, all harnessed in, ready to start at a moment's notice, 
and in fact I did start him before the balloon was very 
buoyant, to see if everything was working right. I walked 
about the car, lifting it once in a while to see how buoy 
ant it was. I should have said that the propeller had 
been changed from my first idea, as had the paddles. The 
former was so arranged as to work vertically, and motion 
from it ought to force me into the air, whilst the latter 
were arranged in the form of two lateral propellers, I 
having bethought myself in season that a revolving wheel 
in the air would not force me in any direction, whilst a 
propeller would. The time finally came when the car 
and all its appurtenances weighed only a few ounces in 
my hand, in fact nearly ready to take flight of itself. I 
then cut off the gas and placed myself in the car and com 
menced quietly emptying over the side the sand bags that 
represented my own weight ; and these being exhausted, I 
boldly threw over at once two bags weighing nearly or 
fully twenty-five pounds each, as I was determined to 



358 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

start clear and rapidly from my resting place, knowing 
that I could easily descend by letting out a very little 
gas. The effect was instantaneous, and I arose rapidly 
and commenced floating slowly out over Perseverance 
Bay ; but I had no desire to go high, and I opened the 
throttle valve at the very moment the balloon started, and 
at the height of about one hundred feet it was already 
commencing to slowly descend, which I allowed it to do, 
till it was about twenty-five feet above the water, when I 
threw out of gear the lateral propellers and started the 
goat ; the effect was instantaneous in checking the descent, 
and the vertical propeller was forcing me upward with 
magnificent speed, in fact I found myself quite too high 
for comfort before I bethought myself of stopping the 
goat, which being done I commenced again to descend, 
but quite leisurely, being very evenly balanced in the air. 
When I came near the water, I set the vertical propeller 
again to work and arose heavenward. All this time I was 
drifting slowly out seaward over Perseverance Bay, and I 
thought it time to try my lateral propellers ; so, setting 
the gear at once by a handset, I put on all goat power, 
being at a distance of some fifty feet above the water, as 
near as I could judge. Everything worked admirably, 
and I saw that I was rapidly increasing my speed sea 
ward. When I descended too near the ocean I put on 
the vertical propeller, but I noticed that the lateral ones 
sustained me as well as forced me forward. I soon ran 
past the place where the " Fairy " was anchored, and I 




PLACING THE CANNON 



BALLOON NAVIGATION. 359 

had now to try my last experiment. By this time I had 
become at ease in my car, and began to feel as safe and 
secure as in the submarine boat. By stopping one of the 
lateral propellers I soon had my balloon turned round and 
facing the wind, which was at this elevation and out to 
sea, rather more than I had reckoned upon. As the point 
of the cigar-shaped balloon came to the wind, I put on the 
vertical propeller and ascended higher than I had ever 
yet been, and then, depressing the forward screen and ele 
vating the rear one, I made a dive in a slanting direction 
towards the ocean ; and here I had like to have been ship 
wrecked, for my car commenced descending with such 
rapidity that I had scarcely time to reverse the action be 
fore I was in the ocean, but happily, by starting the verti 
cal propeller I saved myself, and found the car going just 
as rapidly upwards. 

I had solved the problem. / was tacking to windward 
in the air. I was utilizing the action that causes a 
boomerang to take the seemingly erratic course it does 
through space. Having tacked a few times I stopped in 
mid-air, and, as I had evidently lost some little gas, threw 
over a small amount of sand, till I sailed again almost 
in equilibrio. I then put on all the speed of my lateral 
propellers, and found that I could stem the wind, and that 
I was approaching the shore. By the action of either 
one propeller or the other I could change the direction 
of the car at will, and was enabled to hover over the 
very wharf whence I started, and to land upon it 

(370) 2 A 



1560 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

with a shock no greater than sitting down upon a hard 
chair. 

I then let the gas escape from the balloon, and released 
my little goat, who had been my mainstay through all this 
perilous adventure. I had made a more successful ascen 
sion than had ever before been made in the world, and if 
I could replace my goat-power by some other such as a 
caloric engine, or some method of compressed air I 
should have a vehicle worthy of the nineteenth century. 
Of course it would not do to have an engine, however 
small, fed with coal, or I should inevitably have an 
explosion. At the present I felt that the goat power 
must do me ; and, even if he should fail, my weight was 
also so nearly that of a few ounces or pounds that I could 
not fall hard, or with much velocity, even if he should 
from some reason refuse to work, or some of my machinery 
give way. The only thing that I feared was the tacking 
business; this I considered dangerous, with the crude 
appliances that I had, and I made up my mind not to be 
tipped out into the ocean, and therefore took them off the 
car, making up my mind that I would not make an ascen 
sion when there was more wind than I could head against 
with the lateral propellers, and, furthermore, now I had 
tested the machine, there was no need of my going off 
the island, over the sea, but I was free to sail all over the 
land, and if a storm of wind should arise, in which my 
crude car would be unmanageable, I had only to descend, 
and walk home. 



A FEEE OFFER. 361 

I may as well say here, that I often afterwards enjoyed 
myself in the air, floating over my own island, and that I 
never met with the slightest accident, of any kind ; but I 
could not utilize my discovery enough to dare to attempt 
an ocean voyage with it. It was a pretty plaything, and 
would make my fortune if amongst civilized people; but 
I have no objection to both my submarine boat and bal 
loon becoming public property, as far as I am concerned, 
I having enough actual wealth, in solid metal, to enable 
me to enjoy everything in this life worth enjoying. 

If this manuscript ever comes to the hands of any one, 
they can go ahead and manufacture without infringing 
upon my patent-rights ; but should they make an immense 
fortune, as they are sure to do, why then they can remem 
ber the inventor, if they choose ; if God wills it that I 
should ever be where any of my fellow-men can help me, 
or I them. By my series of experiments in ballooning I 
had exhausted all my inventions for escape, and I still 
returned to one of two things : To let the world know of 
my distress by sending the news by balloons, or else escape 
myself, in my steam yacht, or life raft, and run the risk of 
finding the island occupied upon my return, and myself 
debarred from my treasures and ownership. Between 
these two I felt that it was time for me to choose, defi 
nitely and speedily. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

The manuscript sent forth. 

PEBSEVEBANCE ISLAND, SOUTH PACIFIC, 
January, 1877. 

I HAVE decided. I am no longer in doubt. My mind 
is fully made up as to the course I must take, and that it is 
of no use for me to remain upon this island fretting my life 
away. I must escape, I must have companionship, and I 
must choose. Each method presented to my mind has its 
advantages, and I have long been in doubt which to adopt : 
but the struggle is ended ; I have fully made up my mind, 
and shall not swerve from it. If I should try to escape I 
have the following methods open to me : First, the sub 
marine boat. If I should decide to use that method, I 
should, in the first place, have to build a much larger one, 
with room for provisions and bed ; and, being larger, it 
would be propelled much slower by goat power, for I 
could not utilize a steam-engine on account of the oxygen 
it would eat up, and the necessary space that would be 
needed for fuel. Now to build another, and larger boat, 
would take time and patience, and would be practically 
useless when built; so I dismissed this from my mind. 
The one I now had was too small to carry provisions for 
myself and goats, enough to last any great length of time ; 



WEIGHING THE CHANCES. 363 

and the whole fabric was too crude to trust myself in for 
a voyage of any length, supposing, even, that I could 
carry in it sufficient food to sustain life. There was one 
principle, however, in the submarine boat that I hated to 
give up, and that was the perfect safety from storms on 
the surface: these I could escape at all times, and, 
again, I should never lose in the night-time what I made 
in the day. There would be no drifting back, before the 
wind, whilst I was asleep, but by descending from the 
surface at night I should rest peacefully till morning, sub 
ject only to the slow drift of any ocean current that I 
might encounter. In stormy weather also I could always 
keep on my way in perfect calm, beneath the surface, 
without resistance of any kind except the friction of 
the water. These points were strongly in my favor; 
but I could not see any way to utilize them. One 
great impediment would be the want of air. If I should 
have to remain below the surface for any length of time 
beyond a few hours, I should have to keep to work pre 
paring and introducing new air. Then, if my steering 
apparatus should get out of order, it would be difficult to 
repair it, and if my goats should die, or become sick, I 
should be utterly without any means of locomotion, and 
liable to be left drifting about in mid-ocean till death 
ended my troubles. No ; after long and anxious consul 
tation with myself, I was forced to give up all idea of 
using my submarine boat, and, having so decided, put it 
wholly and completely out of my mind, and did not allow 



364 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

myself to think of it again in connection with my escape. 
This gave my mind relief to concentrate itself upon the 
second means of escape, namely, the steam yacht. 

Here I was again puzzled. There was a great deal in 
its favor. I should, of course, have to sleep, and during 
my sleep I should go to leeward, before the wind, without 
reckoning of where I should bring up. I felt that I could 
stop this drifting, to a degree, by making a sort of bag of 
canvas, to be submerged in the ocean to a certain depth 
to which the yacht could be anchored, so to speak, during 
the night. She would, of course, still drift, but not one- 
quarter as much as she would without it. Such an anchor 
was often used successfully, as I well knew, in larger ves 
sels, in gales of wind, to keep them head to sea, and to 
prevent them drifting so rapidly to leeward before the 
blast as they would without it. If I should risk this drift 
ing I might also be exposed to all kinds of weather and 
gales of wind to which my little boat was hardly equal. I 
felt confident that she would not be safe in a heavy sea 
way, and, if the machinery should break down, I should 
be reduced to sails alone, which I could only handle in 
the daytime, and which, in any sudden squall, might cause 
my being capsized for want of assistance in taking them 
in. No ; I knew the risk was too great. I might never 
see land for months, if at all, if my machinery should 
give out so as to compel me to use sails, which would 
often become unmanageable by myself alone. No, I 
must give this idea up ; and I did so. 



LIF1D SAFTS. 365 

I next turned my thoughts to a catamaran boat, or life 
raft, something upon hollow cylinders, that could not 
capsize, and upon which I should feel sure of being safe, 
as far as any fear I might have of the ocean. This seemed 
more feasible than anything yet, slow, to be sure, but 
more safe than any of the foregoing. I had here the dan 
ger of being washed off such a raft, the discomforts of 
being forced to go without fire during any gale of wind, 
and to be utterly unable to advance, with any great speed, 
towards my place of destination, unless the wind should 
be, by chance, favorable. By this third method I should, 
in reality, be exposed upon an open raft to the winds 
of heaven, for how long a time God only knew. That 
I should suffer infinitely I felt certain. I was too old 
not to see plainly just what I should have to go through 
with to put to sea in such a vessel. I knew that it 
had been done, and that just such rafts had crossed the 
Atlantic after many weary days of passage, and others 
had started that were called life rafts, and believed so to 
be both by practical and scientific men, who had examined 
them before their departure, which had never been heard 
of again. No, I would not trust myself to the mercies 
of the sea in this manner, and exchange my pleasant 
island for its dangers. 

My last chance of escape was by my flying-machine, 
and the many things in its favor tempted me greatly, and 
at one time I thought that they had overcome in my mind 
the danger. I could easily construct one of these ina- 



366 PEKSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

chines, that would take into the air both myself, my 
two goats, provisions, spare sulphuric acid and steel 
filings to make new gas, and if my machinery would 
work I could escape in safety, I felt convinced. I could, 
as I have said, make new gas, even when on my voyage ; 
and if I should use up all my sand-bags, and needed more 
ballast, I had only to let down a bucket into the ocean, 
attached to a long line, and pull up as much water as I 
might need to overcome the buoyancy of any new gas I 
might make. I might, also, if a favorable wind should 
commence, fly like a bird towards the continent of South 
America. But, on the other hand, if a gale should arise, 
I might, if one of my fragile propellers should become 
broken, be hurled before the blast till I floated above the 
vast ocean far beyond the reach of mortal aid. If I dared 
trust my machinery this would be the way I should make 
my attempt ; but I did not feel that I had the right to 
risk my life in this manner, or by any of the above meth 
ods, till I had exhausted all means of making the out 
side world come to me. Therefore, after due and serious 
consideration, I made up my mind firmly not to try to 
escape by any of the above plans, or by any means, till I 
had tried the other alternative. 

This decision having once been firmly made, I felt that 
more than half my task was already done ; for it was this 
shilly-shallying that was undoing me. Anything was bet 
ter than to waste my life in this useless wavering. What 
good to me was all my wealth unless I could utilize it ? 






FINAL DECISION. 367 

and to do so I must run some risks, and the quicker I 
undertook them the quicker I should be put out of my 
pain and misery if my plans were to be successful, and the 
more years I should have to enjoy my princely revenues. 
I could not better affairs by any act of mine. It was all 
in the hands of God, and I might as well now, as at any 
time, give myself up to what He might order for the 
best. 

Having thus made up my mind to let my position be 
known to the outside world, and to ask for assistance and 
aid, I had next to settle upon the best plan. If I should 
send up, daily, one or more small balloons, with a piece of 
parchment attached, giving the latitude and longitude of 
the island and asking for rescue, I ran several risks. In 
the first place, I was well aware that in these days, on 
board steamers, with passengers especially, anything and 
everything was thought of to pass away an idle hour, and 
that albatrosses, when caught, were fitted out often with 
letters and legends tied to their feet; that, in sport, 
bottles were often thrown overboard containing fables and 
yarns of shipwreck and disaster, and I was very much 
afraid that, if one of my balloons should be picked up, 
it would be taken as a hoax, as the first thing would be to 
examine the chart, and no island would be found to exist 
where I now write these lines. Besides, if anybody 
should pick up one of my balloons, which at sea was im 
probable, it would, I fear, be taken little account of. 
For, although I might send up hundreds, the chance of 



368 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

their falling into the water so as to be seen by any vessel, 
in the daytime, near enough to be distinguished from a 
nautilus, was extremely and infinitesimally small. No, I 
had little hope in this direction. On the other hand, should 
they reach land, the chart would show that there was no 
known land in the direction specified, and the whole thing 
would be taken as a hoar from the next neighboring town, 
and I felt sure no attention would be paid to it. And if 
any of them landed on the coast of South America, as was 
possible, and even probable, the English language, in 
which they would be written, would be so much Greek to 
the natives. On the other hand, should one of them be 
picked up by a vessel, and search made for the island, what 
guarantee had I that I would be allowed to preserve my 
treasure ? 

No ! I felt that small balloons would be of little use to 
me, and, in fact, might do more harm than good. What 
should I do to prove that I was in earnest ; that there was 
such an island, and that I was upon it, in person ; and that 
I needed help and assistance, which I could repay ? Why, 
I felt convinced, by writing a history of all my sorrows, 
troubles, and tribulations, that would bear upon its face 
the impress of truth, would carry conviction to any 
mind that would read it, and would prove to the intellect 
of any one that it was not fiction, but truth, in all its maj 
esty, never to be mistaken for the former. 

This, I felt, was the only way to reach out towards a 
rescue, and it is for this purpose that all that has been 



MY PROCLAMATION. 369 

herein set down has been penned. Having made my mind 
up firmly to this, I have written all the above, to be 
launched into space. Let me beg that my story may be 
believed, and that I may be rescued ; let me ask of you, 
who find this, by God's grace, to weigh each word and 
sentence, and feel that you are reading no romance. I 
shall attach this to a balloon of size, so as to float long in 
the air, and to attract attention, if ever observed by any 
one, both by the strangeness of its make and these parch 
ment sheets upon which I have written. 

And now let me proclaim to the world the following, 
for if this manuscript ever does come into the hands of 
anyone who intends to seek me out, let all that is contained 
therein be perfectly understood : 

PKOCLAMATIOK 

In the name of God, Amen. Be it known to all men, 
that I, William Anderson, a citizen of the United States 
of America, do here solemnly declare that I am the dis 
coverer, and at this present the occupant, of an island in 
the South Pacific Ocean, which I have named Persever 
ance Island, and that said island lies in the latitude of 
42 21' S., and longitude 119 11' 15" W. of Greenwich. 
That I was cast on shore, and miraculously saved by the 
goodness of God, on Nov. 10, 1865, and that I claim 
as my own, in the name of the United States, all this 
hitherto unknown island as my property, belonging to me 
and my heirs forever ; and, inasmuch as I have discovered 



370 PEESEVEEANCB ISLAND. 

upon and about this island immense treasures, as recited 
in a narrative hereto annexed, I ask, demand, and pray 
for the protection of the United States, and hope that it 
will be deemed both fitting and proper to dispatch a man- 
of-war to protect me, for which assistance I am fully 
ready and capable of reimbursing the government for any 
outlay ; and further, let it be well understood that I, the 
aforesaid William Anderson, will resist to the death any 
encroachment upon my property, by whomsoever made ; 
and that for the protection of myself, my treasure, and my 
island, it is hereby plainly stated, all manner of instru 
ments of defence have been made by me, the said William 
Anderson, and that the harbors of the island are strewed 
with torpedoes, and that it is highly dangerous to attempt 
to land upon any part of the island without intercourse 
with, and consent of, myself. And that there may be no 
mistake, and that I may know that if any that approach 
have seen this proclamation, and acknowledge my just 
claims and pity my long years of solitude and suffering, I 
issue the following set of signals, to be by them used in token 
of amity and that they come to me as friends, otherwise 
they will be treated as enemies ; and although my wealth 
is great, as herein related, it is believed that pity for my 
sufferings will touch the heart of any in the civilized 
world, and I do look most for succor and comfort from 
the ships of war of the United States of America. 

The signals to be made by any vessel approaching 
the island, which would be in safety, and rules for anchor- 



NAVIGATING DIRECTIONS. 371 

age, etc., are the following, and must be strictly ob 
served : 

If in the daytime, the vessel, if a steamer, will stand in 
to the mouth of Mirror Bay till the two iron discs on the 
mainland are in line, or nearly so, when she will anchor, 
in six fathoms of water, and then fire three guns, two 
from the starboard side, one from the port side, and then 
run up the colors of her nation to the mizzen peak. A 
sailing vessel will follow these orders except that greater 
license will be granted her in coming to in a line with the 
two discs. 

If a vessel makes the island in the night-time, she will 
heave to, or stand off and on, and not attempt to approach, 
by boat or otherwise, at her peril, till the morning ; keep 
ing up, during the night, a red signal lantern at the fore, 
and firing one gun ; when, in the morning, she can stand 
in under the rule preceding this, for daytime. Having 
anchored and signalled, the same will be answered by the 
occupant of the island by two guns from South Cape, 
when a boat can then come on shore, containing three 
persons, one officer and two seamen, who, if unarmed, 
will be allowed to land, and, if honest and true men, as is 
to be hoped, remuneration for all their trouble in seeking 
me out will be freely granted. But let it be distinctly 
understood that all my treasures, of both gold, silver, 
and pearls, are no longer hidden in the places described 
in my narrative, but have been removed, and carefully 
re-hidden, and that an attempt to take my life and possess 



372 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

one's self of my treasures will be futile, for their burying- 
place will never be known; and I shall resist all aggression 
with all my might and strength, and, if need be, give up 
my life in defending my treasure, that I have watched over 
for so many years. 

In my lonely solitude, with none but the hand of the 
ever-present Providence spread over to protect me, I sign 
the above proclamation as my will and desire. 



WILLIAM ANDERSON. 



PERSEVERANCE ISLAND, SOUTH PACIFIC, 
Jan. 10, 1877. 



And now I have done. I am about to cast this manu 
script to the winds of heaven, to be conveyed hence to 
where God shall think best. Let me beg that the subject- 
matter of the " Good Luck " may be published in the Lon 
don newspapers, when attention may be brought to the 
case, and the old society may send for me, and believe in 
me much quicker than the outside world will. 

I know but little French, but, to still further protect this 
manuscript, I add these few lines, from what remains to me 
in memory, of the sailor's French that I once picked up, 
in Havre, in years gone by, so that this may not be thrown 
carelessly away if it falls into the hands of any who can 
speak that lingo* 



FAREWELL AWAITING RESCUE. 373 



AVIS. 

Ne jetez pas cette papier; c'est ecrit en Anglais et est 
DE GRAND IMPORTANCE. Faites rendre en Fransais, et 
vou3 trouverai une vraie historie d'or et de 1'argent trouve 
par moi sur une isle dans 1'ocean Pacific. 

I have no more to add. I have finished my story with 
regret. I am tying this manuscript together, and inflating 
the balloon that is to carry it where God wills. 

I will believe in His justice, and await in patience His 
reply to my many prayers. 

WILLIAM ANDERSON. 



L'ENVOI. 

It may be interesting to call to the attention of those whose 
eyes it may have escaped, the following that appeared in the 
New York Herald of June 16, 1880: 

" In addition to our account of the wonderful story and succour 
of William Anderson, from his Pacific Island, with all his trea- 



374 PERSEVERANCE ISLAND. 

sures, and his arrival at this port in the U. S. S. S. Tallapoosa, 
published in our last evening's edition, we have to state that, at a 
late hour, it was ascertained that this remarkable personage, who 
appears in excellent good health and spirits, will at once sail by 
one of the Cunarders for London to confer with his associates 
there, who were the originators of the " Good Luck " scheme. He 
states that, having no relatives, he shall, without doubt, expend the 
larger portion of his immense wealth for charitable purposes, and 
that it is very probable he may return to Perseverance Island, with 
a colony, there to end his days." 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 



AA 000271679 3 



