m 



THE REAL ADVENTURES 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



J 



licnl 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 



BY F. C. BURNAND, 

AUTHOR OF " THE NBW HISTORY OF SANDFORD AND MERTON, 
" HAPPY THOUGHTS." ETC., ETC. 




With Fifty-six Illustrations by 

LINLEY SAMBOURNE. 



LONDON: BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 

8, 9, ro, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. 
1893. 



LONDON : 

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, 
WHITEFR1ARS. 



TO ALL FOR WHOM 
TRUTH 

HAS CHARMS GREATER THAN 

FICTION 

THIS RECORD OF A SHORT BUT NOT UNEVENTFUL CAREER 

IS 



THE REAL ROBINSON. 



2049884 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTION. 

PAGE 

SETTING FORTH THE " WHY " AND THE "WHEREFORE," 
ALSO THE "HOW" AND THE "WHEN," WHICH IT IS 
HOPED THE READER MAY CONSIDER AS BEING OF 
AN EMINENTLY SATISFACTORY CHARACTER . . " 1 

CHAPTER I. 

THE ROBINSON RECORD HIS PARENTS DE MORTUIS 

NIL NISI BONUM 13 

CHAPTER II. 

EARLY IMPULSES . . . 2O 



MAKING A NAME 



CHAPTER III. 



23 



DEVELOPING 



CHAPTER IV. 



CHAPTER V. 

A CRISIS FOR CRUSOE . 



viii Content** 



CHAPTER VI. 

FACE 

A NEW DEPARTURE . . . . . . 5 1 



INTERMEZZO . . . 59 

CHAPTER VII. 

ON BOARD . . . 62 

CHAPTER VIII. 

THE CAPTAIN'S WILL . . . . . . . . 66 

CHAPTER IX. 

THE REAL CRUISE O . . . . . . . -71 

CHAPTER X. 

SARA GOSSA . . 8l 

CHAPTER XI. 

A BUSINESS DINNER 86 

INTERMEZZO .- . 94 

CHAPTER XII. 

ON SAIL OR RETURN? 98 



Contents. ix 

CHAPTER XIII. 

PAGE 

I SAIL WITH THE GALE . . . . ' . . . 107 

CHAPTER XIV. 

THE TRUTH ABOUT THE ISLAND 115 

CHAPTER XV. 

MORE TRUTH 126 

CHAPTER XVI. 

ISLAND DIARY CONTINUED 135 

CHAPTER XVII. 

AN AWFUL TIME 143 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

LEVEE OF BLACK MAIL 151 

CHAPTER XIX 

" AM I NOT A MAN AND A BROTHER ? " . . . . 1 56 

CHAPTER XX. 

ROBINSON, ATKINS, & CO 165 

CHAPTER XXI. 

CONFIDENCES IJl 



x Contents;* 

CHAPTER XXII. 

PAGE 

A HAPPY RETURN . . . . . . . .177 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

TREASURE RE-TROVE : . . 187 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

WINDING UP AND STOPPING . 2OI 



LIST 

OF 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 



FACE 

HORRIBLE TAILS Frontispiece 

A Blank Page 12 

A very Peculiar Man 13 

"TA-RA-RA BOOM TO-DAY" To face 19 

Little Billy 20 

Adjusting the Balance . . . . . . . . 22 

Billy in Disgrace 23 

Making a Name . . . . . . . . . . 31 

Robinson depressed 32 

Robinson forges a Cheque 35 

Afflicted with Toothache 36 

Close-hauled 50 

Speaker set free .51 

"Polly" 58 

A tearful object . 59 

The other Robinson 61 

Awaking ! . . . . . . . . . . .62 

New White Gloves ' . . . . 65 

The Skipper . . . . 66 



iutt*trattott& 



PAGE 

Making the Captain's Will . 70 

A Spanish belle 71 

Jolly Jack Robinson 80 

A whispered confidence . .81 

"Two to one" To face 85 

Taking in Supplies 86 

Acting on Impulse 92 

The Collaborator-in- chief . . 94 

' ' Heaven defend the right " 96 

" Will Atkins " 98 

Alone on Board ... 105 

Scanning the Horizon .107 

" I was knocked about :: . 114 

" On a gigantic rock " 115 

" That repose which only innocence unconscious knows." To face 125 

The Fight for the Chicken 126 

"A CAT-AND-DOG LIFE" ........ 131 

Tent making .......... 135 

" I took aim at the bird " 141 

" Where are we now ?" 143 

"Was I on the track of a Blackfoot Indian ? " 148 

Arrowing Situation To face 150 

" Spare my life," I cried 151 

The Neck Step To face 154 

"Oh, blow it!" 156 

" I won small sums " 165 

" I tumbled back on the straw : ' 170 



of illtaeftratton*. 



PAGE 

By the Sad Sea Wave, or an Indian Notion . . .To face 1 70 
" After Dark ! " . . . . . . ' . . . .171 

Comfortable quarters . '.."' . . 1 76 

"Arrayed in the best suit :? .. . . ...... 177 

" I waited and waited " . ... . ( . . To face 186 

" Over a pipe and a glass " . . ..... . . . 187 

On an old sea-chest ......... 200 

Nina and I . . . . . . . . . . 201 

Finis ..... .... . . 214 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



INTRODUCTION. 

SETTING FORTH THE "WHY" AND THE "WHEREFORE," 
ALSO THE " HOW " AND THE " WHEN," WHICH IT IS 
HOPED THE READER MAY CONSIDER AS BEING OF AN 
EMINENTLY SATISFACTORY CHARACTER. 

,E live in the era of the Great 
Confidence Trick as illustrated 
by Reminiscences, Recollections, 
Confessions, Revelations from old 
Manuscripts, Rummaging in old State Papers, 
examinations of original documents, startling dis- 
coveries and still more astonishing disclosures. 
Now from the blackest characters, blackened or 
whitened by partisan prejudice, the overlaying 
coats of colour are gradually being scraped 




l)t &eal Sftbtnture* 



and some persons who, as it was popularly sup- 
posed, ought to have been hung instead of their 
portraits, are found to possess beautiful benign 
countenances, quite in keeping with the spotless 
record of their lives recently unearthed in the 
Dryasdust Department of the Pigeonhole Office. 
On the other hand, many whom in our early 
childhood we had been taught to admire as heroes, 
to reverence as teachers, and to love as models 
for our imitation, are now shown to us either as 
fabulous personages, the creations of Myths, or 
if they existed, the undeniable and undisputable 
evidence of their lives proves them to have been 
deserving the censure of all right-thinking persons 
and the execration of ages yet unborn. 

How these celebrities contrived to hoodwink their 
contemporaries is, to a certain extent, a puzzle, but 
it is not too much to say that the hypothesis of the 
Cryptogram will account for the otherwise inexplic- 
able silence which was purchased at the time by 
those arch impostors, to whom, one ray of light 
on the miserable secret of their lives meant utter, 
hopeless and instant ruin. 



of Hofttngon Crusoe, 



It is not astonishing, then, that the time should 
have arrived when the world, towards the close 
of this wonderfully inquisitive and in every sense 
remarkably curious nineteenth century, should 
discover that it had not yet heard the last word 
about Robinson Crusoe. Only in the interests of 
Truth would I venture to publish the extraor- 
dinary papers placed in my hands by the eminent 
firm whose names are appended to the first 
document, to which I now beg" to draw attention 
by including it in these prefatial remarks. 

The following extracts from the private diaries 
of " John Robbingson Crewso," originally thus 
spelt, speak for themselves. The date is 1720. 
We beg your closest attention to them : 

"April i. Book published to-day. Received with immense 
approval. Sale going on. My share will be big. Wish I 
could get rid of my Inkybiis. 

'''April 8. First rate. Book precisely suits the highly re- 
spectable and commercial public. Capital ! Always thought 
this style of autobiography would achieve success. It has. 
Why was I not alone in this ? What tyranny ! 



n 2 



Sltobentures 



"May. Netted ^3000 clear. The book was an inspiration. 
Yet not happy. Inkybus. 



11 July. Simply a fortune is this book. Invested, bought 
property. Money is not happiness: wealth is, though. Now 
what is the next idea ? To buy off my Inkybus ? What will 
he take f When money's a ' drug in the market! I wish he'd 
take THAT and remove himself" 



The allusions to the Inkybus, and to his evidently 
having been writing under compulsion, are mys- 
terious. I will not anticipate the solution, which 
will be found in the confessions of the True Robin- 
son. What his next idea was, will be gathered 
from further extracted entries in a diary dated the 
following year 1721. 



"Aug. The Respectable Robinson must not be overdone. Is 
he played out ? Why should I not tell people the truth ? The 
truth is not to be told at all times, but when it is, it should be a 
startler. Suppose I protest against the other Robinson f How 
about two Robinsons in the field ? . . . I see a glimmer. 
Or Should it not be given to the public as a frank and open 
confession of follies ? I am getting on in years, and folks who 
have been so interested in the Ideal Robinson would be anxious 
to know everything about the Real Robinson. But would such a 
work come well from the writer by whom they had already been 



of &0fcin$j)n Crugoe* 



so delightfully deceived ? Yes : but not at first. I will tell 
i hem that the Respectable Robinson is a fraud. I will publish 
the true story of my life. Then I will admit that I wrote the 
Respectable one as well. And will inform them frankly that 
I was not my own master at the time, but the slave of an 
Inkybus. The Inkybus is no more. He is gone : never to 
rt-turn : at least, I hope not. Thus I shall obtain a double 
success. Let me pen the sort of address to the public which 
is bound to attract their attention." 

ADDRESS [OR CIRCULAR]. 

" Since my return, and while living in the strictest seclusion, 
it has come to my knowledge that a book of autobiographical 
memoirs purporting to be the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe 
has been published, and has met with unexampled success. 
I have sent for the book, and hope while I am reading it 
to obtain an interim injunction so I think the lawyers term 
the method of procedure against the publishers. My own 
book, compiled from memory, assisted by various diaries, has 
been ready for some time past. I was merely keeping it back 
for the sake of giving it those finishing touches which every 
work of literature, or art, requires, ere it can be fairly placed 
before the public. The publication of this other work, which 
must be that of literally ' Some Adventurer,' forces my hand, 
and, to quote ancient Will, ' with all its imperfections on its 
head,' 1 must send forth my own little volume at once. For 
this purpose I have invited subscriptions, and the list so far 
looks uncommonly well. When the amount at present promised 
is realised as cash payment, I shall immediately place my book 
in the hands of some straightforward publisher, and it will be 
issued in parts according to the total subscriptions, -which must 
he paid one quarter in advance." 



"December. Arranging book The Truth about Robbingson. 
My own publisher. Subscriptions and orders coming in. Sale 
of original work taken a fiesh start. Shall defer the Real 
Robinson. How astonished they'll be to learn (in about a year 
or two,) that I wrote both, although the first was not written 
with a free hand! i'" 



" That this plan," I am now quoting from the 
solicitors' communication to me, " was never fully 
carried out is now almost certain. There is no 
record of any such work in the British Museum, nor 
in the Public Library of Hull. Had the book been 
published, it would doubtless have attracted con- 
siderable attention on account of the unparalleled 
success of the original Robinson. It would have 
been followed by a pamphlet confessing that one per- 
son had written both accounts. Among the papers 
of * John Robbingson Crewso ' (so originally spelt) 
are, an old subscription list of names, against 
several of which is marked * paid,' numerous 
orders for the forthcoming work, with letters 
mentioning the amount sent as pre-payment, a 
number of unreceipted tradesmen's bills, a printer's 
account (unpaid) for proofs and revises of ' Chapter 



of fto&fndou Crusoe* 7 

First of the Reminiscences of J. R. C.,' which is clear 
evidence of the author's intention to publish the 
remainder of the MS. since fortunately discovered 
by a member of our firm. For ourselves, being 
perfectly unprejudiced, we are of opinion that these 
Reminiscences reveal the character of The Real 
Robinson, and that the other work hitherto ac- 
cepted as the only veracious account of Robinson 
Crusoe's Adventures, was written by its author 
partly voluntarily, partly, and latterly, on com- 
pulsion (which the strange narrative will be found 
to fully explain), in order to suit the highly sensitive 
respectability of the society with which, as a 
nameless wanderer returning to his native country, 
he was desirous of associating. This first book, 
' Life and Ad\;entures of Robinson Crusoe,' opened 
society's doors to him. He made money by it, 
and on becoming free and independent, he was 
about to own frankly that he had not always been 
the irreproachable being as depicted by himself in 
the previous successful book, when he was removed 
from this transitory life, and his papers came into 
the hands of the then existing representatives 



8 C!)e 



of our Firm. The packet was brought by a remark- 
able youth attired in a curious sort of livery. His 
hat was glossy with a silver band round it, the 
brim being very much turned up at the sides. He 
wore a collar open in front with a fall fastened by 
a horse-shoe pin. This he informed us was ' for 
luck. 5 On the breast of the outer garment, which 
we have every reason to believe was a frock-coat, 
appeared three rows of enormous buttons made 
of some metal closely resembling silver. After 
delivering the packet he thrust his hands into his 
capacious pockets and remained there steadily 
regarding our office-boy, who, becoming alarmed, 
summoned us to his assistance. But the messenger 
was impervious. He replied curtly, civilly, and 
satisfactorily to such questions as w.e put to him, 
only making one observation at th close of our 
examination-in-chief to the effect that ' Though he 
was not on his oath, yet he couldn't tell a lie if he 
were to try and was in a general way always gay 
and hearty.' After delivering himself of this 
sentiment, or song-and-sentiment combined, he 
turned on his heel, looking once over his shoulder 



of fcofctntfOH Crusoe* 



to inform us that his surname was Walker, and 
that his Christian prefix was also a surname very 
nearly resembling the name of the ever- venerated 
' Judicious Hooker.' Indeed the moment for his 
departure was well chosen, as the Head of our Firm 
arriving at the instant intimated his intention of 
sending for a constable. This however is a 
digression suggested by the fact of our junior 
clerk, who had a pretty knack with his pencil, 
having taken a life-like portrait* of the messenger 
as he first appeared on the doorstep of our office. 
That these papers should have been sent to us in 
this manner remains in our six-and-eightpenny 
opinion ever a mystery. Why was the page blank, 
and why almost silent ? Why did he say as, after 
our interrogatories, he handed in the last portion 
of the MS., 'A page and leaves' and then 
immediately disappeared ? Who sent him ? Who 
sent him with this MS. r The desire to part with 
the papers betrayed itself. 

" Does not this anxiety to relinquish a position 
held under false pretences raise Robinson still 
* See page 12. 



io COe eal gftbenture* 



higher in the opinion of honest men ? Any 
subscriptions towards a ' Crusoe Memorial ' we 
shall be happy to receive. We have by us a 
small and valuable collection of ' Crusoeian 
Relics/ for which we are open to any reasonable 
offer. As for the manuscript, we have guaranteed 
its genuineness and have disposed of it to an 
eminent publishing house, who have intrusted the 
task of editing to a literary gentleman who is 
above suspicion. Our task is done. 

We have the honour of signing ourselves 

WALKER BOGUS BROTHERS & Co., 
(Solicitors, ^iamonb <Hrrch;ints, unb (general 



CRUSOE BUILDINGS, i, LITTLE QUEER STREET, 
BLACKCHAPEL, E.G." 

Premising only that, after carefully perusing the 
above document, and, according to instructions, 
having edited, revised, and arranged " The Remini- 
scences of John Robinson Crusoe," I have no 
hesitation in expressing my own conviction that we 
have here before us The Very Robinson, I place the 
entire collection in the hands of a generous public, 



of &ol)in$on Crusoe, n 



which, in the hope of spreading the truth, or of 
exposing an impudent forgery, or with both objects 
combined, will order, I sincerely trust, thousands 
of copies of this valuable publication, and will 
send it, regardless of expense, to every spot in the 
habitable globe where the name of Robinson 
Crusoe is known. 

The Recorder of Robinson, Ed. 




A Blank Page. 



[See page 8. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE ROBINSON RECORD. HIS PARENTS. DE 
MORTUIS NIL NISI BONUM. 

Y DEAR father was a 
very peculiar man. 
He had been twice 
married. I was the 
elder of two boys 
whom he called his 
sons, as I believe 
we were, though 
I have never had 
more than his word 
for the statement. 
My father, al- 

A very Peculiar Man. though generally 

regarded as of a serious turn, had a strong sense of 
humour himself, but he lacked appreciation of the 
same quality in others ; and though I say it who 




14 Cfoe Beal gftbentures 



should not, I question very much whether he was 
to be implicitly relied upon in every case. Of my 
mother I can say nothing, as I lost her when I was 
quite a baby. Of my "second mother," as I used to 
call Billy's, my younger brother's or half-brother's 
mamma, I cannot say much. She disappeared, 
and my third mother I lost also at an early 
age. My father accused me of carelessness. 
But I was not to blame, as when I lost her it was 
through his fault, not mine, as I shall forthwith 
proceed to show. The simple narrative is as 
follows : 

One day we, that is, my step-mother and I, were 
out together picnicking, Billy being confined tc 
barracks, that is the nursery, when a strange tal! 
man in a sort of uniform, whose face I shall never 
forget, came up to her and whispered something in 
her ear. She bade me take no notice, and told me 
I could go on eating the gooseberry pie with as 
much sugar and cream as I chose, and might then 
fill myself a bumper of some currant wine, which 
I did with a gusto that left little to be desired 
and none to be obtained. As my father somewhat 



of ftobinson Cruder* 15 



finely used to say, " that's a currant that will play 
old gooseberry with some of them." I smiled : in 
my earliest days I always smiled at my father's wit. 
The recollection of the occasions when I failed to 
smile is still painful. But I had an honest attach- 
ment to the currant wine, which never did me any 
harm, however it might have treated others who 
made its acquaintance for the first time late in life. 
After finishing the remains of everything, I fancy 
I must have fallen asleep, as I remember nothing 
until I found myself seated on the step of my 
father's door, wrapped in a piece of sail-cloth 
labelled "Little John Robinson, Junior, No. i, 
Queen Street, Hull this side up with care," and a 
watchman with a lantern (as was the custom in those 
nights) standing by me, who said he had already 
knocked at the door. That he stated the truth was 
soon proved by the appearance of my father, who 
was so rejoiced at seeing me again that he could 
scarcely contain his joy, but must needs hug the 
watchman, and so bang and cuff him in the 
ecstasy of his great delight as to render him 
perfectly senseless and unable to use his rattle, of 



16 Cfte eal STfcbentures; 

which, however, my father had taken the precaution 
to deprive him at the earliest stage of their friendly 
encounter. As for me, I ran up stairs and beheld 
the scene from the first-floor window ; and thinking, 
mere child that I was, that my father might take 
some harm from the warmth of his zeal which 
seemed to have reached fever heat, with great 
presence of mind I seized the cold-water jug and 
emptied its contents right on to his bald head. 
This served its purpose, and my father, who was 
ordinarily a pious man, though without any preten- 
sions to be a saint, used such awful language as he 
rushed up the staircase to my little room that, as 
I informed him through the keyhole, " he was not 
fit to be admitted into the society of gentlemen," 
indeed, he was only attired in his dressing-go wn> 
slippers, and night-cap, " and that therefore, with 
great reluctance, I should continue to keep my door 
shut, or should spring the watchman's rattle " 
which, childlike, I had carried upstairs with me, in- 
tending to use it as a plaything, and so accidentally 
had a command of the situation ; " which," I con- 
tinued, " would alarm the neighbours, and I should 



of Itofetttfon Crusoe. 17 



be forced to give evidence against him before the 
magistrates, when he would not only be imprisoned 
for assault, but also fined five shillings for every 
oath he had used; and as by my own reckoning he had 
uttered exactly one hundred of these awful expres- 
sions, his knowledge of arithmetic would enable 
him to arrive at the sum for which he would be 
mulcted." I also reminded him that, though a 
mere infant, " I knew the nature of an oath," 
and could swear to the nature of every one he 
had used while pummelling the watchman. His 
interview through the keyhole at first created a 
certain coolness between us, yet, I may say, I felt it 
less than did my worthy sire, who was only in the 
costume I have already described, with nothing 
warm about his legs, while I lay in my own little 
bed with my blankets round me, from which coign 
of vantage I delivered the greater portion of my 
harangue. Billy, my half-brother, was shivering 
in his cot, not knowing what to make of it ; but 
the threat of a boot at his head caused him to retire 
under the bedclothes, and be no more heard or 
seen till the following morning. 

c 



i8 



After this incident, my father and I became the 
warmest friends, and as the watchman's story was 
not believed by anybody, my father being one of 
the most respectable persons and there were a 
great many such in Hull, and as the watchman's 
rattle, which we had burnt as fire-wood, could 
not be found anywhere, and as, further, I 
denied all knowledge of the circumstances (what 
son so bad as not to stretch a point for his 
father ?) the unfortunate watchman was degraded, 
his badge indorsed, and himself transferred to a 
county gaol, where, in the distractions of night and 
day duty, he would soon forget the episode in his 
chequered career which had ended so sadly for 
him, and so fortunately for me, as I was now 
taken into my father's confidence ; and, I may add, 
there was scarcely anything he did of which I was 
long in ignorance. Yet I was sorry for the loss of 
my second step-mother, the third Mrs. Robinson. 
She had been very kind to me, and often would I 
rush at my father with a broomstick or coal-shovel 
when he was more demonstrative than usual in 
his display of passionate attachment towards her, 




Ta-ra-ra Boom to-day." Old Song, 



IP. 19. 



of &obin$on Crusoe* 19 



and stand between him and the object of his 
affection. 

Poor dear third mother! I am not surprised 
that she disappeared with the tall military-looking 
stranger and never wrote, sent for her things, or 
re-appeared in the old house of Hull. 

" Hac oliiti meminisse juvabit" which quotation 
in the original tongue shows that my education 
has not been neglected. 



c 2 



20 



C!)e 



gtabentures 



CHAPTER II. 



EARLY IMPULSES. 




Little Billy. 



^1 HAVE already men- 
f tioned the existence 
of a younger half- 
brother. "Half- a - 
loaf " may be " better 
than no bread," but 
half-a-brother is worse 
than no brother at all. 
His name was " Little 
Billy." He was a 
stupid and expensive 
boy. It was in consequence 
of his stupidity that he was 
always being sent to fresh 
schools and regularly " de- 
clined with thanks" after 
the second half. My father 



of Jvolnnson Crusoe* 21 



used to style him " School-Billy," and often have I 
heard him complain of the enormous amounts my 
brother's education cost him. However, as Billy 
invariably returned to us with horrible tales of 
starvation, poor feeding, insufficient care, and 
cruelty generally, charges which he brought 
against all his teachers, from the head-master to 
the last usher, and as my father, who was not a 
man to be trifled with, at once threatened criminal 
proceedings against each school in turn, I am now 
of opinion that Billy was not quite so expensive a 
boy as my father would have made him out to be ; 
and I know as a fact that on two occasions, the 
school authorities compromised the threatened 
action by giving a receipt in full for the year's 
account, and in addition fitting out my brother with 
an entirely new suit of clothes of the best material 
and cut in latest fashion. 

" Suit against suit," quoth my father, cheerfully, 
" quite neat and appropriate." 

After this episode half-brother Billy became my 
father's favourite, and, as was natural, fell in my 
estimation. I saw through his wiles. He had 



22 



fteai Sttibenture* 



only to pretend to be bullied at school to insure 
being petted at home. I set myself to adjust the 
balance, and so far succeeded, that during one short 
vacation, my half-brother declared, that in future 
he would rather remain permanently at school. 




Adjusting the Balance. 



of olnn$on Crusoe* 



CHAPTER III. 

MAKING A NAME. 

Y half-brother com- 
plained to my father 
of my conduct to- 
wards him, but, un- 
fortunately for little 
Billy, our parent 
knew too much of 
the true nature of 
the "atrocities," of 
which Billy was 
always complaining 
at school, to give 
bi.iy in Dis-rac=. entire credence to 

his charges when brought against me (who was 
now once more in favour with my father) at home. 
Besides this, Billy was always prying and sneaking 




24 CfK &eal 



about, so that in many cases when my father failed 
to punish him, I, as the elder brother, efficiently re- 
presented the paternal action. At last I was weary 
of Billy, and either he or I would have to quit. 
I regret to say that, when my father had lost five 
sovereigns, they were found in my brother's secret 

drawer. 

* * * * * 

Next day Billy was sent abroad. Who took him 
there I forget ; where he went I was not informed. 
He left without a word of regret, without admitting 
his guilt, but, on the contrary, protesting his 
innocence. He quitted the house without bidding 
me good-bye. This, however, was pardonable, as I 
was absent at the moment of his departure, and 
perhaps, had I been present, the separation might 
have been painful to one, or both, of us. On my 
desk I found a letter in Billy's handwriting to this 
effect : Jack, you thief and liar, you have blackened 
my character, look out. When I grow up big and 
strong Til give you the soundest thrashing you ever 
had in your life. Hoping that you will have had many 
a sound one before that time arrives, I leave you." 



of Jvolnnson Crusoe, 25 



Here followed a somewhat indifferent drawing of a 
clenched fist and nose, with the inscription which 
I copy from memory. This inartistic and 
spiteful effort was signed simply "Billy." In my 
diary at that time I find this entry : " Billy gone ! 
shall we ever meet again ? Not if I know it" 

How Fate dealt with us both, time and this book 
will show.* We might have got on very well to- 
gether if he had only exhibited more good-fellow- 
ship towards me. I know he frequently excited 
suspicions of me in the minds of those who would 
otherwise have trusted me with considerable sums. 
I had defied him to bring his innuendos to the proof, 
The moment came when I, much against my will, 
was the means of proving to him, to my father and 
to all our little world that but I have already told 
the story of the five sovereigns. Had they been 
found in my box but they were not. He was a 
revengeful, morbid, sneaking, back-biting cur was 
my half-brother. He had short black curly locks, 

* The slight allusion to my brother contained in that luork of fiction 
which I shall call THE FALSE ROBINSON, is purposely misleading. 
IVliy it was so will be shouw in the course of this trustworthy and 
veracious narrative of facts. J. R. C. 



26 Cfre lUai Bfcbentures 

and I think Mrs. Robinson number two was a 
quadroon or something of that sort. Which fact 
would account for a good deal that subsequently 
occurred. For the present enough. I shall pass on 
to other matters, 

I have never been able to ascertain exactly what 
class of industry originally brought my father to 
Hull. His answer to my questions on this subject 
was invariably in the form of advice to " mind my 
own business," and my retort as invariably was, 
" Your business is mine ; " and indeed, in spite of 
his unlimited confidence in me, it was not until I 
had discovered I always had a turn for exploring 
several engraving plates, tools, patterns of 
bank notes and impressions of our Gracious 
Sovereign's head and tail, as seen on the current 
coin of the realm [with the appearance of which, 
however, I was not too familiar though I have 
often had in the course of my subsequent career to 
bewail and account for its ^appearance] I say it 
was not until I had discovered these 'graving tools 
and other implements, that I was able to go to my 
father with more than filial boldness, and advance my 



of Robinson Crusoe* 



claim on his affection for a small share in the profits, 
while abstaining from any offer of participating 
actively in the work. 

Indeed, I was not made for toil of any descrip- 
tion, and preferred to pass my days in idleness, 
roaming about Hull, going down to the pier, watch- 
ing the boats, making ducks and drakes on the water, 
tossing coins with the youth of my own age, but 
not of my own intelligence, for luncheons, dinners, 
and drinks, in which hazards fortune kindly supple- 
mented whatever was lacking in my skill, and I could 
count on a very decent income to be derived from 
most games wherein the aforesaid element of skill 
reduced the uncertainties of chance to a minimum, 
such for example as the diversions of billiards, 
bagatelle, and a few of the superior games of cards ; 
so that, had the occasion arisen, I should have been 
no charge on my industrious father; nor, if my 
parent, in the mysterious designs of Providence, had 
been withdrawn from me, should I have wanted for a 
meal, or indeed for as many meals as might have 
satisfied my naturally good appetite in the course 
of the day. I was young, I was idle. I admit 



28 Cfce jRral 9fcbetttiir*0 



it.* Now that the ungrateful and malicious Bill 
had departed, I was the only son. My father said, 
" He did not like to see me lounging about with my 
hands in my pockets." The retort was obvious, but 
I am glad to remember now that I did not make it, 
and to this reticence on my part I attribute his 
assuming towards me in the course of the year a 
more confidential attitude than had hitherto been 
his wont. 

I regret to say that I affected many fopperies 
about this time. I was but a lad of seventeen, but 
both in manner and dress I was far in advance of 
my years, for I needs must be attired in the latest 
fashion, come home at the latest hours, and indulge 
in sleep when my father was already up and at work. 

I soon became " the cock of the walk," as the 
phrase is, and perhaps my bearing towards my 
equals and superiors was not all that would have 
approved itself to true modesty ; yet it is no great 
laudation of myself to say that Nature had done 
for me what she had left undone in others, so that 
I was physically and intellectually a couple of 

* In The False Robinson this is also admitted. ED. 



of ttftfctngDti Crusoe, 29 



inches taller and several degrees stronger than 
most of my companions. 

Having visited London at my father's wish, 
whence I returned without his express permission, 
having a great desire to see him on a matter 
of some importance, I was able, as the billiard 
markers had it in the slang of the time, " to put 
on side," and to comport myself greatly to the 
admiration of both sexes, young and old, in our 
native town. 

"The cock crows so!" would the wise elders 
exclaim, and so it came about that (as I have been 
informed, not being myself evidence of the fact) the 
gossips, old and young, would inquire of one 
another, " Did he crow so yesterday ? " " Ay," 
would be the answer, " he crew so ! .... you 
never ! ! " 

How nick-names grow, and become fixed, cling- 
ing to the sturdy oak and I was sturdy, though a 
sapling, with alas ! very little " sap," in the school- 
boy sense of the term about me. " Crew so " stuck 
to me. 

Being of a sluggish disposition [I never lose my 



CJ)e fteal Sftbentures 



temper except when a sense of injury rouses my 
indignation, and then, Heaven forgive me ! I am a 
very lion on the war-path"] I used to spend some 
of my leisure leaning against a garden-seat that 
adorned the exterior of The Three Plucky Pigeons 
a well-known hostelrie whose bar and billiard-room 
I frequently patronised, to the great content of 
mine host, a very worthy man, and having a 
pretty wit for poetry and music I sang : 

Yes, I am Robinson Crew-so, 
And I can use a good cue so. 

Here I illustrated my meaning dramatically, whereat 
they were immensely tickled : 

Come to the table, 

And if you are able, 

Conquer young Robinson Crcvv-so ! 

The challenge was accepted. I lost my first two 
games, but as luck would have it, when I had 
boldly backed myself for a heavy sum and a dinner 
at the hostelrie, to be moistened with a few bottles 
of my excellent host's best Oporto, fortune changed, 
and I just contrived to win by five, a near thing, 



of 



of which my companions after dinner tried to 
take a mean advantage. Their schemes came to 
nothing, however, and before midnight I was 
enabled to return home far richer than all my com- 
panions put together. I call this the " Memorable 
Robinson Crew-so Evening," and so did they. 
Perhaps they do so to this day.* 

From this time forth I added Crusoe (thus spelt) 
to my name to distinguish me from my father 
Robinson senior. 

* There is the stamp of truth in the account of the otherwise appa- 
rently otld surname. ED. 




Making a Name. 



CHAPTER IV. 

DEVELOPING. 

TILL I was not com- 
pletely happy, nor 
at mature age, and 
where there is no- 
thing to be gained 
by avowal, or con- 
cealment, of the 
honest truth, am I 
able to affirm that 
I have ever known 
the man who was 
perfectly happy, 

Robinson depressed. though I have COme 

across some poor simple creatures who, without one 
halfpenny to rattle against another in their pockets 
to be spent on their own pleasures, and working for a 
wife and family entirely dependent on their exertions, 




of jRofcinson Crusoe. 33 

have affirmed that they were entirely contented with 
their lot. Their " lot ! "their " little " I should have 
said. But I always put them down as poor-spirited 
humbugs, nay, hypocrites, with whom L have no- 
thing in common, and wouldn't have even if I could. 

Yet, all things considered, I was about as happy 
as any other young fellow of my own weight, size, 
age, and skill. I may fairly say that I never cost my 
dear father one single penny more than he could 
afford to give me, and of what that amount was, 
who could be so good a judge as I ? Not that with- 
out a murmur he used to hand me over a certain sum 
every quarter-day, I was always noted for my strict 
punctuality in matters of business, nor do I 
hesitate to admit that he did not present me with 
such other trifling amounts as my necessities 
demanded from time to time, without a protest 
which was, as I often pointed out to my father, quite 
unworthy of him. 

He had recently started a Joint Stock Bank 
Robinson, Bogus & Co. and his signature of" Jack 
Robinson " to a cheque or a bill was as good as 
cash without discount. 

D 



34 Cbe Uai 



About this time I believe my father sent a con- 
siderable amount of money abroad. I never in- 
quired into the matter, as I fancied it was for my 
brother's schooling. To this day I am not sure of 
the fact. I saw what I thought were foreign notes, 
but it only struck me as odd that they should be 
sent abroad from here. Perhaps I was wrong. 
They might have been given in exchange. It was 
not my business, I am glad to say. The only 
evidence I had of my half-brother's existence was 
a - notice which arrived by post from the Brazils 
intimating that "William Robinson of Hull, son of 
John," intended to adopt the same surname as that 
of his half-brother, and would henceforth be known 
as "William Robinson Crusoe." How he had 
obtained the information I didn't care to inquire, 
and indeed at the time I was inclined to consider 
the message as a hoax. I did not communicate the 
news to my father, not considering it of sufficient 
importance. 

My father wrote a bold though a clerkly hand, 
and many a time, to save him trouble, for about this 
period he was dreadfully overworked, I used to draw 



of 



Crusoe. 



35 



and sign a considerable number of cheques, chiefly 
small ones, on behalf of the firm ; for as " Mr. 
Bogus" and "Co." were non-resident, and, indeed, 
to speak truly, I had never seen these parties in my 
life, I felt justified, always with the object of sparing 
my father as much labour as a dutiful son is bound 
to do, in signing for the absent partners as well 
as for my revered parent. What came of this 
consideration on my part will be seen in the next 
Chapter. 




Robinson for^jas a Cheque. 



D 2 



CHAPTER V. 

A CRISIS FOR CRUSOE. 

NE afternoon, a memorable 
one in my career, I was 
afflicted with a severe 
toothache. I am blessed, 
I may say, with a power 
of endurance beyond 
most other men, and 
rather than waste one 
of Nature's gifts which 
can never be satisfac- 
torily replaced, I would 
s u ff e r agonies, and 
indeed should have done 
so, but for the assistance 
of a friendly chemist, who- 
let me have a large bottle of stuff with a very strong 
and peculiar smell, one drop of which at once allevi- 
ated pain, and the quantum of one pint taken off at a, 




Afflicted with Toothache. 



of ftoinitson Crusoe* 37 

draught would, I presume, remove it so entirely that 
the sufferer would never more be troubled. Charged 
with this bottle, (as in another sense I was, seeing 
that my friend put it to my account, though I have 
since been informed that he has no sort of claim 
upon me, the sale of this stuff being undoubtedly 
illegal, but this, I admit, made no difference to me 
at the time, as legally or illegally dealing, all my 
tradesmen received equal measure from me) and 
being temporarily relieved from pain, I went to the 
office before the hour of closing. Never liking to 
obtrude where I am not required, I had contrived 
a small secret entrance by which I could gain 
access at any time to the partners' private room. 
On entering the apartment quietly, I was somewhat 
surprised to find my father engaged apparently 
in finishing some minute instructions to the junior 
clerk, in whose hand I noticed more than one five- 
pound Bank of England note, a circumstance that 
struck me as odd, seeing that nearly all our deal- 
ings were through the medium of paper issued by 
the County Banks. Struck by this incident, I 
offered to withdraw, but my father assured me there 



38 Cfce cal Sfefetnttirt* 

was no necessity for my so doing, and bestowing a 
kindly nod on the youthful clerk Simon was his 
name which the latter did not appear to me to 
receive in the best possible spirit, though at the 
same time, just as he was passing out of the door 
into the counting-house, I could not help observing 
a movement of his right eye which had all the 
marked character of a confidential wink. 

Simon closed the door after him, and my father 
locked it on the inside, and then procuring a pass- 
book and ledger motioned me to be seated, and 
commenced to address me in the most earnest and 
affectionate manner possible. 

"John," he said, "our name stands high in the 
world of commerce. Our name is an excellent one." 

"Excellent," I replied, remembering how fre- 
quently I had written it, and not precisely foresee- 
ing the turn the conversation was about to take. 

" When a Firm, like a man, is popular, it will be 
familiarly known by some sort of nick-name," he 
observed. 

I acquiesced. He had evidently heard of " Rob- 
binson Crevv-so." 



of Eoln'uson 



" You may have come across the name by which, 
as the youthful Simon has recently informed me, we 
are familiarly known in the commercial world r " he 
inquired. 

I hesitated. I had heard a whisper of it, but I 
fancy they had been afraid to utter it plump out- 
right in my presence. 

" Putting Bogus & Co. aside, who, as the merry 
wags say, are the partners that should most fittingly 
represent the firm, the same small wits style us not 
Robinson but * Robbing- father,' and Robbing-son.' " 
And here he paused. 

I jumped up indignantly. 

" Can we lie under such an imputation ? " I ex- 
claimed. 

" That is precisely the best course to take," re- 
turned my father, " for the wind will be tempered 
to the shorn lamb." 

" Who is the shorn lamb r " I asked respectfully. 

"I cannot particularise," returned my father; 
" there are so many of them." 

" But," I ventured to observe, "you said the wind 
would be tempered " 



40 Cfoe &eal 



"Yes," my father calmly interposed, "when raised. 
The wind must first be raised, then tempered." 

I admitted the justice of the remark, and was 
silent. 

" John," continued my father, " the calamities 
of mankind afflict the highest and the lowest. 
Through luxury and extravagance, the monarch on 
his throne may be suffering agonies of indigestion 
during a long Court ceremony ; or to take a less 
dignified illustration, the tramp during his night's 
sojourn at the workhouse may have to complain of 
indifferent 'skilly.' The great middle class is alone 
the safe one, intended by Providence to bear the 
greatest burdens themselves, and to exist for the 
benefit of the highest and the lowest." 

" Quousque tandem ?" I said to him with playful 
affection, being anxious to show that he had not 
vainly expended money on my classical education. 

" What were you pleased to observe, John ? " he 
inquired in his wise and grave manner. 

"Sir," I replied, somewhat abashed, "I expressed 
in ancient Latin the old question, ' What are you 
driving at ? ' ' 



af ftoimitfon Crusoe* 



"In a tandem ?" he asked, with a touch of inde- 
finable irony. " I was not aware that the Romans 
drove their horses in that fashion. But enough of 
pleasantry. There are the highest and the lowest in 
intelligence and in capacity for business, as well as 
in stations of life. The middle intelligence may be 
as easily the sport of the latter as the prey of the 
former, but it will be the fault of the highest 
capacity if it does not make use of what the great 
middle-class, which is the backbone and sinew of 
all commerce, provides for it."* 

I acquiesced, and cheerfully observed that Robin- 
son, Bogus & Co. ought to be doing an uncommonly 
fine business, judging from the unexceptionable 
character of their paper, and the great respect and 
esteem in which they were held by all men of 
business, not only in our own town but throughout 
the commercial world. 

My father heard me to the end, and then, in a 
voice wherein I fancy I detected the notes of deep 
emotion, I was never very slow at detecting any- 

* The sketch here given of the elder Robinson" 1 * style is so far in 
accordance with the allusions to him in THE FALSE ROBINSON as Jo 
prove a common orig inal. ED. 



42 Cbe eal 



thing deep, thus resumed his discourse : " My 
dear John," he said, producing- several cheques, 
which at first I did not recognize, but soon guessed 
whose drawing they were, " you are a born artist." 
I bowed. " But as, in the interests of truth, a father 
should never flatter his son, I am bound to tell you 
that you are not a genius. Genius is original. Now 
in all your designs," and this word he used with 
marked emphasis, "I remark no touch of original 
genius, nor in your numerous drawings do I see 
anything but the merest copies of" . . . here he 
hesitated, then resumed, " of, I will say, an old 
master. With the best intentions in the world, my 
dear John, and you I am sure would be the last to 
disavow them I must inform you that you will not 
benefit the firm of Robinson, Bogus & Co. by per- 
severance in this course, and as you have hitherto 
constituted yourself ' Bogus & Co.,' I shall now 
proceed to dissolve partnership. I have taken 
the precaution of settling everything on my 
wife." 

" Married again ! " I exclaimed in utter astonish- 
ment. 



of iiobtnsion Crusoe, 43 



'And settled/' he replied. "Yesterday, at the 
Church of St. Simon Without. Had you, my boy, 
been in the habit of attending that place of worship 
every Sunday, you would have heard the banns duly 
published. Mrs. Robinson has a snug jointure of 
her own, and we are going to live at some distance 
from our native land, which I recommend you also 
to quit within the next four-and- twenty hours, as, 
after that time, our shutters will be up. The old 
house" here my father was visibly affected " will 
be ' to let furnished ' with a man in possession 
within it ; and you, my dearest boy," and he 
grasped my hand warmly, " you have to make your 
choice. On the one hand, a copyist's career sud- 
denly terminated by incarceration; on the other, 
wherever it may be, as the poet says, * fresh fields 
and pastures new ' a perfect description of a spot 
most propitious to the exercise of your talents, 
where there is plenty of verdure about, and where 
a young fellow like yourself can be up and doing." 
Here a noise in the outer office attracting his atten- 
tion, he broke off suddenly in his discourse, motioned 
ms to silence, and stepping stealthily to the wall he 



44 Cfte &eal 



showed me a small hole bored in it, through which 
aperture he could command whatever was going on 
in the outer office, at the same time indicating to 
me a similar one to which, as I understood from 
him, I was at once to apply my eye. This is what I 
saw, and what I presume my dear father did too. 

Two men, one with a red waistcoat, from which 
sign of authority I gathered that he was either a 
beadle or a Bow Street Runner, and the other in a 
shabby suit, stood before the counter engaged in 
conversation with our youngest and, temporarily, 
our only clerk, the others having obtained leave of 
absence for the eve of St. S within' s Day (a festival 
that my excellent father always made a point of 
religiously observing over his table being in- 
scribed St. Swithin's admirable maxim about 
" providing for a rainy day ") and evidently much 
puzzled by the youth's answers. 

" No he ain't in now, an' he ain't likely to be," 
says Simon, who had the simplest way with him, 
4< as he's gone to Mr. Bogus's 'ouse by coach, and 
won't be back till to-morrow mornin,' an' as I'm 
the only clerk left 'ere, and I think you're up to no 



of ftolnnson Crusoe* 45 

good, I'll just let out Speaker, who'll give you a bit 
of his mind, before I call a constable." With 
which he jumps down from his perch, and before 
they could say " Jack Robinson !" which name was 
indeed on their lips, the faithful fellow looses a 
bull-dog- hitherto kept for precaution's sake in 
these troublous times, in a basket under the 
counter, and Speaker, for such was the animal's 
name, " spying strangers in the house," which I 
have since learned is a parliamentary expression, 
without more ado made for the nearest pair of 
calves, and would have forced their owner to pay 
for his rash intrusion, had not the greencoated red- 
vested man fled precipitately. Honest Simon 
called the dog back, barred the door, and my father 
on coming out from the private room was com- 
mencing with tears of joyful pride, and a flow of 
eloquence I have rarely heard surpassed, he was 
a master of these two streams, which he could turn 
on at pleasure, so that at any moment he was 
able to secure a flood of tears and a flow of elo- 
quence, nay, even to pour out a torrent of invective, 
I say, he was about to employ these mighty 



46 fte Keal gfebetttttrt* 

forces in order to express his high commendation 
of the lad's praiseworthy conduct, when Simon, 
standing at some little distance from us (my father 
being within a few paces of the door-mat, and my- 
self just within the doorway,) and still holding 
Speaker by a stout chain, cut short my father's pero- 
ration, somewhat rudely, with the brief exclamation, 

" O stow that gammon ! " 

As a scholar, I have since read of the surprise of 
Epaminondas at finding the mouse in his helmet ; 
of the startled look of Leonidas the bravest of the 
brave, on observing the suddenly rebellious attitude 
of Kokasnukos ; I have pictured to myself the wrath 
of Poluphoisboio on being answered by his hitherto 
gentle partner Molasses ; the indignation ex- 
pressed on the face of Socrates when the drachma 
was returned to him as being of doubtful value ; 
but, putting all these and many other historical and 
classical instances together, and combining their 
forces, they could not approach in sublimity to the 
expression of suppressed painful emotion that 
passed across my father's features at this inexcus- 
able rudeness on the part of his protege, Simon. 



of &<rtin3on Crusoe. 47 



My father drew from his breast-pocket a hand- 
kerchief, exclaiming, as he raised it to his eyes, 

" The viper that I have cherished in my bosom." 

" I daresay it is," said Simon, " it looks as if it 
wouldn't be the wuss for a wash. What do-I mean ? " 
he asked in reply to my father. " Why I mean that 
'ere wiper as you're a moppin' yer heyes with and 
as you was a talking" about chirruping in your 
buzzum." 

My father intimated gently that he would speak 
with him in private. 

"No, sir," replies Simon, in a decided tone, 
" wot you've got to say will be said in the presence 
o' Speaker, which he knows me as feeds him, and 
don't know you. So you just 'and over coin afore 
the 'ole biz'ness busts up, or blessed if I don't fetch 
the constables. I've been a doop long enough. 
Ah ! would jerr " 

This last adjuration was addressed either to my 
father or Speaker who was nobly struggling to be 
free. 

" ' Doop,' as you call it, or not," observed my 
father cheerfully, " here is five pounds for you," and 



48 



he held out a crisp looking "flimsy," such being, as 
I believe, the technical term in his trade. "I think," 
he added playfully, " you'll soon change your note." 

" And where should /be if I did ? " asked the lad 
with a hideously cunning leer. " No, no ; you go 
and change your own notes for yourself, and give 
me the ready-rhino." 

" How much ? " asked my father, who was a 
thoroughly business-like man. 

" Two suv'rins down," says Simon, " and I tie up 
the dawg." 

My father readily produced the two gold pieces, 
and stretching across to the counter, placed them 
there, the dog dancing and jumping as if he were 
straining the last link of his chain, which Simon 
shortened with one hand, in order to allow of his 
reaching over to the counter, whence he took the 
sovereigns and put them in his pocket. 

"Now," says Simon, " I shall tie up Speaker and 
bolt. You can fasten the door after me, if you can 
get past Speaker, and no one's a bit likely to try to 
get in as long as he's there. And the last piece of 
advice as I gives to both of you two, Robbing 



of J\obfns;mt Crusfor* 49 

father and Robbing-son Crusoe, is just this. . . . 
' Step it' f" 

With which he made for the front door, the dog- 
getting to the length of his chain, in a vain attempt 
at following his youthful friend. 

But as there is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip, so 
are there just as many on a rough floor over a door- 
mat. And here was an instance in point. Down 
went Simon, sprawling. Speaker ran up to him, 
thrust his nozzle under his ear, and exhibited 
signs of the utmost distress. The poor boy but 
now so gay and festive, lay stunned in a swoon, 
having fallen against the iron threshold. My 
father was just commencing a discourse on the 
vanity of the best intentions, when, fearful lest the 
dog should do the lad any injury, I slipped dexter- 
ously behind the counter, and drew the dog's chain 
sharply through the iron ring in the floor to which 
it was fastened. Speaker resisted, but my strength 
was too much for him, and in spite of his strug- 
gles, for it never occurred to the obstinate brute to 
run at me, I close-hauled him, as the sailors say, 
up to the ring, 'and fastened the other end of the 
chain to the bars of the grate. 



50 Cfje lltai Sftbenturesf 

It now occurred to me that the strong smelling 
stuff which I had procured an hour or so ago as a 
remedy for toothache, might restore the unconscious 
youth, and sprinkling a few drops on my handker- 
chief, I applied it to his nostrils without, however, 
its having any other apparent effect than that of 
rendering his trance the sounder. It became impossi- 
ble to wake him. Turning to ask my father's advice, 
I could not see him anywhere, and then it broke 
upon me that for the last few minutes, while my 
hands had been full, his must have been full also, 
as the only cash-drawer in the place was open and not 
a single sixpence was visible. My excellent parent 
was nowhere to be seen ! 




Close-hiu'ed. 



of 



Crusor* 



CHAPTER VI. 

A NEW DEPARTURE. 

NSTEAD of delivering- 
myself up to useless 
grief at my father's dis- 
appearance, I removed 
the chain from the grate, 
kept it tightly in my 
hand until I reached 
the door of our private 
room, when I let it run 
out, for I detest cruelty 
to animals. Speaker 
was free to welcome his 
prostrate companion on 
his showing any signs 
of returning animation, 
or to fly at any in- 
truder who, 1 was sure, would not venture to 

E 2 




Speaker set free. 



52 Cfte iieal flfcfoenture* 

enter the premises on the chance of encounter- 
ing so formidable a guardian. Gathering toge- 
ther several parcels of new clothes and haber- 
dashery, a valise ready packed with somebody 
else's name on it (it was that of my young friend 
Adolphus Jones who had confided it to my care 
during our last visit to London together) and 
some small savings which had been intrusted to 
me by friends for investment, and I have always 
tried to prefer my friends' interest to my own, I 
opened the secret door and passed out into the street 
unperceived by a single soul. My luggage was 
somewhat of a burden to me, for it must be 
borne in mind that I had passed my days in com- 
parative luxury, and though a stalwart young 
fellow enough among others of inferior size and 
weight, I had never been compelled to perform any 
such menial office as that on which I was now 
engaged for my own benefit. It grieved me that I 
should not have a few parting words with my father, 
but after all, as we had had plenty of words together 
already, and parting or meeting would not add 
much to their force, this was mere sentiment, but, 



of ftofetngott Crusoe, 53 

sentiment, I admit, has always been the weak side 
of my character ; and so, walking down to the quay 
at early dawn, I was fortunate enough to find a 
Levantine brig on the point of departure. 

At that very moment the captain, with whom I 
had some weeks before, as it chanced, contracted 
amicable relations, I playfully styling him the 
"Captain of my acquaintance-ship," was taking a 
loving farewell of, as I conceived her to be, his wife, a 
remarkably pretty and attractive young woman 
whom, as I was sorry to learn, he was compelled by 
the rules of his particular service to leave behind him 
at Hull every time he departed on a cruise which 
might be, as the poet has beautifully expressed it, 
"for years, or it might be for ever," a rather 
lengthy period for a young woman to be left quite 
alone. Whether she would have been left: quite alone 
was a question I might have stopped to consider had 
not my immediate business with the Captain been 
to propose myself as a passenger for the Levantine 
Islands, a beautiful climate as I had been informed ; 
whereupon the Captain, thoroughly overcome by 
his feelings, which found their expression in sobs, 



54 ClK &eal Sttibcntures; 

sighs, vows, protestations of fidelity, and violent 
huggings and squeezings, protested that he was 
only too glad to take a friend with him to cheer 
him on the voyage, and so saying he ran down 
the companion-ladder to bid the purser prepare a 
cabin for me at once. 

" An excellent man, your Captain ! " I exclaimed, 
addressing the disconsolate young woman who was 
vainly attempting to stem the torrent of her tears. 

"Ah me!" she sighed, "what shall I do with- 
out him ! O, Sir, when you visit other climes, 
watch over him, for my sake ! " 

" I will," I replied sincerely, for the sight of an 
unprotected female always excites my compassion, 
especially when she is in distress. " I will, I 
s\vear ! for your sake, my sweet angel ! " and I took 
her hand and pressed it respectfully to my lips. 
Who would not have done the same in my position r 

She felt she could confide in me. A woman's 
instinct in these matters is so true. She knew the 
instant we met that her interests were, so to speak, 
mine, and that as I drew her towards me, treating 
her as I might have done a sister, not my own, for 



of Jvobtuscm Crusoe, 55 

alas, I never had one, but as some one else's sister, 
and looking down on her trustful upturned eyes, I 
was about to assure her that my friendship towards 
her was no mere lip-service, when she drew away 
from me somewhat quickly, murmuring as far as 
my ear caught the words, " Take care,". . . and 
" Captain," from which I concluded, on seeing the 
skipper returning across the gangway, that she 
was only re-iterating her adjuration to me to guard 
and keep watch over her husband, a task I had 
already undertaken to perform. 

We were standing behind one of the huge stone 
pillars on the quay, so that the Captain did not at 
once catch sight of us, but in another second, hailing 
us heartily, he bade me come aboard at once, as 
the bell was ringing and he had to set sail by 
4 a.m., or he would be mulcted by his employers 
in the sum of some hundreds of pounds. Whether 
he was deceiving me or not in this statement 
the reader will decide, if it be worth his while, 
later on. Only if I were deceived at the out-set, 
was I to blame if I retaliated at the finish ? 

Anxious that he should not suffer on my account, 



Sfcbenturrsf 



I waited while he gave his wife a hearty smack, and 
pushing him gently before me I told him to go first 
as being a Captain by rank, I must follow only as a 
humble land-lubbery sort of swab, and taking the 
opportunity of pressing into the young woman's 
hand a short note [which I had had just time to 
scribble with a copying pencil, that writes like ink, 
on a leaf out of my note-book,] I uttered softly in 
her ear a few words of consolation, saying that I 
would write privately and give her news of the 
Captain if she would furnish me with her address, 
which in a timid hesitating way she whispered in 
my ear to me by way of response. 

The darkness of night was gradually dissolving 
itself into a murky daybreak as the good ship 
Crazy Jane set all sail and stood out for her course 
due West. It was dark as I entered my cabin and 
deposited my modest valise [with the name of 
AdoJphus Jones on it], which I was taking with me 
as a souvenir of the dear friend to whom it belonged, 
of whom I should think as often as I cast my eyes 
on his silver mounted brushes and other articles of 
the toilet, and whom I might never see again on 



of Robinson Cruflfot* 57 

this earth ; and when in my comfortable berth I 
stretched myself out, attired in a set of dear old 
Dolly's pyjamas, which suited me perfectly as 
we were of the same height and build, and indeed 
of much the same age, I began to meditate on the 
strange series of events that had separated parent 
from child, husband from wife, half-brother from 
half-brother, friend from friend, and had brought 
me to this situation, where, lying on my back, 
drowsily dreaming, I just opened my eyes to see 

x 

through the port-hole the sun breaking forth 
majestically from the murky atmosphere, gradually 
developing a flaming brilliancy that gave warmth 
and light all around, and more than this, Hope ! 
For I am as most men are, if they will have the 
honesty to own it, a trifle superstitious, and I hailed 
the appearance of this glorious sun as a thrice 
happy omen. Yes! good luck had smiled on me at 
starting, for was it not a fortunate chance that 
Adolphus Jones had left his well-stored valise with 
me while he had gone to call on some friends ? and 
would he not be delighted to know of what service it 
had been to his fond companion Robinson ? I now 



resumed a custom of mine of keeping an occasional 
diary. I lately found some of its pages which have 
assisted my memory in compiling these reminis- 
cences. Here is the note on this occasion, " Polly 
Newport, Queer Street, Hull," and a memorandum 
of my own letter to her which ran thus : Dearest^ 
it is love at first sigJit. When you are free I will 
marry you. Tlicrcto I plight you my trotJi and 
honor. Thins ever, J. RoBixsox CRUSOE." 




"Polly." 



of 



Crusoe, 



59 



INTERMEZZO. 

[A parenthesis between Chapters VI. and VII. containing 
passing observations on the plan and scope of the work, and 
impressing on the casual reader the conviction of its 
veracity.] 

Y readers will understand 
how overcome with an- 
guish I must feel when 
presenting them with this 
narrative, which goes far 
to contradict their earliest 
impressions of the extra- 
ordinary probity of Robin- 
son senior and the way- 
wardness of his son. Vice, 
when exhibited in its 
sordid repulsiveness, can 
never so attract the million 
as will the fair show of 
virtue. But Truth is above 




A tearful object. 



every other consideration, and if by my silence I 



60 CJje &eal Sftbenturrs 



should have assisted in strengthening and confirm- 
ing the reputation gained by the writer whom I 
may now style " the Other Robinson," I should 
never cease to blame my own false and unworthy 
reticence. I am now coming to that portion of my 
career from which the mists of romance must be 
dispelled by the blaze of genuine verity. After 
referring to my diaries made at the moment and 
on the spot, I had a mind to print the truth and 
falsehood in parallel columns, after the fashion 
adopted by " the Other Robinson," * when he 
particularly wished to catch serious persons by 
self-advertisement of his own remarkable piety. 
But now that I am what then I only wished to make 
the world believe I was, I feel I may honestly 
declare, and without shame, what I really was. 
For there are so many extenuating circumstances 
and motives are so mixed that I am sure a dis- 
passionate jury of my experienced countrymen and 
fellow citizens will bring me in guilty of no greater 

* It must be borne in mind that " THE FALSE ROBINSON " was 
written as the true Robinson Crusoe so frequently tells us, ' ' under com- 
pulsion" so that he ^vould be sufficiently justified in alhtding to his ffziw 
writing as the work of another hand. ED. 



of Robinson Crusoe. 



61 



crime than that of yielding to temptations which 
few could have resisted and of trying" to appear 
virtuous out of sheer admiration for noble qualities 
which I almost despaired of ever possessing. In 
writing that work I yielded to the desire of obtain- 
ing a good reputation, the social value of which 
had been impressed upon me by one whom I might 
style the Imperious Dictator. End of Intermezzo. 
I resume. 




The Other Robinson. 



62 



1)? 



ftftbrnturrs; 



CHAPTER VII. 

ON BOARD. 

AWAKING I began 
to consider that I 
was not provided, 
as I could have 
wished, for a sea- 
voyage, having, in- 
deed, only four com- 
plete sets of town 
clothes, made in the 
latest fashion, with 
stockings, shoes, 
Awaking! and buckles to 

match, besides a gold-headed cane, such as was 
the mode among young "Beaux' 1 * of that time, 
with my watch, seals, other jewellery, and diamond 
snuff-box, for none of which things, I regret to 
say, have I to this day seen any tradesman's 




of Jiolnnsfon Crusor* 63 



account. If after this lapse of years they can 
prove beyond question the legitimacy of their claims 
I shall willingly discharge them. No one living 
shall be honestly able to say that Robinson Crusoe 
owes him a single penn^r to which he may be legally 
entitled. However, as far as these worthy people 
were concerned, if they had to wait some little time 
for their money, it would only be as though they 
had invested in a speculation which would not 
immediately produce such profits as they had been 
accustomed to realise ; for I have since learnt that 
these tailors, shoemakers, haberdashers, and such 
like, are in the habit of paying ridiculously small 
wages to poor hard-working souls who must take 
what they can get or starve, while for these very 
goods they charge their customers at the rate ot 
eighty per cent, interest, and then, forsooth, make 
a merit of deducting five or even ten per cent, for 
ready cash ! 

As I regarded" my brand-new things, there was 
some consolation in the thought that I, at all 
events, was not contributing one farthing towards 
this infamous traffic. Still it was a matter of some 



64 Cfte &eal Sfofemttirt* 

regret that I had not ordered a nautical costume with 
waterproofs to match, which I should have done 
in London if, when visiting the metropolis, I had 
had the slightest idea of the necessity that was 
about to arise. However, I determined to rectify 
the omission on the first opportunity, when we 
should put into some port, where there might be a 
town with some good tradesmen in it. So thinking, 
I tumbled out of my berth, and, thanking my lucky 
stars for the tranquillity of the sea, I set myself 
straightway to dress, a task that, with the assist- 
ance of the steward, or whatever he was, for I am 
ignorant in such matters, I managed to accomplish 
without much difficulty. It is true that twice or 
thrice the vessel gave a sort of lurch, which, on one 
occasion, threw me on my back into my large 
canvas bag, and, on another, sent all poor dear 
Adolphus's silver pomatum pots, scent bottles, hair- 
brushes, combs, flying about in every direction. 
The worst thing that happened was the upset of a 
bottle of boot-polish over my best cambric shirts, 
which annoyed me so greatly that I did not go to 
breakfast at the Captain's table in the sweetest 



of &o&indon Crusoe* 



possible humour. It is this sort of thing that 
unhinges great minds : a stupendous crisis in- 
volving utter ruin would not affect a man of genius 
so deeply as the splitting of a pair of new white 
gloves just as he was entering a drawing room, or 
the snapping in twain of the same Genius' shoe-tie 
while he was fashionably promenading. 




New White Gloves. 



66 



Cfte JUal 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE CAPTAIN'S WILL. 

HE captain of TJie 
Crazy Jane was a 
fairly honest fellow, 
though, consider- 
ing his capacity for 
taking a quantity, 
rather too fond of 
the bottle, that is 
when there was 
anything in it worth 
drinking ; though I 
am bound to say 
that for the bottle 
itself, as a bottle, 
ihs skipper. he cared little or 

nothing, often flinging one at the head of the 
cabin-boy or second-mate, or throwing it out to 




of Jxolnnsicm Crusoe. 67 

sea in order to amuse himself by taking a pot-shot 
at it with a fowling-piece. On these occasions I 
might have made a lot of money, as he invariably 
backed himself at odds to hit the neck of the 
bottle, which he only succeeded in doing once 
in fifty times. However, I was satisfied by in- 
sisting on his limiting his wagers to crowns 
instead of sovereigns, as by this he could enjoy 
double the amount of sport for precisely the same 
sum. 

The skipper confided all his family matters 
to me, and that such matters were extensive and 
various may be surmised from what I shall have to 
say later on, if I am permitted to finish these con- 
fessions, in which I begin to recognise the task of 
my life, I say the skipper confided in me, asking 1 
my advice, which I gave him willingly, only re- 
gretting that I had not complied with my father's 
request to qualify myself as a solicitor, as then I 
should have been able to make the usual legitimate 
charge of six shillings and eightpence for every 
opinion with which, whether in writing or verbally, I 
might favour my client. It suddenly occurred to me 

F 2 



68 c&e 3UaI gftfeetttttrt* 

that I had seen a licence to practise engrossed on a 
parchment, so I was able to draw one upon plain 
paper from memory, and to affix to it a large 
official seal, it was the seal of our Company, 
Robinson, Bogus & Co. This I presented to the 
captain as my solicitor's diploma, who thenceforth 
treated me with extraordinary respect, seldom 
asking me for more than one piece of advice per 
diem, for which he paid down ready money. Be it 
clearly understood that I do not hold up my conduct 
as a model for general imitation. I am simply 
stating facts. 

" My friend," I said to him one day, " a sailor's 
life is hazardous. You have a wife at home r " 

He nodded, and a silent tear in his eye spoke- 
volumes. 

" Your wife is unprovided for," I continued. " So- 
are your children." 

Again he nodded, and another silent tear wetted 
the other eye and spoke more volumes. I presumed 
he had children, or why should he be thus affected 
at my mention of them ? 

"Let me recommend you," I said, "while you 



of jftolmtdon Crusoe, 69 

are hale and hearty, to dispose of your real 
and personal property. In short if you ask my 
advice " 

" I do," he replied, at once handing over six and 
eightpence, for which, being always scrupulous hi 
such matters, I forthwith gave him a receipt. 

" Then," I resumed solemnly, " my advice is, 
* Make your will while the ship rolls. ' ' 

" Make it three bells," he exclaimed heartily ; 
" pipe all hands to grog, serve out the pens, ink 
and paper, and Will it is ! " 

We descended to the captain's cabin, and having, 
as he expressed it, * formed a Jorum,' we sat down 
to the work ; he dictating, I writing. 

Now though I took great care in drawing out 
this document and interlarding it with "Afore- 
saids," " Whereases," " The said So-and-so on the 
one part," and so forth, repeating these phrases as 
often as possible so as to cover some dozen sheets of 
paper for which he insisted on paying me so much/^r 
folio, yet the entire document came to no more, as 
far as its meaning went, than this, " I leave to Polly 
Newport all my property whatever and wherever it may 



70 Cfoe lUal 



/fc." I advised him to call her by her maiden name 
as well as by her title as his wife, and he willingly 
adopted my suggestion. We had a pleasant night 
of it, and I felt sure I had induced him to do the 
tight thing. 




Making; the Captain's Will. 



of ftofefn&m Crusoe, 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE REAL CRUISE O. 

E were delayed by 
stress of weather 
for some days, but at 
length w r ere enabled to 
put into a fine port on 
the south-east coast of 
Spain, a ^ country cele- 
brated for its chateaux 
(of which I sub- 
sequently purchased 
several), for its ches- 
nuts, onions, and liquo- 
rice, and for its hand- 
some women, whose 

A Spanish belle. , ., 

charms our versatile 
Captain was never tired of toasting, though as I 




72 



told him, I thought toasting was somewhat super- 
fluous in so warm a climate. 

During our voyage I had contrived to ingrati- 
ate myself not only with the Captain (who taught 
me all I know of navigation and much more which 
I have forgotten), but also with the first mate and 
the sailors down to the very smallest cabin-boy, 
any one of whom would have jumped into the 
water to serve me, a feat of no ordinary danger 
seeing that not a single man-Jack of them could 
swim a stroke. This ignorance of a most essential 
accomplishment has always struck me as strange 
in sea-faring men. But so it is. To those who are 
born to be hanged, the hours spent in acquiring the 
art of swimming would be so much wasted time. 
For my part, I had been taught to swim when I 
was six years old, and at seven I could dive to the 
bottom of the deepest river in England and fetch 
up chalk eggs. Many of my rivals in this exercise 
used craftily to conceal the eggs in their hands 
or in their belt ; but though I was frequently the 
means of detecting this disingenuous conduct, I for 
my part was never once suspected, and without 



of Jtolmtsoit Crusoe, 



a blush I may confidently assert that I never 
once carried a chalk egg" in my hand or in my 
belt. I mention this merely to show what sort 
of man the Real Robinson always has been, 
and not for the sake of reviving an old and useless 
controversy. My readers must take the good with 
the bad in these confessions, and if I honestly tell 
them that I was neither all good nor all bad, I 
do expect them to accept me at the valuation 
which every virtuous citizen must put on candour 
and plain speaking. Enough of this. As the 
French say " assez," and I think the word as 
pronounced very appropriate to a self-laudatory 
idiot. 

Our Captain, Jonathan Brown, was a gay dog, a 
gay Lothario as the phrase is. It grieves me to 
think of the lovely young creature Polly, to 
whom he had bequeathed everything, and whom, 
on a plea which had never entirely satisfied my 
mind, he had left behind him in England. Yet, 
it was difficult for me to refer to this delicate 
subject. And delicate I'm afraid she was, poor 
thing, needing the tenderest care. The Captain 



74 ClK ral 



might have brought her with him. Why he 
did not I understood as we proceeded on our 
voyage. I pity a man with the Lotharian tempera- 
ment. Was Polly Newport Mrs. Jonathan Brown or 
not ? Over our grog and pipes at night the Captain 
would sing me amatory ditties while I would 
confine myself to those of a jovial complexion, 
with which indeed I was better acquainted. 

This was a song of which he was mightily fond. 

THE CAPTAIN'S SONG. 

The life of a sailor is ever jolly, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
He loves his dear Nancy, his Lucy, his Polly, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
His heart is as large 
As a Newcastle barge, 

And there's room for full three times a score, 
If a dozen go out 
He just puts about 
And ships a fresh dozen or more, 

My boys, 
Yeo ho ! a fresh dozen or more ! 

On some very fine evenings, we would sit on 
the deck, and the sailors after piping all hands to 



of &0I)tn$j)tt Crusoe, 75 



grog, would join in the chorus in a manner which, 
for harmony and heartiness, I have never known 
equalled by the greatest professional singers. 
They were uncommonly fond of this liquor, and the 
extra supply which was invariably granted them at 
my request gave a joviality to our carouses that 
many an Imperial roysterer might have envied. 
The following was the remainder of the Captain's 
ditty 

I married a wife in Timbuctoo, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
I promised I would be ever true, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
" Unchanged I shall be 

When to you from the sea 
I return as I hope I shall do ! " 
Round the world I ranged 
And I was unchanged 
On returning to Timbuctoo, 

My boys, 
On returning to Timbuctoo. 

I married a wife in Halifax, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
A sailor has only got to ax, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
" You'll think of me still 
When you're sailing ! " "I will," 



76 Cfte Uai Sfcfcentures 

Says I, and I did on all tacks, 
111 think of her ever, 
But bless her, I'll never 
Go back to that Halifax, 

My boys, 
Yeo ho ! back to Halifax. 

I married a wife in the South of France, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
A sailor should never refuse a chance, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
" Be my mate," says she, 
And I answers " wee " 
As you do when you parleyvoo. 
She cries, " Don't forget 
Your little Jeanette." 
And I don't, as is plain to you, 

My lads ! 
Yeo ho ! ain't it plain to you ? 



T would take me from now till the gay dog-watch, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
To sing of them all, Dutch, Indian, Scotch, 

Yeo ho, my lads, yeo ho ! 
So shout ha ! ha ! 
For the Honest Tar 
Whose heart is as big as the sea. 
Of girls and of fishes 
He hooks what he wishes 
And he's true as a Tar can be, 

Brave boys ! 
Yeo ho ! true as Tar can be ! ! 



of &jriin$on Crusoe, 77 

"Them's my sentiments," said the Captain, toss- 
ing off a bumper, while the crew, their glasses being 
emptied, observed an ominous silence. Could I 
respect such a man ? Could I but pity the girl 
whose fate and fortune (he confided to me that she 
had a pretty good sum safely invested) were in his 
hands r However, there was no help for it at present. 
I foresaw that such conduct as this could not go 
unpunished. But was / to be the minister of 
vengeance or not ? That was the question. The 
answer was to be given, and sooner than I 
had expected. 

" A song ! a song ! " cried the crew after they 
had been served with additional grog at my re 
quest. 

" A ditty ! " cries Captain Jonathan Brown. " I 
call on our visitor for a ditty." 

" I says * ditty ' to the Captain," I rejoined 
humorously, and when the roar of laughter which 
this sally caused had subsided, I gave them the 
following bacchanalian song. Words and music 
my own composition. 



78 CI;e &rnl Sltrbentttres 



ROBINSON'S SONG. 

You may boast of fine ladies 

In England or Cadiz, 
I won't interrupt or pooh-pooh so 

But the man I will throttle 

Who won't pass the bottle, 
And so I advise you to do so. 
You'll do so at once to young Crusoe, 

You will I am sure you will do so, 
So give me what's handy, 
The gin, rum, or brandy, 

By Jove 'tis all one to young Crusoe ! 

Chorus. ( While they pass the liquor and drink} : 

We'll do so at once, my dear Crusoe, 
Politely we couldn't refuse, so 

We'll pass round the brandy 

Or anything handy 
And drink to our Robinson Crusoe. 

Then I sang the second verse : 

You may talk of your treasures, 

Your leisures and pleasures, 
Of jewels, and brides with a trousseau, 

But give me Old Pore O, 

The genuine sort O, 
Says jovial Robinson Crusoe. 

But would I Madeira refuse O ? 

I am not that kind of recluse O ! 
Than all others quicker 
I'll swallow the liquor, 

Says jolly young Robinson Crusce 



of &obutson Crusoe* 79 

Chorus as before, until the Captain was under 
hatches, and great progress had been made in our 
voyage by all the crew being half-seas over. It 
was now that I first got rid of the nickname which 
had stuck to me on shore, and instead of being any 
longer Robbingson Crew-so I re-spelt and adapted 
the name, putting it into verse form so as to be 
better remembered in case evidence of the fact 
should be required at some future time. It was a 
wise man who said " Let who will make the laws, 
I'll write the songs." And here is the extra verse 
which they got by heart and sang with fervour : 

No matter what weather, 

We're jolly together 
And jolly we've been, though it blew so, 

This Cruise you may bet it ; 

We'll never forget it 
We called it our Robinson Cruise, O ! 

The very first Robinson Cruise, O ! 
I wish we could get three or two so, 
Put this to your lip, mate, 
And drink to our ship-mate, 
Cur jolly Jack Robinson Cruise-O ! 

It was easy after this to say, that not wishing to 



8o 



be egotistical, I would omit the "i" from the name, 
or to give any other facetious reason as might suit 
the company in which I might chance to find myself. 
But to return to my voyage, the most memorable 
cruise o' Crusoe. 




w'oll Jack Robinson. 



of 



Crusoe, 



81 



CHAPTER X. 

SARA GOSSA. 

HE Captain now 
confided to me that 
his was no trader in 
the ordinary sense, 
but a vessel engaged 
in carrying goods 
from one country to 
another, and dis- 
posing of them free 
of all customary in- 
spection. 

" So," said I, de- 
A whisperad Confidence. liberately, "in plain 

language, you are a smuggler." 

"Just that," he replied, nodding pleasantly, 
" and as I've taken a liking to you, I am ready 
to offer you a share in such transactions as I am 
carrying out for my own benefit as well as for 
.that of a private company." 




82 



" How can I serve you ? " I cautiously inquired. 

" You will impersonate a rich English merchant. 
You can write a neat hand, several neat hands," he 
added slyly, and I own to having blushed at hear- 
ing his praises as he continued, " and are not a bad 
copyist, eh ? " 

I answered that I had some slight talent in that 
direction. 

" Good ; " he returned, " then at the next port 
we put into we will take stores on board to the 
amount of several thousand pounds, which you 
shall pay for with bills of exchange, signed by 
the London firm of Walker, Martin, and Co.. 
See ? " 

I replied that I perceived his drift, and added 
that in my opinion, as " exchange was no robbery," 
so bills of exchange must be included in a com- 
mercial proverb which was respected in all 
countries. And after all the value of the circu- 
lating medium is quite arbitrary. 

He had other plans, and I entered into them with 
all the energy of youth and the eagerness of 
gratitude. For had not the Captain been of service 
to me when I could obtain no other aid, and was I 



of gvofcinsfjju Crusoe, 83 

to forget this : No. Perish the thought ! and 
though I own my conscience was not altogether at 
ease as to the kind of business in which my friend 
was interested, yet was it a part of my duty to 
inquire into the honesty of his purpose, or to repay 
his trust with an ungenerous suspicion? He had 
owned to the name of " Smuggler" ! But the name is 
not the thing, and there is a vast difference between 
an honest smuggler and a dishonest one. Besides, 
who was I that I should become prosecutor, judge 
and jury, and convict a man on his own unguarded 
confession ? 

At the next port (and here I may say that the 
names and dates given in the history of the Other 
Robinson are so inaccurate as to be only remotely 
founded on fact) at the next port, the name of 
which was Azuvero Sumtymagoa^ the Captain re- 
quested me to see to everything, while he went 
ashore " on " what he called " business." No 
sooner did our ship come alongside the quay, than 
a dark brunette in Spanish dress playing the casta- 
nets stood at one end of the gangway, and, no sooner 
our luckless Captain, who had evidently quite for- 

G 2 



84 Cfte cal 



gotten her existence and had other plans in his 
head, set eyes on her, than he staggered as if he 
had been shot, and, muttering with an oath, " Sara 
Gossa here ! Confound my geography ! " he tried 
to descend ths companion unobserved, but, to put 
it pleasantly, the female companion was too quick 
for him. 

" Enriquez ! " she called out, and at the same 
time a black-bearded ill-looking ruffian with a 
naked stiletto in his girdle whispered something to 
her which I could see by his gestures was, " Shall 
I go for him ? " 

She inclined her head, and in another moment 
the stiletto gleamed in the air like a flash of vivid 
lightning, the man was among us, on deck, and I 
was showing him, as politely as possible, for I am not 
partial to naked stilettos, into the Captain's cabin. 

"Avast! messmate! tip us your fin!" cried 
our skipper, addressing the foreign visitor with 
forced geniality, all the while looking as pale as 
a turnip. Then the two men carried on a conver- 
sation in a language which I did not comprehend, 
but the purport of which it was not difficult to 



of HofttitgDU Crusoe. 85 

understand, seeing that it ended by the Captain 
opening a secret locker and putting a consider- 
able amount of money in his pocket in coins 
which in those parts they call %< reals," for which 
I offered at once to substitute notes and some 
gold and silver with the English stamp on 
them, a currency valuable everywhere. The 
Captain appreciated my consideration, and seeing 
that he was going away in company with so sus- 
picious a character, it was far better to replace the 
" reals " by my paper and coin, which we may call 
the " shams," and which if not equal in value to 
the pieces they represented, yet, as being of great 
artistic merit, and becoming more and more rare 
every day, would, in time, be worth double their 
fictitious value to any collector of strange coins. 

So the Captain took the " shams " and left the 
" reals " in my possession, and after bidding 
myself and the crew good-bye, and telling us to 
be ready to start early in the morning of the 
day after to-morrow, he went off with his male and 
female companion, and the three were soon lost to 
sight in the bustle and turmoil of the busy town. 



86 



CHAPTER XI. 

A BUSINESS DINNER. 

AT once executed the 
Captain's commissions, 
received all the goods, 
merchandise, powder, 
diamonds, supplies of 
wine and food. I kept the 
men at work throughout 
the night, for our manner 
of lading required secrecy 
and dispatch, and the 
next morning the clerks 
from the various houses 
came down to the ship 
to be paid. 

Being in a monstrous good humour, I signalled 
to the clerks an appointment at the best Marinero 




Taking in Supplies. 



of ftolnnsson Crusoe. 87 



Ostello in the town, where the mate, the crew and 
myself met them. Here was provided, at my 
expense, as fine a breakfast (they breakfast in 
this part of the world about midday, so to us it was 
a lunch or dinner) as these worthy counter-jumpers 
and office-stool polishers had ever imagined in 
their wildest nightmares. As for my men, they 
were ready for what the Germans call a " Milnchen 
mit swizzletrinkm" and seeing they had all the 
day before them, they were prepared to go at it 
with a will. 

One thing I must here mention, though I did 
not recall it to my memory until some time after- 
wards. On quitting the ship the Captain had 
asked me to lend him my watch, as he had care- 
fully locked up his (a gold repeater striking all 
the hours and so forth) in a drawer. I had given 
him mine, but had quite forgotten to inform him 
that unless carefully regulated by an experienced 
hand twice a day, it was in the habit of losing 
fifteen minutes in every hour. Well to make a 
long story short the clerks were paid, had pocketed 
their money, and we all sat down to carouse, Don 



88 d)e JUal S&btnturr* 



Guzzlero, the head clerk of the chief firm, facing 
me in the vifioso scdillo or " vice chair." There 
were only three and a half of our crew absent, one 
of them being an old sailor, whom we had taken 
abroad at some port or other on the way, and who 
was now suffering from toothache. The other two 
absentees were ordinary able seamen, and the half 
was a bright, cheery little cabin-boy. These had 
remained on board, and were included in our toasts 
as "Absent friends.'' 

The fact of the old sailor, whose name was men- 
tioned to me as Will Atkins, suffering from tooth- 
ache brought to my mind, for the first time since I 
had quitted England, the memorable events which 
had immediately preceded my departure. I remem- 
bered my own toothache, and how the drug, which 
I had purchased for its relief, I had subsequently 
applied to the nose and mouth of the unconscious 
Simon. Naturally enough it occurred to me that 
once more I might relieve pain. So on my way to 
the hostelrie chancing to see a chemist's shop, I 
went in, and asked as best I could in pantomime, 
and exhibiting a few pieces of the Captain's money, 



of itobiitgon Crusoe* 89 



for some concoction which would induce repose 
and allay suffering. In spite of my protestations and 
attempts at explanation, they took all the money 
I held out to them, and in exchange insisted upon 
my carrying away with me half-a-dozen pint bottles 
of what I supposed to be some harmless pain- 
alleviating drug; and to the quantity I made no 
objection, foreseeing the use it might be to us dur- 
ing the voyage. Unfortunately the stupid waiters 
placed these bottles on the sideboard, where, I 
regret to say, unnoticed by me, they were mixed 
up with the bottles of wine. As far as I am con- 
cerned, the cheery little cabin-boy had brought up 
a private supply of the best liquor from the 
Captain's cupboard for my own drinking; and this 
I kept secreted under my chair. 

Now, whether the waiters continued to mistake 
the drug for the wine, or whether my guests drank 
a great deal more than was good for them, I have 
never been able to exactly ascertain, but this I know 
that by four o'clock they were all fast asleep ; the 
greater number of them under the table, some on 
their chairs, and some on the floor. All the bottles 



90 Cf)e &eal Sfcbrnturrsf 

of somniferous mixture had been emptied, the 
waiters were snoring on the landing, and except for 
these sounds there was not a sign of life in the 
Ostello, at least not in the part we were occupying, 
which was an Annexo, as they called it in that 
country, detached from the main building. 

Fearing lest any harm should come to the clerks, 
I removed from their pockets all the money and 
valuables they had about them, and having dis- 
charged a portion of the bill, at the same time telling 
the landlady that I was returning presently, as I had 
intended to do, I walked down to the quay, and was 
rowed in a small boat to our ship, which, after the 
Captain's departure, we had taken outside the 
harbour, so as to be ready for sailing at the 
shortest possible notice. We were a party of four 
on board, exclusive of the youngster who had 
supplied me from the Captain's private cellar. 
The old navigator, Will Atkins, had quite re- 
covered from his severe attack of toothache, 
whereat I was delighted, as of the remedy specially 
purchased for him not a drop remained. I treated 
them to grog, and we watched anxiously for the 



of &ofcin3an Crugat* 9* 

Captain's return. The old sailor began to murmur. 
Were they to waste all the time here ? Where 
Avere the others r Where was the Captain ? And 
here the two lads joined in, and the affair threat- 
ened to take a serious turn. But I was equal to 
the occasion. 

I told them plainly that I was afraid Captain 
Jonathan Brown had deserted, and that their 
companions had done much the same, as they 
had proved themselves a drunken set of sots 
whom, if I remained at the station I must, or, 
should he reappear, the Captain must, hand over 
to the civil authorities, and every man Jack-Tar of 
them would be shot or hung at the yard-arm. At 
this the poor ignorant souls were sore afraid, and 
going on their knees implored me to let them weigh 
anchor and set sail for the next port, protesting 
they would do far better without their Captain 
and without their messmates, as the fewer they 
were in number, the larger the shares would be of 
any booty that might fall into their hands. 

I now perceived that I had to deal with an un- 
principled set, consisting of two men to set a bad 



example and a boy to follow it, but on the whole it 
seemed better for everybody that I should act on 
the impulse of the moment, which was to weigh 
anchor and leave our besotted messmates to find the 




Acting on Impulse. 

Captain if they could. Our departure would save 
the captain from bigamy, that is if he were already 
married to Polly Newport, or trigamy or polygamy, 
and he might make this Spanish lady a happy wife. 



of SRoliinston Crusoe, 9; 

There was so much plausibility in all this reason- 
ing that, though I cannot quite acquit myself of all 
blame in yielding to the arguments advanced with 
much force and earnestness by Will Atkins, who 
appeared to be the spokesman of the party, yet. 
taking into consideration my extreme youth, my 
inexperience, and the strange circumstances of the 
case, I am inclined to think that few young men 
of my age would have acted with my decision at 
this critical moment. Nor am I certain that my 
action was not overruled for the best, that is, 
judging by results so far as I am acquainted with 
them. 



94 



INTERMEZZO. 




The Collaborator-in-chief. 



MUST pause for a 
minute or so in my 
narrative to remind 
myreaders that these- 
are confessions and 
revelations. Those- 
to whom the first 

work * is familiar, 
. 

ought not to be sur- 
prised at the recur- 
rence herein of cer- 
tain names which are- 
to be found in that 
earlier and un vera- 
cious story of my 
life and adventures. 
For be it remem- 



* That is, what has hitherto been known as "The Life and 
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.' ED. 



of &oMn$on Crusoe* 95 

bered, that as there is no smoke without fire, so 
there is no romance but is built up on a foun- 
dation of fact, and that good and true material 
must be used in rearing an edifice intended 
to present all the appearance of a solid work. 
Fiction must possess an air of what our French 
neighbours term "vratsemblance" or it would never 
for one second deceive the cultured and the 
wealthy classes. Everyone may then be satisfied 
that Friday* and Will Atkins are genuine person- 
ages. The complexion given to them in the 
first story, including Friday's, is another thing, 
and my hand was not then free to declare the 
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
But glad am I now that I insisted on retaining 
these names, as by comparing this account of 
actual facts with the former one of imaginary 
circumstances, the sympathy of the public, I 
am sure, will be with the man who under pres- 
sure (and this will be explained and disclosed 
gradually) was compelled for the sake of gains in 
which he himself only partially shared, to describe 

* Friday has not yet appeared. Coming later. ED. 



96 



Sftbtnturt* 



scenes he had never witnessed, and a state of 
things that had never had any real existence 
except in the fertile imagination of the collabo- 




rator-in-chief. This term does not mean myseH, 
as will be seen. 

I admit certain irregularities in my early life, but 
who is not conscious of these ? I have suffered for 
these more than most persons, as will be seen 



of Hofcinsson Crusoe* 97 

in this narrative, and indeed the majority, 
as far as I can ascertain, never suffer at 
all for what are enormities as compared with 
my errors which resulted from faulty education, 
defective moral training, bad example, and the 
circumstances in which a free and easy nature like 
mine had been developed. In bearing my own 
load, I must in justice place the laden pack-saddles 
on the backs of the animals who ought to carry 
them. 

The reader will excuse these few words ; but, if 
generous, he will understand that they are spoken 
in the frank and open spirit of one whose motto has 
ever been Facere aut Fieri and " Heaven defend the 
right ! " 

End of Intermezzo the Second, and on we go 
again. 



9 8 



CHAPTER XII. 

ON SAIL OR RETURN? 

HE only sailor on 
board this vessel 
whom I could now 
trust was the elderly 
"salt," Will Atkins. 
His boast was that 
he had got round 
the world in so 
many years, but 
that the world had 
never, as yet, got 
round him. 

"Messmate," he said to me, after the usual 
respectful avasts and belays and allusions 
to his dear eyes and so forth, wherewithal an 
honest tar invariably prefaces his remarks. 




"Will Atkins." 



of jRa&instan Crusoe* 99 



" Messmate, I know the value of this here 
cargo." 

" So do I," was my reply, 

"Avast there, messmate," says Will Atkins, 
" but this here cargo is contraband, and you'll 
have a difficulty in disposing of it." 

" I do not think so," I observed. 

" There you're wrong," returns Atkins, wink- 
ing knowingly. " Whose ship's this r " 

" The ship is not mine, but I have captured it in 
the name of the Government," I explained; " and 

I shall get a handsome percentage " here he 

interrupted with a loud laugh. 

" Blow percentages ! Who are you, I should 
like to know r " I offered to inform him, but he 
went on ; " What's more to the point is Who am 
I ? I'm William Atkins, A.B., M.D." 

" M.D. ! " I exclaimed, " a Doctor ! " 

" Doctor ahoy, and be jammed to it ! " he shouted. 
"Wot's 'M.D.'? Why, shipmate, it's 'Marine 
Detective ' ! " 

" The Police ! " 

" Police it is," returned Atkins (the scoundrel), 

H 2 



loo Cfte eal 



quietly ; " and here's my authority." And with 
this he produced a warrant. " Now," he went on, 
"we've only two men and a boy on board, the 
Captain and his crew are wherever they may be 
by this time, and I command this prize. Aye or 
no, eh, mate r " 

I was so dumfounded that I could do no more 
than whisper that it was as he pleased, and that, if 
he were indeed a myrmidon of the Law, I was at 
his disposal. 

" Good. Your hand upon it." Whereupon he 
shook my hand heartily, which I allowed him to do, 
yet with some secret misgiving. 

" I've had my eye on you," Will Atkins went on. 
" I've watched you. You know your way about. 
I'm open-handed. This is a considerable prize, 
We'll share. Your hand." 

Again he shook my hand warmly. But to shake 
a hand is not a formula meant to commit one to 
anything against one's will. 

"Say yes," said he. 

I said " yes " as he wished. But I am lawyer- 
enough to know that there are certain cases in- 



of SUrttotfon Crusoe* 101 

which silence gives consent, when speech doesn't, and 
this was one of them. 

Thus at all events did I honestly become monarch 
of half I surveyed, though Will Atkins was false 
to his trust, and had no right to hand over to me 
what he was there as caretaker to guard on behalf 
of his employers. 

" Now," says he over our evening grog, " we 
must get rid of our remaining crew, and I'll sail the 
ship myself." 

Then he took a chart and showed me where 
we were. But unfortunately not being accustomed 
to this kind of study, I could not follow him as he 
pointed out to me the line we were to take along 
the paths of the sea, of which he declared every 
step was as familiar to him as the streets of his 
own native town. 

"What town?" I inquired. 

" Hull," he answered, without taking his eye off 
the spot where his finger was marking the deepest 
soundings. 

I confess I was taken aback. And now I came 
to think of it, I did not remember his having been 



102 Cfte Heal Stobenttirtd 



on board when I embarked. In fact, as I've already 
hinted, I had not seen him until after we had left 
some port where we had stopped a night to leave a 
couple of our sailors that were invalids, in order to 
take in a robust hand. 

"Ay, ay, messmate," said he when I mentioned 
this : " l Set down two and carry one.' That was 
me." And here he drained off his glass and re- 
filled his pipe. 

It occurred to me that if his warrant were authori- 
tative, would it not be the more honest of me 
to take it from him, hold the cargo as my own, 
and make my own terms with the Government, 
from a distance, giving up this traitor, Will Atkins, 
to justice as a first step, and then if I did not find a 
representative of our Government at any port 
where we might put in, I should be bound to realise 
the cargo for my own benefit, and could give a fair 
account of it should I ever be called upon to do so. 

However, I said nothing, but in a general way, 
and in a genial manner, agreed to every proposal 
this double-faced villain made to me. Whether 
" M.D." or not, he was a sagacious old salt. 



of &olnnan Crusoe*. 103 

" I like you," he said to me again, seizing me by 
the hand and shaking it heartily which he did on 
an average every ten minutes " and I'll show you 
where the buried treasure lies that's been in these 
seas for a hundred years or more." 

4< Indeed ! " says I, ever ready to acquire know- 
ledge, though I considered the " lie " of the 
buried treasure came well from this inventive old 
scoundrel. 

" Take my glass," says he. I did, and emptied 
it. " Avast there, messmate ! " he exclaimed ; 
" which weren't my meaning at all." I begged his 
pardon. I did not see that in his left hand he was 
holding a telescope. 

I took it and reconnoitred. 

" D'you see a small island S. by S.S.W. ? " he 
asked. 

" I do," I answered, and oddly enough I did. 

" That's where the Spaniards buried two million 
golden doubloons," he said. " And when we've 
put these men ashore we'll sail straight for that 
spot and make our fortunes." And once more he 
clasped my hand and shook it warmly. Then he 



104 Cfre &tal Sttrbentures 

finished his grog, rolled up his chart, and turned 
in. 

I went on deck. A lovely moonlight night. I 
thought of Hull, of the Captain false to his wife, or 
wives ; I thought of Nancy his widow for was she 
not such ? and wished I were well back again, 
when, on my word and honour, I would have 
proposed to her. But here we were thousands of 
miles from anywhere like " England, home and 
beauty," as the song says, and only the man at the 
wheel for a companion. 

" What tack are we on ? " I asked. 

" N. by N.N.W.," he answered. 

"There's an island out there" I said, calmly, 
pointing S. by S.S.W., "where millions of Spanish 
doubloons are buried." 

The man's eyes glistened in the moonlight. His 
hand trembled. The wheel went round. 

" What tack are we on now ? " I asked. There 
was ill-repressed agitation in his voice as he 
answered, 

" S. by S.S.W." 

" Then make it so," I said, not knowing exactly 



of 



105 



what I meant, for nautical phraseology has never 
been my strong point. 

" S. by S.S.W. it is. Ay, ay, sir," he answered; 




Alone on Board. 

and I heard him murmur " treasure " to himself 
as I went below. 

The next morning there was a grating sound 
over the side. A boat was being lowered. 

" What is it ? " I shouted out of the port-hole 



io6 



which served me for a, cabin window. " Man 
overboard r " 

" Two men and a boy overboard," replied a rough 
voice, which I recognized as that of Will Atkins, 
and in another second he bounded on deck, fired 
two pistols at the retreating figures in the gig, and 
then, cutting away another boat, leapt into it,. 
and crying out that he would arrest the thieves, 
pulled with all his might and main after them. 

It was an exciting race for the island where the 
golden treasure lay. 

I was alone on board. The vessel drifting in the 
S. by S.S.W. direction. No sails up. No wind. 
Becalmed! This, then, was the secret of their 
hurry. 



of fcofunsfon Crusoe. 



107 



CHAPTER XIII. 

I SAIL WITH THE GALE. 

FTER I had overcome 
the first sensation 
of loneliness, I 
was puzzled to ac- 
count for their de- 
sertion. Evidently 
the two men and the 
boy had gone off in 
search of the buried 
treasure. 

Will Atkins was only 
one against three, but 
he was well armed. Yet 
why did he leave me in 
possession of the ship ? 
He knew what cargo 
there was on board ; 
the sailors were ignorant of this, otherwise my 




Scanning the Horizon. 



IDS 



life would not have been worth an hour's pur- 
chase. 

But Will Atkins knew everything. Was the 
buried treasure so enormous as to attract him away 
from the ship, or did he consider his compact with 
me, signed as it were with so many shakes of the 
hand, as sacred and binding on me as his partner ? 

The truth was that they all considered me a 
mere land-lubber, as, in fact, I was ; and they 
thought that the ship would drift in, or that I could 
do nothing with her in their absence. The sailors 
must have calculated on leaving Will Atkins in the 
ship with me. The sailors were only two men and 
a boy, and if Will Atkins, armed, and with his 
warrant to support his moral authority 

Here I paused in my meditations, which now took 
a fresh turn. I would go down and see if Will 
Atkins in his haste to be off had taken the valuable 
document with him. I entered his cabin. No ! 
there it lay with his snuff-box and a corkscrew on 
the table. I at once took possession of it, as a 
matter of precaution, intending, of course, to have 
a bit of fun with him on his return. 



of Robinson Crusoe* 109 

When I again went on deck there was one boat 
in sight, a mere speck in the distance. It was, as 
far as I could make out with the glass, the gig, with 
the two men pulling and the boy steering. Will 
Atkins had forged ahead of them it was evident, 
and would be the first to slip ashore and plant his 
foot. It would be indeed with him an illustration 
of the old saying, " He planted his foot and up 
came a constable." 

Stop ! ! Constable ! He was a " Marine Detec- 
tive." Was it possible that this island was a 
Government Police Station, that the story of the 
treasure was only told to entrap me, and that if we 
had landed there we should all have been handed 
over by him to the Government as pirates, the ship 
taken possession of by his fellow-marine-police, 
and myself strung up at the yard-arm, while he 
received a magnificent reward and a splendid 
pension r 

If so, why had he partially spoilt his own game 
by telling me who he was? I think I can see 
what his idea was in making this move ; it was to 
give me complete confidence in him as one who 



no 



was running a considerable risk. However, so it 
was : the two men and the boy would be caught : 
and if the ship continued her course I too should 
be brought in, the police-boats would come out, 
and I should be a helpless prisoner. And had I 
any guarantee for the security of the cargo ? None 
whatever. Evidently it had never entered into Will 
Atkins's head that I should dare to sail the ship 
alone. But this is what I was determined to do. 
I knew that besides the vast wealth stored 
away on board, the ship had provisions for a 
year, that is with only a crew of one, myself, 
and so I piped all hands for a glass of grog, 
warmed myself with a hornpipe, boxed the compass 
for exercise, untied the wheel, gave it one good 
turn ; then, as one good turn deserves another, I 
repeated it, and within five minutes I had the satis- 
faction of seeing the head of the ship assuming 
a northerly direction ; that is going away from, 
instead of towards, the land, which from this time 
forward I have marked on the chart as Doubtful : 
" Doubloon or Police Island," and the bay I 
christened "Doubloon Bay." 



of itof>in*0ii Crusoe, m 



There seemed however, to be a current drifting 
inland, and once more I began to be fearful lest the 
ship should glide stern foremost into Doubloon Bay. 

Fastening the wheel so as to steer north, I 
loosened the main-sheet, and with the assistance 
of a few weights that were lying about and were 
used for heaving the lead, I hoisted one sail, [I do 
not know its name, but it was about the middle of 
the vessel,] then I hoisted a fore-sail, and to my 
delight I saw them bulge out. In another moment 
I felt the vessel moving under me. At that instant 
a faint cry reached my ears. 

I turned a boat was just visible I looked 
through the glass and could detect four oars. 

Clearly Will Atkins and his own men, not the 
ship's crew, returning. 

At this moment, as luck would have it, the breeze 
dropped, and in consequence of the ship drifting 
astern (I think this is the nautical expression, but I 
mean "going backwards") they were gaining on 
me every second. 

There was a breeze but it seemed to escape my 
sail. 



H2 Cfte lUal 



In these regions night comes on with startling 
rapidity, and even now the sun was at its last 
gasp. Still as this might or might not help me, 
I had rather have seen my way than have had to 
feel it. 

Suddenly it occurred to me that our stern-chaser 
(a gun of some tonnage) was loaded, and being 
curiously nearsighted, 1 thought that this would be 
a merciful signal to my pursuers just to indicate 
that I meant mischief. 

So aiming as well as I could, and in much nervous 
trepidation, for I am unused to fire-arms, I applied 
a match to the gun. 

It exploded with a force that made the ship reel 
again. The explosion threw me on my back, 
jerking me to so great a distance and with such 
violence that, had it not been for a coil of rope, I 
should have been precipitated over the bulwarks 
into the sea. As it was, I lay senseless. When 
I recovered, the ' scene had entirely changed. The 
sun had disappeared. It was night. Pitch-dark. 
A fierce gale had sprung up. The masts were 
bending under the swelling and tugging canvas. 



of &otunon Crusoe, 113 

The vessel was rolling fearfully. I crawled on 
my hands and knees to the wheel. A vivid flash 
of lightning followed by a terrific clap of thunder 
nearly blinded and deafened me. 

A second flash lighted up the sea. Not a soul 
was visible. No island, no boats, only sea, sea, 
sea ! ! 

Do what I could, I could not succeed in hauling 
down either of the sails. 

We were scudding at an awful rate, pitching 
and tossing, as if the whole voyage was to be a 
fearful game of chance. The compass shook and 
shivered in its case. The wheel revolved, there 
was no holding it. * Every timber of the Crazy 
Jane was strained to Us utmost limits. I knew 
nothing of sailing, nothing of navigation ! What 
could I do ? 

With superhuman energy I managed, during a 
short lull, to fix the wheel so as to preserve the 
direction in which the compass was pointing at the 
moment. This was N. by N.W. Scarcely was 
the desired result obtained than a violent gust rent 
the sails, and a hurricane swept me from the deck 

i 



Cfoe 



into the roaring boiling sea. I gave myself up for 
lost. I was tossed about as a boy used to be 
tossed in a blanket by heartless companions. I 
was knocked about as if I were a football. Then 
I lost consciousness. 




1 1 was knocked about. 



of ito&fngott Crusoe* 



CHAPTER XIV. 

THE TRUTH ABOUT THE ISLAND. 

HEN I came to my- 
self it was some 
time before I could 
realise my situation. 
Had everything 
5^ been a dream? 
r What had hap- 
pened ? Was I on 
board ship, or at 
Hull, or in Spain ? 
I called for the Cap- 
tain, for the Cap- 
tain's wife, for Will 
Atkins, and then 

-on a gigantic rock.- suddenly the whole 

truth flashed across me, as I sat bolt upright on 
the top of a rock where some gigantic wave, more 

I 2 




Sftfcntture* 



kindly disposed than its fellows, had landed me high 
and dry. Very dry. Parched. I murmured to my- 
self, by a sort of poetic inspiration born of despair, 

The day is breaking, 
My head is aching, 

I'm wracked in every bone. 
My nerves are quivering, 
My knees are shivering, 

And I am here alone ! 

I actually composed a tune to this on the spot, 
and began to sing it. Was my brain reeling ? No ; 
for I had written the lines on my shirt-cuff, and 
had added the information " Copyright." Then it 
suddenly occurred to me that somewhere I had 
heard how swans sing just before they die, and I 
said to myself, 

"Robinson, my poor friend, this is a bad 
omen. Stop your singing. Look ' about you and 
see what is to be done." 

Whereupon, summoning up all my latent energy, 
I rose to my feet and gazed on the scene around me. 
The prospect was not encouraging. In the 
distance I could see the ship wedged in firmly 



of ftolHitson Crusoe, 117 

among the rocks, lying" on her side like a huge 
walrus asleep. I have never seen a huge walrus 
asleep, or awake, but the simile sounds original 
and correct. The waves still broke over her 
and sportively danced about her, though the 
violence of the storm had passed away, and the 
grey morning was beginning to break, cold and 
hopeless. I was on a sea-shore : above me were 
cliffs of a reddish-brown colour crowned by a 
considerable amount of verdure, and a little further 
on I descried a small bay, which appeared to me 
to be the mouth of a river, on whose banks by 
walking a few steps forward so as to get a better 
view, I clearly perceived several trees and a 
quantity of long grass or reeds. Where was I r 

" If I am looking on a river," thought I, " there 
will be some fresh water there, and if I had 
only managed to preserve my flask " 

With this I put my hands in my pockets and 
began to rummage in my damp clothes. All I 
could find was a corkscrew, three half-pence, a 
pack of cards and a toothpick. What bitter 
mockery there was in this collection of odds and 



ends ! A corkscrew, and no bottle of anything at 
hand ! three half-pence and not even a baker's 
shop in the neighbourhood ! a pack of cards and 
not a companion to play with ! a toothpick and 
no sign of food anywhere ! 

If I could only reach the ship ! At present this 
was impossible ; if it were now low tide I should 
never manage it. But how if this were high tide ! 

I carefully descended from my perch to the sand, 
which, whether it were high or low water, at the 
present moment was of so magnificent an extent 
as to rival that at Scarborough, with which, as a 
north-country man, I was well acquainted, and the 
idea flashed across me, what a splendid, fashion- 
able watering-place this would make if it were only 
within reach of civilisation, and if I only knew 
where on earth I was ! " Fortune, my dear Robin- 
son Crusoe," I said to myself, " may after all be 
favourable, and what appeared to be your destruc- 
tion may turn out to be the starting-point of your 
future success." 

With this thought I cheered myself up a bit, 
but I confess, now, that I felt very down on my luck, 



of &0&mfon Crusoe* 119 

and the more so, the hungrier and the thirstier I 
became. I was right in my surmise about the 
river. It was a small stream. I knelt down and 
drank some of the water. Then I gave myself a 
wash in the best manner I could, for I was always 
a cleanly lad, and I was more distressed at not 
having any soap with me than I was by the 
terrible vicissitudes through which I had passed. 

" Never," I resolved then and there, " never will I 
crawl about without a small piece of soap and a 
sponge, both of which can be carried in a case 
as portable as an ordinary pocket-book." 

Still the draught did not appease my appetite, 
but rather sharpened it. Where was I to look for 
something to eat ? And in this desert place 
suppose something were also looking out for 
someone to eat and should espy me ! I had no 
gun, no pistol, no knife, no sword ! 

The sun now commenced to shine. I did not 
like to take off my clothes and dry them on the 
rocks, not knowing who might come up, whether 
friend or foe, or, if I was in an inhabited country, 
whether there might not be some police regulations 



120 Cfoe Beal 



as to bathing, which would render me liable to the 
utmost rigour of the law. 

If there were man-eating animals about, then 
I would far rather have my clothes on than be 
found by one of these beasts without them. At 
all events there would be some chance of escape 
with clothes on, as the most determined and vora- 
cious man-eating animal likes his food raw and 
rather objects to man dressed ; whether well dressed 
or badly dressed doesn't matter. 

One thing now became apparent that the tide 
was going out, and that if it only receded far enough, 

X 

I could reach the ship easily and have a good six 
hours' search all over the place. The anticipation 
of this brightened me up, and once more I began to 
look about me for something to eat. 

In the bay the sea had already left the sand and 
rocks clear, and here, remembering my early days 
at Scarborough and Whitby with a little pail and 
spade, I went in search of Crustacea. I was not 
long unrewarded. I found several small crabs, 
some jelly fish, occasional mussels, and a few 
small oysters which, evidently unaccustomed to the 



of oi)tn$on Crusoe* 121 

proximity of man, were lying with their shells wide 
open. I stalked them carefully, and thrusting a sharp 
stone into half a dozen of them, I prevented them 
from closing, and then swallowed them with an 
avidity that must have considerably astonished 
the natives. I got a good dozen of these (how I 
longed for a pint of stout and brown bread and 
butter!}, and then went for the small crabs and 
mussels, which, however, I forgot at the moment 
required cooking before eating. I ate four mussels 
and two crabs .... that was quite sufficient. 
How I wished I had never touched them ! In the 
next hour I was in agonies, rolling on the sand 
and suffering far more tortures than I had ex- 
perienced on the previous night, when indeed, 
after I was once hurled into the sea, I was uncon- 
scious. But now ! With gratitude I noticed the 
sea receding farther and farther from the shore. I 
longed for the moment when I could reach the 
ship and get a glass of the best brandy. There 
was a clear mile of sand to traverse seawards 
between me and the wreck, , but I knew that on 
board I should find a panacea for all my sufferings. 



122 CJje &eai gftbenture* 

Occasional waves were splashing and leaping on 
the rocks as I climbed the side of the Crazy Jane, 
and with great difficulty crawled across the deck, 
which was just at the angle she used to be when 
going at full speed with all sail crowded and the 
scuppers open. 

The compass was fixed, but the wheel was 
smashed, the vessel was creaking in every timber, 
and I fully expected that she would go to pieces 
while I was aboard. The question was would she 
afford me shelter for the coming night, as if not, 
where should I sleep r Never did I realise how 
comfortable my mode of existence had been until 
now, when there was so sure a prospect of my being 
houseless and homeless. 

The tide would turn, and if there were a storm I 
might be drowned in my berth, as helpless as a 
blind puppy. 

I went below and got straight to the Captain's 
desk. Here I found several bags of sovereigns and 
a quantity of silver coins and paper-money with 
which I had provided him, and which perhaps might 
be of use in these strange parts, wherever I might 



of lUrbittfton Crusoe. 123 



be. But in civilised haunts of European com- 
merce, both the silver and the paper, excellent in 
appearance though they were, would I knew be 
valueless. However, in the hopes of one day see- 
ing the Captain, or at all events of restoring this 
money to his widow (if wife she had been) at Hull, 
I secured all the available assets, such as cash, 
rings, and various ornaments which he had left 
behind him. Also I found the will of which I had 
been the solitary witness ! Fortunately Captain 
Jonathan Brown had been a methodical man in 
his way, and so without difficulty I was able to 
find all his account books, keys, private store of 
cigars, of spirits, wine, and so forth. 

Having warmed myself with a glass of cognac 
medicinally, I visited the kitchen and the larder. 
Here there were stores of potted and preserved 
meats, vegetables, and in fact everything that a 
man could wish for; and as for wine, coffee, tea, 
tobacco, there was provision sufficient to supply 
one person for a couple of years. The hold was 
stuffed with contraband articles, as our stores 
had been taken on board at various ports and been 



124 



paid for with paper in which I had innocently lent 
a hand, never dreaming that our Captain was going 
to make a dishonest use of my clever imitations of 
handwriting and signatures and of some of the old 
but artistically designed bank-notes which had 
caused my father so much trouble, for which I am 
bound to say he only had himself to blame. 

There was every sort of implement for carpenter- 
ing. But of what use were these to me, who, 
as the reader of this may remember, never could 
hammer a nail, or fasten two bits of wood together 
in my life? 

There was plenty of gunpowder, a good gun and 
lots of ammunition. There was a clever poodle on 
board, which lay down at my approach and pre- 
tended to be dead. But on my saying " Here's a 
constable coming," he was up and gambolling 
about as lively as ever. 

There were several empty casks and boxes. But 
how I was to land my cargo bothered me until I 
saw the only small boat which had remained intact ; 
the other two, as has been already stated, had been 
taken away, one by those scoundrelly sailors in 




* .2 

<S *O 

.c in 

I- 



of &<rtindon Crusoe* 125 



search of treasure, and the other by Will Atkins, 
the Marine Detective at least as he said he was 
in search of the sailors. 

" If I put all these things in," said I, regarding 
several rounds of pressed beef the best rounds 
of ammunition I could want a barrel of porter, 
tins of preserved vegetables, cases of Newmarket 
sausages, all sorts of condiments " I can't get 
them on shore until high water. To think of drag- 
ging the boat across the sand is absurd." 

It was a difficulty. However I loaded the boat 
with everything I could, and then, lighting the 
kitchen fire, I boiled the kettle, grilled some fowl 
and ham, boiled some tinned mashed potatoes, made 
some buttered toast, drank a bottle of Burgundy, 
finished with an excellent cup of coffee and a choice 
cigar with a chasse of old brandy, and then wrap- 
ping myself up in Adolphus Jones's dressing-gown 
his valise was intact I lay down to meditate on 
the next move in my campaign. 



126 



Cfre 



gftbentures 



CHAPTER XV. 

MORE TRUTH. 

WAS awoke 
from my sleep, 
for I had gone 
off into a deep 
slumber, by a 
scrimmage 
round the cabin 
in which I was 
lying as best I 

could, considering the position of the 
ship. I started up. Rats ? Xo. It was 
a fight apparently between the poodle 
and a huge cat that having been with us during 
the voyage, had principally confined herself to 
the forecastle. The pair were struggling over the 
remains of the chicken. I was only just aroused 




The Fight for the Chicken. 



of ftalnngjm Crusoe* 127 

in time, for the tide had turned, and the boat 
was already beginning to float. So taking Jones's 
valise, (dear old Adolphus !) some warm clothes and 
blankets, clean linen and thick socks, and putting 
on the Captain's high boots, I went over the side 
into the boat and rowed myself easily ashore. 
Then I returned again and fetched a lot more 
things, the difficulty increasing on every fresh 
voyage ; yet before nightfall I had contrived to land 
a sufficient stock of food and drink to furnish me 
comfortably for a fortnight. There they were all 
lying out on the sea-shore high and dry, but it was 
beginning to be cold, and where I was to spend the 
night I hadn't the smallest idea. 

Even if I came upon a dry cave, " should I," 
said I to myself, "be its only tenant?" I detest 
insects, hate wild animals, and am not a good shot. 

As night came on I heard strange cries and 
howls. It was so dark that when I attempted to 
walk in what I thought was the direction of the 
river I fell several times over the rocks, hurting 
myself severely, and so I gave up the attempt, and 
remained standing near where I felt sure my trea- 



sures were. It was becoming very cold, and I could 
not put my hand on the blankets. Once I moved 
very cautiously, groping my way to where I thought 
I had left them, when a deep growl sent the blood 
from my heart, and made me break out in a profuse 
perspiration. I gave a start back and trod on some 
soft yielding body, and in another second I was 
startled by a terrific squeal, and the claws of some 
fierce animal fastened themselves in my unprotected 
calves. I jumped and kicked and shouted. Then 
all was still. What had happened I did not 
know, but I was in great pain, and moreover, my 
nerves were so upset that I was on the point of 
giving way to blank despair. The growling and 
hissing as of lions fighting with half a hundred 
snakes continued at some distance from me, but 
in what direction I was utterly at a loss to decide. 
Suddenly, as happens in these climes, the moon 
appeared on the scene, and by its light I saw the 
cause of my recent pain and fear namely, the cat 
and dog, which, unobserved by me in the dusk, had 
followed in the boat on my last return voyage. 
It was bad enough, but I was glad it was no worse. 



of ftoiungon Crusoe. 129 



I spent the night miserably, walking about. I 
had half a mind to shoot the poodle and the cat, 
but was afraid (I fearlessly own it) to fire off my 
gun, lest I should rouse some sleeping lion or other 
monster, for I felt certain that so uncompanionable 
were this cat and dog, that had a lion eaten me 
they would have joined him in the meal, if per- 
mitted, or would have waited to pick my bones as 
a bonne louche. That dog and cat I may now say 
were the very deuce. In fact, for a long time I was 
compelled to lead a regular cat-and-dog life. 



And at this point, being free from all com- 
pulsion, all threats, and every species of black 
maily I can write with perfect freedom, and I 
beg the millions of readers who implicitly be- 
lieved my first narrative, which I wrote with the 
sword of Daedalus over my head,* to receive 

* If proof be required of the genuineness and authenticity of this 
document, I think this is almost conclusive, as Robinson was not by any 
means a well educated man, and this is just the sort of classical proverb 
he would have picked up. ED. 



this true story of the facts with undoubting 
faith. 



I found several blank scribbling books, plenty of 
pens and ink, and at once I commenced my diary. 



- Diary. I am not certain what month it is, what 
day it is, or where I am. So I will call it Sunday, 
September ist. No, on second thoughts this is rather 
hard on sportsmen, so I'll make it the last day of 
August, and then the first of September will be to- 
morrow. No, on second thoughts, not being a 
sportsman myself, I shall make it Monday, Sep- 
tember 2nd. 

Monday, Sept. 2. I am not accustomed to strong 
language, but dash that cat and dog, which have 
kept me awake and in a state of perturbation all 
night. Luckily I found the whiskey bottle and my 
pipe. Wretched headache this morning. Searched 
all over the ship for soda-water. Found some 
Epsom salts. Never take medicine. Took a lot 




K 2 



at &clrind<m Crusoe* 133 

more things off in the boat. But as I am going 
to spend another night here, and many more 
probably, I must have some shelter. There's no 
hut anywhere in sight. Seen one cave, but thought 
I observed pair of glaring eyes at the end of it. 
Tried to make poodle fetch it out, whatever it was. 
Poodle refused ; shivered, and howled, and then 
lay down and pretended to be dead. Instead of 
crying out " Constable's coming," which is his 
signal to jump up and run, I gave him a kick which 
had precisely the same effect, only that he went off 
yelping. Not a sporting dog, perhaps, but a 
clever one. 

I ought to have a hut of some sort, but how to 
make one ? I haven't an idea. 

A canvas tent will do to go on with if I can only 
lug the sails on shore ; they're heavy and coarse, 
and if I do get them there, I don't see where I'm to 
haul them up. Think it over at breakfast. Have 
arranged cafe ate lat'f, broiled bacon and eggs 
(carefully preserved and quite fresh), shall dig into 
a pate de foie gras and finish up with a dollop of 
marmalade. 



134 &e &tal gftfeenture* 



Everything perfect, except that cat got into the 
milk and upset it, and then, losing my temper, I 
hurled the coffee-pot at her, whereupon the poodle 
made off with the bacon. I threatened them 
vigorously, and there is so strange an instinct in 
dogs and cats that I fancy I shall not be troubled 
by either of them again. 



of ftofrfittfon Crusoe. 



135 



CHAPTER XVI. 



ISLAND DIARY CONTINUED. 




Tent making. 



ORKED at 
tent all the 
morning. 
Can't make 
much of it. 
Dragged 
sails over 
rocks to 
shore. Tired. 
Lunch. Cat 
and dog ab- 
sent. Soup 
hot, cutlets 
a la 



rolled tongue, bottle of old Madeira, glass of hot 
whiskey and water ; then pipe. Gentle snooze be- 



136 



fore I had cleared away. On waking, found every- 
thing had been cleared away for me as if by fairies. 
Saw poodle in distance at mouth of cave, into 
which the last piece of rolled tongue was gradually 
disappearing. " Oho," says I to myself, " the cave 
must be hungry." Poodle shivering and growling, 
but doesn't dare attack the rum customer who is 
consuming my goods within the recess. 

Afternoon. Hurt my back severely in trying to 
hoist the sails. Tried to climb tree but fell heavily 
to ground. Must not be beaten ; feel as if I had been, 
tho'. Night coming on. I must be securely fixed 
under my tent if I'm to get any sleep to-night. 
And I must sleep at some distance from the ground, 
as I loath blackbeetles, mice, and rats, and, in fact, 
all those horrid things which come out and creep 
about a ground-floor. So must make a hammock. 
But how ? 

Supper-time. After sunset. Succeeded at last. 
Hauled up one sail as a roof, hauled sail underneath 
as hammock. Must get in quietly. Better take 
my gun and powder-flask and bullets in with me, 
in case of accidents. Perhaps I had better not 



of Botnuson Crusoe, 137 

take them into the hammock in case of accidents. 
But rug may be useful. 



Morning. Very early. No idea of time. Before 
sunrise. But what a night ! Mem. Never again 
take a gun and powder-flask, &c., to bed with me. 
An hour elapsed before I succeeded in jumping into 
the hammock. Fell ever so many times. Sleep 
impossible. Cat and dog fight below. Cat made 
a spring and landed in hammock. Cat and man 
fight. Cat out of the bag 1 mean hammock. 
Scratched all over. If cat mad what shall I do ? 
No sleep. Something stinging and biting. Sure 
I heard roaring. Lay still. Lightning. Thunder. 
Wind. Rain. What a climate ! Hammock-strings 
giving. Thud ! Down on ground. Remainder of 
night passed anyhow on the alert for wild animals. 
Feel my hair is turning grey. Shall I try ham- 
mock again ? Storm has upset everything. Wreck 
breaking up. Get some more stores ashore, includ- 
ing trunks of clothes, with bed and table-linen. 
Manage to get toilet-table and hip bath on shore. 



Cfoe JUal gfcbenture* 



When ship breaks up, shall lose stove, which 
means no hot water and no hot things for dinner ; 
unless I save stove now. Ship breaking up gra- 
dually. With great exertion lugged, and tugged, 
and dragged, big chest on shore. Opened my 
chest. This will make a good sleeping place 
for the night. Luncheon. Old Burgundy! and 
plenty of it. Slept. No visitors. Cat and dog 
disappeared. Perhaps gone wild. 

Night. My chest. * * * Wake up cramped. 
Light lantern to write diary. As I light it I hear 
something scuttling away in the distance. Cat r 
or dog r If matters continue like this, I shall never 
get any sleep. An idea ! ! ! If I could haul up 
boat so as to make a roof and four posts under- 
neath with canvas all round, that would make a 
sort of hut. Will try it. 

Day. Found a large sort of cupboard on wheels 
which makes a first-rate bathing machine. Also 
in Captain's cabin a screen covered with fancy 
pictures to serve for nice compact bachelor's dining- 
room. Working all day at this. Wreck breaking 
up. Managed, first, to haul up stern of boat, then 



of &ol)in0jm Crusoe, 139 



stem between two trees. Support it with oars and 
spars. Cook dinner on stove. Good. Sit down 
to dinner. Begin to ruminate over past errors. 
If my father had only brought me up to be a 
carpenter, a joiner, a builder, how useful such 
knowledge would have been to me now. 

Hurt my fingers awfully with hammer. Nearly 
took my thumb oiF with a chisel. And danced 
with agony when I missed an iron nail and hit my 
own nails instead. Cat and dog turn up again. 
Dog playfully jumping up at me, and cat running 
about with pieces of rope. Should like to shoot 
them, but afraid of firing off gun. At the sound of 
a shot, wild animals might be aroused. A weary 
day!! 

At last hauled up boat ; fastened canvas round 
spars and oars underneath. Makes quite a nice 
house. 

Supper - time. Pipe. Hot grog. And to bed 
after carefully fastening the canvas all round. Gun 
loaded. Hope I shall sleep comfortably. 



140 Cfre $UaI Sfcimttures 

Next Morning. I am beholding an utter smash. 
Barely escaped with life. Boat down on the 
top of me, canvas collapsed, spars and oars scat- 
tered. But for the fact of the benches being out 
of the boat I must have been killed. It was bad 
enough at sea, but now what on earth is to be 
done ? 

Wreck disappeared, storm during night swept it 
away. This is what upset my boat-house. I am 
drenched to the skin. The ropes on examination 
present the appearance of having been clean cut 
through with a sharp knife. Could a cutter have 
landed in the night } or was there a cutting wind ? 
Bad. What to do now I don't know. 



Am walking about a mile inland very cautiously. 

See no one. Stop to note in diary. What's that ? 

A sound ? A human voice ? It is ! What do I 

hear ? 

" Who's a thief and liar ? Robinson ! " 

I can hardly believe my ears. I listen. It is 

repeated. Whose voice r Where ? I see nobody. 



of 



Crusoe. 



141 



I don't believe in spirits and yet I feel very- 
uncomfortable Not a sign of a soul anywhere or 

of a body ! Insulting observation repeated just 




'I took aim at the bird." 



above my head. Aha ! A large grey parrot ! ! 

"Pretty Poll ! Pretty Poll ! Scratch-a-poll 

who's-a-thief-and-li " He stops and glances 

sideways at me. He begins again, hopping on 



142 



to another branch, " who's a thief" and stops 
short. He sees me and is silent. Very strange. 
He flies on to another tree farther off. Ruffles his 
feathers and begins again furiously, " Who's-a- 
thief-and-liar-Robinson-tooral-looral-loo ! " 
I can't stand this, I will fetch my gun. 



I remember no more. In fear and trembling, I 
resume my narrative. I did fetch my gun ; I raised 
it to my shoulder I took aim at the bird when 

something felled me 1 have only just recovered 

consciousness, and find myself lying on my back 
under the tree where I first heard the parrot's 
insulting cry ! ! 



of 



Crusoe. 



143 



CHAPTER XVII. 



AN AWFUL TIME ! 




Where are we now?" 



IARY con- 
tinue d. 
Fearful 
headache 
and a very 
bad bump, 
where the 
'bad bumps' 
ought to be, 
'i.e. at the 
back of my 
head. I arise 



thoughtfully. Parrot vanished. Gun and ammu- 
nition disappeared. Impossible this parrot could 
have taken them away. Sounds something like 
fairy tales one used to hear in childhood's unhappy 



144 Cfoe 



days. The parrot speaking would be nothing else- 
where, but here ! And saying such things in con- 
nection with my name. Libellous and slanderous. 
Yet what action can I take ? I am puzzled. 

Retrace my steps carefully. Shall not attempt 
hoisting up boat again : will sleep in it as it is. 
Odd. Some one has been taking my provisions. 
Can it have been the cat ? or the dog ? or both ? 
Certainly the provender is diminished. The only 
firearm left me is a pistol. Some mystery here ! 
I will send up rockets on the chance of obtaining 
assistance from a casual passer-by * * * Burnt 
my fingers horribly : I never was a hand at letting 
off fireworks. Shan't try again. Very cold. Must 
get shelter. Contrived to fasten up blanket, in 
order to keep off the wind. * * * Dinner * * * 
Good glass of Port. Note. Enjoying myself 

Another mess ! Cat and dog returned chiveying 
a big goat. Goat went for me and the blanket. 
Upset everything. Cat, dog, self and goat all 
sprawling about together. Fortunately there's a 
big hole just before you come to the edge of the 
river, and the goat tumbled in* 



of iRafcinston Crusoe 



Secured him. Idea occurs to me! If I could 
teach the goat tricks with cards, there might be a 
fortune before us. Learned goat ! 

Will commence this evening. 



Progressing with goat. Clever animal. Foresee 
going round the country on my return to England 
with lecture, dissolving views, and performing 
goat. "A nicht wi' Robinson." Cat and dog 
join in sometimes and spoil it. * * * Been a 
week here now. Caught violent cold. Am lying 
down wrapped up in blankets, inside boat, 
which I've managed to prop up and make 
comfortable. No further news of parrot. Think 
my sneezing must have frightened every living 
creature except the cat, dog and goat away, 
as I've been quite quiet. What an oppor- 
tunity for mastering all sorts of tricks with 
cards! When I leave this island if it is an 
island I ought to be a proficient. I found ten 
packs before the ship broke up. " Packs ! take- 
urn ! " says I to myself, remembering a little 



146 



of my scholarship, pronounced in the foreign 
way, " and a quiet life there'll be for me here, I 
expect." 



My provisions do disappear in a most extra- 
ordinary manner. This is becoming serious. 
Beastly place : no comfortable bed : no fire : have 
only to creep under the boat for shelter. I've 
managed to deposit the cook's small stove within 
a hole in the rock, so that I can cook grills, and 
make hot drinks, including tea and coffee. But it is 
a miserable life, and on the first chance of getting 
away, I'm off. Luckily I found all the bullion which 
the Captain and the pretended Marine Detective 
had stowed away. Have hidden it. / know where 
to find it. It amounts to a very large sum, 
probably thousands, for I have not yet had time to 
count it, in foreign and English coin and notes. 
The question is, can I conscientiously claim it r I 
ask my conscience. The answer is " Certainly, in 
the King's name." There is no mistaking the 
voice of conscience. As a loyal subject I can 



of 0Inn$on Crusoe. 147 



employ it when I get the chance, and on my return 
to my native land, the taxes that I shall have to 
pay to the Government will be as it were a sufficient 
interest given by me for the use of the money. 



What date is this ? I dont knoiv. To-night I was 
awoke by the parrot's voice. It cried, " Who-stole- 
the-notes-Robinson-scratch-a-poll ! " I rushed out, 
trod on the goat, which butted at me viciously. 
Fortunately it was moonlight and the clouds served 
me a good turn. Very sore, cold, weary, and 
puzzled, I returned to my boat. 



Was sleeping in comparative comfort, in what I 
now term my Boat-house, when it suddenly came 
down upon me. It fell keel upwards. Myself 
underneath. Second time of asking: "Who did 
this ? " It was an hour before I could scrape away 
the sand and kick the lumbering old thing over. 
Sprained my back : barked my shins and hurt my- 

L 2 



148 



gftfcenturt* 




"Was I on the track of a Blackfoot Indian?" 

self everywhere. Wish now I had left Atkins on 
the ship and had gone in search of treasure. 



of ftofundmt Crusoe, 149 

Walking round, after righting the boat, I noticed 
footprints ! ! No doubt of it. Men, women, or 
apes r Now I begin to guess who has purloined 
my sugar, coals, wood, candles, pressed beef, and 
provisions generally. I regret having suspected 
the dog and cat. Had I made friends with them, 
the dog at least would have been a protector. But 
now 



Aha ! a sail in sight ! a vessel ! Where are my 
pistols ? I put the caps on. I pull the trigger. 
No, not a sound ! Where's the powder ? Gone ! 
Where are the rockets ? Can't find them. Yes ; 
one at last ! Now if it will only Bang ! 

-* * * * * 

I lighted the wrong end, and I am singed and 
scarred all over. Oh ! Oh ! If I can only attract 
their attention At this moment a flight of arrows 
darkens the air, and so many stick into me, I begin 
to fear I shall soon resemble a human porcupine. 
Then, with yells and screams, a number of savages, 
hideously tattooed, rushed down on me, led by the 



150 



goat, the dog and the cat. At least, so it 
appeared. The dog and cat were flying towards 
me perhaps for shelter, for the dog had some- 
thing in his mouth which he had probably 
stolen ; but the goat, out of sheer viciousness, 
butted at me straight in the knees. I couldn't run, 
but fell, and raised my hands in an attitude of 
supplication. 

The leader of the savages, a black man, pointed 
a gun (my own ! I recognised it !) at me, and the 
others poised their spears and fitted their arrows, 
all taking the same aim ; namely, at me. 

Now, I thought, my last hour has come ! Alas ! 
it was even worse than that ! ! It was my first hour ! 
It was only the commencement of a long series of 
atrocities. 



of 



Crusoe, 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

LEVEE OF BLACK MAIL. 

PAUSE in hor- 
ror. I lay down 
my pen and re 
call this scene. 
There is no 
necessity for me 
} to have recourse 
to my diary 
[which, how- 
ever, I have 
always man- 
aged to keep 
with more or 
less regularity,] 

"Spare my life," I cried. f ^, 

for the memory 
of it all is fresh, still fresh and green. I write 




152 



when all is over with him and he will trouble me 
no more, I firmly hope and trust he and his. Ah ! 
I have suffered a martyrdom. 

You who have read the other history which / was 
compelled to write you who have admired and 
pitied and loved the poor savage Friday know him 
now as he really was. 

Friday ! ' good ' Friday ! not a bit of it. If he 
had to be named after any day of the week, it ought 
to have been " Black Monday." Friday, the in- 
telligent Friday, the simple child of nature, Friday 
who asked pretty catechism questions, Friday who 
was so brave, Friday so affectionate, Friday so 
filial, Friday so, in short, everything perfect was 
a Humbug a big fraud he was Friday of the 
Sunday schools, mainly invented to sell that " true 
history " which I was forced to compile. 

The real Friday was a black tyrant over me ; he 
was an unforgiving savage. 

" Was he not a man and a brother ? " Ah, 
indeed was he not ? Was I not ? He was Black 
Mail personified. You shall hear, and be prepared 
for a surprise, which I must defer until you 



of ftolnnsfon Crusoe, 153 

have mastered the facts of these unheard-of 
atrocities. 



" Spare my life ! " I cried out in an agony. 
The bravest of us quail at certain moments. 
When my time comes I am ready to die in a good 
cause, if there is an absolute necessity for the 
sacrifice : but this I felt was no such occasion. 
Why surrender to a party of half-clothed savages r 
I had always heard that these simple children of 
nature were to be pacified with coloured beads, 
tin canisters, and so forth; and if these would 
make friends of them, why I had several 
articles of cheap finery which the Captain, who 
as I have said was a lady-killer, had left on 
board and of which I was now the sole guardian. 
I certainly hadn't any beads, but I remembered 
that I had some dried peas and several empty 
tins which, it occurred to me, would please the 
untaught barbarians immensely. 

Forgetting that they could not understand a 
word I said, I addressed them in a tone calculated 



154 Cfte &eal 



to touch their hearts and enlist their sympathies 
for a stranger in distress. 

" Gentlemen ! " I began, " Noble Captain and 
Gentlemen " 

But, at a signal from their leader, they raised 
a shout, which well-nigh deafened me, and then 
he pointed imperiously to the ground, and two 
ferocious looking men, armed to the teeth and 
carrying long naked swords, strode forward, and 
before I could make the slightest resistance, which 
I felt would have been vain, they jerked my hands 
behind me, pinioned me so that I fell forward on 
my face, still in a kneeling attitude, expecting 
every moment the descent of the executioner's 
sword, when I felt a foot placed on the nape of my 
neck, and a pressure exerted which forced my nose 
down into the sand. 

This I remember to have heard was a token 
that the person whose head was so trodden on, 
placed himself absolutely in the power of the man 
whcse foot was on his neck. 

" Kurra wurra ma koo ? " he asked in some 
barbaric tongue of which I can only convey 




The Neck Step. 



(f. '54- 



of ftolnndon Crusoe 155 

the sound, though from the intonation of his 
voice, I perfectly comprehended his meaning, 
which was in effect to ask me, " did I accept 
service ? " 

I grovelled still lower, burrowing with my nose 
in the sand, in order to give full and complete 
expression to my absolute conveyance of myself 
into his power as a slave. 

He removed his foot, and I looked up, and 
breathed again, but only for a second, as all the 
tribe advanced, one after the other, each placing 
his foot on my neck, and scraping the rough sole 
across the nape as if I were nothing but a door- 
mat. 

Then they gave a tremendous shout. 



156 



Cfje 



Sfcbentures 



CHAPTER XIX. 

"AM I NOT A MAN AND A BROTHER?" 

AS the ceremony 
at an end ? 

No. They had 
got hold of the 
ship's cooking- 
stove which I 
had found so 
useful on shore, 
and the chief 
indicated to me 
in dumb show 
" Oh ' blowit! " that I was ex- 

pected to lay the fire, as they were very hungry 
and wanted to eat. To eat ! ! Were they canni- 
bals ? and was I to make the very fire before which 
I was to be dressed for dinner ? 




of SUtungon Crusoe, 157 

Refusal was useless; flight impossible. I had 
to make the fire, blow the bellows, and pile up the 
wood and coal, while they sharpened their knives, 
smacked their lips, and regarded me gloatingly. 
The fire blazed up, the coals were red hot. 
" Gorra ! " shouted the chief, and they all raised 
their knives. Whether it was the heat from the 
fire, or the excitement, I don't know ; but the 
perspiration stood out in beads on my forehead 
the idea struck me at the moment that savages 
being fond of beads this must add to my attrac- 
tiveness in their eyes my knees gave way, and 
when they again shouted " Gorra ! " all together 
(which would have been a fine dramatic effect if I 
had not been taking part in the scene) my head 
whirled, and I fell down in a dead swoon. 

When I recovered consciousness I was in a dark 
cell, and somewhere near me was the parrot, whose 
voice I heard croaking, 

"Who -stole- the -notes - Robinson - scratch -a- 
pollr" 

What this portended I hadn't the smallest idea. 
I was too weak to throw anything at him, even if I 



158 CI)f JUai 



had had anything handy to throw. I sank back on 
the straw which served for a pallet, and wondered 
where I was, and what I was ? What ? A slave. 

Yes ; a slave and a prisoner. I was kept on 
bread and water, and had to work all day, cleaning 
pots and kettles, doing all sorts of menial offices, 
compelled to chop wood, to saw, to hammer nails, 
while two men with loaded guns accompanied me 
everywhere, and, if I showed the slightest sign of 
failing or quailing, a third touched me up with a 
whip of eighteen lashes. 

Imagine what I suffered ! I who had been the 
dandy at Hull, I who had been the boy of pleasure 
and the man of business ! I who could wield a pen 
and use my brain, to be forced to demean myself 
to such offices as the lowest scullion would not 
willingly undertake. 

Scullion do I say ! I was man of all work, and 
as I had never in my life been apprenticed to any 
trade, the mess I made of everything I touched was 
something awful. But no matter whether I hurt 
myself with carpenters' tools or what not, I was 
punished by my taskmasters with the whip. 



of iRoln'nsan Crusoe* 159 

In the middle of this abominable servitude I kept 
my secret as to the treasure I had hidden in the 
hole of the cave strictly to myself, and made no 
attempt to walk in that direction, lest I should be 
followed and robbed of what might in time prove a 
valuable store. One thing I noticed was that these 
savages were not quite so black as they were 
painted. That they were painted, or " made up " 
as stage-players call it, was a fact ; but that they 
were not naturally black, or anything darker than 
a dirty brown, I ascertained by close observation. 
They were not naked, but wore all sorts of gar- 
ments, the cut of which seemed far from unfamiliar 
to me, and I felt sure that they had been taken 
from wrecks, or perhaps exchanged for produce by 
occasional European explorers. Nor did their 
language appear to me so uncouth and barbarous 
as I had been at first led to suppose. Indeed, I 
detected English words in their conversation. 
This occasioned me some anxiety, and caused me 
to use some extra wariness in my dealings with 
them. 

Their dinners, which I had to assist in cooking, 



160 Cfte JUal gftfeentttresf 



were really excellent. Most of the dishes, of course, 
were provided from the ship's stores, of which, as 
I have already remarked, there was a supply 
sufficient for a long period. 

I now began to be very cautious how I kept my 
diary, for if there were some who could speak 
English, there might also be some w r ho could 
read it. 

One morning I was summoned to the chief's 
house, for house it was, not a mere hut. He was 
a full-grown man much painted, of a tawny com- 
plexion not absolutely black, and arrayed in a 
kind of Spanish hunter's costume. There were 
knives and pistols in his belt, an English fowling- 
piece (mine or rather one of those from the 
Crazy Jane] in his hand. He was seated at a 
table which I at once recognised as having 
belonged to my old friend Captain Jonathan 
Brown the gay Lothario. My portmanteaus were 
about, empty, and books and papers, all from the 
vessel, were scattered about the room. 

"Your name is ?" he commenced, with a 

slight accent. I was thunderstruck, but politely 



of lUrtiittfon Crusoe* 161 



interrupting him, as I thought he intended me to 
do, I said, " My name is Robinson Crusoe." 

"Not while you're with zis," he replied, sternly, 
and, strange to say, the sound of his voice was not 
strange to me. " While you are here you are our 
cook, scullion and bottle-washer, and you take your 
name, as is the custom of our kitchen, from the day 
on which you arrived." 

I observed humbly, that " I had long since lost 
all count of days." 

" But we have not," said the chief. "We name 
almost all our days after our food. The first is 
Swineday, when we only eat pork : The second is 
Muttonday, the third Stewsday, the fourth Wen- 
sonday, the fifth Thirstday, when we go in for 
the big. drink, the sixth Fryday, which speaks for 
itself, the seventh Sadderday, because on this 
day we never have any feasting, but are hard at 
work. On that day our criminals are punished, 
the accused tried. You came here on Friday, your 
name with us will be Friday." 

" My name when at home," I ventured to say, 
for I thought I might confide in a barbarian who 

M 



162 CfK 2Ual 



expressed himself so clearly in my own native 
language, " is John Robinson Crusoe." 

"There is no Robinson Crusoe here," he replied, 
frowning severely, "except myself." 

I could not repress a start. 

" What ! " I exclaimed, " You ! ! " 

"Yes," he answered, looking round upon his staff 
of lieutenants, who were grouped around him, like 
figures in a wax-work show, and formed a sort of 
court-martial. " Yes, is it not so r Who is 
Robinson Crusoe here ? " 

" You are ! " 

All of them, to a man, speaking English ! And 
I was the man to whom they were speaking it. 
Was I in a dream r He waved his hand and the 
black executioners with long swords and whips of 
eighteen tails entered. 

The chief, who styled himself Robinson Crusoe, 
addressed me thus : 

" Fryday, I will tell you a story. Once upon a 
time there was a young man who stole five sove- 
reigns from his father, hid them in his half- 
brother's room and then accused the latter of the 



of &olnnscm Crusoe* 163 

theft. As the sovereigns were found in the posses- 
sion of the accused, his guilt was taken as proved, 
and he was expelled from his father's house, where, 
in consequence of his half-brother's cruelty, he had 
never lived happily. The lad who was unjustly 
banished, left a letter for his brother calling him 
' a thief and a liar/ and promising him * a sound 
thrashing if ever they met/ and wishing that he 
might receive several sound thrashings even before 
that time arrived." 

Though I could scarcely believe my ears or eyes, 
yet, instinctively, I knew what was coming. 

" It is not likely," continued the chief, " that 
tanned by the sun, and painted as I am, you could 
after this lapse of time recognize your half-brother 
William. I am William Robinson Crusoe." 

" Billy ! " I gasped. 

" You have already been thrashed and punished 
up to a certain point." 

" Quite enough," I murmured. 

" That is for your judges to decide," he returned. 
" When /submitted to you I was a poor weak little 
chap, now I am what you see me, and I give 

M 2 



164 CI)e &eal Sftfetntures 



you your choice between a sound thrashing, or 
a full and entire confession of your guilt and my 
innocence, to be written out in the presence of my 
friends." 

Who could hesitate r Choice ? There was no 
choice. I say it now, when all the actors in that 
memorable scene are scattered far away, alive or 
dead. I was compelled to write a full confession. 
Of what value could such a document be coming 
from me in the presence of the executioners? 

And after I had signed, sealed, and delivered 
it, the infernal double-dyed deceitful scoundrels, 
headed by my unnatural half-brother, gave me the 
thrashing all the same. Now I understood who 
had taught the parrot that insulting sentence. 



of &ofH'n*im Crusoe* 



165 



CHAPTER XX. 

ROBINSON, ATKINS, & CO. 

ID they release 
me? 

Not a bit of 
it. I had to 
go on signing 
declarations 
of guilt and 
innocence 
every d ay. 
My brothers' 
companions 
were roving 
traders whom 
" i won smaii sums." he had come 

across from time to time. Often they disappeared 
for days together, leaving me in charge of the 
executioners and sentinels armed to the teeth. 




1 66 



To while away the time, which hung rather 
heavily on my hands, I produced my cards, and in 
the stable I found my goat tethered, so that I was 
able to amuse my guardians. " The first step," 
thought I, " to liberty." 

I won small sums from them, and by not press- 
ing for payment I won much more than money 
from them, that is, their confidence. As to money, 
I knew I had plenty of that in the hole in the cave, 
if I could only get at it unobserved and make off 
with it. 

Unfortunately for me, my friends informed the 
chief (I mean my brother) on his return of how I 
had been passing the time, upon which I was sent 
for, and ordered to play a game, a Spanish-Dutch 
game, called Van Trompos, of which I knew some- 
thing more, I fancy, than most of them. All the 
sea-chests from the Crazy Jane, containing 
valuables (except the box with the guineas, 
sovereigns, and notes in it, the existence of which 
was still unknown to anyone except myself) were 
placed out, and I was to play for life, liberty, and 
fortune. If I won ten games out of twelve I was 



of &obindan Cmgoe, 167 



to be free ; if I won twelve I was to be free and 
presented with sufficient money to take me home. 
If I lost, my term of servitude was to be prolonged, 
and my treatment would be more rigorous. 

Who can wonder that I tried my best ? And 
succeeded. I was on the point of scoring my ninth 
game when a stentorian voice shouted, " He's got 
a second pack in his sleeve. I arrest him ! " and 
at the same moment a hand was laid heavily on 
my shoulder. I turned pale. It was Will 
Atkins. 

" Atkins," said my brother, " you know this 
person ? " 

It was evident that Bill Crusoe and Will Atkins 
were in collusion. Yet where had they met? 

"Know him?" replied Atkins, with a strong 
expression which I will not repeat. " Rather ! 
I arrest him as a forger, as an utterer of base 
coin, and as having stolen the vessel called the 
Crazy Jane, and embezzled her entire cargo. 
Here are my warrants ; " and he produced one 
in English, another in Dutch, and a third in 
Spanish. 



168 Cfte &eal STtilmttures 



What could I do ! I was in the power of these 
ruffians, and it was evidently a conspiracy. 

"When you once got away," Atkins said, 
addressing me, " you should have got away alto- 
gether on another tack." 

" You left me on board, and went off in search of 
treasure," I retorted boldly; "pretending you were 
after the other sailors." 

" Here they are," he said, indicating the man 
and boy. And there they were sure enough. "But 
how did they get here ? " 

" How did we get here ? " returned Atkins. 
"Well, it's simple enough. We landed on the 
north side of the island, and in the storm you were 
driven right round, and came in on the south side. 
See?" 

" We happen to possess what treasure there was 
on the island," observed my brother, quietly. 
" We're a trading company, we have our own 
vessels, and when you have complied with the de- 
mands of Mr. Atkins, we will return to England." 

"With you," added Atkins, addressing me, with 
ill-timed levity, " in our safe custody." 



of &0Iringon Crusoe, 169 



That night I had to sign another affidavit, giving 
a full, true and particular account of the voyage, 
and of everything I had done with the cargo, for 
which I was pleased to remark my brother and 
the so-called "trading company" would have to 
account to Will Atkins, who appeared, so he 
gave me to understand, on behalf of the English 
and Spanish owners. 

I did not believe in Atkins's honesty and good 
faith. I do not believe a man to be what he says 
he is, when I have only his word for it. So I kept 
my own counsel, and not one syllable did I utter, 
either to my half-brother Bill, or to Mr. Atkins, 
about the treasure I had stored away in the cave. 

They doubled the guard and kept me a close 
prisoner till we started. 

I could not sleep. It was a fine moonlight 
night, lovely ! I stood on the chair and peered 
through the bars which guarded the window of the 
cell in which I was confined. 

Presently I heard voices. Soft whispers. I 
strained my eyes and craned forward. It was my 
brother walking along the sea-shore with a fine 



170 



handsome coloured woman ; the light was strong 
enough for me to see that she was carrying a little 
creature, like a papoose or Indian baby, in her arms. 
He embraced her, and she him. Then they passed 
out of my sight. 

" Oho ! " says I to myself. Then I tumbled back 
on the straw and fell into a sweet sleep. 




I tumbled back on the straw." 




By the Sad Sea Wave, or an Indian Notion. 



[P. 170. 



of 



Crusoe, 



171 



CHAPTER XXI. 



CONFIDENCES. 




1 After Dark ! 



EXT morn- 
ing we em- 
barked. Will 
Atkins, two 
of "the Com- 
pany" as 
guards, and 
my brother. 

Atkins was 
for putting 
the indignity 
of handcuffs 
on me but 
deferred this 
until night. 
I was closely 
guarded. 

My brother 



lingered till the last moment on shore and 



then I saw him bidding a tender farewell to 
the Dark Lady and the papoose at the door 
of his bungalow. This lady had been kept un- 
commonly dark till now. At all events I had 
never seen her. 

I said to myself, " You are leaving your treasure, 
brother Bill, in your bungalow, and I am leaving 
mine in the cave. I shall return for mine. Will 
you for yours r " 

The voyage was an uneventful one. Will Atkins 
and myself engaged frequently in amicable con- 
versation, from which I gathered that he was not 
altogether satisfied with my brother's conduct 
towards him. 

It seems that my brother, after encountering 
several changes of fortune, had at last become a 
partner in a trading merchants' firm, and during 
some expedition had landed on Doubloon Island, 
where they had ingratiated themselves with the 
natives, and, for a few beads, bits of tin and 
such like rubbish, had become possessors of the 
Island and its treasure, submitting only to yield 
to the customs and habits of the friendly savages, 



of iRoinnstou Crusoe. 173 



among whom they had permanently taken up their 
abode. For years my half-brother had been in 
correspondence with his native land and Holland, 
and that to both places as I understood he 
had transferred all the money which his traffic on 
Doubloon Island, with the ships of all nations had 
enabled him to realise. His capital was well in- 
vested, Will Atkins informed me, and he had 
provided for his old age. 

" AVas he married ? " I asked innocently. 

But to this Atkins vouchsafed no reply. He 
further informed me how on leaving the Crazy Jane 
he had overtaken the two men and the boy, and 
how all three had been arrested and brought before 
my half-brother, whose acquaintance he had pre- 
viously made in the Dutch country. He told my 
half-brother about me, he said, never expecting 
to see me alive again. A hunting and fishing 
excursion to the southern part of the Island 
discovered me to them, and it was my half- 
brother who then sent for his parrot, and who 
organised the practical jokes, such as stealing 
my provisions, and cutting the ropes of my boat, 



174 Cfte JUal Sfcbenttiress 

which last amusement had like to have cost me 
my life. 

" You left your warrant on board the Crazy 
Jane" said I to Will Atkins, remembering how I 
had found it in his cabin. 

" A duplicate," was the old sailor's reply, as 
with a wink he rolled off to another part of the 
vessel. 

On another occasion he interested me much by 
telling me how he had been engaged in proceedings 
against a gang of forgers, and how when he was at 
Azuvero he received tidings that the principal was 
on board the Crazy Jane. It turned out to be my 
father and not myself of whom he was in search, a 
mistake that he did not discover till too late, for 
it was not until he had fairly started that he 
opened his secret instructions and then read that 
John Robinson the elder had departed this busy 
life some weeks previously. He had communi- 
cated this to half-brother Billy, who showed no signs 
of emotion, but I must confess that I was for a few 
moments completely overcome by the intelligence. 
My father and myself had had interests in common, 



of SRobfttsfon Crusoe, 175 



and I had still some specimens of his handiwork 
in my possession which would now be dear to me as 
relics of the past : as anything else they were 
worse than useless, for art does not stand still, and 
these admirable imitations of grand originals were 
now somewhat clumsy and old-fashioned. 

I think Will Atkins conceived a liking for me : 
at all events we began to understand one another, 
and he soon discovered that it would be more to his 
advantage not to trouble me about past matters, 
such as the Captain's treasure, the ornaments, the 
ship's goods, and my friend Adolphus Jones's 
valise (which had trinkets in it to the value of 
some hundreds of pounds), as long as I had it in 
my power, as I hinted to him I had, to make his 
fortune and to establish him luxuriously for life. 
Of course I was thinking of the treasure that was 
still hidden away in a trunk in the cave on Doub- 
loon Island, -which none of them had as yet hit 
upon. But this I kept to myself, merely giving 
him an earnest in hard cash of my good-will 
towards him. 

So it happened that when we landed at Bristol 



7 6 



Cfte 



Sfcimttures 



there was a rush on shore, and somehow or another 
we were separated from each other, my brother 
going one way, Will Atkins another, and I in an 
unguarded moment stepping on board a vessel 
that was bound for Hull, at which port I, having 
landed with my Adolphus valise and a couple of 
trunks, proceeded at once to The Three Jolly 
Mariners, where I ordered a pleasant dinner, 
arranged my plans, and went to bed with a light 
heart, sleeping more comfortably than I had done 
for many a long night. 




Comfortable quarters. 



of Robinson Crusoe. 



177 



CHAPTER XXII. 



A HAPPY RETURN. 




"Arrayed in the best suit." 



HE fol- 
lowing" 
morning 
I arrayed my- 
self in the best 
suit I could find 
among Adol- 
phus Jones's 
clothes, which 
were still in 
perfect preser- 
vation, though 
I regret to say, 
owing to the 
considerable 
lapse of time, 
they were not 
in the latest 
fashion, and set 

N 



78 cfte eal 



out for the address which Polly Newport had given 
me some years previously on that eventful night. 

In my pocket I had Captain Jonathan Brown's 
will, and I was delighted to remember what he 
himself had told me as to her having a modest 
competence of her own, so that I need be under 
no apprehension on the score of her having suffered 
any privation during her husband's absence, or in 
consequence of his untimely decease. Was she 
wife or widow ? that was the question. He had 
deserted her, and the chances were a hundred to 
one that he was dead and that she was free. On 
thinking over the circumstances in which I left 
him, namely at Azuvero with the jealous Sara 
Gossa, and the Assassin Enriquez with the stiletto 
in his hand, remembering too that he was never 
seen alive again, nor heard of even by the prying 
Will Atkins, the probabilities were that he was dead, 
and realizing the scene over and over again in my 
mind's eye, I could have sworn that I saw Enriquez 
stab the unfortunate man just as the ship was start- 
ing, which circumstance, unhappily, prevented me 
from rendering him any assistance. As I entered 



of ftofct'ttstoit Crustte* 179 



the street where Polly lived, I had almost made up 
my mind to spare her all the anxiety and pain of 
suspense, and to inform her that she was free, add- 
ing how deeply and devotedly I had always been 
attached to her. Before determining on this 
course I inquired in the neighbourhood about 
Mistress Polly, whom I found everybody knew, 
though after recognising her by my graphic 
description, they insisted on her name being 
Mistress Smith. Perhaps the mistake was 
mine, I admitted, but evidently Mistress Polly 
Newport, alias Smith, was in comfortable circum- 
stances, with a nice house and garden, and as I 
was given to understand, had expectations from 
an uncle who was in command of some ship. Of 
her marriage with Captain Jonathan Brown no one 
was aware, though they conjectured she was married 
to a Mr. Smith ; and from this uncertainty on the 
part of the neighbours, I gathered that either she 
and the Captain had been secretly married, or that 
Brown had deceived her by marrying her under 
the assumed name of Smith. But in any case I 
was glad to remember that, fortunately for her, I 

N 2 



i8o Cfte iUal 



had taken the precaution of having her mentioned 
in the Captain's will by her maiden name. A 
publican informed me that he thought it not im- 
possible she might be again contemplating matri- 
mony, as he had recently seen her in company with 
a stranger, who seemed on very intimate terms 
with Mistress Newport. This caused me to hasten 
my steps. 

I approached Myrtle Cottage. Sure enough 
there was Polly in the garden. And undoubtedly 
in widow's weeds : not extravagant, but certainly 
a widow's dress, as neat, as tidy, and as coquettish 
as when first I saw her. But why the weeds ? 
Had she already learnt the news that I was 
bringing her r 

At first she did not recognise me. When she 
did, she gave me both her hands and led me into 
the house. 

" Sweet one ! " I whispered, putting my arm 
round her and giving her a kiss, for I was deter- 
mined to lose no time. 

" O ! " she murmured, " don't ! some one may 
come in at any moment." 



of -Rolnnsmt Crusoe* 181 

I pressed her to my heart as I whispered, " I've 
got something of the utmost importance to tell 
you." 

She seemed agitated and looked up appealingly. 
I went on rapidly : 

" It is about Jonathan Brown." 

"Hush take care". she exclaimed in a 
frightened manner. 

" He's dead," said I, breaking it to her as gently 
as possible. 

She staggered to a chair. 

" Impossible ! " she gasped. 

" Not at all," I replied. "At my request I was 
with him before he died he left you all his money 
on condition of your marrying me," I added this 
by a sort of inspiration, " and here I am ! " 

"I don't understand!" she said, clasping her 
head with both hands. 

" I helped him to make his will ; I saw him die ; 
and I can get several to swear to it" here it 
occurred to me that Bill Atkins might be useful 
for a consideration. " I have only to prove his 
decease. It is quite simple." 



Cfte lUal 



" Simple ! " she repeated, wildly. " How can 
you prove him dead " 

"When he's alive!" roared Captain Jonathan 
Brown himself, marching in and standing before 
me, followed, if you please, by my half-brother and 
two insignificant persons dressed in seedy black, 
while in the doorway behind me stood Will Atkins, 
grinning at the scene. Will Atkins always had a 
nice sense of humour. 

Now I take great credit to myself that on this 
occasion I did not mention Sara Gossa and many 
other ladies who had a share in the Captain's 
affections. No : I held my tongue. I had made a 
mistake, that was all : and from Polly's first 
reception of me I felt perfectly sure my attentions 
were not altogether displeasing to her. Even now 
she gave me a glance under her eyelids which 
seemed to say, "You have dared much for me. 
I am not indifferent to your merits." And a 
second glance said distinctly, " I prefer you to the 
Captain." This satisfied me, and I held my 
tongue. 

Still, as I noted in my diary at the time, she 



of ftoinnefciu CrusoeJ 183 

\va.s not so comely as the Polly I had seen some 
years before ; indeed, had I met her for the first time 
on this occasion, I do not think I should have 
fallen desperately in love with her. Why was she 
in widow's weeds ? Will Atkins informed me that 
she wore these for her husband who was only 
recently deceased. It seems that after Captain 
Jonathan Brown's departure she had married a 
Mr. Smith (of Bridleport), and this was what had 
made it so difficult for me to obtain any news of 
her whereabouts. This, however necessary, is a 
digression. 

The two seedy-looking men asked me to be 
seated at a table, and dictated a form in which I 
entirely absolved the Captain from deserting his 
owner's ship, denying the conversation he had with 
me in which he made me believe he was a 
smuggler, and giving a short account, as far as 
possible, of what had become of the cargo, when 
Will Atkins stepped forward, and, to my great 
relief I must say, signed in full, describing himself 
as W. Atkins, M.D., Marine Detective, and pro- 
ducing his parchment authority, by virtue of which 



184 



he once more took me into custody, and I quitted 
Myrtle Cottage in company with him and my half- 
brother. 

It soon appeared that they had no further design 
on my liberty than to take me before a magistrate 
and a doctor, from the former of whom they 
obtained an order for my detention in William 
Robinson's house, who undertook the charge of 
me as a harmless lunatic. 

I saw through this design, which was to keep 
me under surveillance, so that I could be handed 
over to the law at any time they wanted to put me 
out of the way ; for my half-brother was of an 
ungenerous and unchristian spirit, and had never 
forgiven me for being my father's favourite. As 
for that trumpery affair of the sovereigns, it was 
only on compulsion that I had signed a paper 
accusing myself and acquitting him, and this in a 
moment of weakness when I was in fear for my life. 

What credence would a judge and jury give to 
such a charge r None. If Society at Hull would 
not associate with William Robinson because he 
had been turned out of his father's house under 



of Jioinnson Crusoe. 185 

disgraceful circumstances, I could understand that 
my half-brother would be only too glad to have 
this proof in his possession so as to meet any 
charge that might be brought against him ; and 
at the same time to hold me in durance, and thus to 
prevent my giving a true account of how, when, 
and where he became possessed of this document. 
As to Will Atkins, he was a useful tool in my half- 
brother's hands. I yielded myself calmly to 
events, and took up my abode at my brother's 
house, where I was under the strictest supervision. 
It was now and here that William Robinson and 
Will Atkins concocted the Narrative of Robinson 
Crusoe, to which I was compelled to put my 
name, and on this condition alone would they con- 
sent to restore me to comparative freedom. This 
narrative was received first by the people of Hull, 
then by the people of England with admiration and 
pleasure : the receipts were enormous, and I had 
my share of them with William and Will Atkins. 
The name of Robinson with the surname of Crusoe 
entirely blotted out the name of Robinson of 
Robinson, Bogus and Co., and for a while I 



1 86 CfK 2Uai 



was dazzled by the popularity which the con- 
spiracy of my sanctimonious half-brother and his 
assistant Will Atkins had achieved. They thought 
that all this would keep me quiet ; and so it did : 
for a time. But why should I share with them 
when I could do a true history, a genuine narrative, 
on my own account, without any assistance, 
receive all the money, unmask their villany, and 
punish them for their treachery ? 

I waited and waited.* At last the opportunity 
arrived. 

* This may be inferred front the notes in the private diary which 
fell into the hands of the eminent firm whose successors in the present gene- 
ration have intrusted the work of editing to me. THE RECORDER, &c. 




Waited and Waited." 



[P. 1 86. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

TREASURE RE-TROVE. 




"Over a pipe and a glass." 

RELIED on Atkins, and I was not 
mistaken. One evening, over a pipe 
and a glass, I told him that I knew of a large sum 
of money which could be had for the seeking. 



i88 Cftf JUal 



He said he was weary of an inactive life. The 
next morning we took a lump sum down from 
the publisher as discharge in full of our share in 
the receipts of the Narrative, (the false narrative 
written by me under compulsion), and then going 
across the road to a rival publisher's, I entered 
into a contract for my forthcoming work, which 
should be the true history, and which should blow 
the other out of the water. The rival publisher 
jumped at it. The terms were mutually satisfac- 
tory.* It was to be a secret. Will Atkins knew 
nothing of this, as while I was engaged in this busi- 
ness on one side of the road with one publisher, he 
was engaged with the other publisher in drawing 
up a receipt for the money on our joint behalf. This 
was the first march I stole upon them. It is so 
noted in my private diary. With this large lump 
sum down, which the new publishers had paid me 
in advance for my copyright, and for which I had 
not to account to the suspicious William Robin- 
son, or to his ex-myrmidon Atkins, I determined 

* I am able to corroborate this statement from inspection of the 
document in question. RECORDER. 



of &0&tit0on CrusiDt* 189 

on a bold stroke. " You don't want to be a mere 
bailiff or runner all your life?" I said to Atkins. 

" I'm tired of serving your half-brother," he 
replied. " I'm willing to serve you." 

" With a writ ? " I retorted, playfully. Atkins 
loved a joke, and my half-brother was far too 
serious and sombre in character for him. " Look 
here ! " I continued, " at present I'm in your cus- 
tody ; isn't that so : " 

"Yes, that is so," replied Atkins. "We've got 
the charge of you as a harmless kind of lunatic, 
and if you ain't that, I can arrest you on several 
criminal charges." 

" All false ! " I exclaimed, indignantly. 

" That's just what has to be proved," he re- 
turned. " But as I'm a witness, and as I've seen a 
lot of you, we won't discuss these nice points, but 
come to business. Will it be worth my while to 
cut the whole concern ? " 

"Certainly it will," I answered, emphatically. 
" You want to retire " 

" Settle down somewhere for the rest of my life," 
he interrupted. 



190 Cfce Ual Stobentures 



" Exactly," I chimed in heartily, though for my 
part I should have liked to see him "settling down" 
in five fathoms of sea water, "and it doesn't matter 
to you much where it is as long as you've a com- 
fortable snuggery and a competence." 

" My idea to a nicety ! " he cried, enthusiasti- 
cally. 

" Then," I said, " trust to me, and if I don't 
manage it for you, clap me in irons, or deliver me 
up to the nearest police magistrate. Is it a bargain ? " 

"It is!" he returned, clasping my hand, and 
from that moment we were sworn friends. 

Before two days had expired we had sailed for 
Doubloon Island. My half-brother was absent at 
the time, and we did not consider it necessary to 
leave him any intimation as to our route. 

I had two objects in view. The first was to 
recover the treasure which I had left in the cave ; 
the second was to obtain an interview with the 
dark lady between whom and William Robinson I 
had witnessed so affectionate a leave-taking. 

I pass over the voyage as uneventful. Neither 
Will Atkins nor I cared about playing games of 



of ftQlmtgon Crusoe* 191 



chance together, and as for the passengers, they 
were a poor unenterprising lot. 

On arriving at Doubloon Island we could not 
but notice the change which a few short years had 
made in the place. Colonists of various nation- 
alities had already commenced operations, and in 
the northern part of the island there were two good 
inns, a Spanish and a German, also a market- 
place of considerable extent. Of course I directed 
my steps southward. It was in vain that I 
attempted to shake off Will Atkins. He insisted 
on accompanying me everywhere, and had I shown 
any indication of unwillingness to carry out my 
part of the contract, I was afraid lest he might 
produce the legal warrants with which he was 
provided, and hand me over to the executive, who 
would be only too ready to dispose of me directly 
they had obtained the slightest inkling of the 
true reason for my re-visiting the island. If the 
treasure were not already discovered and stolen, 
they would never, as I foresaw, allow me to re- 
cover what really was mine, or at all events, what 
was so far mine, that, with the exception of 



Jonathan Brown and his employers, there was no 
one to put in a claim to it ; and even Brown would 
have some difficulty in coming into court with 
clean hands. But if I offered Atkins to share it 
with me, could I trust him to deal fairly by me : 
Would he not hand me over to the Doubloonian 
police, Spanish, English and German, and claim 
the whole sum himself in the name of the British 
Government ? 

On the other hand the Doubloonians were a 
rough-and-ready lot, who wouldn't stick at a trifle, 
and they would think nothing of sticking Will 
Atkins for the whole sum, or might execute the 
pair of us as a couple of immigrating knaves. 
Clearly, then, it was to my interest to confide in 
Will Atkins, and it was to his interest to hold his 
tongue, and get out of the country with me and 
the money as soon as possible. 

" Now," said Will Atkins to me, interrupting my 
reverie in his brusque fashion, " Where's the 
money you said you were going to give me to 
settle down with ? " 



af Eoirinsuw Cnisum 193 



Then I told him, and as man to man made a 
clean breast of it. 

" Come on ! " he cried, and away we went in 
search of the cave. 

My memory for localities, always excellent, was 
of the greatest service to me at this critical moment. 

I found the cave. Rubbish had been shot there, 
and it vvas with the utmost difficulty that we could 
remove enough of it to allow any sort of approach 
to where I felt certain was the hole in which I had 
deposited the ship's box full of money, valuables, 
and various papers. 

For one whole night undisturbed we worked. 
No result. 

We had left our trunks at the Spanish inn on the 
northern side, and I had only a small valise with 
me, being always particular as to my costume and 
cleanliness, though on this occasion I had not 
anticipated having to remain longer than one night 
in my old diggins. 

Will Atkins was disgusted. Weary, thirsty, and 
hungry he lost his temper, and began to make rude 



194 Cfte 2UaI Stobenturrs; 



remarks, and pass observations on my honesty, of 
which I refused to take any notice. 

"Breakfast we must," I said, as cheerily as I could, 
and as morning broke I descried a fine log-wood 
house which suddenly recalled the appearance of a 
kind of palatial residence which my half-brother 
had inhabited, and from the door of which the 
dark woman with the little child in her arms had 
waved her adieux to him. 

" By Heaven ! " I exclaimed, " this is indeed 
providential." 

Will Atkins showed himself reluctant to accom- 
pany me, and I was not going to leave him behind 
to continue the search in my absence. This 
mutual distrust resulted in the most perfect confi- 
dence, as we each determined not to lose sight of the 
other until we could do so with absolute safety. 

Thus agreed, we walked towards the house. 

As we approached, the picture of years ago was 
almost realized once again, for at the door stood the 
dark woman shading her eyes from the sun's rays 
and peering out seawards, while a bright little 
quadroon-coloured child was playing on the grass. 



of ftotundon Crusoe. 195 



An inspiration seized me. I hailed her with 
" Mrs. William Robinson ahoy ! " She started, 
and Will Atkins gave a big jump as if he were 
going to run. I should have had to run after him. 
He knew that, and so walked on quietly with me. 

The woman, elegant, and handsome for a two- 
third caste, advanced towards us. 

"Ah!" she exclaimed, "I remember you." This 
was to me. " You sailed away with my husband." 
Husband ! my half-brother ! " And you I re- 
member," she added, turning to my companion. 
" How can I ever forget you ? " 

"Why?" I asked, puzzled, "what has he done 
to earn your gratitude ? " 

She understood every word, though, when she 
spoke, her words were pronounced more in negro 
fashion than with a rich Spanish-American accent. 

" What ? " she returned, " I kiss his reverend 
robe." And down she went and seized Will 
Atkins's hand. I never saw a man so utterly 
staggered. 

" Reverend robe! " I repeated. 

" Well," says he, sulkily, " I've been many trades 

O 2 



196 



in my time, and as there wasn't a parson on this 
island, and as a ship's captain, or, in his absence, 
any ship's officer can act as chaplain for a wedding, 
I officiated at the marriage of William Robinson 
with Nina Kokonibo. That's all. Now the 
murder's out." 

It was out with a vengeance! 

Nina Kokonibo had a thousand questions to 
ask, to which we had as many answers to give. 
Atkins was not so ready at invention as myself, 
but between us we managed to comfort her, and I 
played with her child while she was preparing our 
breakfast. 

She was apparently well off, with native servants 
and a farm. Becoming tired of waiting for William 
Robinson, she had, actually, that very morning 
been thinking of starting for England to find him, 
when we appeared on the scene. 

" I have come to fetch you," said I, and this was 
true. I wished I could have added that my half- 
brocher had sent me, but she supplied this for her- 
self, and it was only kindness on my part to allow 
her to imagine that such was actually the case. 



of &0!>toQti Crusoe. 197 



She showed me her marriage lines which Will 
Atkins had drawn up and signed. There were also 
the " marks " of some of her tribe who were unable 
to write, but who had set their hands to this instru- 
ment in token of their intention to do speedy justice 
on the man who should dare to trifle with the 
affections of Nina Kokonibo. Her kinsmen were 
away hunting at this time, but on their return they 
would have accompanied her to England and paid 
my half-brother a visit. I do not think he would 
have been quite pleased. 

"Are you ready to start ? " I asked her. 

" Yes. Now. Me," she said, pointing to herself, 
"Him," she added, indicating the child. "We have 
not much to take. Only this trunk. It has my 
husband's name on it. I guarded it for him," and 
so saying she showed us the very identical ship's 
chest of which we were in search. 

" Now," said I to Will Atkins, whom I at once 
nicknamed Parson Atkins, " now, Parson Atkins, 
when you want to give a sermon to your con- 
gregation on the existence of a providential 
order of circumstances, you just illustrate it with 



this story of the lost treasure and the secret 
marriage." 

I explained to Nina, my sister-in-law, that this 
box was mine, which at first she was utterly unable 
to comprehend. At this juncture Atkins was of 
great use to me, as she trusted the Reverend Robe, 
and as he swore to everything that I asserted, she 
was soon satisfied, and handed over the box to our 
safe keeping. 

We opened it. 

In money, English, French, Spanish and Ger- 
man, there was a sum amounting to several hundred 
pounds, and, in notes, bills, cheques and letters of 
credit, quite fifteen thousand more. I offered to 
take the bullion and give him double the amount 
in paper. 

"You'd better not deprive yourself of such 
treasures," observed Parson Atkins, drily. " You 
might be sorry you had given me some of these 
notes for a sermon that I should have to preach to 
you." 

On examination I ascertained that his estimate 
was correct. Most of the notes, bills and other 



of iio&utsott Crusoe* 199 



papers were very old friends of mine. Indeed, my 
father's name was on some of them. 

" I shall burn them," said I. 

" Do so," replied Atkins. " And I'll take five 
hundred pounds extra as my share. * Silence,' the 
Spanish proverb says, ' is golden.' " 

As I saw I was in the hands of an unscrupulous 
rascal who would not fail to take advantage of my 
weak good-nature, I yielded. He had his extra 
five hundred in genuine Bank of England notes, 
and altogether we shared about eight thousand 
pounds between us. There were some trinkets, 
which I presented to my sister-in-law Nina, with 
which she was much pleased. 

Her eldest brother, a fierce-looking warrior, half 
Indian, half Spanish bullfighter, returned from hunt- 
ing that evening, and expressed a strong wish to 
see England and his dear brother-in-law, William 
Robinson. 

As Nina had plenty of money for the voyage 
without encroaching on my supply, I undertook to 
conduct them. Parson Atkins had his own private 
and peculiar reasons for not wishing to revisit his 



2OO 



native land, and so we, that is Nina, her boy Gil 
and Uncle Frajan9os armed with his knives and a 
pistol in his belt, bade adieu to him, and left him 
sitting on the old sea-chest as we set sail for old 
England. 

This was the last I ever saw of Will Atkino. 
Put it how you will he was a villain, whether hung 
or unhung. I do not know, but I can make a 
tolerably shrewd guess. 




On an old sea-chest. 



of 



2OI 



CHAPTER XXIV. 



WINDING UP AND STOPPING. 




Nina and I. 



N our homeward voyage, during 
which by the way I found my sister- 
in-law Nina Kokonibo Robinson 
uncommonly good company, but her brother rather 
troublesome, though we kept him occupied by 



202 CJK eal gftfeentttrt* 

setting him to play with my savage little nephew, 
Gil Robinson, who was a coloured miniature of his 
father, leaving no possible doubt as to the pater- 
nity, we touched at Azuvero Sumtymagoa. 



{Recorders Note. Here the Real Robinson 
seems to have discontinued his narrative, which he 
had evidently up to this point compiled mainly 
from either full or occasional notes made in his 
diary. The story, as he would have put it together 
for publication, remained unfinished. But by good 
luck his diary, which contained all the material for 
the autobiography he had meant to finish, has 
been preserved. The dates being vague and some- 
times unrecorded, in the exercise of my discretion, 
and with the full consent of the legal repre- 
sentatives of the " Robinson-Crusoe interests," I 
have altogether omitted.] 



Robinson s Diary . Azuvero Sumtymagoa. Landed. 
One day's rest here allowed for refreshment. 



of &ol)tnson Crusoe. 203 



Strolled about the town. Suddenly confronted by 
Spanish lady and dark man. Spanish lady says, 
" You are Inglese. You came with Capitano 
Jonatano Brouno." " Years ago-o ? " says I, enter- 
ing into the spirit of the language with wonderful 
alacrity. " Si, Senor," she replies. " Yes, sir. 
Where he : He leave me to pine to die ! I am 
his wife. Vengeance ! " and then she and the dark 
gentleman screamed, shrieked, and gesticulated 
in such a way as in any northern country would 
have caused a crowd to collect, and have ended in 
the pair being walked off to the police-station. 
Here no one took any notice of the occurrence; 
indeed there were several rows equally violent 
going on in various corners of the market- 
place. 

" Beautiful Sefiora," says I, in my best Spanish, 
" I am going to England. I will take you to him. 
He dies to see you. Come ! The ship awaits us. 
Come as you are, and bring your friend." " He is 
the witness of my marriage," she tells me. Then 
she introduces us. "Enriquez di Villanos y 
Villano." I salute Enriquez, and he me, with 



204 



the utmost courtesy. Then we three had some 
light refreshment together, for which La Senora 
Sara Gossa insisted on paying. 

On Board. I am bringing a happy, hopeful party 
over with me to England. This is what I may 
term " the Robinson Contingent," consisting of 
Nina, wife of William Robinson, Gil her son and 
my nephew, and Frajancos, her brother, who is 
serviceable in many ways. I teach little Gil various 
games of cards, and it is a pleasure to see with what 
equanimity he loses the halfpennies and the pennies 
given him by the kind passengers. I don't play 
with Frajancos, as the untutored savage knows 
only one game, and at that he invariably wins. 
When, by the merest accident, I happened to win 
one game, he became very violent and was for 
drawing his knife on me. 

Then there's the " Brown Contingent," Senora 
Sara Gossa and her witness Enriquez. In the 
evening I occasionally manage to get up a round 
game, but the Senora prefers playing the castanets, 
or flirting with different passengers, and Enriquez 
keeps a jealous watch over her. Quite right. He 



of ftoMnson Crusoe* 205 



does so as a friend of the Brown family, and in 
her husband's interests. Sara is a nice Seftora, 
and if it were not . . . well, I am susceptible, 
* * * Enriquez is a nuisance. 

Monday. Land at last. Old England for ever ! 
At least we shall see. It is four o'clock. William 
Robinson, if at home, dines punctually at 6'3O. 
Brown Contingent installed at hotel, while I 
escort the Robinson Contingent to half-brother's 
house. William not at home. Expected in every 
minute. New servants here. "Will we wait:" 
We will. 

I occupy time in learning all I can about 
William's proceedings. He is highly respected. 
He is received everywhere. The book of my life 
and adventures has brought him fame and money. 
He is about to contract a splendid marriage. What 
a surprise is in store for him ! 



Note on returning. Same evening. He is not 
about to contract a splendid marriage. With his 
wife, child, and brother-in-law, he sails to-morrow 



206 



for Doubloon Island. I offered to manage his 
affairs in his absence, but he has preferred to 
confide everything to his solicitors and agents. I 
have, however, taken on his house and shall re- 
main here. To bed, tired with the events of the 
day. How admirable is the moral, " Do as you'd 
be done by." Ah ! if my brother had only acted 
upon this, he wouldn't have made such a fool of 
himself, nor would he have been compelled to 
sacrifice his social position in his own country. I 
believe he will go in search of Will Atkins. Thus 
disappear the enemies of John Robinson Crusoe ! 
Magna est veritas ! 

Next Day. They have gone ! In my absence the 
Brown Contingent left the hotel. I explain to the 
landlord that I am not responsible for the debts of 
another man's wife. " Can I direct him to her 
husband ? " Certainly I can. Does he know 
Captain Jonathan Brown ? He does. Well if he 
calls on him, he will, I hope, get the account 
settled. He need not mention my name. * * * 
Later in day landlord appears. Very grateful. The 
Captain has paid Sara Gossa's hotel-bill. If so, he 



of $0bfn0it Crusoe* 207 



must have acknowledged Sara. Equally if so, 
he must have disavowed Polly. Pretty Polly ! 
Some years ago, I might have replaced the 
Captain with pleasure, but now, that is all 
past and gone, and to-day I recommence my 
life. I mean, I shall now write my real 
autobiography. 

I leave the hotel, and take up my residence in 
my half-brother's house. 

Two Days after the above. Comfortable. Publisher 
called to see me on subject of real autobiography. 
He expected that having had a sum on account 
I should have already commenced work. I pointed 
out that I had been collecting material. "The 
more material I can collect the better for the 
work," I said, and then suggested another small 
advance. He will call again. I shall show him a 
mass of notes and the voluminous raw material 
which has to be cooked. 

Saturday. Difficulty. Lady announced. Enters 
to me Polly Newport, ex-wife of that Lothario 
Captain Jonathan Brown. She was in a towering 
passion, and was accompanied by a sharp attorney 



whom she introduced as her uncle. She denounced 
me violently as having ruined her happiness. 
I assured her she was in error, that my course of 
proceeding had been taken entirely in her interest, 
and hers only. " You know," I reminded her, 
" with what a tender regard you inspired me when 
we first met. " She is considerably changed now ; 
in fact, I should scarcely have recognised her. 
" But, alas, you were another's, and that other was 
my friend." 

" Stuff and nonsense ! " says she. 

" Be calm, Mary," says her uncle, taking a 
pinch of snuff. Then turning to me, he takes a 
slip of paper from his pocket-book and asks me 
" Is this your signature r " 

" Very like it," I replied, guardedly. 

"Listen," says he, and he reads aloud, " ' Dearest, 
when you are free I will marry you. I swear it. 
Yours eternally, J. ROBINSON CRUSOE.' " 

" It is his. I saw him write it," cries Polly, 
" and he gave me the slip with his own hand." 

Heavens ! how I wished I could have given her 
the slip now. Too late ! 



of ftofcinson Crusoe, 209 



It had quite slipped my memory. But it 
came back the whole scene returned, and was 
flashed before my mind's eye vividly, clearly, 
plainly. 

Ah ! youth ! folly ! rash impulse ! But I was 
not the man to go back from my plighted vow. 

" You are not free," I said. 

" She is," answered her uncle, nodding quietly, 
as if he were going to sleep ; " the Captain 
made the settlements yesterday, in conformity with 
the will to which you were a witness on board 
ship, and which I may compliment you upon as 
drawn with considerable legal skill." I bowed, and 
her worthy uncle continued, "The Captain was 
to have married her to-morrow, when, to my 
niece's astonishment and disgust, a Spanish lady 
appeared on the scene. Her proofs were incon- 
testable. One of her witnesses was at hand," here 
the old man coughed slightly. 

" Captain Jonathan had taken some years in 
making up his mind to marry me," said Miss 
Newport, " and had I only known what I know 
now " 



210 CfK eai 



" Well, well," interposed her uncle, deprecating 
any display of temper, " the Captain has done the 
best he could. Sooner than make a public scandal, 
he settled on Mary a sum well within his means," 
I glanced at Polly who had moved towards the 
window, and now seeing her in a different light, 
I must say I thought her still handsome, only a 
little stouter, " and, with his foreign wife and her 
brother, he has left the country, having first con- 
doned for the injury done to my niece's unblem- 
ished reputation." 

"The Captain has acted well and wisely," I said. 
" But if I were to offer my hand now, you would 
think it was for your wealth and not for your heart 
alone." 

" If you do not offer your hand, and come off at 
once for a special licence," says Polly, putting 
her arms a-kimbo, and looking, I am bound to say, 
handsomer than ever for I am sure time has im- 
proved her " then we bring an action against 
you for breach of promise." 

" Quite so," said the lawyer, nodding placidly. 



of JtoMnson Crusoe* 211 



End of first Week at home. We were married 
quietly three days ago, and are living in William's 
house. 

The Captain's settlement was conceived in a 
generous spirit, but on inspection it was found 
that he had nothing to settle except bills, and 
these still remain, like the variable weather of 
England, in an unsettled state. He had bestowed 
on his Sara a trifle of ready money, but how much 
I am unable to say, as it never came into my 
hands. 



I haven't much opportunity of keeping a diary. 
Polly is so suspicious. She was under the impres- 
sion that I had realised a considerable sum. But 
taking one thing with another (which has been my 
rule through life) I find I am not so well off as she 
thought. I should be better off if I could leave the 
country. The climate does not agree with me. I 
must go away to some quiet place, quite alone, in 
order to write my autobiography. My publisher 
agrees. My wife doesn't. No more does her 

p 2 



212 Cftt JUal 



uncle, the sharp attorney. The rover Robinson 
is fettered. 



Sixth Week. And this is Polly !!.... What a 
temper ! She accuses me of neglecting her because, 
forsooth, I am compelled to go about a great deal 
in search of material. Perhaps one day she will 
understand me and do me justice. May that day 
soon arrive ! 

To-day. I came home late after collecting 
materials. She upbraided me. I remonstrated. It 
is absurd to dwell on what happened. I shall take 
my own course, as I have before, and succeeded. 
Farewell, Old England, I shall retire and finish my 
reminiscences in more congenial climes. 



She has saved me the trouble. She has gone. 
Alone ? I shall see. I have placed the matter in 
the hands of her uncle, who is now entirely on my 
side. He tells me that his niece was light-headed, 
and has been probably enticed away by a very 



of Rabindott Crusoe. 213 

wealthy and unprincipled schemer. If so he shall 
pay dearly for this. The villain ! Polly's uncle 
says I may fairly estimate her loss at ,5,000 and 
costs. If so her absence will indeed make my 
heart grow fonder. The law is slow, and perhaps 
a compromise may be effected for ^5,000 down 
and no costs. 

In the meantime, as I cannot be distracted by 
such matters, I shall get on with the true history 
of The Real Robinson, of which the main object will 
be to show of how vile a conspiracy I was the 
victim, and to exhibit the real blackness of the so- 
called Friday's character. 



Last Entry. Effected compromise at a reduced 
figure and left the country without mentioning the 
fact to Polly's uncle. Shall write to him from a 
distance. And now all I ask for is tranquillity. 
I forgive my enemies. 

May they forget me ! 

I have nothing on my conscience with which 
I can reproach myself. This may be accounted 



214 &a!ftt$0tt Crusoe, 

for, by the maliciously disposed, in more ways 
than one. 

Farewell ! 

My native land, Good-night ! 







UKADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. I.D., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS 



A SELECTION 



FllOM THE 



ILLUSTRATED AND OTHER WORKS 

Published by 

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD. 



8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE ST., LONDON, E.G. 



UNIFORM WITH 

"THE REAL ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE." 



THE NEW HISTORY OF 

SANDFORID AND 



MERTON 

By F. C. BURNAND, 



Author of " Happy Thoughts," " The Real Adventures of 
Robinson Crusoe," &c. 

A New Edition containing all the 77 Drawings originally made for it by 
LIXLEY SAMBOUKNE. 

In Crown 8vo, price 3s. 6d. 



SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

" Inimitable and irresistible." Times. 

" Delightful fun." Guardian. 

" Full of rollicking fun throughout." Morning Post. 



OTHER WORKS BY F. C. BURNAND. 

ABOUT BUYING A HORSE. Small 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. 
AIREY ANNIE (A Travestie). Crown 8vo, price Qd. 
CHIKKIN HAZARD. 12mo, price Is. 
FAUST AND LOOSE. Crown 8 vo, price Is. 
GONE WRONG. 12mo, price Is. 

HAPPY THOUGHTS BIRTHDAY BOOK. Royal 16mo. Profusely 
Illustrated, and with portrait of F. C. BUKKAND, price 3s. 6d. 

ONE-AND-THREE. 12mo, price Is. 

ROUND ABOUT MY GARDEN. Small 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

STRAPMORE. 12mo, price Is. 

WHAT'S THE ODDS? 12mo, price Is. 

INCOMPLEAT ANGLER, The. Illustrated by HAKRY FURNISS. 
Extra large crown 8vo, price Is. sewed ; or 2s. d. cloth lettered. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUYERIE STREET, E.G. 



By the Author of " HAPPY THOUGHTS." 



SELECTED UNIFORM ILLUSTRATED 

EDITION OF 

F. C. BURN AMD'S" 

WRITINGS 



FROM " PUNCH." 



VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED: 

1. VERY MUCH ABROAD, 



2. RATHER AT SEA, 



3. QUITE AT HOME, 



4. HAPPY THOUGHTS, 



5. SOME OLD FRIENDS, 



" Mr. Burnand's Writings are well worth collecting. He has pro- 
duced a very large body of comic writing of a high order of merit, and 
the amount of it that is first-rate is considerable. There is a perpetual 
gaiety and airiness about his work which makes it always pleasant to 
dip into, and few humorists have the power of making their readers 
laugh so agreeably, so innocently, so often, and so much." Athena-urn. 

Price 5s. each, Large Crown 8vo, gilt top. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, B.C. 



MR. PUNCH'S 



YOUNG RECITER. 

WITH INTRODUCTIONS, REMAUKS, AND STAGE-DIRECTIONS. 
By F. ANSTEY, Author of "Vice Versa," &c. 

Reprinted from " PUNCH " with Additions, and with 34 ' PUNCH " Illustrations. 
In Crown 8vo, cloth, price 3s. 6d. 

"Very well written, and any modern humorist might be proud of 
them.'' Athenccum. 

MR. PUNCH'S 



M OPEL MUSIC-HALL 

SONGS AND DRAMAS. 

By F. ANSTEY, Author of "Mr. Punch's Young Reciter." 

Collected, Improved, and Re-arranged from " PUNCH," with 13 full-page and 
a number of other Illustrations. 

In Crown 8vo, cloth, price 4s. 6d. 

"This volume has caused us more laughter than anything else Mr. Anstey 
has written since 'Vice Versa.' Some of the songs and dances are 
screamingly funny.'' Review of liemcics. 

MR. PUNCH'S 



PRIZE NOVELS. 

By R. C. LEHMANN. 

With 24 Illustrations by EDWARD REED. 
In Crown 8vo, cloth, price 4s. 6d. 

"Some things here reprinted are nearly of the best of their kind. AVe 
should not like to take the authors' opinions, for your author almost always 
laughs on the wrong side of his mouth at caricatures of his work. But if the 
authors do not like it, their readers will ; and even of the authors themselves 
we may trust that some will see the joke." Manchester Guardian. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD. 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.G. 



GEORGE DU MAURIER'S Pictures from "PUNCH." 

SOCIETY PICTU R ES^ 

From " PUNCH." 

In Two handsome Royal Quarto volumes, bound with Leather 
back, Cloth sides, price 12s. each. 

Also in Four Parts, Extra Cloth, price 5s. 6d. each. 

"There could surely be no more delightful volume for a drawing-room 
table than these 'SOCIETY PICTURES,' with their genial satire, their fancy, 
grace, refinement, and all the other piquant and exquisite qualities one 
associates with the men and women of Du MAUKIEK'S creation." Glasgow 
Herald. 



PICTURES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER. 



JOHN LEECH'S PICTURES 

From "PUNCH." 

Containing nearly 900 Pages of PICTURES. 
In 3 Volumes, price 10s. 6d. each, or in One Volume, price 28s. 

" The genius of Leech has never been seen to greater advantage than in 
this gallery." Morning Post. 

" We doubt whether in the whole range of the literary or pictorial art of 
the period, the earlier portion of the Victorian era has been elsewhere so 
vigorously, so truthfully, as well as so humorously portrayed as in JOHN 
LEECH'S inimitable pictures. The series has an importance beyond the amuse- 
ment of the moment it serves both to commemorate the genius of the artist 
and the character of the age." County Gentleman. 

PICTURES OF OUR PEOPLE. 



CHARLES KEENE'S 



From "PUNCH." 



PICTURES. 

Super-royal 4to, extra cloth, price 21s. 

" His caricatures are a gallery of pictures of English Life. . . . They have 
enlivened the surface of English existence for a whole generation." Times. 

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. 



MR. PUNCH'S 

VICTORIAN 



AN ILLUSTRATED CHRONICLE 

OF 

FIFTY YEARS OF THE REIGN 

OF 

Btr fiaJBsin Jit* iuiatt, 

w 4 14 & 6 4- ^* 

PICTORIALLY ARRANGED WITH ANNALS OF THE TIME 

FROM THE CONTEMPORARY PAGES OF 

" PUNCH," 

Including 1OOO large Cartoons. 



" A pictorial key to the history of the Queen's reign." Pall Mall Gazette. 

"There can be no better book for a drawing-room table, to suggest subjects 
of talk. The arts of engraving have made rapid progress since these pictures 
first appeared, but it would be hard to surpass the pregnant humour of the 
more famous of the political cartoons. They put the points on all the critical 
periods of our Parliamentary history, and indicate in effective outline the 
action of political celebrities." Times. 

"It is surprising to find how complete a history of the times they present 
in vivid form ; and a history which is not confined to political events, 
but which catches and stereotypes many of the evanescent phases of popular 
fashion and opinion, which could hardly be preserved in any other way."- 
Guardian. 

" This chronicle must have a place amongst standard books of reference." 
Spectator. 



In 3 Volumes, Royal Quarto, elegant, price 2 2s. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.G. 



THE COUNTRY GENTLEMAN'S LIBRARY EDITION. 

Embellished with nearly 1000 of JOHN LEECH'S best Sketches on "Wood, and 
100 Hand-coloured Steel Engravings by JOHN LEECH and H. K. BROWNE 
In six medium 8vo volumes, large margin, cloth extra, price 4 4*. ; and in 
half morocco, with panelled hunting adornments, gilt and finished, price 5 12s. 6^. 

"HANDLEY CROSS" SERIES OF 
SPORTING NOVELS. 

THIS inimitable series of volumes is absolutely unique, there being nothing 
approaching to them in all the wide range of modern or ancient literature. "Written 
by Mr. Surtees, a well-known country gentleman, who was passionately devoted to 
the healthy sport of fox-hunting, and gifted with a keen spirit of manly humour of 
a Kabelaisian tinge, they abound with incidents redolent of mirth and jollity. The 
artist, Mr. Leech, was himself also an enthusiast in the sport, and has reflected 
in his illustrations, with instinctive appreciation, the rollicking abandon of the 
author's stories. 

These volumes can be had separately as tinder: 
HANDLEY CROSS; or, Mr. PLAIN OR RINGLETS? Many 



Jorrocks's Hunt. Many Sketches on 
Wood, and 17 Steel Engravings. Price 
16s. 



Sketches on Wood, and 13 Steel En- 
gravings. Price 14s. 



MR. FACEY ROMFORD'S 

ASK MAMMA; OP, The Richest ! HOUNDS. 24 Steel Engravings. Price 

Commoner in England. Many | 14s. 

Sketches on Wood, and 13 Steel En- 



gravings. Price 14*. 

SPONGE'S SPORTING TOUR. 

Many Sketches on Wood, and 13 Steel 



HAWBUCK GRANGE ; or, The 

Sporting Adventures of Thomas 
Scott, Esquire. With 8 Steel En- 



Engravings. Price 14*. Price 12s. Gd. 



by H. K. BROWNE (Phiz). 



Under the title of the 

"JORROCKS" EDITION 

A CHEAP ISSUE OF THE 
THE 

"HANDLEY CROSS" 
SPORTING NOVELS 



has been published. Each volume is com- 
plete, and contains a selection from 
EDITION JOHN LEECH'S Illustrations (some of 
them printed on toned paper), and One 
HAND-COLOURED Steel Engraving as 
Frontispiece. The Volumes are bound 
very handsomely in cloth, and published 
price 6s. each ; HANDLEY CROSS being 
7s. 6d, and HAWBUCK GRANGE, 4s. 6d. 

BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. 



THE HANDY-VOLUME 




THIS choice Miniature Edition of " Shakspeare " is in 13 Vols., 
32ino size, and contains the whole of the Plays, the Poems, 
and a Glossary. The volumes are printed on a slightly toned 
paper of fine quality, with a new, clear, and elegant type, on a 
page free from Notes and the Text has been arranged from 
a close comparison of the most trustworthy editions. Nothing 
could be prettier than this Diamond Edition. The paper is toned, 
the type is exquisitely beautiful, the text is Shakspeare, pur et 
simple. It is, besides all these, a very marvel of cheapness, as 
the result of a happy thought most charmingly realised. 




IN ELEGANT BINDINGS. 

s. d. 

Fine Cloth, limp, red edges, in a neat cloth case . . price 110 

In French Morocco, gilt edges, in an elegant leather case ,, 1 11 6 

In Vellum and Gold, gilt edges, with best morocco case . ,, 2 12 6 

In the best Red Russia, limp, gilt edges, in case to 

match, with lock ,,3150 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & Co. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, B.C. 



THE HANDY-VOLUME 



SCOTT 



(NOVELS.) 



COMPLETE 



(POEMS.) 



/CONTAINING all the WAVERLEY NOVELS, and a complete collec- 
\J tion of SIR WALTER SCOTT'S POETRY, making 32 elegant little 
volumes of high external finish, enclosed in an artistic case, measuring 
only Oj inches in width, 10,^ inches in height, and 3| inches in depth. 




PRICES. 

In "Case," Crimson Cloth, extra gilt 
French Morocco 



s. d. 
330 

4 17 6 



THE HANDY-VOLUME 

WAVERLEY: 

25 Elegant little Volumes, each containing a Complete Novel. 

BINDINGS AND PRICES. 

s. d. 
Crimson cloth, coloured edges, in elegant case . . . price 250 

French Morocco, extra gilt, gilt edges, in similar case 3 13 6 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. 



BY GILBERT ABBOTT A'BECKETT. 

THE COMIC HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By the late GILBERT 
ABBOTT A'BECKETT. Illustrated with Woodcuts and Coloured Etchings by the 
late JOHN LEECH. Demy Svo, cloth gilt, price 12s. 

THE COMIC HISTORY OF ROME. Uniform with the Comic 
History of England. By the late G. A. A'BECKETT. Illustrated by the laie JOHN 
LEECH. Demy Svo, cloth gilt, price 7s. (>il. 

THE COMIC BLACKSTONE. Revised by A. W. A'BECKETT. With 
10 full-page Coloured Plates and a variety of Illustrations in the Text by HARRY 
FURNISS. Demy 8vo, price 12s. (id. 



BY GEORGE DU MAURIER. 

ENGLISH SOCIETY AT HOME. "Society" Pictures from "PUNCH." 
India Paper proofs mounted. Super royal quarto, cloth elegant, price 2 2s. 

SOCIETY PICTURES. From " Prxrii." 2 vols, royal quarto, half 
bound, price 12s. each ; and in 4 parts, price 5s. Gd. each, cloth. 



BY G. D. LESLIE, R.A. 

OUR RIVER. Personal reminiscences of an Artist's life on the River 
Thames. With ',() Original Drawing's by the Author, and others by F. WALKER, 
A.R.A., H. S. MARKS, II. A., B. RmftBB, H.A. Demy Svo, price 12s. Gd. 



LINLET SAMBOURNE'S ILLUSTRATIONS. 

AUTUMN HOLIDAY ON FRENCH RIVERS (Our). By J. L. 

MOLT.OY. With upwards of 50 Illustrations by LINLEY SAMBOURNE. Crown Svo, 
price 7s. 6d. 

OUR HOLIDAY IN THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS. By ARTHUR 

A'BECKETT, with Photo-lithographed Drawings by LINLEY SAMBOURNE. Oblong 
folio, price 21s. 

CARTOONS FROM "PUNCH." 

BEACONSFIELD (EARL OF, K.G.). In upwards of 100 Cartoons from 
the Collection of MR. PUNCH. Enlarged Edition. Price 2s. (id. in wrapper ; ;. in 
cloth, gilt edges. 

GLADSTONE (TiiE Rr. HON. W. E.). Cartoons from the Collection of 
MK. PUNCH. Price Is. in wrapper ; 2s. (id. in cloth, gilt edges. 

BRIGHT (THE ET. Hox. JOHN). Cartoons from the Collection of 
MR. PUNCH. Price Is. in wrapper ; 2s. Gd. in cloth, gilt edges. 



BY DOUGLAS JERROLD. 

WORKS -COLLECTED EDITION. With Life. Frontispieces by 
JOHN LEECH. In 5 vols., cloth, price 6s. each ; and in Half-Calf, price 45x. 

MRS. CAUDLE'S CURTAIN LECTURES. Fine edition. Illus- 
trated by CHARLES KEENE. Small 4to, price 10s. 6d. 

Crown Edition. Small 8vo. cloth, with Illustrations, price 2s. Gil. 
Copyright Edition. Large crown Svo, in wrapper, price Is. 

THE STORY OF A FEATHER. Small 4to. Illustrated, price 10s. 6</. 
Crown Svo, with Illustrations, price 2s. (5d. 



BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. LD., 8, 9, 10, BOUVERIE STREET, E.C. 



University of California 

SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 

405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024-1388 

Return this material to the library 

from which it was borrowed. 



