■ .' >■( ■ 




ROBINSON CRUSOE 

EXAMIN'D AND CRITICIS'D 



/ 



& 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

EXAMIN'D AND CRiriCiS'D 

OR 
A NEW P:DITI0N of CHARLES GILDON's FAMOUS PAMPHLET 

NOW PUBLISHED 

WITH 

AN INTRODUCTION and explanatory NOTES 

TOGETHER WITH 

an ESSAY ON GILDON'S LIFE 

BY 

I=a.-ul IDOXTlIsr 




LONDON ii PARIS 

J. M. DENT & SONS LTD 
19?3 



Two hundred copies of this book have been 
printed for sale. 

This is n\._ Z-Z- 



PRKFACK 



Charles Gildon's pamphlet on De Foe, though very 
popular at the time of its first issue, is now rare, the 
Bristish Museum copy being the only one easily avail- 
able. It is so important for a study of the composition 
and development of Robinson Crusoe, that its publi- 
cation seems to me indispensable to complete my 
thesis, Daniel de Foe et ses ro^nans- 

My first idea was to reprint the text exactly as in 
the 17 19 edition, merely adding explanatory notes. 
But as the only modern biography of Gildon is a very 
incomplete one in the Dictionary of National Biogra- 
phy, I found it necessary to make further researches, 
and was rewarded by the discovery of many hitherto 
unknown and unpublished manuscript documents con- 
cerning Gildon, both in the British Museum and the 
Public Record Office. The result of these researches I 
have embodied in an Essay on Gildon's life. 

The great writers of the Augustan Age have been 
very little studied, and the minor literati not at all. 
A life of one of the poor hack-writers of Grub-street 
is of some interest for the literary history of the period . 
Gildon's life is representative in this respect. He was, 
moreover, in relationship with many of the most cele- 
brated men of his time. The history of his relations 
with them throws new light on some details in the 
lives of Addison, Dennis, Pope, and Prior, and enables 
us to arrive at a true estimate of the famous Addison- 
Pope quarrel. 



4 PREFACE 

I have added notes on some obscure passages in 
Gildon's pamphlet, and on his allusions to De Foe's 
novel. The references to the text of Robinson Crusoe 
apply to the most easily available edition of De Foe's 
works, that published by Hazlittin 1840. I have system- 
atically refrained from comments on Gildon's style, 
which is ordinary eighteenth-century English and pre- 
sents no interesting peculiarities. 

I have been much encouraged in my research by 
the courtesy of the officials in the Public Record Office 
and the British Museum, and wish formally to express 
my thanks to them, and also to Miss E. Deane of the 
University of Liverpool, to Prof. Cazamian and Prof. 
Guyot of the Sorbonne, for many helpful suggestions. 



Paris, Sept. 1922. 



Paul DoTTiN. 



This book having been printed in France, the number of 
words divided at the end of the limies is rather unusual. 



to my father 



E LIF 



OF 

CHARLES GILDON 

I 

Gildon's first attempts as s writer 

Charles Gildon was born in 1665 in Dorsetshire, at 
Gillingham, then a small village hidden among the woody 
hills which skirt the river Stour. The ravages of the Great 
Plague did not reach this pleasant and healthy country- 
side, and the boy grew up, sound and sturdy, when in all 
the chief cities of England the pitiless scourge struck 
new-born babes, and there was a new massacre of the 
Innocents. 

Gildon was by birth a gentleman, and never failed 
throughout his life to emphasize the fact (i). His ances- 
tors were substantial English yeomen, who had remained 
passionately attached to the Roman Catholic religion. 
His grand-father, a staunch old Cavalier, by his services 
to the Royalist Party drew on his head Cromwell's ha- 
tred, and two thirds of the family estate were confiscated 
by the Commonwealth. Charles's father, a zealous cham- 
pion of the cause of the Stuarts, stoically bore persecu- 

(i) See his edition of Langbaine's Lives of the English 
Dramatic Poets, and his letters to Prior (Longleat Mss, III, 
507)- 



& THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

tion, unswerving in his faith as Papist and Royalist. 
When the Restoration came, he hoped for an ample re- 
ward for his lo3'alty : but, like many others, he was 
forgotten by the Merry Monarch. Reduced thus to com- 
parative poverty, he was obliged to sell the best part of 
his estate and retire to Gillinghani, \vhere his son, Char- 
les, was born. 

Of the considerable fortune that had belonged to the 
family, there was little left. Charles's father, a scholar, 
« member of the Hon. Society of Gray's Inn » (i), re- 
solved to give his son a liberal education, to enable him to 
earn an easy living. Charles was sent at first to school 
at Gillingham, where he got « the first rudiments of learn- 
ing under a very honest and learned master, Mr Young, d 
Rut he was only nine, when his father died. His relations 
decided that he should enter the priesthood, « which was 
supposed the best support of a Gentleman whose Fortunes 
and Relations could promise him no greater advantage ». 
At fourteen, he v^'as sent to Douai, to the « College des 
Anglois )), — a college of secular priests reserved for 
j'oung Englishmen. Here he stayed for 5 years and be- 
came a very good scholar in Greek and Latin. His mas- 
ters, finding him zealous in his studies, hoped to make 
an eminent priest of him ; but « he found his inclinations 
I>oint him another way » : the Muses had already won 
his allegiance. In 16S4-5 he was back in England, wait- 
ing impatiently for his coming of age. 

As soon as he was 21, he went to London, resolved to 
lead the gay fashionable life of his dreams. Scarcely 
arrived in the « Modern Babylon », he became the friend 
of young rakes who introduced him to all the pleasures 
of the Town, so that he was not long in squandering the 

(t) The quotations arc taken from Gildon's autobiography 
in the Appeudix to Langbaine's Lives. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON ; 

remainder of the paternal estate. And, (c to crown his 
other imprudences » (i), he was not yet 23 when, being 
totally ruined, he married a penniless girl, who bore him 
several children. 

At this time he attended the meetings of wits, where 
he often read verses of his own making. He was a con- 
stant frequenter of the salon of the « famous » Mrs Behn, 
« the divine Astraea », who loved to gather round her all 
the young libertines of the town. The literary fecimdity 
of the « incomparable Mrs Behn » was greater than that 
of Diyden, and was a perpetual subject of wonder to con- 
temporary writers. Young Gildon was enthusiastic, and 
later, gave remarkable instances of her extraordinary 
fluency (2) : « Her Muse was never subject to the curse 
of bringing forth with Pain : for she always writ with 
the greatest ease in the world, and that in the midst of 
company and discourse of other matters. I saw her myself 
write Oroonoko (3) and keep her turn in discoursing with 
several present in the room. )) 

Gildon was also, like De Foe and Samuel Wesley (4), a 
member of the « Athenian Society », a literary club found- 
ed by John Dunton, the eccentric Non-conformist book- 
seller. Gildon was honoured with the task of waiting the 
history of the learned society ; the work was published 
in 1691, and won the approval of Dunton himself, who 
long continued a business acquaintance with the young 
historian, now a writer of vogue. Dunton passed this 

(i) Gibber, Lives of the Poets, III, 326. 

(2) III the Preface to iiis edition of I\Irs Behn's play Tkc 
younger Brother (1696). 

(3) Oroonoko, or the Royal Slave, the famous tale which 
inspired a very successful tragedj^ of Southerne. 

(4) (1662-1735), the father of the great Methodist leader. 



8 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

indulgent judgment on him (i) : « Mr GUdou is well 
acquainted with the languages and writes with a peculiar 
briskness which the common Hacks can't boast of ; in 
regard they want the life and spirit, and the same liberty, 
and extent of genius. He was always very just in the 
Engagements where I liad any concern, and his perform- 
ances were done as well as the designs would admit. He 
writ the History of the Athenian Society which contained 
the just merits of that Cause. » 

As Gildon advanced in age, he became more and more 
« dissatisfied with the tenets of the Church of Rome, that 
he had imbib'd with his mother's milk ». But the Catho- 
lic stamp was so deeply engraved on his mind that, as he 
tells us himself, a it cost him above 7 years' study and 
contest before he could entirely shake off all those opin- 
ions that had grown with him from a Child » (2). He 
followed closely the religious controversies of the reign 
of James the Second (1685-8S), and • — a fact which shows 
his sincerity — abandoned Roman Catholicism at a time 
when Papists were in great favour at Court. The sermons 
of Dr. Tillotson, who was later lord Archbishop of Can- 
terbury, against Tr an substantiation and the Infallibility 
of the Roman Church, were lent to Gildon by a lawyer 
« that at he .same time cheated him out of 400 pounds »(3). 
Gildon pardoned this theft, because the discourses of the 
Reverend Doctor had brought peace to his soul : he defi- 
nitely abjured the Roman Catholic Church, which he 
scornfully called thereafter « the Whore of Babylon » (4). 

About this time he becam.e acquainted with a group of 

(i) Dunton's Life and Errors, 1705 ed., p. 241. 
{2) Appendix to Ivanghaine's Lives. 
(ji Appendix to Lai3gl>aiiie's Lives. 

(4) See the Epistle prefixed to The Golden Spy (1709) atid 
T>e!land's View of the principal deistical writers (1754)- 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 9 

young men, who gathered round Charles Blount, a dis- 
ciple of Hobbes, and an apostle of philosophical reli- 
gion (i). Tempted by the doctrine of his new friends, and 
irresistibly drawn by the desire — frequent among young 
writers — to shock the bourgeois mind, Gildon became 
one of the pupils and admirers of Blount ; he was soon 
chosen as the secretary and historiographer of the Deis- 
tical Club. 

Since the loss of his fortune, Gildon earned his living 
by his pen : he had become a « hack-writer » or « Grub- 
street author », one of the class which, in order to secure 
a good sale for their writings, sought noisy successes ob- 
tained through slander and blackmail, lowered their tal- 
ent to the coarse tastes of the Vulgar, and, at the bid- 
ding of unscrupulous booksellers, embittered contempo- 
rary polemics by hastily-written pamphlets. Among Gil- 
don's works published in the year 1692 (2), the most 
characteristic in this respect are : The Post-hoy robb'd of 
his Mail, an adaptation, composed in great part by him, 
of some licentious letters of the Italian novelist PaJlavi- 
cino (3 , — and Nuncius Infernalis, which consists of 
2 dialogues, one after the manner of Lucian, the other 
imitated from Machiavelli's novelle Belfegor Arcidia- 
volo (4). This second part w^as evidently expected to 

(i) He was the chief precursor of Toland. Macaulay, in his 
History of England (chapter XIX, 1693) judged him with 
excessive severity. 

(2) See : Iviist of Gildom's works. 

(3) Ferrante Pallavicino, an Italian novelist and satirical 
Poet (1615-1644) who wrote the Corriere Svaligiato (1640). He 
was beheaded at Avignon as a heretic, after a life full of 
adventures. 

(4I A satire against marriage, where the Devil is brought 
t© admit that Hell itself is prefectable to the compaiiy of a 
wife. 



10 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

ensure the success of the whole book ; it is a good epac- 
imen of the coarse wit of the time : the Ghosts of 
Cuckolds of several nations — Merchants, Quakers, 
Lawyers, Poets, — describe their wrongs, and are finally 
condemned by Lucifer, Lord of Hell, to be thrown into 
« the cuckolds' cave, lo.ooo fathoms deeper than the 
Whoremasters, and next the keeping Cullys, and let each 
have 2 wives to torment him ». The dialogue ends with 
these lines, obviously intended for the popular taste, spo- 
ken by Lucifer : 

« For since their Grandame Eve in Eden fell, 
The Sex has learnt the Damning Trade so well, 
Where e'er that Rules, there's little need of Hell. » 

From his relations with the Deists, Gildon derived 
some profit by publishing books on their theories which 
obtained the great success of all works of scandal : per- 
haps this consideration was not absent from his mind 
when he gave his adhesion to Blount's doctrines. He 
prepared in 1693 a Collection of letters written by the 
chief deists — Bloimt, Richardson, Yaxly, Rogers and 
himself — to correspondents of high rank ; he gave the 
Collection a sensational title, The Oracles of Reason. 
Meanwhile, Blount's suicide (August' 1693) drew general 
attention to Gildon's little volume. The success of the 
Oracles of Reason was extraordinary. Many were the 
divines who, indignant at the temerity of those scomers 
of revealed religion, retorted in writing (i) : « It is the 

(i) A Conference with a Theist, by William NichodLs, D. 
D. ; 1696, 8 vo, pp. 266. — Mr Blount's Oracles of Reason 
examin'd and answered, by Josiah King, 1698. — Moral 
Essays, together with an answer to some chapters in the 
Oracles of Reasoji concerning deism, by J. Lowde, 1699. — 
A Discourse concerning the being and Attributes of God, in 
answer to the author of the Oracles of Reason, by S. Clarke. 
D. D. 1716 (5 til «!. in 1719). 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 1 1 

first book I ever saw which did openly avow infideUty ! » 
exclaimed William Nicholls : and he added, with feigned 
disdain : « This book is chiefly made up of a few letters 
wrote between some Sparks at London and some Trans- 
lations made out of one or two Greek and Latin books. » 
This religious controversy was still going on in 1719 ! 

Gildon had sufficient business sense to grasp imme- 
diately that he had found a rich vein which should be 
worked without loss of time. In 1695 he collected in one 
volume Blount's works, to which he prefixed the biog- 
raphy of the famous ^Deist ; commenting on Blount's 
death, he 'made an extravagant apology of suicide, and 
in the heat of enthusiasm announced his resolution of 
ending his days in the same manner. Perhaps he was 
sincere and dreamt of martyrdom in a Cause that seemed 
holy to him. The Miscellaneous Works had not as great 
a success as the Oracles oj Reason, but they were notwith- 
standing much discussed, and thus added somewhat to 
the editor's reputation. 

Gildon was chosen by several booksellers as the editor 
of many compilations. He published with pious care the 
posthumous works of Mrs Behn. In a volume of Miscella- 
neous Letters and Essays he included an original Apology 
for Poetry which he dedicated to Walter Moyle (i), one 
of the wits of Will's coffee-house and a wealthy man. 
He also published Miscellanies of poems and maxims ; 
one of those collections, which appeared in 1692, Miscel- 
lany Poems upon several Occasions, contains some of his 
own work : two light pieces entitled To Sylvia, and a 
mediocre imitation of the beginning of the first satire of 
Persius. In the volume of 1694 — Chorus Poetarum — 
is included another of his poems : To my friend Mr 

(i) (1672-1721) : Politician and student : a great friend of 
Congreve's and Denr^is's. 



12 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

Charles hlopkins. on reading his translations out of Ovid 
and Tibullus. 

Thanks to his excellent education, Gildon had a com- 
petent knowledge of classical authors. This was univer- 
sally recognised in his time : David Crawford, who be- 
came historiographer of Scotland, chose him to edit his 
Imitations of Ovid (ij, aiid to write the dedication of the 
book to Lord Boyle. By such work Gildon was able to 
make a tolerable living. We know that Lintot, the enter- 
prising bookseller who employed him as editor of the 
Exatnen Miscellaneum , a collection of modern verse, 
translations from Anacreon and maxims from Greek 
writers, paid him 5 1. 7 s. 6 d. on the 15 th of November 
1702 (2). But the money obtained from booksellers was 
not the chief resource of our author : like all the writers 
of his time, distinguished and obscure, be dedicated his 
books to rich patrons who rewarded the poor writer's 
outrageous panegyric of their virtue and generosity with 
ringing gold coins. In order to be introduced to wealthy 
benefactors, he tried to become the friend of Tom D'Ur- 
fey (3), then at the pinnacle of fame : he addressed to 
him a long and learned letter, full of allusions to the 
ancient dramatists, in praise of his comedy The Marriage 
Hater match'd, which had been bitterly attacked by 
envious writers ; and D'Urfey, when he published the 
comedy (1692), inserted this letter as a preface. In return 
he wrote the preface to Gildon's first work of imagination 
Nuncius Infernalis, and undertook to introduce the young 

(i) Ovidins Britannicus (1703) (See List of Gildon's Works). 

(2) Nichols. Literary Anecdotes of the 18 th Century, 1812 
ed,., Vin, 293. Pope iieceived onily 7 1. lor the first ed. of 
the Rape of the Lock. 

(3) (^653-1723), poet and dramatist. He was the aiephew of 
Honore d'TJrf^, author of the romance of L^Astrie. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON I 3 

writer to the literary world : « the modesty of my friend 
being such, that he would not venture into the world 
alone. » 

A few years later, Gildon succeeded at last in making 
the acquaintance of patrons of rank. The descendants of 
the Earl of Rochester chose him as co-editor with Tom 
Brown (i) of the Familiar Letters, written by their an- 
cestor the famous libertine (1697). The Earl of Dorset 
allowed him to publish several of his original poems (2). 
About 1 701, Gildon was entrusted by the Duke of Buck- 
inghamshire (3) with his Essay on Poetry, which had 
won the praise of Dry den. Gildon published it in Examen 
Miscellaneum and soon after began, under the Duke's 
direction, a learned commentary on the Essay ; but the 
commentary, through circumstances independent of Gil- 
don's vvill, was published only after the Duke's death, 
in 1721. 

II 
Gildon's career as a playwright 

Such liigh patronage, though profitable, brought little 
compared to the riches Gildon hoped to accumulate 
through his plays : for he had soon turned to the drama, 
then the only kind of literary w^ork that yielded impor- 
tant profits. Already in 1694 he had been involved in 
a controversy concerning the English Stage. A minor 
critic named Rymer (4) in a pamphlet entitled : A short 

(i) (1663-1704). A iniscellaiieous writer, known chiefly for 
his violent quarrel with D'Urfey in 1699. 

(2) In A Nczu Miscellany of Original Poems (1701). 

(3) The Duke bore only at that time the title of Marquis 
of Nortnanby (see the Preface to the Laws of Poetry; 1721). 

(4) (1641-1713), known chitefly as the editor of Foedera. 



14 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

%-ieui of Tragedy .- its original Excellency and Corrup- 
tion : '.cilh some Reflections on Shakespeare and other 
Practitioners for the Stage (1692) pretended to scorn the 
Shakespearean Art and called Othello a a bloody farce 
without salt or savour ». Gildon defended Shakespeare, 
claiming that he was a great dramatist (i) ; he did not, 
hoavever, admire him unreservedly, for he was ever very 
severe in his judgment of others, and declared that 
Shakespeare was not classical enough. It is curious to 
remark what he singles out for praise : « Of all Shake- 
speare's characters », he wrote (2), « I like his clown 
best : he always speaks Truth, therefore I am pleased 
with his freedom ; he shuns ajl Comx>laisance, therefore I 
doat on him for his rusticity. Methinks it comes nearest 
to Nature and Honesty : our Reason was given us to 
judge of Things, and our Tongues to declare that Judg- 
ment ». He agreed with Rymer that Othello was not a 
good play, because one dramatist cannot succeed in paint- 
ing different passions {3) : « Shakespeare that drew 
Othello so finely has made but a scurvy piece of Desde- 
mona. » Shakespeare never was Gildon's model : Lee (4) 
and Otway (5) appealed more to his taste. 

Gildon began his dramatic career very prudently. Mrs 

(i) He wrote Reflections on Mr Rymer's Sh-ort View, m 
an Essay dedicated to Dryden and iniserted in hLs Miscel- 
laneous Letters (1694) (pp. 64 to 118). As M. Huchon rightly 
i^urmise.s (See Mrs Montague and her friends, p. 93 n.) it is 
undoubtedly by Gildon. 

(2) A covtparison between the 2 Stages (I>rury I.ane, and 
Iyiincoln'5 Intn Fields) : Pref. 

(3) Love's Victim : Pref. 

(4) (1653-1692) : lie followed Dryden's method in hi.s most 
.succe.ssfu! tragedy, the Rival Queens (1677). 

(5) (1652-1685) : two of his tragedies, the Orphan, and 
Venice Preserved, still keep the stage. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 1 5 

Behn had left him the manuscript of a comedy, the 
Younger Brother^ or the Amorous Jilt, which she had 
written hastily in the presence of her admirers. In 1696, 
through Gildon's efforts, it was played at the Royal 
Theatre ; Gildon suppressed many tedious passages and 
carefully altered a few political reflections, but, in spite 
of these changes, the play was a failure. Gildon hastened 
to explain (i) : « Out of respect to her Memory and a 
deference which was too nice to her Judgment, he [Gil- 
don] durst not make any alterations in it, but what were 
absolutely necessary, and then only in the first and 
second acts which reflected on the Whigs — when, if he 
had alter'd the jejune style of the 3 last acts betwixt 
Prince Frederick and Mirtilla, which was too heavy, in 
all probability it would have been more to the Advantage 
of his Purse ». To obtain some reward for his work, he 
published the comedy in its entirety, v;ith a short biog- 
raphy, very agreeably and briskly written, of the 
famous authoress (2). The edition was quickly sold, as 
the name of the « incomparable Mrs Behn » on the title- 
page of a book was always a sufficient passport to success. 
In the following year, Gildon having increased confi- 
dence in his ov;n talents, produced in the same theatre 
his first tragedy the Roman Bride's Revenge. He 
explained its failure by its hurried composition (3) : 
« The Roman Bride's Revenge was writ in one month, so 
it had the fate of those untimely births : as hasty a 
Death. » It was a mediocre classical tragedy, in which 



(i) and {3) See his autobiography (appendix to Langbaine's 
Lives) and Genest's History of the English Stage, II, 112. 

(2) He dedicated the book to a friend of Creech and Dennis, 
Colonel Codrinigiton (1668-17 10) wlio, by this time, had ac- 
quiired the reputati,on of a wit and a scholar. 



l6 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GiLDON 

Gildon tried, without success, to imitate the style of 
« tlery I^ce » (i). Though admitting defects in his play, 
he was proud both of its complex plot, which was en- 
tirely of his own invention except for a hint taken from 
Camma of Galaia (2), — and of the bloody catastrophe 
which Lee would have much approval : « the Moral is 
one of the most noble of any of our Modern Plays, it 
being to give us an example in the Punishment of Mar- 
tian that no consideration in the World ought to make 
us delay the service of our country ». (3) 

In 169S, Gildon obtained a creditable success Vv'ith 
Phaeton, or the Fatal Divorce, a traged}^, which ran sev- 
eral nights at the Royal Theatre. The plot was taken 
from a French opera of the same title by Quinault, but 
Gildon modified Quinault's conception after a close study 
of Euripides' dramatic style in Medea, and blended the 
character of Phaeton in a strange manner Vv'ith that of 
Jason (4). Proud of the success, which he certainly de- 
served, Gildon published the tragedy, dedicating it to the 
Right Honourable Charles ]\Iontague, Chancellor of the 
Exchequer. He added a refutation of Collier's famous 
pamphlet A Short Vieiv of the Immorality and Profane- 
•ness of the English Stage. 

Eager to retain l)is new popularity, Gildon turned 
Measure for Measure into an opera ; the historian Old- 



(i) This expression is borrowed from Denniis's preface to 
(Mldon's tragedy Tlie Patriot (1703). 

(2) Camma, reine de Calatie, a tragedy by Thomas Cor- 
r^ille, first played at the Hotel de Boi:,rgogne on Ja». 28 th, 
1661. Published in tlie <ame year. 

(.3) See the Appendix to Langbaine's Lives. 

(4) vSee a favourable judgment of this tragedy in Genest's 
History II, 138. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 1/ 

mixon (i) wrote a prologue and an epilogue (2), the fa- 
mous actor Betterton took the part of Angelo, and the 
composer Purcell (3) wrote the music. Gildon simplified 
Shakespeare's plot and introduced masques and musical 
entertainments at the end of every act : dances of wizards 
and witches, or of tritons and nereids, disfigure Shake- 
speare's poignant drama. In this Gildon was onl}^ follow- 
ing the example of D'Avenaiit (4), who had already, 
in 1662, altered the play to suit contemporary taste, 
giving it the title of Laiv against Lovers. Gildon's opera, 
which had a fair success, was played at Lincoln's Inn 
Fields, which had just been opened by Betterton. (5) 

But it w^as in 1701 that Gildon obtained his only real 
theatrical triumph with his tragedy Love's Victim, or the 
Queen of Wales (6), also produced at Lincoln's Inn 
Fields. Gildon's model for the dramatic structure was 
Otway, whose panegyric he wrote in the preface to the 
play ; he had obeyed Betterton 's suggestions, and com- 
bined the rigid classical traged}^ with operatic elements 
such as processions of druids on the stage, magnificent 
scenery, and the frequent use of thunderstorms. This 
tragedy brought Gildon v.hat he most desired, financial 

(i) John OMmixon (1673-1742) began his liiterary career as a 
j>oet, and in 1700 produced at Drury Lane an opera The 
Grove, wjth an 11 sic by D. Purcell. v. 

(2) vSuppo=ed to be apokcn by Shakespeare's Chast. 
{3) Not Hency Purcell, but his less famous brother Daniel 
(1660-1717). 

(4) (1606-166S), the weill-kniown dramatist wh.o mangled 
many of Shakespeare's plays. 

{5) Strange!)' enough, this opera was advertised in the 
edition of Gildon 'i; tragedy Love's Victim as Measure for 
Measure, a comedy alter'd from Beanniont and Fletcher, by 
Mr Gil den. 

(6) vSee an analysis of the play in Genest's History, II, 246. 



1 8 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

success, and also the protection of Lord Halifax to whom 
it was dedicated. 

In 1702, Gildon wrote an adaptation of Lee's Junius 
Brutus, which had been forbidden b}' the Lord Chamber- 
lain as being an a antimonarchical play » (i), after it had 
run for three nights (16S1). Gildon transported the scene 
from Rome to Florence, and made Cosmo di ]Medici the 
hero instead of Brutus : for the Master of the Revels had 
refused to license his first adaptation of the play, in 
which he had merely suppressed « all reflections on Mo- 
narchy » (2). Under its new title The Patriot, or the 
Italian Conspiracy, Gildon's tragedy — with the addition 
of songs composed by Daniel Purcell (3) — was relatively 
successful. The Prologue was written by John Dennis (4), 
with whom Gildon was to entertain close relations for the 
rest of his life ; the Epilogue, by the famous Far- 
quhar (5). Encouraged by these renowned patrons, Gil- 
don, when he published his play in 1703, boldly dedi- 
cated it to the Queen ; the Duke of Leeds presented it to 
Her jNIajesty, at the same time asking her to reward the 
author. The Queen immediately wTote to her tyrannical 
counsellor, the Duchess of Marlborough, keeper of the 
Privy Purse « to ask her how much would be proper ». (6) 

(i) Some lines on the effeminacy and immorali.ty of Tarqaiin 
had been iaiterpreted as a reflecftiooi on Charles the Secomd. 

(2) See the Preface to the tragedy, and Genest's History, 
II, 276. 

(3) This day is published a set of airs in 4 parts, perform'd 
in the tragedy call'd The Italian Conspiracy, written by Mr 
Dan. Purcell. i s. 6 d. (Advertisement in the papers for Dec. 
I St, 170c). 

(4) John Denais (1657-1734), Pope's victim and bitterest 
enemy. 

(5) fieorge Farquhar (167S-1707), the famous actor and 
pla>-wright. 

(6) Hist. Mss. Comm. S th Report, p. 51. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 19 

We do not know how much Gildon received from his 
Sovereign, but it is not likely that the rapacious Duchess 
was, contrary to her habits, generously inclined towards 
an obscure playwright. 

During the last years of William the Third's reign, 
Gildon's reputation as a dramatic critic was firmly estab- 
lished. The booksellers Thomas Leigh and William 
Turner commissioned him to re-write and complete the 
biographical dictionary published in 1691 1>y Lang- 
baine (i) under t)ie followiing title : The Lives and Char- 
acters of the English Dramatic Poets. He was also chosen 
by the enemies of Bevil Higgons (2), a poor Jacobite 
writer, to ridicule his tragedy, the Generous Conqueror ^ 
to merciless criticism of the play, Gildon added general 
ideas concerning the English stage : he extolled Shake- 
speare and Jonson, attacked Dryden for lack of originality, 
and reproached Steele for not being sufficiently classical. 

About this time, Gildon was the intimate of most of the 
great living authors, and of renowned actors and actres- 
ses : Mrs Bracegirdle (3), Mrs Porter (4), and Betterton (5), 

(i) Gerard Laugbaine, the Younger (1656-1692), known 
chiefly as a dramatic biographer. 

(2) Higgons (1670-1735) was acou^ed, when he published 
liis triagiedy, of having triied to defend the Divine Right and 
Iiriipeecability of James the Second. Gildon's book against him 
is entitled : A Comparison between the 2 Stages (1702). 

(3) Anne Braoegirdle's (1663-174S) appearance in Gildon's 
Love's Victiyn (1701) was one cA .her greatest triumphs, and 
Gildon thanked her in the Preface to his tragedy. This did 
not prevent him, a few months afterwards, from giving the 
following opinion of her virtue : « I believe no more on it 
than I believe of John Mandevil ». {A Comparison, etc. p. 18). 

(4) In Gildon's tragedy, Love's Victim, she played the 
part of T3-relius, a boy of 12, and spoke the Epilogue. She 
dijed in 1765. 

(5) Gildon's Li(c of Better'on is rather a dissertation on 



20 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

who played the chief part in all his plays, and whose 
biography he wrote a few weeks after the great actor's 
death in 1710. It is very likely, too, that he himself played 
secondary' parts in his tragedies, according to a frequent 
custom at the time (i). He probably was an indifferent 
player. He certainly was an indifferent dramatist, though 
at least honest in indicating his models and sources, and 
he does not perhaps deserve Young's severe satire of his 
talent in the Love of Fame : (2) 

« (Hence) Gildon rails, that raven ot the pit 
Who thrives upon the carcases of wit ». 

Gildon's relations with actresses did not help to improve 
the detestable reputation he had acquired from his con- 
nections vvith the Deists. He led, in fact, a very dissolute 
life. De Foe, always self-indulgent but hard upon others, 
branded Gildon's vices in doggerel lines, in a poem en- 
titled More Reformation {Jvdy 1703) : 

(( G v.-rites Satyr, rails at Blasphemy, 

And the next Page, lampoons the Deity ; 

Exposes his Darinda's Vicious Life, 

But keqjs six whores and starves his modest wife ; 

Sets up for a reformer of the town. 

Himself a first Rate Rake beloav Lampoon... 

All men to errors and mistakes enclin'd. 

To sin 's a vice in Nature, and we find 

drama and the dramatic art : to it was added a cotniedy by 
Ik-itterton The Amorous Widow (imitated from Moliere) which 
had ibeen snccesfifully acted on the 10 th of Januar}- 1673. 
jSeie Times L. S. for Sept. 14 th, 1922 : p. 584). 

(i) Waller. Universal Biography. 

(2) This is Edward Young (16S3-1765), the author of the 
Nights. The quotation is taken from the seveoiith satire of the 
Love of Fame. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 21 

And Reprehension 's not at all uncivil, 

But to have Rakes reprove us, that's the Devil ! « 

Evidently, in these outspoken lines, De Foe is merely- 
exaggerating stories that were commonly reported of 
Gildon's life ; his cynical behaviour and youthful bluster 
contributed certainly to give credence to those rumours. 
But the attacks against his private conduct became so 
violent, that he felt bound to protest, though at the same 
time he admitted his incredulity in matters of religion. 
In the preface to Chorus Poetarum he wrote, in answer 
to slanders spread by his adversaries : « I confess I was 
sensibly touch'd with the Scandalous Judgment those 
Gentlemen made of my morals, which I do without 
Arrogance pretend to be as orthodox as any Man's, how 
Heterodox soever my other opinions may be thought by 
some )). But the mere fact that he proclaimed himself a 
deist was sufficient to make good souls reckon him among 
the worst rakes, and it undoubtedly injured him finan- 
cially, as it turned away the patronage of rich and in- 
fluential lords. As he advanced in age, his youthful en- 
thusiasm for doctrines which seemed revolutionary and 
subversive to most Englishmen gave way to his practical 
sense. Little by little he turned to the Established 
Church, and allowed himself to be converted by Charles 
Leslie's (i) poor arguments in favour of Christianity, 
contained in a long pamphlet with this cumbrous title : 
A Short and Easy Method with the Deists, wherein the 
truth of the Christian Religion is demonstrated by such 
rules as stand upon the conviction of our outward Senses, 

(i) (1650-1722). Nocr juror and controversialist, known for 
his quarrels with the Qual^ers and the chief Whig journalists 
of the time, Tutchin and De Fioe, in ofypasition to whom he 
started a paper entitled The Rehearsal. The first edition of 
his Short and Easy Method was issued in 169S. 



22 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

and 7t'hich are incompatible -jcith the Fabulous Histories 
of the Heathen Deities, the Delusions of Mahomet, or any 
other Imposture whatsoever. 

Resolved to reap the utmost benefit from his conver- 
sion, Gilclon proclaimed it widely. In July 1704, Leslie 
addressed to him a long gratulatory letter, and the new 
proselyte wrote a treatise, the Deist's Manual, in which 
he abjured all his former errors. He dedicated this pro- 
duction to the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

Thus back in the ranks of loyal English Protestants, 
Gildon easily found lucrative work. The Whigs and To- 
ries, at this time, were waging a terrible newspaper war, 
and each w^as eager to enrol new pamphleteers in his 
service. Gildon had no fixed political opinions, and let it 
be known that he was ready to offer his talent to whatever 
party felt inclined to reward his labours. 



Ill 
Gildon as pamphleteer 

Gildon's first political pamphlet showed him that he 
was treading dangerous ground. The High-Tory leaders 
were at this time greatly incensed against the Queen for 
having raised a Whig ministry to power. They knew her 
secret attachment to her exiled brother, the Pretender, 
and resolved to take their revenge by balking her 
hopes. On the 15 th of November 1705, they brought 
forward in Parliament a proposal that Anne should invite 
to England the Heir Presumptive to the throne, the Elect- 
ress Sophia. Thus they affronted the Queen publicly, 
and at the same time threw confusion into the ranks of 
the Whigs, who were greatly alanned by this suspicious 
zeal for the Protestant Succession. The Tories hoped that 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 23 

by this move they would cause a quarrel between the 
reigning Queen and the Queen to be — the touchy and 
dominating character of the latter was well known — 
and that they might take advantage of the trouble that 
would ensue to return to power themselves (i). Their plan 
failed, but they had the good fortune to lay their hands 
on two very important letters. One, dated Nov. 3 rd, 1705, 
had been sent to the Archbishop of Canterbury by Prin- 
-cess Sophia, and seemed to intimate her wish to visit 
England, so as to be ready in case of Anne's sudden 
death. The other had been sent on Jan. 12 th, 1706, to 
the Earl of Stanford t»y Sir Rowland Gwynne, an Eng- 
lish Gentleman at the Court of Hanover : Gwynne 
showed that in order to baffle the endeavours of the Jaco- 
bites, it was necessary that the Electress should come to 
England, and he expressed plainly a suspicion of the 
loyalty of the Queen and her Ministers towards the Prot- 
estant Succession. Both letters were given by a Tory 
leader to poor Gildon, who saw how much money their 
publication would bring in. Not suspecting that he was 
being used as a tool by the Tories in their war against the 
Queen, he published the letters, and added a review of 
those sensational documents, in which he dwelt at leng^ 
on the advantages that would ensue from Sophia's visit. 
Urged perhaps by the Tories, he even dedicated his pam- 
phlet, with a touching ingenuity, to the Queen. The result 
soon appeared. His work was censured by both Houses 
and declared « a seditious libel, tending to create a mis- 
understanding between Her Majesty and the Princess 
Sophia ». The author of the libel was easily discovered ; 
Gildon indeed did not seek concealment. On June 8 th, 

(1) Iti the old Histoire d'Angleterre by Ratpin-Thoyras 
\1749) these curious negociations are very clearly explained. 
(vol. XII, p. 170, etc). 



24 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

1706, the Secretary of State, Robert Harley, issued a 
warrant thus worded : « Charles Gildon to be apprehended 
for being concem'd in pubhshing a seditious libel ». (1) 
On the 14 til, Harley issued a second warrant to the 
keeper of Newgate, ordering him to receive the culprit, 
who had been examined and confessed his guilt. Without 
further delay, Harley lannounced Gildon's arrest to the 
English Ambassador in Hanover, Mr Howe : « I do not 
know what Sir Rov^'land Gwin does at Hamburg », he 
wrote (2), « but one Charles Gildon who has printed a book 
to justify vSir Rowland Gwyn's letter, and impudently 
dedicated it to the Queen is committed to Newgate. He 
was the person who reprinted Sir Rov^^land Gwyn's letter: 
he takes the writing of the book upon himself, but it may 
be he will be obliged to produce the true author or au- 
thors ere long, n 

The hope expressed by the astute minister, who sought 
to reach his political enemies in this way, was never 
realised : Gildon did not inform against any one, perhaps 
because he did not know whom to denounce or because 
he feared revenge. On the 18 th of June, he wrote to 
Harley's secretary, Erasmus Lewis (3), a desiring to know 
whether he would be pleased to take his bail, as Mr Ste- 
phen had satisfied Mr Borrett (4). having two very sub- 
stantial m.en, one with five or six thousand pounds ; the 
other, besides his trade in the bookselling, has a place of 
50 1. a year for his life » (5). This offer was accept«d, and 
Gildon did not remain long 

(i) Public Record Office, S. P. dom. Anne. Eatry book 77. 

(2) Letter dated 18/29 June 1706 (P. R. O. — 5. P. foreign. 
Hanover, entry book). 

(3) (1670-1754), a friend of Swift and Pope. 
{4) Soliciitor to the Treasury. 

(5) 7/15/. Mss. Comm. — Mss of the Duke of Portland, 
VIIJ, 232. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 25 

^ Circled in Newgate's cold embrace » (1). 

He was tried on the 12 th of February 1707 at the Guild- 
hall, and found guilty (2), Sentence was deferred till the 
follovv'ing term. Terrified by the mere idea of the pillory 
and prison, Gildon sought a protector everywhere : he 
applied to Richard Steele, who had just been appointed 
gazetteer, on the recommendation of Arthur Mainwar- 
ing {3). Honest, kind-hearted Dick Steele was always 
ready to help a brother-writer in distress. He wrote to the 
Queen, on behalf of Gildon, a petition for a Noli Prose- 
qui, the first draught of which, in his own hand, has been 
preserved in his papers (4) : « To the Queen's most Excel- 
lent Majesty. The humble Petition of Charles Gildon 
sheweth. That y"" Petitioner has by an unhappy mistake 
and not out of any malicious design against the Happi- 
ness and Quiet of y' Majesty's Government been concern'd 
in publishing a pamphlet call'd S' R. Gwinn's letter etc. 
That y' Pef has had a liberal education and fortune and 
expects this Term a sentence worse than Death for the 
same. That he is under the greatest sorrow and contrition 
for this His high offense against so good and gracious a 
Queen, and shall hereafter abhor and avoid all license in 
speech and writing unbefitting a quiet, humble, and Pea- 
ceable subject. V" P*' therefore most humbly Prays, etc. » 
Harley received this petition on the 2 nd of May ; he read 
it on the 4 th, and wrote a short note on the paper : « He 

(i) De Foe, Elegy on the Author of the True-born Eng- 
lishman. 

(2) Post hoy, Feb. 13 th, 1707. 

{■^^ (1668-1712). M. P., auditor of inquests, member of the 
Kit-Kat Club, one of the heads of the "Whig Party. 

(4) British Museum. Add. Mss. 5145. This document has 
been pointed out by Aitken, Life of Steele, I, 152. 



26 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

to apply again after sentence » (i). At last, on the 17 th, 
Gildon appeared before the Bench. The judge soon gath- 
ered that he had been merely a tool, ignorant of the grave 
significance of his act. Gildon escaped imprisonment, but 
was condemned to a fine of 100 1., a large sum for a poor 
hack-writer. Qn the 27 th of November, we find him send- 
ing a new petition to Harley, to be relieved from his 
fine (2), and we may believe that this request was granted, 
since it was presented by Mainwaring, who was very 
powerful with the ministers. 

Gildon had learnt from his misfortunes the danger of 
meddling with politics ; henceforv/ard he behaved like « a 
quiet and peaceable subject », and paid court to men in 
office. He cherished the hope of being appointed, like De 
Foe, to some minor official post. In July 1708, he wrote a 
poem in praise of Marlborough's victory at Oudenarde, 
and to obtain pardon for his past offence, dedicated it to 
the Electoral Prince of Hanover, afterwards George the 
First. He kept up more studiously than ever his acquaint- 
ances with n^en of renown, both in the literary and polit- 
ical world. He frequently visited « ancient Mr Wycher- 
ley )), who was still held in reverence by the wits ; in one 
of these visits he met the youthful Pope, whom he de- 
scribed later as a « little Aesopic sort of an Animal », — 
which, naturally enough, incensed the touchy poet (3). 
He remained on good terms with Steele to whom, in gnat- 
itude for his kindness, he dedicated his Life of Betterton : 
(( The following piece was scarce yet an Embryo », he 
wrote, « when I designed its full growth for your Protec- 
tion. ;) In return, Steele, under his favourite pseudonym 

(i) Mss. of the Duke of Portland, VIII, 349. 
(2) A/55, of the Duke of Portland, VIII, 353. 
^3) In t])c Life of William Wycherlcy : the quarrel between 
Fope and Gildon makes the subject of my 4 th chapter. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 2/ 

of Isaac Bickerstaff (i), wrote the fol]o^^'ing humorous 
preface for a Grammar of the English Tongue, whi h 
Gildon began, in 1710, at the request of a bookseller 
named Brightland : « The following treatise being submit- 
ted to my censure, that I may pass it with Integrity, I must 
declare that as Grammar in general is on all hands al- 
low'd the Foundation of all Arts and Sciences, so it ap- 
pears to me that this Grammar of the English Tongue has 
done that justice to our language which till now it never 
obtained. The Text will improve the most ignorant, and 
the notes will employ the more learned. I therefore en- 
join all my female Correspondents to buy, read and study 
this Grammar, that their letters may be something less 
enigmatic ; and on all my male Correspondents likewise, 
who make no conscience of false-spelling and False- 
English, I lay the same Injunction, on pain of having 
their epistles expos' d in their own proper dress, in my 
Lucubrations. — LB. censor. » Gildon hoped much from 
the success of this grammar, which was dedicated « To 
the Queen's most excellent Majesty ». He contributed 
also to a translation of Lucian's works, and wrote a Latin 
Grammar (2). He thought these academic treatises likely 
to recommend him to the great minister Harley, who had 
returned to power after a short eclipse. There are extant 
two letters of Gildon to the famous statesman (3) (1711)- 

'i) It was under this pseudonym that Steele wrote for the 
Tatler (1709). The name Isaac Bickerstaff had already been 
assumed by Swift when he attacked John Partridge the 
almanac-maker (1707J, and it was, later cxn, taken by De 
Foe when he wrote his mock-prophecies, the British Visions 
(1711). 

{2) This is evidently Cases in Latin, 3 copies of which 
Gildon sent to Addison in Feb. 171Q (B. M. Mss. E. G. 
1971). 

(3) 13. M. Add. Mss. 4163. 



28 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

He began by declaring that « he knew Harley's own 
excellent parts, and the character he had of a Favourer of 
Men of letters and his generosity to such », then went on 
to explain a series of projects which, he said, would ena- 
ble Harley to earn an eternal reputation as a « Great Pro- 
tector of Arts and Sciences ». The first of Gildon's projects 
was for the promotion of virtue and morality : « Some 
ingenious person was to compose a Speech with all the 
flowers of Oratory and Rhetoric, and then he himself, if 
duly qualified, or another person indued with all the 
Graces and advantages of speaking was to pronounce it in a 
house to be built for that purpose in the centre of Lincoln's 
Inn Sqi. -e » (i). Gildon obviously repented the license 
of his theai.. ^1 career, since this project tended to create 
opposition against the stage, by means of moralizing lec- 
tures destined to « advance the polite Sciences. » An 
other proposal of Gildon was for the founding of an Eng- 
lish Academy on the same lines as the French : the idea 
was "by no means novel. Roscommon had already brought 
it forward (2), then De Foe in his Essay upon Projects 
(1697) and Prior in his Carmen Secular e {1700) ; and a few 
months after Gildon, Swift made exactly the same pro- 
posal iji his Letter to the Earl of Oxford (Harley). Gil- 
don's last project was intended by him to prejudice in his 

(i) This project was .not fully explained in Gildon's first 
letter to Harlej', but we know in what it consisted from a 
passage of A Reinforcement of the Reasons proving that the 
Stage is an Antichristian Diversion (Oct. 1733, p. 31), by tihe 
Rev. George Anderson, who was a friend of Gildon's, and 
probably iin£uenced his sudden dislike for tlie stage. 

(2) Dillon Wantworth, Ba-rl of Roscommon had attempted 
the formation of a literary Acadjemy in imitation of that at 
Caen., im which town he had lived, dv.ic'mg the Commoraweakh. 
He WHS a clai^sical poet (1633-85) and, accordtimg to Pope, the 
only moral writer of the reign of the Merry Monarch. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

favour Barley, who was a specialist in economic ques- 
tions. To induce the great statesman to grant him an au- 
dience, Gildon declared himself ready to lay before him 
« a method of Improving Pier Majesty's Revenue 50.006 
or 60.0C0 1. per an. without injury to any one » ; he does 
not give any more details of this marvellous project. He 
sent with his letters copies of his books, at least of those 
he thought likely to interest Harley, for example, his 
Grammar, for which he shamelessly claimed a reward in 
cash : cc I have yet had no benefit of any consequence 
from the great pains and labour I have been at in this 
work but the hopes of a public service, and wish that my 
circumstances did not compel me to seek any other. But 
since those are so narrow I hope from our true Patriots 
another Rev^'ard more agreeable to the necessity of my 
affairs » : and he v^^ent on to insinuate that among those 
patriots, Robert Harley, Chancellor of the Exchequer, 
was the most likely to be generous. 

At the same time, in order to obtani support for his 
demands, Gildon sent som.e of his books to Edward Har- 
ley, brother of the Minister, « to divert a leisure 
hour )) (i). He tried to interest him also in his proposals, 
which, he repeated, were designed <( to advance the polite 
Arts to a greater perfection than they have yet known in 
these nations. )> This clever campaign probably did not 
fulfil the extravagant hopes entertained by Gildon, who 
was far from being modest. It is very likely, however, 
that he received some money, for at the end of his life we 
find him, poorer and more beggarly than ever, sending 
ne-vv petitions to the Harley family, through the medium 
of their great friend Prior. 

During the reign of Queen Anne, a poor hack-writer 
like Gildon vvas at the mercy of rapacious booksellers, 

(i) B. M. Add. Mss. 4163. 



30 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

who compelled him to lead a life of drudgery and semi- 
starvatiou, so that he had little time for original work. In 
170Q, Gildon was the chief contributor to two collections 
of anecdotes entitled the Golden Spy, dedicated to Swift : 
these were stories tending to show the corruptive power of 
gold in European Courts, and telling with many details 
the « scandalous amours » of Fouquet, Mme de Montpen- 
sier, and other worthies of the Court of Versailles. In 1710 
Gildon came under the tyranny of Curll, a bookseller fa- 
mous for his piracies and his obscene publications, who 
was justly vilified by De Foe in a well-known paper (i) : 
« he is odious in his person, scandalous in his Fame, he 
is mark'd b}-- Nature, for he has a bawdy Countenance, 
and a debauched Mien, his Tongue is an Echo of all the 
beastly Language his Shop is fill'd with, and Filthiness 
drivels in the \ cry Tone of his Voice. » Curll hired poor, 
starving C^ildon to tadd to Rowc's six-vokune edition of 
Shakespeare (2) a piratical seventh volume, containing 
Shakespeare's Poems. Gildon was very sucessful in this 
task (3). He wrote an essay on the drama in Aiicient Lit- 
erature and in England, !Compiled a Glossary of archaic 
words in Shakespeare, and added summaries of the plays. 
The book, which was dedicated to the Earl of Peterbor- 
ough, would be far from contemptible, if Shakespeare's 
Sonnets were not lost amid a flood of inferior poetry by 
other authors. 

(i) Against the Sin of Curlicism, in Mist's Journal for 
April 5 th, 1719. — Curll (1675-1747) replied in a pamphlet 
entitled Curlicism Displayed. He was attacked m the Dun- 
ciad. 

(2) Rowe (1674-1718) wa.s poet-laureate. His imtimacy with 
Pope had exposed him to Curll's hatred. His edition of 
Shakespeare was reiissiued in 1714 iu 8 vols., wheai* Curl! 
agai.n i.-suetl Gildon 's work as a g th vol. 

(3) Notes and Queries. 2 nd s. XH, 349. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 3 f 

Gilclon seems to have been one of the miserable hacks 
regularly employed by Curll. He lived in a garret in Chan- 
cery Lane, and his nightly drudgery by candle-light be- 
gan to affect his eyesight. His letters to Harley (1711) 
show that already he could scarcely see what he wrote. 
Gradually his sight grew worse, and by the end of the 
year 1718 he was blind. 

It was at the precise moment when, to the anguish of 
the struggle for his daily bread, was added the terror of 
being less and less able to see the paper he was obliged 
to cover with hurried lines all day long and a great part 
of the night, that he found himself launched into a quar- 
rel with the most formidable antagonist of the time, 
Alexander Pope. He v,ias one of the « distinguished 
Frogs of Helicon », that tried in vain to devour the dread 
« Wasp of Twickenham » (i). 



IV 
Gildons quarrel with Pope, and last days 

Gildon's first attack against Pope was made in 17 14 : 
perhaps it was due not merely to natural antipathy, but 
to the fact that any book written against Pope was sure 
of a prompt answer, and hence of a good sale, since the 
public was always interested in literary polemics. In the 
New Rehearsal (2) — a very dull comed\' — Gildon bitterly 

(i) These curious expressions are taken from the Daily 
Journal (A]>ril and May 1728), which had begun a violent 
quarrel with Pope. 

(2) The epigraph of this pamphlet is sigaiificaoit in itself : 

« Why is he honour'd with a Poet's Name, 
Who neither knows nor would observe a rule ? » 

(Roscommon). 



32 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

criticised the plays of Rowl', Pope's great friend, whom 
he described under the name of Bays the Younger in these 
insulting terms : (( A Pedantic Reciting Poet, admired by 
the Mob and himself, but justly contemn'd by Men of 
Sense and Learning, and a despiser of Rules and Art. » 
Pope was introduced in the same work as « Sawney (i) 
Dapper, a young Poet of the Modern Stamp, an easy ver- 
sifier, conceited, and a contemner secretly of all others. » 
To enrage Pope further, Gildon added scurrilous abuse 
of the Rape cf the Lock. Pope was very touchy on this 
special point, i-.s ti:e poem was his most cherished work : 
De Foe bed incurred his rage, and earned a niche in the 
Dunciad ir^erely liccause he had ventured on a few slight 
taunts about sylphs and gnomes (2 So we may well im- 
agine Pope's fury at seeing himself and his friend thus 
insulted by a low hack-writer. 

Gildon renewed his attack a few years later. He had 
become the faithful jackal of the bilious critic John Den- 
nis, who probabh' aided him to find work with the book- 
sellers. Dennis certainly collaborated with him in one of 
his most discreditable productions, A true character of 
Mr Pope, published by Curll in 1716 (3j. But the worst 
was yet to come. On the 3 rd of May, 171S, the Evening 
Post announced the publication of the Life of \Villia7n 
Wycherley, Esq (4) ; by Charles Gildon Gent., ivith a 

(i) Savaiey is a corruption of Sandy, the vScottish abbre- 
\'ia't:o'ii of Alexander. 

(2) In- A System of Magic (1726). Already in The Life of 
Mr Dv-rican Campbell (1720), De Foe published verses by a 
certain Mr Stanhope, intended to riddciile Pope's poem. 

(3) 'v. the first edition of his Key io the Dunciad, Curl] 
decla'-ed that Gildon was the author of the book. This deola- 
ratior was omitted in subsequent editions, and im the Curl- 
iad, Dennis was named as the writer. 

(4^ \V-'cherlev had died on the i st of Jan. 1776. On the title- 

Via 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON ■ 33 

character of Mr Wycherley and his writings by the Lord 
Landsdown. To ivhich are added some familiar Letters 
ivritien by Mr Wycherley and a true copy of his last Will 
and Testament. Trice i 5. Trinted for E. Curll (i). The 
following paragraph in the book was calculated to incense 
Pope to the highest degree : Gildon recounts a meeting 
with Pope in Wycherley's chambers, and speaks scorn- 
fully of Pope's a rustick parent » about the time of the 
sudden death of the latter : « I remember I was once to 
wait on Mr Wycherley and found in his Chamber this 
little Aesopic sort of an Animal in his own cropt Hair, 
and Dress agreeable to the 'Forest he came from. I con- 
fess the Gentleman was very silent all my stay there, and 
scarce utter'd three Words on any Subject we talk'd of, 
nor cou'd I guess at wdiat sort of Creature he was, 
and shou'd indeed have guess'd all the Pretenses of Man- 
kind round before I shou'd have imagined him a Wit and 
Poet. I thought indeed he might be some Tenant's Son 
of his, who might make his Court for continuance in his 
Lease on the Death of his Rustick Parent, but was suffi- 
ciently surpris 'd when ]Mr Wycherley afterwards told me 
he was Poetically inclin'd and wrote tolerably smooth Ver- 
ses... » Gildon continues in this abusive tone for five 
whole pages. 

This was the book to which Pope referred, when, in 

page of the book, Gildon is not niamed (see Liist of G^iJdon's 
works). The public was .intended to soippose that Ivord Lands- 
dow,ne was t.he author of the whole. This was one of Curll's 
favourite tricks. 

(i) In Gildon 's work, Wycherley's poetry vras roughly 
handled, a fact which displeased Deuiuis, so that, later, Gildon 
had to apologise : « I atn sorry I have not pleased you in what 
I have said of Mr Wycherley » (Letter dated A.ug. 11 th, 1721, 
and published by Dennis in his Remarks tipon several Pas- 
:- ^'relimiiicrics to the Duvciad, etc.). 



34 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 



order to explain plausibly his final rupture with Addison^ 
he made to Spcncc (i) the following justification of his 
conduct : « Gildon wrote a thing about Wycherley in 
which he had abused both me and ray relations very 
grossly. Lord Warwick himself told me one day that it 
was in vain for me to endeavour to be well with Mr Addi- 
son, that his jealous temper could never admit of a settled 
friendship between us ; and, to convince me of what he 
had said, assured me that Addison had encouraged Gil- 
don to publish those scandals, and had given him ten 
guineas after they were published ». An J Nichols in his 
Illustrations of the Literary History of the i8 ih century 
asserts plainly : « Gildon abused Mr P(ope) very scandal- 
ously in an anonymous pamphlet of the Life of Mr Wych- 
erley printed by Curll )> (2). It is curious to find that 
the biographers of Pope and Addison agree unanimously 
that this Life of Wycherley, from which we quote, had 
never existed outside Pope's malignant imagination (3). 
Pope's allegations had a firm basis, but his hostility tO' 
Addison had shown itself long before the Life of Wych- 
erley appeared, for the famous attack on Addison un- 
der the character of Atticus dates from July 1715, and 
was provoked by the fact that Addison encouraged Tick- 
ell, author of a translation of the Iliad which was intend- 
ed to compete with Pope's translation. It may be, hmv- 
ever, that, after hearing Warwick's story. Pope sent di- 



(i) Spenoe (1699-1768) related thi.s bit of scandal in his 
invaluable Anecdotes (p. 14S). It was also recounted in simi- 
lar terms by Warburtcai in his comments on Pope's Epistle 
to Dr. Arhuthnot (1751 ed. of Pope's Works, IV, 25-27). 

(2) 1817 ed. vol. II, 727 n. 

(3) See for example Mr Courthope'.-? Addison (VII) and the 
D. N. B. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 35 

rectly to Addison a copy of the extract on the character 
of Atticus (i). 

It remains to inquire into the truth of Pope's allega- 
tion, and to see if he had any serious reasons for believing 
the Earl of Warwick's gossip. It seems he had, — for 
there is extant a letter, dated the 12 th of February 17 19, 
which Gildon dictated to his amanuensis and sent to 
Addison (2) . This letter proves that there had been rela- 
tions of some kind between the two men : Gildon alludes 
to past correspondence, and reminds Addison that he 
had sent him one of his books as a New Year gift, and 
is still waiting for <( the relief which Justice required to 
his sufferings » ; he adds that he is troubled by some ru- 
mours according to which the collection of letters he sent 
him had given him offence. Finally, « to incite his native 
generosity to be the more active in his cause », he sends 
him 3 copies of his Cases in Latin, in the hope that Addi- 
son, still powerful with the government w^hich he had 
just left on account of ill-health, would undertake to 
procure for him a small annuity. It is very likely that 
Addison, who loved to appear a generous patron, sent 10 
guineas to Gildon in answer to this appeal. But was the 
money sent because Gildon had abused Pope in the Life 
of Wycherley ? It is very doubtful : Addison, it is true, 
never felt any sympathy for Pope, and probably read Gil- 
don's attack with pleasure. It may be that Lord War- 



(i) I had long concluded that Gildou's Life of Wycherley 
must be in existence, a,nd had traced a copy in the New- 
York Public Li(braTj% when I found I had been, forestalled by 
]\Ir G«orge Sherburn, who described Gildon's book in a very 
interesting communication to the Times L. S. for May 11 th, 
1922. But all the facts recounted im these pages about Addi- 
son's attitude in the quarrel are new. 

(2) B. M. Mss. E. G. 1971. 



36 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

wick. Addison's brother-in-law, knew of the gift of mon- 
ey to Gildon. He may, during a temporary estrangement 
with Addison, in order to be revenged on him, have told 
Pope, either in good faith or maUciously, that the mon- 
ey was given for the purpose he alleged, knowing that 
Pope was not likely to let such an injury pass unpunished. 
It is quite certain that Pope had no reason to doubt the 
truth of Lord Warwick's story. 

Pope considered Gildon a contemptible enemy, and did 
not reply with the virulence which the poor hack-writer 
desired, in order to promote the sale of his books. Gildon, 
Pope thought, was an insignificant satellite of Dennis, for 
whom also he affected the greatest disdain : 

« If Dennis ivriies and rails in furious pet, 
I'll answer Dennis when I am in debt. 
If meagre Gildon draws his meaner quill, 
I wish the man a dinner, and sit still n (i). 

A curious fact is that Dennis was ashamed of Gildon's 
friendship and deemed it convenient to deny his close 
relations with him ; he published two letters written to 
him b}^ Gildon, the respectful tone of which, he main- 
tained, sufficiently bhowed that the writer was not an inti- 
mate friend of his. « Now, is it not plain », Dennis 
claimed, « that any one who sends such compliments to an 
other, has not been us'd to write in Partnership with him 
to whom he sends them? » (2) And yet both writers had 
jointly published, on the 5 th of February 1720, a polem- 
ical work entitled A Ne^u Project for the Regulation of 
the Stage, by Mr D-nis and Mr G-don. The authors sup- 
ported the Lord Chamberlain in his quarrel with vSteele, 

(i) Epistle to Arbuthnot. In later editions the word venal 
was substituted for meaner. 

(2) Remarks upon several Passages, etc. (1720). 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 37 

•whose lice play cit Drury Lane theatre had just been 

:suppressea ...r « great misbehaviour ». Gildon's ingrati- 
tude tovvti. ''1. 1-iis former patron met with success, as a 
second editiju of the book was issued 3 days after the 
first (i). ? 'r^od, Pope was right in uniting Gildon and 
Dennis, .■ ..orkers under Curll's rod, in the same 

shameful • " rtality in the Dunciad : 

(( He [Eu.- ■ 7 J sleeps among the dull of ancient days, 

Safe, ivherc vo critics damn, no duns molest. 

Where 7i'rci: I'cd Withers, Ward and Gildon rest... » 

[(I, 294)]. 

« Ah ih nnls, Gildon ah ! 7i'Jiat ill-starr'd rage 
Dividi.- ; friendship long confirm'd by age ? 
Block!- f^uas with reason zcicked ivits abhor, 
But for! :jlth fool is barbarous civil ivar. 
Enibrocc, embroxe, my sons ! be foes no more I 
Nor g':':! tile pools 7cith true critics' gore ! » (2). 

[(in, 173)]- 

i'ope, Ik V. c\er, uiidtrrated Gildon ; for one of the lat- 
ter's works, tiie Complete Art of Poetry, which was pub- 
lished in : ;8 a few v.xeks before he became completely 
blind, sho-.\f-^ iliat he had real merit as a critic. Pope, who 
could net a- 'nreciate a book which aimed so many poisoned 
shafts at his poetical kingship, might ha\e said with jus- 
tice that Gildon had but poorly applied in his works the 
rules he prescribed so clearly. We must acknowledge, 
however, tr.rt Gildon has at least summed up adequately 
the chief piinciples of classical art ; he possessed erudi- 
tion, thouf:'. he was often pedantic in the display of it. 

(i) Advertisement i:i the Daily Post for Feb. 8th, 1720. 

(2) For pJI those « difjces » see the Roiiarks on the Dun- 
ciad. 



38 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

The Complete Art of Poetry consists of 5 dialogues, the 
titles of which show the spirit of the whole work : 

1. Of the Nature, Use, Excellence, Rise and Progress 
of Poetry ; 

2. Of the Use and Necessity of Rules in Poetry ; 

3. Of the ^Manner, Rules and Art of composing Epi- 
grams, Pastorals, Odes, etc. ; 

4. Of Tragedy and Comedy ; how to draw the Plot from 
the characters of both ; 

5. The Rules of the Epic or Narrative Poem, of the 
Poetic Diction or Language, and of English numbers. 

The frequent repetition of the word rule is enough to 
prove how intolerantly classical were Gildon's theories : 
according to him, «. no IModcrn had an\' merit but what 
he owed to the rules and precedents of the Ancients » (i). 
Shakespeare, in his opinion, was great only when he ob- 
served the rules : <( He had a genius, indeed, capable of 
coming up to the rules, but not sufficient to find them 
out himself, though it be plain from his own words he 
saw the absurdities of his own conduct... Sir Philip Sid- 
ney had discovered the faults of the English Stage in his 
Apologie for Poetrie, and Shakespeare himself had writ- 
ten one or two almost regular plays; therefore Shakespeare's 
errors arc the more inexcusable ». To Gildon, Shake- 
speare was tolerableionly in extracts ; and at the end of his 
Complete Art he published a selection of beauties from 
Shakespeare's plays in modernized English, entitled 
Shakespeariana. Gildon's book was, on the whole, a goo<l 
code for beginners, or, according to the "poet Matthew 
Green : « Poetic buckets for dry wells » (2)" 

(i) See a short paper on Oil don's theories in the Modern 
Language Revieu' XIV, p. 386. {Two minor Critics of the 
Age of Pope, by I). S. Sarma). 

(2) The Spleen (1737), line 16. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON ■ 39 

Gildon appears to us more classical than Boileau, whose 
Art Poetique, translated in 1680 by William Soame, had 
been modified by Dryden to suit English taste Gil- 

don was the extreme theorist of the tendencies that pre- 
\ailed in English poetry from the Restoration to the end 
of the 18 th century. His book is interesting to study in 
this light ; it is very il earned, sometimes even pedantic in 
.tone, but often original, as for example in the last dia- 
logue in which musical notations are used to explain the 
theory of stressed syllabes in English metre. 

Gildon evidently founded extravagant hopes on this 
book, of which he was very proud. The humble dedication 
which he addressed to King George the First was probably 
rewarded with some money. But the book did not obtain 
tlie success it deserved : the bookseller had for three years 
to advertise it continually as « just published », in order 
to get rid of the whole edition. Gildon was happily indem- 
nified by the rapid sale of his pamphlet against Robinson 
Crusoe, published in the foUoiwing year (2). But the suc- 
cess of one book in those days could afford only a very 
temporary relief. Merely to live, Gildon was obliged to 
beg from the rich patrons of literary men. He sent his 
works to any nobleman who was likely to give him a few 
guineas. He probably received a generous gift from the 
Earl of Carnarvon (3), \v-lio was well known for his liber- 
ality to poor v/riters : Gildon had written in his honour a 
poem of over 600 lines entitled Canons, or th^ Vision (4). 

(i) vSee Charlanne : [.'Influence jrangaise en Angleterre eu 
17" siUle, I, p. 315. 

(2) vSee the Iiitiodirctiou to (iiildon's pampklet. 

(3) James Brydges, afterwards Diike of Chandas. 

(4) Canons (uear Edgware), was the name of the Earl's 
magni'ficeut residence. It was described by De Foe in his 
Tour through Great Britain, (II, 3). 



40 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

lie was also amply rewarded by the Duchess of Bucking- 
hamshire and Normanby ; he had long before prepared 
a commentary on the Duke's Essay on Poetry, which His 
Grace himself had been pleased to read and correct, but 
did not think fit to publish. At the Duke's death on the 
^4 th of February 1721, the manuscript was returned to 
Gildon who added two similar commentaries on the Essay 
on translated Verse by the Karl of Roscommon, and Lord 
Landsdowne's (i) On Unnatural Flights in Poetry. The 
whole was published under the title The Laws of English 
Poetry : it was much discussed in literary circles, because 
of the names of the poets, but the commentaries are heavy, 
pedantic, and full of absurdities such as this : « Mr 
Addison in the Spectators, in his criticisms upon Milton, 
seems to have mistaken the matter, in endeavouring to 
bring that poem to the rules of the epopoeia, which can- 
not be done... It is not an Heroic Poem, but a Divine one, 
and indeed of a new species. It is plain that the proposi- 
tion of all the heroic poems of the Ancients mentions 
some one person as the subject of their poem... But Milton 
begins his poem of things, not of men ». Such discussions 
seem to us trifling and ridiculous : but at that time they 
allowed their author to i)ass as a critic of considerable 
mark. What pleased Gildon certainly more than the repu- 
tation of his book or its success — which was but indiffe- 
rent (2) — was the important sum he received from the 
Duke's widov>- ; but, he tells us liimself (3i, « though my 



(i) George Granville, baron Landsdowne (1667-1735) verse- 
writer and dramatic author. 

(2) The book.seller advertised it again im 1723 {British 
Journal for March 20 th^ which <hov7s that the edition wa.-^ 
not yet sold out. 

(3) In his 2 nd letter to Prior (Aug. i st, 1721). Hist. Mss. 
Conim. Mss. of the Marquis of Bath, IH^ ^^07. 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GIL I 4 1 

Lady Duchess's present was extremely handsome, yet my 
anticipations upon it were so large that I had but little 
left of it as soon as received ». Having paid his debts, 
Gildon, penniless once more, resolved to start a collection 
in his own favour : he thought that if he interested the 
Harleys, success w^ould be certain. His old friend Dennis 
had often received money from the ex-minister through 
the intermediary of the poet Prior, who v/as a favourite 
of the Harleys. From his dark and filthy garret in Bull 
Head Court, at the corner of Jewin St. and Aldersgate St., 
Gildon now begins a long correspondence with Prior. His 
letters, which were never answered, are interesting as they 
show that notwithstanding his low and miserable condi- 
tion, he was still full of intolerable vanity. 

About the middle of February (1721) Gildon had sent 
to Prior's house in Duke St. the inanuscript of a tragedy, 
which, from the description given, seems to have been 
simply the old manuscript of his tragedy, the Patriot ; 
which was impudent enough, as Prior was expected to 
believe that it was original work. To the ivanuscript Gil- 
don joined a letter begging Prior for his intercession with 
Harley. A week later, on the 21 st, Gildon, v/ho was 
grovving impatient at receiving no acknowledgment, sent 
the following missive in praise of his woric (i) : 

« It is now a week since I presumed to trouble you with 
a manuscript tragedy and a letter to beg your mediation 
and recommendation of it to ^ny Lord Harley and his 
Lady, that is, provided it met v.ith 3-our own approval, 
which I flatter myself it would do, because it moves the 
passions in so eminent a degree, which i> the chief excel- 
lence in that way of writing, and so all- ■ ^ " 'o be by all 
ages till the present, when v\?e have had a . grammat- 

(i) Hist. M&s. Comm. Rep. — .i^.s.;. iMarqms of 

Bath III, 496. 



42 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

ical crilics arise, who have put the diction or language upon 
a foot with it, nay, who have made the diction, though scarce 
taken notice of by Aristotle, the chief mark and charac- 
teristic of a good or bad tragedj', and such a sort of dic- 
tion, /which, though correct enough in itself, is yet by its 
uniformity scarce tolerable in this way of writing, if we may 
give any credit to Horace, Eoileau, and even to the nature 
of things ; for tragedy consisting of the representation of 
different passions, must of necessity vary its style accord- 
ing to the nature of each passion which it brings on the 
stage. But this is a subject of too large an extent for a let- 
ter, and considering the knowledge and judgment of the 
person I write to, wholly superfluous. I must confess that 
there may be some bold metaphors of Mr Lee's which I 
have retained in this alteration, and which I choose rather 
t:j do than to deviate too far from the genius and spirit of 
my author, but I hope they are not many nor so great but 
that the excellence of the passions may sufficiently atone 
for them. It was by this quality alone that Otway fixed 
his immortal reputation with all but the verbal critics, 
and I think I may say that after Otway the tragedy under 
our consideration claims the next place in that particular ; 
but I forgot myself. If this play wants an apology to such 
a judge as Mr Pryor, I am sure it deserves none. If it does 
not, it will sufficiently recommend itself. I therefore only 
once more beg, that, if you approve on't, you would rec- 
ommend it to my Lord and Lady Harley's perusal and 
patronage. — P. S. - I would have waited on you myself, 
but that I have been confined to my chamber by blind- 
ness and lameness and a very infirm health. » 

Many weeks passed. Prior thought Gildon troublesome 
and neither answered his letter, nor spoke to Harley. By 
the middle of July, having spent the money he had re- 
ceived from the Duchess of Buckinghamshire, Gildon or- 
dered 3 of his books to be left at Harle>''s, one directed to 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON .] 3 

My Lord himself, one to My Lady, and the third to the 
distinguished poet, their friend. A fortnight passed, and 
there was still no answer ; so, on the ist of August. Gil- 
don sent a more pressing epistle, reminding Prior uf his 
gift of books, and begging his « earnest and speedy assist- 
ance » to obtain Harley's help for the collection he was 
beginning. The chief argument he used in his appeal was 
that the poet had already used his influence with Harley 
for writers in similar circumstances : « These two last 
terms, my old acquaintance Sam. JBriscoe (i) called upon 
me, and among other things informed me that he had m 
his trouble met with no act of generosity but from Mr 
Prior who had given him 5 guineas for a set of Tom 
Brown's (2) works, and had prevailed with my lord Har- 
ley to give him five more for another set. He farther in- 
formed me that one ISIr Jacups (3), a new author, told him 
that Mr Prior had made a collection for him to pay his 
debts. These generous actions to these two makes me hope 
that I likewise shall find the good effect of your benef- 
icient temper, having every way, I think, as reasonable 
a claim to it, as the two persons I have mentioned, and by 
this a stronger, that I am in years, blind and lame, and 
of a ver>' infirm health. I am endeavouring to get a 
collection made for me to enable me to remove from 
this out-of-the-way place to one more proper for my 
condition, and to provide against the attacks of necessity 

(1) A p<X)r bookseller and writer, who had been xedraced to 
bankruptcy. (lildon had compiled for him tr:e tran-slatiion of 
Lucian's Works. 

(2) See the note ou the last page of ClLaptiei I. 

(3) The name was misspelt b}' GJildor!,'s amiamitieinsis ; this 
Ls Giles Jacob (1686-1744) known chiefly for his Poetical 
Register, or Lives avd Characters of the English Dramatic 
Poets (1719-20). In. 1721 he dedicated a poem, Human Happi- 
ness, to Prior. 



44 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

by setting up a lecture (i) which will be sufficient to sup- 
pi}' my wants. Being sensible that to engage my Lord 
Plarley in this collection, there is nothing wanting but 
your mediation, that is what now I most earnestly beg at 
your hands... » (2). 

Another week passed, and Gildon, in despair, gave vent 
to his angry feelings of wounded dignity in an epistle, the 
whole of which is worth quoting as being characteristic of 
his vanity and lack of self-respect {3) : « I understand 
that you and mj- Lord's family are all moving out of 
loxvn next Saturday. I am the more surprised because I 
have not had one line from you about the present I sent 
yov;, or my subsequent letter to you, which is a treat- 
ment that I have not met with from any one but Mr Prior ; 
for though I have v.'ritten to the greatest men in England, 
both ecclesiastical and temporal, yet not one of them ever 
thcrglit me un\A-crthy of a civil answer, but I suppose 
that it is not Mr Prior's way. As a gentleman, as I may 
say I am both by birth and education, and I think with- 
out niucli vanity I may say a scholar, I thought I had a 
right to an answer from another gentleman, but it seems 
I was mistaken, which confirms the opinion of a very inti- 
mate friend of mine, who told me that I had so long locked 
m3\'itlf u]) from the world that I had forgot the world. 
And yet I hope that my mistaking Mr Prior will not be a 
ver}' strong proof of this assertion, because upon my send- 
ing one of my books to one of the greatest persons in 

(i) This was evidentlj- a new form of Gildon's project (of 
which he had already spoken to Harlc}') for oppasaaig the 
stable by moral lectures (see chap. III). 

(2) Hist. Mss. Comm. Rep. — Mss. of the Marquis of Bath, 
III, 506-7. 

(3) Id. p. 507. This letter has been pnbhshed by Mr. Bick- 
Icy ir his Life of Prior (pp. 266-7). 



THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 43 

England (i), he not only sent me 20 guineas, but likewise 
ordered his chaplain to send me a very obliging answer. 
I have much more to say to you upon this head, but shall 
defer till you return to town. I shall trouble you with no 
more at present. >» 

But Prior was spared Gildon's recriminations, for he 
never came bad: to London; he died at Wimpole, Harlcy's 
country-seat, in September 1721. 

Gildon's last years were lamentable ; they were as 
uneventful and sad as his youth had been agitated and 
gay. His blindness overwhelmed him, and it needed tre- 
mendous energy to carrj-- on the drudgery of a hack- 
writer. He never thought of getting rid of his w^oes 
through suicide, as he had announced he would do, in the 
early days of his deistical career. Lloyd, his amanuensis, 
read to him daily from the papers or new books, and wrote 
letters or original work at his dictation (2). His garret 
seemed darker than ever, as the visits of his friends grew 
rarer. Soon, he was too lame to go out, and perpetually 
in a state of ill-health. Nevertheless he had still to work 
day and night at sm.all tasks for the booksellers. On the 
12 th of January 1724 (3 , Death struck this literary beg- 
gar in the 58 th year of liis age ; it must have been wel- 
comed as a deliverer. 

In the P&Iitical State of Great Britain, Beyer (4) men- 

(i) This was most probabl}- tJie Earl of Caircarvon, v.4io, 
when this w"as written., had -been created Duke of Chandos 
a.ud appointed Governor of the Charterhouse. 

(2) Letter to Deoiuis, dated. Jan. 10 th, 1722. (IHiblished 
in Dennis's Remarks upon several Passages). 

(3) And not on the 14 th, as Nichols erroneoush* states 
(Literary Anecdotes, I, 25 n). See Musgrave'i; Obituary, 
Jacob's Poets, 1, 115, etc. 

{4) (1667- 1 72^,), a French Hngnenot who had fcaketi refuge 



40 THE LIFE OF CHARLES GILDON 

tioned Gildon's death and described him as a man « of 
great literature but mean genius ». The Universal Jour- 
nal for Jan. 15 th published a poem To the Memory of Mr 
Charles (iildoii, which, for all its coarse wit, sums up 
fairly the career of the unhappy writer : 

(( / lov'd thee liviyig, and I mourn thee dead, 
Whose Fate 'iivas to be better Taught than Fed. 
IVhaic'cr the Greek and Latin had in store 
Of .-Irt and Eloquence thou hadst and more... 
From Mass to Common Prayer he early flew, 
The Papists Terror, and the Deists too. 
Who, vhilst he lashed the Vices among Men, 
Religion never suffer' d from his Pen... 
To sum up all, ^ve've lost an honest fellow, 
That treated more in metal red than yellow. 

Such was the epitaph of a man whose life would consti- 
tute one of the most pitiful chapters of a Vie de Boheme 
in England at the beginning of the Eighteenth Century 



in England. An aunalist and journali&t, he is known chiefly 
for hi,s polemics with De Foe. 



GHROKOLOaiGAL LIST 
OF GILDON'S WORKS 



1691. — History of the Athenian Society for the resalving' 
of all nice and curious questions. By a gentleman who got 
tifv-r-i^i- ;-•<■«'••■: .^/^<^r^cv r-r 4-ij^fr whole ri'oceedings. To which are 
prefixed several poems written by Mr Tate, ^Ir Motteux, 
_ ,^-.c-.ui:-;r<i6CHi amd others. Loudon [folio]. 

.^^. — Nuncitis Infernalis : or a New Account from 
Below. In 2 dialogues. The ViTSi (From the Elizinm Fields) 
of Friendship. The second (from Hell of Cuckoldom) Being 
the Sessions of Cuckolds. By Charles Gildon, gent. With a 
Preface by Mr Dtirfey. Loudon, Thomas Jones, [pp X 
and 24] 5 feb. 

A Letter lo Mr d'Urjey, occasioned b}- hiri play called 
the Marriage-hater matched [published by D'Urfey with the 
first ed. of his play]. London [4 to]. 

Poeta infamis; or a Poet not worth hanging, being a 
dialogue between Lysander Valentine and poet Pricker. 
\Vi.th a letter to the author of tlie INIarriage-hater iruitched, 
written by his friend... London. [Dedication signed C. 
G...n]. 

Miscellany Poems upon Several Occasions : consisting 
of Original Poems by the late Duke of Buckingham, Mr Mil- 
ton, IVIr Prior, Mrs Eehn, Mr Tho Brown, etc. And the trans- 
lations from Horace, Persins, Petronius Arbiter etc. With 
an Essiay upon Satyr by the famous M. Daciet... Licens'd 
May 21, 1692. London, Peter Buck [S° pp XXXII and 112] 
[The Epistle Dedicatory signed Charles Gildon]. (Reis-sued 
in 1698 with the following title. The Poetical Reviaines of 
the Duke of B-ickiingham, Sir G. Etheddge, Mr Milton, etc.). 



4^ gildon's works 

The Post boy Robb'd of his Mail : or the Pacqtiet Broke 
()ix\u. Con sis till g' of Letters of Love aaid Gallaiitry and all 
Misoellaiieous Subjects : in vvhioh are discover'd the Vertues, 
\'ices, Follies, Humours and Intrigues of Mankiaid. With 
Remarks on Each letter. 2 vols. London [8 vo pp. XXIV and 
4S8J [The Ei>istle Dedicatory .sigaied C. G.J (Reissued in 
one vol. « with tJie addition of many aJid in.genious letters, 
never before p'.iblish'd ». Lc-i'.don. 1706). 

1693. — Tiic Oracles of Reason. In several letters to Air 
Hobbs and other Persons of eminent Q,uality and Learning. 
By Char. Blount esq, Mr Gildon and others. — London 
[1.2", pp. ZvXIV and 226] (Preface signed C. Gildon). 

1694. — Chorus poctarnm : or Poems on Several Occa- 
sion-s. By the E-uke of Buckingham, the late Lord Rochester, 
Sir Jokn Denham, vSir Geo Etheridge, Andrew Marvel esq, 
the famous Spencer, Aladam Bean, and several other Eminent 
Poets of this Age. Xever before Printed. — London, B. 
P-ragg [8 vo, !)p. XVI a;nd 176] (the EpiiStle Dedicator}^ bigned 
Charles Gildou). 

Miscellaneous Letters and Essays on sevieral subjects 
Philosophical, Alcral, Kisitorical, Critical, Amorous etc. in 
Prose and Verse. Directed to John Dr3'de'n, esq ; The Hanouf- 
able Cieo. 'iranvill, esq; Walter Mod.le, esq; Mr Dennis, 
Mr Cougreve, And other PMiinent Men of th' Age. By several 
Gentlemen and Ladies [mosth' by '.riildou]. London. B. 
Bragg. [8 vo, pp. XVI anxl 231 J (The Epistle Dedicatory, and 
many Essays signed Chr.rles Gildon). October 1694. 

1695. — The Miscellaneous Works of Charles Blount esq. 
Cion.taiin.:ng : I. The Oracles of Reason etc. II. Anima Muaidi, 
or the Opinions of the Antients concerning Alan's Soul after 
this Life, according to ujiinlightened Nature. III. Great is 
the Diana of the Epihesiaus, or the 0-rigiaial of Priestcraft 
and Idolatr3-, and of the Sacrifices of the (jcntiles. IV An 
Appeal from the Country to the City for the Preservation 
of His Alajesty's Person, I^i.berty nul Property, and the 
Protestant Reli^gion. V A just Vindication of Learning, and 
of the Liberty of the Press. VI A supposed Dialogue be- 
twixt the late King James and King William on the Banks 
of the Bo>-ne, the day before that famou'S victorj-. To which 
is prefixed the Life of the author, and an account and Vindi- 
cation of his Death. — London [i2"j. 



gildon's works -19 

1696. — The Younger Brother : or the Amorous Jilt. A 
Comedy acted at the Theatre Ro3'al, by His Majesty's Serv- 
ants. Written by the late Ingenious Mrs A. Behn. With 
some Accounts of her Life. — London, R. Baldwin [4 to, 
pp X + 52] (The Epistle Dedicatory signed Ch. Gildon). 

1697. — The Roman Bride's Revenge. A Tragedy. As 
iit is acted .at the Theatre Royal, by His Majesty's servants. 
— Lonidion, J. Sturton [4 to. pp. IV + 52]. 

Familiar Letters of the Earl of Rochester, edited by 
Charles Gildon — 2 vols [S vo]. 

169S. — The Lives and Characters of the English Dra- 
matic Poets. Also an exact account of all the Plays that were 
ever yet Prinited in the English Tongue ; their Double Titles, 
the I'laces where acted, the Dates when Printed, and the 
Persons to whom Dedicated; with Remarks and Observa- 
tions on most of the said Plays. First begun by Mr Langbain, 
improv'd and continued down to this time, by a careful 
HaiUd. — IvOn.don, Tho Leigh and Wm Turner [3 vo, pp iSo]. 

Phaeton : or the Fatal Divorce. A Tragedy. As it is acted 
at the Theatre Ro3'al. In imitation of the Anitients. With 
some reflections on a Book call'd, a Short View of the Immo- 
rality and Frofaneness of the English Stage. — London, 
A. Roper [4 to, pp XXII and 34]. 

Poetical Remains of Mrs Bckn. — Loiidon, A. Bettes- 
worth [S vo]. Edited by Charles Gildon. 

All the histories and novels written by the late ingen- 
ious Mrs Behn... published by Mr. Charles Gildon. — 
London, .\. Bettesworth. 2 vols. (12°) [another edition in 
1705 ; 7 th ed. in 1722 ; S th in 1735 ; 9 th in 1751]. 

1700. — Measure for Measure, or Beauty the Best Advo- 
cate. As i,t is acted at the Theatre in Li.ncolins-Inn Fields. 
Written originally by Mr vShakespear : And now very much 
alter'd : Witli Additions of several Entertainments of IMu- 
sick. — London', D. Brown, and Parker [4 to, pp IV and 84]. 

1701. — A Xew Miscellany of Original Poems, on several 
Occasions. Written by the E(arl) of D(or.set), Sir Charles 
Sidley, Sir Fleetw. Shepheard, Vir Wole.s.ly, Mr Granvill, 
Mr Dryden, Mr Stepney, Mr Rowe, and several other eminent 
Hands. — London, Peter Buck and G. Straiian. [8 vo, pp 
X\T and 341]. (Dedication signed Charles Gildon). 

or the Oueen of Wales. A Tragedy. As 



5o gildon's works 

it was Acted at the Tlieatre ia Lioicolns - kiu-Fields. B3' 
His Majesty's Servants. — Lcmdon, Parker and Strahan. 
|4 to, pp XII aJid 52]. 

1702. — Examcn Misccllaneum. Consistir.g of Verse and 
]'ro.se. Of verse by the Most HonouraWe the Marqiiis of 
Normauby, the late Lord Rochester, Mr Waller, Mr Wharton, 
Mr Wolseley. With Satires and Faoles, and translations from 
Anacreon. In Prose, above 100 original Max.ims and Reflec- 
tions. To which are added Precepts, Maxims and Reflections 
taken out of Theognis, Phoc^'lides, Pj^hagoras, Solon. 
Simonides, Callimaclius, Hiileraon, Alexis, Anaxaiidrides, 
Aristophanes, Aix>llodorus, Di'philnis, Moenander, Embulus, 
Timocles, and several other Greek poets. — Ivondon, 
Chantry [8 vo, pp XXXIV and 192]. 

A Comparison between the 2 Stages, with an Ex^imen 
of the Generous Conqueror; and some critical Remarks on 
the Funeral, or Grief Alamode, the False Friend, Tamerlane 
and others. In dialogue. — Ixjndion [8 vo, pp VIII and 200]. 

1703. — The Patriot, or the Italian Conspirac}', a tragedy; 
as it is acted at the Theatre Royal in Drur}' lane. — London, 
Wm Davis and G. vStralian [4 to, pp X and 56]. 

Ovidius Britannicus : or Love Epistles in Imitation of 
Ovid. Being an Intrigue betwixt two persons of Quality. To 
which are added : Phaon's answer to Sapho and Theseus 
answer to Ariadne, which were wanting in Ovid's Epistle. 
I'.y David Crawford, gent. — [edited b}- Gildon]. — London, 
Chantry [8 vo, pp XII and 152] (Dedication signed Charles 
'".■Idon). 

1705- — '^'''^' Deist's Manual : or, a Rational Enquiry into 
the Christian Religion. With .some Considerations on Mr 
Hohbs, Spinosa, the Oracles of Reason, Second Thoughts 
etc. P>y C. C,i,ldon, gent. Publisher of the Oracles of Reason. 
To which is prefixed a Letter from the author of the Method 
with the Deists. — London ; Roper, Coggan and Strahan 
[8 to, pp XLIV, 301 and 36]. 

1706. — A Letter pom Iler Royal Highness, the Princess 
.Sophia, Electress of Brunswic and Luneburg, to His Grace 
the Archbishop of Canterbury. With Another from Hanover, 
Written bv Sir Rowland Gwynne to the Right Honourable 
the Earl of vStanford. — London, B. Bragg; 2 d. [4 to, pp 8] 
February. 



gildon's works r>i 



.'I Review of Her royal liighn -^ lYincess Sophia's letter 
to the lord Archbishop of Canterbury, and that of vSir 
Rowland C^wynu's to the Right Honourable tlie Earl of 
Stanford. — London, B. Bragg [8 vo]. March or April. 

170S. — Libertas Triumphans, a poem occasion'd by the 
glorious victory obtain 'd near Odenard by the Forces of the 
Allies under the command of his highness John Duke of 
Marlborough and prince of the Sacred Roman. Empire, and 
the Velt-Mareschall Aiiverquerque : on the i st of Jaly 1708. 
— London ; Morphew [folio] ; 22 July — (Dedication signed 
Cha.rles Gildon). 

1709. — The Golden Spy : or a political Journal of the 
Briti.-h Nvent^ Entertainments of War and Peace, and love 
and Politics : wherein are laid open, the Secret Miraculous 
Power and Progress of Gold in the Courts of Europe. Inter- 
mix'd with Delightful Intrigues, Memoirs, Tales and Ad Ven- 
turas serious and comical. — London, Woodward and Mor- 
phew. [8 vo, pp XVI and 304]. 

1710. — The Golden Spy : 2 nd volume. 

The Works of Mr IVilliam Shakespeare. Vol. the Seventh. 
Conitaining : Venus and Adonis, Tarquin and Lucrece, and 
his Miscellany Poems. With critical Remarks on his Plays 
etc ; to which is Prefixed an Essay on the Art, Rise and 
Progress of the Stage iii Greece, Rome amd England. — 
London, E Curll a,nd E Sanger. [8 vo, p-p LXXII and 476] 
(Reissued as 9 th Vol. in 1714 ; as 7 th Vol. in 1725; as 
10 th Vol. in 1728). 

The Life of Mr Thomas Betterton, the late eminent 
Tragedian. Wherein, the action and utter acce of the Stage, 
Bar and Pulpit are distinctly consider 'd. Wi(th the Judgment 
of the late Ingenious Jlonsienr de St Evremond upon the 
Italian and French music and opeiras ; in a letter to the Duke 
of Buckingham. To which is added. The Amorous Widow, or 
the Wanton Wife. A comedy. Written by Mr Betterton. Now 
first printed from the original Copy. — London, R. Gosling. 
3 s. 6 d. [portrait, pp XIV, 176 and 87]. 

1711. — A Grammar of the English Tongue, with Notes, 
Giving the Grounds and Reason ci Grammar in general. To 
which is added, a New Prosodia; or the art of English 
numbers. All aduipted to the Use of Gentlemen and Ladies, 



^- gildon's works 

as well as of tl-.e Schools in Great Britain. — London, J. 
IJrightland. [^z", pp XII and iSoJ. Jainiary, (2 nd ed. 
in 1712). 

The Works of Lnciaii, translated from the Greek by 
several Eminent Hands. With the Life of Lucian, a Discourse 
on his Writing's, and a character of some of the present 
translators. Written by Joihn Dr3'den esq. — London, Briscoe, 
4 vols. 

1714- — A Nciij ReJicarsal, or Bays the Younger, con.taiuing 
an Exameu of The Ambitious Stepmother, Tamerlame, The 
Biter, Fair Penitent, Ro3'al Convert, Ulysses, a,nd Jane 
Shore. All Written by N. Rowe, Esq. Also a Word or two 
upon Mr Pope's Rape of the Lock. To which is i)refixed, A 
Preface in Vindication of Criticism in General b\' the late 
earl of Shaftesbury. — London, J. Roberts, i s. [S vo, pp 
XXII and 88]. 

1717. — A True Character of Mr Pope [Written by 
Dennis, with Gildon's lielp]. London, S. Popping. 3 d. 

Cases in Latin ; or a Latin Cirammar (I^etter to Addison, 
Feb. 1 719). 

Canons : or the Vision. A Poem addressed to the Right 
Honourable James Earl of Caernarvan etc. — London, J. 
Roberts; price i s. [8 vo, pp XII and 26]. 

171S. — Memoirs of the Life of William Wycherley, Esq. 
With a Character of his Writings. By the Right Honourable 
George, Lord Land.sdowne : io which are added. Some 
r'amiiliar Letters, Written by ^Ir W^xherley, and a Tme Copy 
of his I^st Vv^ill and Testament. — London, E. Curll ; price 
I s. [pp 42]. 3 'Ma.y (Advertiised by the Evening Post as The 
Life of William Wycherley esq. b}- Charles Gildon, gent. 
\v\fh. a Character of Mr Wycherley and his \\'ritings l)y the 
Lord Landsdown, etc). 

The Complete Art of Poetry, in .Six Parts... By Charles 
Crildon, Gent. — London, Rivington; 6 s. [12°, pp XVI and 
362]. July. 

1719. — The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of 
Mr D... De F... etc (see our Introduction) (Advertised by 
the Daily Courant as The True 1 ife etc). 

1720. — A ne'd' Project for the Regulation of the Stage. 
By Mr D — nis and Mr G — don. — London; Boreham, Curll, 
Chetwood, Graves. 4 d. — 5 Feb. (2 nd ed, 8 Feb). 



GILDOX^S WORKS -53 

172 1. — The La-d's of Poetry, As laid down by the Duke 
of Buckinghamshiire in liis Essay on Poetry, by the Earl of 
Roscommon in his Essay on Translated Verse, by the Lord 
Landsdowne on Unnatural Flights in Poetry, Explained and 
Illustrated. — London, J. Morley. [S vo, pp XVI + 351]- 



INTRODUCTION 
TO GILDON'S PAMPHLET 



When De Foe's novel, the Life and Strange Surprizing 
Adventures of Rohmson Crusoe, was issued on the 25 th 
of April 1 719, its extraordinary and immediate success 
filled the poor hack-writers of Grub-street with envy. The 
author, whose name was easily guessed, was not one of 
the literati that frequented Swift and Pope, or Steele and 
Addison ; he was a popular journalist, living by his pen, 
whose poor instruction excited much raillery, and whose 
dubious political dealings gave rise to much scandal. His 
book had already a second edition on the 12 th of May, 
• a third on the 6 th of June, and a fourth on the 8 th of 
August ; success so tremendous was unheard of before. 
Gildon, who could scarcely sell out one edition of those 
learned works which revealed his extensive knowledge of 
the Ancient writers, was full of jealousy at the triumph 
so easily achieved by a rival writer who always wrote has- 
tily, was no scholar, and who, besides, had formerly abused 
him in two poems. More Refor?naUon, and the Pacifi- 
cator. 

Gildon reflected that he could do a good piece of busi- 
ness, and at the same time have his revenge on De Foe, 
by writing a sharp criticism of Robinson Crusoe : any 
thing connected with this great book was sure of an easy 
sale. He had De Foe's work read to him, and, on hearing 
each passage, dictated reflections upon it. He intended to 



56 INTRODUCTION 

compose an open epistle to the author of Robijison Crusoe; 
this was the fonn then generally taken by controversial 
pamphlets between politicians or men of letters. The 
epistle occupied Gildon a whole fortnight in August, for 
he was obliged to work slowly, and could not afford to 
interrupt his drudgery for the booksellers. 

Gildon had scarcely ended his Epist'Le when, on the 
20 th of August, the second volume of Robinson Crusoe 
appeared. He thought this a good opportunity to double 
the size of his projected pamphlet, and thus raise its price 
from 6 d to I s. He continued to work hastily, for he was 
eager to j^rofit by the popularity of Do Foe's novel to 
launch his little work, and he dictated a long Postscri<pl. 
Then a bright idea occurred to him : he had hitherto 
considered Robinson Crusoe only as an absurd romance, 
entirely invented by De Foe's « prolific brain » ; he was 
struck now by a passage in the preface to the Further 
Adventures. De Foe, finding that he could not long pre- 
tend that Robinson Crusoe was, as he at first claimed, « a 
just history of fact », had cleverly managed an escape for 
himself, in case he should be convicted of « lying » : 
« The just application of every incident », he insinuated, 
« the religious and useful inferences drawn from every 
part, are so many testimonies to the good design of mak- 
ing it public, and must legitimate all the part that may 
be called invention or parable in the story ». 

The w'ord parable was a flash of light to Gildon's mind. 
Very likely, De Foe had written it without attaching any 
great importance to it ; he merely had a vague intention 
of asserting later, that Robinson Crusoe was an example 
of man's helplessness in the hands of Providence, de- 
signed to bring the readers to complete submissiveness to 
the Divine Will. This idea, however, was only dawning 
on his mind : his primitive intention had simply been to 



TO GILDON'S PAMPHLET 5/ 

write a fictitious biography, and pass it off as truth. But 
Gildon understood how much more pointed his satire 
would be, if he connected the chief events of Crusoe's life 
\^ith De Foe's past ; he could easily ridicule De Foe by 
showing that he was more stupid and insane, even, than 
his hero. 

Gildon dictated a dialogue, which has little originality 
in form, but contains a long tirade, the most interesting 
pari of the pamphlet, in Vv^hich De Foe himself explains 
to Robinson that he was merely his image ; and, to em- 
phasize this similitude, Gildon added a title, closely 
copied from Be Foe's, Vv'hich suggested the idea expressed 
in the dialogue, that Robinson Crusoe is an allegory of 
De Foe's life. Full of confidence, Gildon gave his work 
to [he bookseller J. Roberts, who issued it on the 28 th 
of September. It was advertised in the Daily Courant for 
the same day, and again, as « Just published », in the 
number for the first of October. 

Gildon was well rewarded for his labour. His little 
book was, as he had expected, a success. Pamphlet-wTit- 
ing was not, indeed, very lucrative; booksellers gen- 
erally paid 2 guineas for every 500 copies sold ; but even 
such poor payment was welcome to a starving author. 
The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of Daniel 
De ;' oe soon had a second edition, then a third, issued 
in Dublin in the same year. Though it had been published 
ano^Tymously at first, the name of the author was known, 
anc vas advertised in later editions. The work created 
much discussion in the literary w'orld, and this had a 
haj- V effect on the sale of Gildon's other works. 

G'"] don's pamphlet is desultory ; the paragraphs follow 
one another in chance succession, without any logical 
connexion. His blindness obliged him to compose in that 
mam er, so that no unity was possible. The chief interest 



58 INTRODUCTION 

of the work is in the details it gives cf De Foe's life and 
of his novel. Thanks to Gildon we know that Robinso7i 
Crusoe was written in l)c Foe's residence at Stoke 
Newington, and thus we can put aside the claims of other 
cities, — Halifax, Gateshead, Witechapel, Hartley, — 
to be the place of its composition. The general public was 
amused by a pamphlet that enumerated the contradictions 
and impossibilities in a famous book, and fellow- writers 
were pleased to find some one who gave utterance to their 
envious hatred of a successful colleague. 

In clubs and coffee-houses, in broadsheets and ballads, 
some inconsistencies in Robinson Crusoe had already 
been satirized. Cox, the piratical bookseller, had sup- 
pressed a few, and tried, often awkwardly, to palliate the 
grossest impossibilities of the book, in the abridged edi- 
tion he issued in August, to the great annoyance of De 
Foe and still more of Taylor, the editor of Robinsov. 
Gildon repeated many criticisms already commonly made, 
and added considerable new material. Several of his at- 
tacks are unjust, but most show his critical finesse. His 
pamphlet was only a short essay ; he passed over a great 
many important contradictions, though this may be due 
to his infirmity, which was a terrible handicap for the 
task. He did not notice De Foe's frequent errors in dates 
and numbers. It is strange also that Gildon who had spe- 
cially studied the first pages of the novel did not notice 
the following glaring anachronism : in 165 1, Robinson's 
father talks of his late elder son, while on the preceding 
page we are told that this son w^as killed at the battle 
against the Spaniards near Dunkirk, which took place 
only in 1658. A whole book might be made of the incon- 
sistencies in the novel, but Gildon had -neither the time 
nor the means to make a close study of the text. 

The most interesting fact about Gildon's pamphlet is 



TO GILDOx\'S PAMPHLET 59 

the influence it exercised on De Foe. Gildon's criticism 
stung De Foe to the quick, but at the same time fur- 
nished him with a good defence against the charge of 
being a « novelist », that is a « liar )).|'In the preface to 
the Serious Reflections of Robinson Crusoe, published on 
the 6 th of August 1720, De Foe declared impudently 
that Robinson Crusoe was no romance, but an allegory 
of his own unhappy life : « (The story) is the beautiful 
representation of a life of unexampled misfortunes, and 
of a variety not to be met with in the world, sincerely 
adapted to and intended for the common good of man- 
kind, and designed at first, as it is now farther applied, 
to the most serious uses possible. » He proceeds to show 
how several episodes of Crusoe's story were suggested by 
real episodes in his own life : « In a word, there is not 
a circumstance in the imaginary story, but has its just 
allusion to a real story, and chimes part for part and step 
for step with the inimitable Life of Robinson Crusoe. » 
He wisely refrains from trying to demonstrate in detail 
the truth of this assertion ; for, in spite of his talent 
for paradox, he could hardly have proved decisively the 
allegorical character of his novel. But he explains why, 
instead of telling simply his own life, he had recourse to 
such a curious stratagem ; this astounding piece of impu- 
dence shows that De Foe was not afraid of fooling the 
public from whom he derived his living i « Had the 
common way of writing a man's private history been taken, 
and I had given you the conduct or life of a man you 
know, and whose misfortunes and infirmities perhaps you 
had sometimes mijustly triumphed over, all I could have 
said would have yielded no diversion, and perhaps scarce 
have obtained a reading, or at best no attention; the 
teacher, like a greater, having no honour in his own 
country. Facts that are formed to touch the mind must 
be done a great way off, and by somebody never heard of. 



6o INTRODUCTION 

Eve!i the miracles of the blessed Saviour of the world 
suffered scorn and contempt, when it was reflected that 
they were done by the carpenter's son ; one whose family 
and original they had a mean opinion of, and whose 
brothers aaid sisters were ordinary people like themselves.)) 
— In this preface, De Foe took care not to mention 
Gildon ; at the most, a contemi^tuous sentence in the 
Publisher's Introduction may apply to him : « those who 
challenged the author mxost maliciously with not making 
his pen useful, will have leisure to reflect, that they 
passed their censure too soon, and, like Solomon's fool, 
judged of the matter before they heard it. » Indeed, why 
should De Foe have been offended with a man who had 
furnished him with a helpful suggestion, and who, by 
attacking Robinson Crusoe, advertised it and contributed 
to augment its sale ? 

f The Serious Reflections of Robinson Crusoe consist 
mostlj' of old essays which De Foe had long kept in his 
papers, and Vv'hich he tried to adapt to his story. \From 
Gildon he took many a hint : thus his long chapters on 
the state of religion in the world were certainly inspired 
by one of Gildon's criticisms. But De Foe too often 
forgot that he had adopted the idea that Robinson Crusoe 
was an allegorical tale, and told anecdotes about himself 
which could not be applied to a wild, wicked Robinson 
Crusoe », and \'ice versa. 

Gildon's pamphlet was read carefully by the booksell- 
ers ; in the abridgment of the three volumes of De Foe's 
novel v.hich was published by Bettesvv'orth on the 27 th 
of February 1722, all the inconsistencies pointed out by 
Gildon are suppressed : v.e may even ask, as the preface 
of this work repeats Gildon's theories on the legitimacy 
of abridgments, if Gildon himself had not something to 
do with this more or less piratical compilation : the au- 
thor must at least have closely studied the pamphlet. 



TO GILUON'S PAMPHLET • Ol 

Gildon's attacks on Robinson Crusoe were resumed in 
November 1725 by Bishop Hoadly in an article of the 
London Journal. De Foe answered in Applebee's Journal 
for Nov. 20 th, but refrained from any precise refutation 
of the Bishop's charges ; he merely contended that if 
Robinson Crusoe was a lie, the London Journal was also 
full of (( many Fables and forged Stories, not to say 
Lies ». Then, dropping the subject, he launched into a 
long digression on the wickedness of the time. 

After a few years, while the glory of Robinson Crusoe 
was still in the ascendant, Gildon's pamphlet fell into 
oblivion : it v;as brought to light again much later by 
De Foe's early biographers. In 1785, the bookseller Stock- 
dale entrusted an eminent jurist named De Lolme with 
the direction of a reprint of De Foe's History of the 
Union, and at the same time wrote letters to all his 
learned friends in order to get material for a Life of De 
Foe. Ke received from the Rev. Lort a copy of Gildon's 
pamphlet and was full of hope at the title. But he was 
extremely disappointed on reading the contents, as, fo^r 
a man unacquainted with the particulars of De Foe's life, 
Gildon's allusions are mere riddles. Stockdale then re- 
sumed his search and was fortunate enough to receive an 
excellent essay from De Foe's first great biographer, 
George Chalmers. 

In his long Life and Times of Daniel Defoe, Wilson 
is very severe on Gildon's pamphlet, which, without hav- 
ing much inquired into its contents, he calls « a low 
performance ». Lee, De Foe's next biographer, dismisses 
it as « indecent and scurrilous ». Wright alone, in his 
biography of De Foe, recognizes the merits of the per- 
formance, and after an impartial examination of Gildon's 
pamphlet concludes with these words : « In fine, because 
we admire De Foe and Crusoe, we are not going to follow 



62 INTRODUCTION 

our predecessors in the biographical office, and call Gildon 
a carping fool. » — W'l- think flhat such will be the read- 
er's mind, wlicn he has studied Gildon's work ; and we 
hope that those who will undertake this short excursion 
into the world of the poor hack-writers of the Augustan 
Age, will not be repelled by the filthy streets and the 
stench of th.c dark deep courts. 



The foil owing pages are an exact reprint of the first edition 
of GiJdon';> pamphlet. For the oonvenience of the rieader, we 
have numbered the lines. The asteri.sks in the margi,n. refer to 
the (notes at the end of the book. 



Mtwn 



TME 

^ -^ ^ 







And Strange Surprizing 

ADVENTURK 

OF 

Mr. D De F. . . , 

OF 

LONDON, Hofier, 

WHO 

Has liv'd above fifty Years by 
himfelf, in the Kingdoms of North and 
South Britain. The various Shapes he 
has appear'd m, and the Discoveries 
he has made for the Benefit of his 
Country. 15 

IN A 

IDI-A^X^O G-XJE between Him, 

Robin/on Criifoe, and his Man Friday. 

WITH 

R K Ivl JL J^ K: S serious and Co- 20 

mica! upon the Life of CRUSOE. 



Qui villi decipi, decipiatur. 



London : Printed for J. ROBERTS in War- 
ivick-Lane. 17 19. Price i s. 



10 



THE 



PRBFACB 



* 



* 




F ever the Story of any private 
Man's Adventures in the World 
were worth making pnblick, and 
were acceptable when published, 
the Editor of this Account thinks this will 
be so. 

The Wonders of this Man's Life exceed 
all that [he thinks) is to be found Extant ; 
the Life of one Man being scarce capable 
of greater Variety. 

The Story is told with greater Modesty 
than perhaps some Men may think necessary 
to the Subject, the Hero of our Dialogue not 
being very conspicuous for that Virtue, a more 
than common Assurance carrying him thro' all 
those various Shapes and Changes which he has 
pass'd without the least Blush. The Fabu- 
lous Proteus of the Ancient Mythologist was 
but a very faint Type of our Hero, whose 

a Changes 



lO 



15 



66 

* 

\\ The PREFACE 



Changes arc much more numerous, and he 
far more difficult to be constrained to his 
own Shape. If Jiis Works should happen to 
live to the next Age, there would in all pro- 
bability be a greater Strife among the several S 
Parties, whose lie really was, than among 
the seven Graecian Cities, to which of them 
Homer belong\i : The Dissenters first would 
claim him as theirs, the Whigs in general 
as theirs, the Tories as theirs, the Non- '<^ 
jurors ^5 theirs, the Papists as theirs, 
the Atheists as theirs, and so on to what 
Sub-divisions there may be among us; so 
that it cannot be expected that I should give 
vou in this short Dialos[ue his Picture at '5 
length; no, I only pretend to present you 
with him in Miniature, in Twenty Fours, 
and not in Folio. But of all these Tilings, 
with some very surprizing Incidents in some 
new Adventures of his own for the rest of ^o 
his Life, I may perhaps give a farther Ac- 
count hereafter. 



* 




6; 



DIALOGUK 

BETwixT 

D F,..e, 

Robinson Crusoe, 

And his Man 

F R I D AY. 



* 



SCENE, -4 great field betwixt Newing- 
ton - Green and Newiington Toivn, at 
one a Clock in a Moan-light Morning. 



lO 



Enter D. . . .F. ..zvith two Pocket Pistols. 

D--l.\ Fine pleasurable Morning, 

I believe about one a 

Clock ; and, I suppose, 

all the Lazy Kidnapping 

* Rogues are by this Time got drunk with 

a 2 Geneva 



A 



15 



6S 

(Vi) 



* 



* 



* 



:J: 



Geneva or Malt-Spirits to Bed, and I 
may pass Home without any farther Ter- 
ror. However, I am pretty well arm'd 
to keep off their imsanctified Paws from 
my Shoulder 5 

Bless my Eye-Sight, what's this I see ! 
I was secure too soon here, the Philistines 
are come upon me; this is the Effect of 
my not obeying the Secret Hint I had 
not to come Home this Night. But, '» 
however, here they shall have a couple 

of Bullets in their Bellies ha! two 

of them, great tall Gigantick Rogues , 
with strange High-crown'd Caps, and 
Flaps hanging upon their Shoulders, and '? 
two Muskets a -piece, one with a Cut- 
lass, and the other with a Hatchet; e--g-d 
I'll e'en run back again to the Green. 

[Turns and runs. 

Oh, plague upon that swift leg'd Dog, -° 
he's got before me; I must now stand upon 
my Guard, for he turns upon me and pre- 
sents his Musket Gentlemen, what 

would you have ? would you murder 
me? Take what I have, and save my Life. -5 

Cru. Why, Father D...n, dost thou 
not know thy own Children ? art thou so 
frighted at Devils of thy own raising? I 
am thy Robinson Crusoe, and that, my 
Man Friday. 3^ 

D...I. Ah! poor Crusoe, how came you 
hither? what do you do here? 

Cru. 



69 

(vii) 

Cm. Ho, lio, do you know me now? 
You are like the Devil in Milton, that 
could not tell the Offspring of his own 
Brain, Sin and Death, till Madam Sin 
discovered to him who they were. Yes, 5 
it is Crusoe and his Man Friday, who are 
come to punish thee now, for making us 
such Scoundrels in thy Writing : Come 
Friday, make ready, but don't shoot till 
I give the Word. la 

Fri. No shoot, Master, no shoot : me 
will show you how we use Scribblers in 
my Country. 

Cru. In your Country Friday, why, 
you have no Scribblers there? '5 

Fri. No Matter that Master, we have 
as many Scribblers as Bears in my Coun- 
try; and me will make Laugh, me will 
make D...I dance upon a Tree like Brti- 
in. Oh ! me will make much Laugh, and 20 
then me wall shoot. 

D...I. Why, ye airy Fantoms , are 
you not my Creatures? mayn't I make of 
you what I please ? 

Cm. Whj^ 3^es, you may make of us 25 
what 3^ou please; but when you raise Be- 
ings contradictory to common Sense, and 
destructive of Religion and Morality ; 
they will rise up against yon in Foro Con- 
scientiae; that Latin I learn 'd in my Free- 3° 
School and House Education. 

D...I 



* 



70 

(Vlli) 

D...L Hum, hum well, and what 

are your complaints of me ? 

Cru. Why, that you have made me a 
strange whimsical, inconsistent Being, in 
^ three Weeks losing all the Religion of a 5 
Pious Education; and when 3'OU bring 
me again to a Sense of the Want of Reli- 
gion, you make me quit that upon every 
Whimsy ; \'ou make me extravagantly 
Zealous, and as extravagantly Remiss; you ^^ 
make me an Enem\^ to all English Sailors, 
and a Panegj^rist upon all other Sailors that 
come in your wa\' : Thus, all the English 
Seamen laugh'd me out of Religion, but 
the Spanish and Portuguese Sailors were '5 
honest religious Fellows; you make me a 
Protestant in London, and a Papist in Bra- 
sil; and then again, a Protestant in my 
own Island, and when I get thence, the 
onl}^ Thing that deters me from return- ^o 
ing to Brasil, is meerly, because I did not 
like to die a Papist; for you say, that Po- 
pery may be a good Religion io live in, but 
not to die in: as if that Religion could be 
good to live in, which was not good to 25 
die in; for. Father D..J, whatever you 
may think, no Man is sure of living one 
Minute. But tho' 30U keep me thus by 
Force a Sort of Protestant, yet, you all 
along make me ver\' fond of Popish Priests 2^ 
* and the Popish Religion; nor can I for- 
give vou the making; me such a Whim- 

sical 



* 



* 



-ti- 



n 

(ix) 

sical Dog, to ramble over three Parts of 
the World after I was sixty five. There- 
fore, I say, Friday, prepare to shoot. 

Fri. No shoot yet Master, me have 
something to say, he much Injure me too. 5 

D...I. Injure you too, how the Devil 
iiave I mjur d your 

Fri. 'Have ' injure me, to make me 
such Blockhead, so much contradiction, 

well in a Month or tw£>^- and .not to speak 
at better in , twelve . Years after; to make 
me go out to be kill'd by the Savages, 
only to be a Spokesman to them, tho' I 
did not know, whether they understood ^5 
one Word of my Language ; for you 
must know, Father D...u, that almost 
ev'ry Nation of us Indians speak a diffe- 
rent Language. Now Master shall me 
shoot ? 2o 

Cru. No Friday, not yet, for here will 
be several more of his Children with 
Complaints against him; here will be the 
French Priest, Will Atkins, the Priest in 
China, his Nephews Ship's Crew, and — ^S 

D...I. Hold, hold, dear Son Crusoe, 
nold, let me satisfy- 3'ou first before anj^ 
m.ore come upon me. You are my 
Hero, I have made you, out of no- 
thing, fam'd from. Tnttle-Strect to Lime- 30 
house - hole: there is not an old Woman 
that can go to the Price of it, but buys 

thv 



72 

(X) 

thy Life and Adventures, and leaves it 

* as a Legacy, with the Pilgrims Progress, 

* the Practice of Piety, and God's Revenge 
against Murthcr, to her Posterity. 

Cm. Your Hero ! Your Mob Hero ! 5 

* your Pyecorner Hero ! on a foot with 
''' Guy of Warwick, Bevis of Southampton, 
'•' and the London Prentice! for M..w..r 

has put me in that Rank, and drawn me 
much better; therefore, Sir, I say '^ 

D...I. Dear Son Crusoe, be not in a 
Passion, hear me out. 

Cm. Well, Sir, I will hear you out 
for once. 

D...I. Then know, my dear Child, •> 
that you are a greater Favorite to me 
than you imagine; 3'ou are the true Al- 

* legorick Image of thy tender Father 
D...I; 1 drew thee from the considera- 
tion of my own Mind; 1 have been all ' 20 
my Life that Rambling , Inconsistent 
Creature, which I have made thee. 

* I set out under the Banner of Kidder- 
minster, and was long a noisy, if not 
zealous Champion for that Cause; and ^5 

* tho' I had not that Free -school and House ^ 
Learning which I have given you, yet 
being endow 'd with a wonderful Loqua- 
ciousness and a prett\- handsome Assu- 

* ranee, being out of ni}^ Time, I talk'd 3'^ 
'■' myself into a pretty large Credit, by which 

I might, perhaps, have thriv'd in my 

Way 



73 



* 



[Xll 



Way very well, but, like you at Brasil 
my Head run upon Whimsies, and I 
quitted a Certainty for new Adven- 
tures : First, I set up for Scribbling of 
Verses, and dabbling in other Sort of Au- 5 
thorizing, both Religious and Prophane. 
I have no Call to tell you, whether this 
Itch of Scribbling, or some other Project of 
Lime Kilns or the like, oblig'd me to 
quit a certain Court near the Royal-Ex- '" 
change, and to play at Hide and Seek; 
but this did not much trouble me, for it 
put me on a Sort of diving more agree- 
able to my Inclinations, forcing me to 
ramble from Place to Place Incognito; '5 
and, indeed, I thought myself something 
like the great Monarchs of the East , 
for I took care to be more seldom seen 
by my Acquaintance, than they by their 
Subjects. My old Walk from niy Court -" 
to the Change was too short for my 
rambling Spirit, it look'd like a Seaman's 
W^alk betwixt Decks ; and for that, and 
some other Reasons which shall be name- 
less, I pursu'd the Course which I told -5 
you. 

Well, all my Projects failing, I e'en 
took up with the Vocation of an Author, 
which tho' it promis'd but little in the 
common Way, I took care to make it 3" 
more Beneficial to me; the principal 
Method of doing that, was to appear zea- 
lous 



74 



•J: 



(xii) 

lous for some Party, anfl in the Party I 
was soon determin'd by my Education, 
and scribbled on in a violent Manner; till, 
b}'- making myself a constant Pensioner 
to all the Rich and Zealous of my Party, 5 
I pickt up a good handsome Penny, with 
little Expence to n^self of Time or La- 
bour; for an}^ Thing that is boldly Writ, 
will go down with either Party; but at 
last, by a plaguy Irony, I got myself in- 'o 
to the damnable Nutcrackers; however, 
that but encreas'd my Market, and 
brought ni}' Pension in, at least, five 
fold. I writ on, till some of the wise 
Heads of the contrary Party thought '5 
me v\'orth retaining in their Ser - 
vice; and, I confess, their Bribes were 
very powerful. I manag'd Matters so 
well a great while, that both Sides kept 
me in Pay; but that would not do, my ^o 
old Friends found that I had in reality 
forsaken them, and that I trim'd my 
Boat so ill, that they plainly saw to 
which Side it inclin'd ; and, therefore, a 
certain Captain not far from Thames Street, 25 
who had been my Steward or Collector 
in chief, comes to me, and like the Witch 
of Endor, cried, God has left thee, Saul; 
that is, the Money would be no more 
oiven me b3^ the Party, who had every 3^ 
one discover'd that I v;as enter'd into 
another Cause. I did all I could to satis- 

fy 



75 
(xiiij 

fy him and answer his Objections, but all 

* to no purpose, Buenos Nocoius was the 
Word, good Night Nicholas, they would 
be no longer bubbled ; so I set out entirely 
for St. Germans or any other Port to 5 
which mj^ Proprietors should direct me ; 
but here again, like you, my Son Crusoe, 
in burning the Idol in Tartary, I went a 
little too far, and by another Irony, in- 
stead of the Nutcrackers, I had brought '» 
myself to the Tripos at Paddington, but that 

* my good Friend that set me to work got 
me a Pardon, and so, safe was the Word ; 

* and I have never forsaken him for that 
good Office — and his Money, my '5 
dear Son Crusoe, for it is that which al- 
ways sets me to Work ; and which ever 
Side the most Money is to be got, that 

* Side is sure of D...I. 'Tis true, I made a 
pretty good Penn}- among the Whigs, tho' -" 
nothing to what I have since done among 

the Tories : Let me see, let me see, I think, 
1 made by Subscription for my Jure Divino 
about some five hundred Pounds, and yet 
I writ it in about three Weeks or a ^' 
Month, six or seven hundred Verses a 
Day coming constantly out of this Pro- 
lifick Plead ; as for the vSense and Poe- 
try of them, e'en let m}^ Subscribers look 
to that ; they had a Book, and a Book 3° 
in Folio, and I had .their Money, and so 
all Parties were contented. But what's 

b 2 this 



* 



;6 

(xiv) 

tliis to the Tory Writers, where for a 
Translation one shall get you three or 
four thousand Pounds subscrib'd ; and for 
an Original, seven or eight Thousand ; the 
Tories therefore for m\- Money ; not that I 5 
value the Tories more than I do the 
Whigs ; but nothing for the Whigs will 
sell, and every Thing for the Tories 
does. You seem to take it amiss, that I 
made you speak against the English Sea- ^° 
men, but that was only according to my 

■' own Nature, for I always hated the Eng- 
lish, and took a Pleasure in depreciating 
and villifying of them, witness my True 
Born Englishman, and my changing my '5 

'' Name to make it sound like French ; for 
my Father's Name w^as plain F..e, but I 
have adorn 'd it with a de, so that I am 
now, Mr D...I De F..e. Next, you 
seem concern 'd that I make 3'OU so favour- 20 
able to Popery, and to ramble at such 
an Age about the World : First, you must 
know, that by speaking favourably of 
Popery, I lay up a Friend in a Corner, 
and make all of that Religion favourable 25 
to me and what I write ; and should the 
Fox Hunters prevail, that Religion must 
be the Mode ; if it never does, I at least 
pass for a Moderate Man both with the 
Papists and Protestant Fox Hunters ; and 3° 
to give them the better Idea of me, and 
the surer Hopes of having me a Convert, 

I have 



77. 

(XV) 

* I have written against my old Teachers 

* in the Shape and Form of a Quaker, as 
in a Pamphlet to T . B. a Dealer in many 
Words ; and in the same Form I have at- 

* tack'd the B — of B — , one who is 5 
equally hated by them. To tell you the 

"•' Truth, Son Crusoe, tho' I am now pass'd 
sixty five, I am just setting out for a Ram- 
ble thro' all Religions, and therefore li- 

* quor my Boots first with Holy Water and '° 
the Sacred Unctions of Popery ; and next, 

'■'' I don't know but I may step to Mahome- 
"■'' tism, and take a Trip with Tom Coryat 
to the Great Moguls country, from 
thence, perhaps, I may turn down to Siam ^5 
and China, and make a sort of a Break- 
fast upon the Mnltitheism of those Coun- 
tries. 

Cru. Multiiheism, Father D — n, why 
not Polytheism? why do you chuse rather ^o 
to coin a Word compounded of Greek 
and Latin, whereas the other is in com- 
mon Use ? 

D...L Common ; I hate all that's com- 
mon, even to common Sense — but no -5 
Interruptions Son Crusoe, no Interruptions ; 
from thence I may take a Jaunt to the 

* Greek Church, in a sort of Whimsical Ca- 
ravan, over the Desarts which I made you 
pass, if by the way I don't happen to catch 3^ 
a Tartar, that is, take a Leap into the 
Dark. By this Ramble thro' all Reli- 
gions, 



* 



(xvi) 

gions, I shall be tlioroughh-' qualified for 
wliatever Side may come uppermost, 

* whether the Spanish luquisitiou, the Jane- 
saries of Mecca, or any other Propagators 

* of particular Religions ; for betwixt you 5 

* and I, Son Crusoe, I care not who Reigns, 
whether the Czar of Muscovy, or the 

* Emperor of Monomotopa. I defy them 
to set up an}' Religion, to oppose which 

I will be at the Pain of so much as a Flea- ^^ 
bite. And now you have my Picture, Son 
Crusoe, as well as my Justification in my 
Draught of 3'ours ; I would not liave you 
therefore complain any more of the Con- 
tradiction of 3-our character, since that is ^5 
of a Piece with the whole Design of my 
Book. I make you set out as undutiful 
and disobedient to your Parents ; and to 

* make your Example deter all others, I 
make you Fortunate in all 3'our Adven- -^ 

* tures, even in the most unlucky, and give 
you at last a plentiful Fortune and a safe 
Retreat, Punishments so terrible, that 
sure the Fear of them must deter all 
others from Disobedience to Parents, and 25 
venturing to Sea : And now, as for you 
Friday, I did not make you speak .broken 
Eni'^fsivto represent- you as a Bloclvhead^-ijii- 

' capable of learning to speak, it better, but" 
meerly for the .Variety -of Stile, to inter- 3° 

* mix ■some'"broken English to make my 
Lie go down tr.e more glibly with the 

Vul- 



79 
(xvii) 

Vulgar Reader ; and in this, I use you no 

* worse than I do the Bible itself, which 
I quote for the very same End only. 

Cm. Enough, Enough, Father D — n, 
you have confest enough, and now pre- S 
pare for your Punishment, for here come 

* all the rest of our Number which we ex- 
pected; come Friday, pull out the Books, 
you have both Volumes, have you not 
Friday ? lo 

Fri. Yes Master, and me will make 
him swallow his own Vomit. 
""'' Cru. Here, Gentlemen, every one hold 
a Lirnb of him. 

D...I. Oh, Oh, Mercy ! Mercy ! ^5 

Fri. Swallow, swallow, Father D — n, 
your Writings be good for the Heartburn, 
swallow, Father D — n — so me have 
cram'd down one Volume, must he have 
the other now Master ? 20 

Cru. Yes, yes, Friday, or else the Dose 
will not be compleat, and so perhaps 
mayn't work and pass thro' him kindly. 

Fri. Come, Father D — n, t'other Pill, 

* or I think I may call it Bolus for the big- 25 
ness of it, it is good for your Health ; 

* come, if 3'ou will make such large Com- 
positions, you must take them for your 
Pains. 

D..I. Oh, oh, oh, oh. 3^ 

Cru. Now, gentlemen, each Man take 
his Part of the Blanket and toss him im- 
moderately ; 



8o 



(xviii) 

iiioderateh' ; for 3'ou must know, Gen- 
tlemen, that this is a sort of Physick, 
which never works well without a vio- 
lent Motion. [77^^^ toss him lustily, 

he crying out all the while. 5 

Cni. Hold, Gentlemen, I think our 
Business is done ; for by the unsavoury 
Stench which assaults my Nostrils, I find 
the Dose is past thro' him, and so good 
Morrow, P\ither D — ii. Fast three a '" 
clock and a Moo)i light Morning. [They 

all vanish. 
D...1 solus. 

Bless me ! what Company have I been 
in? or rather, what Dream have I had? '5 
for certainly 'tis nothing but a Dream ; 
and yet I find by the Effects in my 
Breeches, that I was most damnably 
frighted with this Dream ; nay, more than 
ever I was in my Life ; even more, than -^ 
when we had News that King William 
design 'd to take into Flanders the Royal 
Regiment. But this is a fresh Proof of 
my Obsen-ation in the second Volume of 
m^' Crusoe, that there's no greater Evidence -5 
of an invisible World, than that Connexion 
betwixt second Causes, (as that in my 
Trowsers) and those Ideas we have in our 
Minds. 

The End of the Dialogue. 



8i 



*■ 



AN 

B P I S T L B 

TO 

D D' F...e, 

The Reputed Author 

OF 

Robinson Crusoe, 



Mr F — e. 




Have perus'd your pleasant 
Stor\^ of Robinson Crusoe ; and 
if the Faults of it had extend- 
ed no farther than the fre- 



quent Solecisms, Looseness and Incorrect- 
ness of Stile, Improbabilities, and some- 
times Impossibilities, I had :iot given 

B vou 



lO 



* 



•8-> 

(2) 

you the Trouble of this Epistle. But 
when I found that \'ou were not content 
with the many Absurdities of your Tale, 
but seem'd to discover a Design, which 

"■^' proves j-^ou as bad an Englishman as a 5 
Christian, I could not but take Notice 
in this publick Manner of what 3^ou had 
written; especially when I perceiv 'd that 

* 3'ou threaten 'd us with more of the same 

Nature, if this met with that Success ^° 
which \^ou hop'd for, and which the 
Town has been pleas 'd to give it. If 
b}- this I can prevent a new Accession of 
Impieties and Superstition to those which 
the Work under our Consideration has ^5 
furnish 'd us with, I shall not think my 
Labour lost. 

I am far from being an Enemy to the 
, Writers of Fables, since I know very 
well that this Manner of Writing is not ^o 

'•' onl}' very Ancient, but very useful, I 
might say sacred, since it has been made 
use of by the inspir'd Writers themselves ; 
but then to render any Fable worthy of 
being receiv'd into the Number of those 25 
which are trul}^ valuable, it must natu- 
rally produce in its Event some useful 
Moral, either express 'd or understood ; 
but this of Robinson Crusoe, you plainly 
inculcate, is design 'd against a publick 3° 
good. I think there can be no Man so 

ignorant 



* 



(3) 

ignorant as not to know that our Navi- 
gation produces both our Safety, and our 
Riches, and that whoever therefore shall 
endeavour to discourage this, is so far 
a prof est Enemy of his Country's Prospe- 5 
rity and Safety ; but the Author of Ro- 
binson Crusoe, not only in the Beginning, 
but in many Places of the Book, employs 
all the Force of his little Rhetoric to 
dissuade and deter all People from going ^° 
to Sea, especially all Mothers of Chil- 
dren who may be capable of that Service, 
from venturing them to so much Hazard 
and so much Wickedness, as he repre- 
sents the Seafaring Life liable to. But ^5 
v/hatever Mr F — e may think of the 
Matter, I dare believe that there are 
few Men who consider justly, that would 

* think the Profession of a Yorkshire Attor- 
ney more innocent and beneficial to Man- ^o 
kind than that of a Seaman, or would 
judge that Robinson Crusoe was so ver}^ 
criminal in rejecting the former, and 

* chusing the latter, as to provoke the 

* Divine Providence to raise two Storms, -5 
and in the last of them to destroy so ma- 
ny Ships and Men, purely to deter him 
from that Course of Life, to which at 
last he was to owe so ample a Revv^ard of 

all his Labours and Fatigues, as the End 3° 

of 

B2 



84 

(4) 

of this very Book plainly tells us lie met 
with. 

'■■■ I know you will reply, that it was his 
Disobedience to his Parents, for which he 
was punish 'd in all the Misfortunes he 5 

''■ met with, and that you frequently re- 
mind us of the Conviction of his Con- 
science in this Particular thro' the whole 
Course of his Life. I would by no 

* Means be thought to encourage Disobe- ''> 
dience to Parents ; but the honouring our 
Father and Mother does not include a 
Duty of blindly submitting to all their 
Commands, whether good or bad, ra- 
tional or irrational, to the entire exclu- '5 
ding of all Manner of free Agency from 
the Children, which would in effect be 
to make the Children of Freemen abso- 
lute Slaves, and give the Parent a Power 
even beyond that of a Sovereign, to 
whom both Parents and Children are 
subject. Tho' the Authority therefore of 
Parents be great, it cannot extend to the 
Suppression of our Obedience to Reason, 
Law and Religion ; and when a Child 25 
obeys these, tho' contrary to his Parents 
Command, he is not to be esteem'd dis- 
obedient or culpable. To apply this to 
the Case in Hand, Robinson Crusoe was 

'■■■ above eighteen Years of Age when he 3» 
left his Father's House, and this after a 

long 



20 



85 

(5) 

long Deliberation and Struggle with 
that secret Impulse to a Seafaring Life, 

* to which Impulse you so often recom- 
mend a blind Obedience, whether ground- 
ed on Reason or not, and would perswade 5 
us that it proceeds from the secret Inspira- 
tion either of Providence or some good 
Spirit; but here Robinson had a great ma- 
ny Reasons to urge and justify himself; for 
notwithstanding the wise Harangue of the '^ 
Father to the Son of the great Advan- 
tages of a middle State of Life; yet I 
cannot find that he himself thought that 
what he was to leave his Son would be 
sufficient to support him in that middle '5 

* State, on which he had made so te- 
dious an Encomium; for he propos'd to 

* put him out either to some Trade or 
to an Attorney. But first, as to a Trade, 
either he propos'd to put him to a bene- -° 
ficial Trade, or to one that was not so; 

if to a beneficial Trade, then he depart- 
ed from his own Principle of a Medio- 
crity; if to a Trade that was not so, his 
Design was extremely foolish, since the ^S 
Cares and Solicitudes of that mean Pro- 
fession might prove, and would in pro- 
bability be as great, if not greater, than 
those of a more beneficial Employment; 
and this, indeed, would be contrary to 3° 
the Design and Aim of all People who 

put 



^ 



86 



(6) 

put their Children to Trades, since they 
always propose and hope, that the Trades 
to which they put them will in the end 
make them Rich and Prosperous. If 
this was his Father's Design in putting 5 
him to a Trade, he acted directly against 
the principle he laid down, of being con- 
tented with what they had; if it was not 
his Design, he acted confessedly without 
Reason, and therefore could not reasona- »o 
bly desire an implicit Obedience to his 
Will : But if instead of a Trade he de- 
sign 'd his Son for an Attorney, a con- 
scientious youth might well scruple to 
obey him in that particular. You have ^5 
given him the Education of a Free- 
School, besides House Learning, as j^ou 
are pleas 'd to call it ; which I confess I 
never met with before in all my Reading 20 
and Conversation ; but by a Free-School 
Education till eighteen years of Age 
he must have been perfect in all the Clas- 
sicks, and fit for the University; and his 
Conversation with those Books might 25 
well inspire him with Notions abhorrent 
of a Profession in which there was nothing 
generous, and I am afraid ver^^ little just. 
But because you have said it^ we will 
suppose that Robinson Crusoe was not de- 3° 
ter'd from being an Attorney by any of 

these 



S7 

(7) 

these more noble Considerations, but by 
a pure rambling Fancy, which render 'd 
him incapable of taking up any Profes- 
sion that was more confin'd than that of a 

* Seafaring Person; yet, how could he ima- 5 
gine that he should raise his Fortune by 
going: to Sea in the Manner that he went? 
that is, indeed, as a common Seaman, 
contrary to his Friends Inclination, or any 
Provision made by himself to turn and '" 
improve by his Navigation ; but this 
Difficulty vanishes, when we remember 
what you tell us from his own Mouth, 

* that he never was in the right in his 

* Life. Omitting, therefore, the Oddness '5 
of his running away at so well grown 

an Age, tho' he had not done it in his 
more early and giddy Years, we'll pro- 
ceed : He is now set out, arriv'd at Hull, 
and got on Board a Ship, without so =^ 

* much as ever saying one Word to the 
Master of her, who we must suppose ne- 
ver saw him for about three Weeks, till, 
after his Ship was cast away, he met him 

in Yarmouth, and was there inform'd b^^ -'- 

* his Son, who, and what he was; tho' 
presently after he had heard this, he asks 
him, who, and what he was, as if he 
had known nothing of the Matter ; and 

* plainly tells him that his Ship was cast y- 
away upon his Account , making his 

Case 



8S 

fS) 

" Case and that of Jonas the same, who 
was actually in Disobedience to the posi- 
tive Command and Order of God him- 
self. But you, indeed, every where are 
pleas 'd to make very free with the Holy 5 

■' Scriptures, which 3^ou quote as fluently, 

•' as the Devil once did, and much to the 
same End; that is, to make a Lie go 
down for Truth. But more of this here- 
after. Well, the Master of the Ship having ^° 
now understood who and what he was, 

•' makes this fine Speech to him : And, young 
Man, said he, depend upoyi it, if you do 
not go hack, zvhere-ever you go, you will 
meet with nothing hut Disasters and Disap- '5 
pointnients , till your Father's Words are ful- 

=•■ fill'd upon you. Here he makes the Mas- 

'•' ter of the Ship a Prophet, as well as he 
had done his Father, which I should as 
little suspect him to be, considering the ^o 
wicked Character you give of all Seamen, 
as that a profest Seaman should make a 
Speech, and urge the Storms for a Mo- 
tive against any one's going to Sea. But 
I must not dwell too long upon mere Ab- 25 
surdities, I shall therefore take no No- 

•■ tice of Robinson's swooning away at the 
Noise of a Gun, tho' he knew not for 
what End the Gun was discharg'd; yet 
I cannot pass in Silence his Coining of 3° 
Providences; that is, of his making Pro- 
vidence 



* 



* 



89 

(9) 

vidence raise a Storm, cast away some 
Snips, and damage many more, meerly 
to fright him from going to Sea. If this 
be not a bold Impiety, I know not what 
is, and an Impiet}^ for which I can see 5 
very little ground; for why should he 
imagine that the Storm was sent to hin- 
der him from going to Sea, more than 
any other that were in it, and suffer 'd 
more by it ? Nor, indeed, can I see any ^° 
reason why your Crusoe should think it 
any more a Crime in him to go to Sea, 
than in a hundred and fifty thousand 
more, who constantly use the Sea in these 
Nations, besides ten times that Num- "5 
ber in all the Nations of the World who 
do the same. If Storms are sent by 
Providence to deter Men from Naviga- 
tion, I may reasonably suppose, that 
there is not one of all that vast Num- ^o 
ber I have mention 'd, to whom Provi- 
dence has not sent the same Warning. 
At this absurd Way of Arguing most of 
the Communication and Traffick of Na- 
tions would soon be at an end, and Islan- 25 
ders especially would be entirely cut off 
from the rest of the World; and if your 
Doctrine prevail' d , none would venture 
upon Salt Water, but such as cared 
not for the Safet}^ either of Body or 3° 
Soul , both which you all along en- 

C deavour 



* 



90 

(lO) 

deavour to perswade us are more in dan- 
ger there than any where else. But sure, 
dear Sir, you have neither consider'd the 
Wickedness, nor the Hazards of the Land ; 
for if you had, you would find that it 5 
was morally impossible that the Seamen, 
at least, while on Shipboard, could be 
guilty of the tenth part of the Crimes 
which abound every where on Shore, 
For the Seaman, however wicked he may io> 
be in his Will, has not the Power in his 
floating Castle to reduce that Wicked- 
ness to Action; and to conclude that be 
is so wicked in Will, requires some bet- 
ter Proof than you have been pleas 'd any '5 
where to give us. It is plain, that the 
Seafaring Men are generally (for here we 
speak only of Generals, and not of Parti- 
culars) generally, I say, are more free, 
open, disinterested, and less tricking and ^"^ 
designing than those who never go to Sea; 
and tho' you are pleas 'd often to mention 
the Wickedness of Crusoe, whom, being a 
Creature of your own, j^ou might have 
made as wicked as you pleas 'd : This -5 
very Crusoe, I say, does not appear to be 
guilty of any heinous Crimes; and it 
would be very hard to perswade us to 
believe, that a Man, who seems in all 
Things else innocent enough, should be 3° 
so very abandoned in Im.piet}?-, as ne- 
ver 



91 



(II) 



ver to pray and acknowledge the over- 
ruling Providence of God in all the 
Transactions of this World; and by con- 
sequence in all that did or could hap- 
pen to him. But after all, if you will 5 
needs have him this impious Person; for 
he is a Creature of your making, and not 
of God's ; you have given him Manners, 
as the Critics call it, quite out of Na- 
""''' ture, and no ways necessary to j-our Fable. ^^ 

* But more of this hereafter. 

* We must now attend Monsieur Crusoe 
from Yarmouth to London, where he ar- 
rives with that small remainder of his 

'•' Yarmouth Collection he had left; and ^5 
tho' a Stranger in this great City, the 

* next thing we hear of him, is, that he 
abounds in fine Cloaths and Money, be- 
ing able to put on board the Guinea 
Man a Venture of forty Pounds, which 20 

^' how he comes by the Lord knows. He 
tells us, indeed, some time after, that he 
got this Mone}^ of his Friends; but it is 
not very probable, at least it is not very 
common, for People that have Money, 25 
to trust it to a young Fellow who had 
run from his Father, and was likewise 
under Age. This I say is not common; 
na}^ I believe, never did happen to any 
Body in his Circumstances, but to Ro- 3» 
hinson Crusoe, and maj^ well be put into 

C2 the 



92 



* 



(12) 

the Number of the Miracles of his Life. 
Well, we'll suppose, with Robinson him- 
self, that his Father secretly encourag'd 
his Friends to supply him; yet certainly 
his Father would have been very cautious 5 
of letting him be entrusted with Money 
entirel3^ to manage it himself, since he 
h^d given him no Reason to imagine 
that his Prudence would dispose of it to 
the best Advantage; and, indeed, it was '° 
very plain that he did not, since he laid 
it out in fine Cloaths, and keeping Com- 
pany with such People, from whom he 
could propose to derive very little Bene- 
fit : And, I believe, he is the first 3'oung '5 
Gentleman that ever thought, that to see 
the World by Travel, was to go to 
Guinea amongst the barbarous Negroes. 
Well, let that pass, Crusoe has found a 
Master of a Vessel according to his own -^ 
Heart, and so embarks both his Cargo 
and himself with him for Guinea, makes 
a prosperous Voyage, his fortj^ Pounds 
having produc ' d about three hundred ; 
two of which he puts into a Female ^5 
Friend's Hand, and with the third sets 
out for a second Voyage to the African 
Shore, but is taken by a Turkish Rover 
and carried into Sallee; where, after he 
had remain ' d in Bondage above two 3° 
Years, he makes his escape by throw- 
ing 



93 



* 



* 



* 



* 



(13) 



* ing his Master's Kinsman into the Sea 
and carrying off his Master's Boat, a Kind 
of Long-Boat, and his Boy Xury ; and 
in this small Vessel goes above a thousand 

* Miles thro' various Hazards and Adven- 5 
tures, to which I have nothing to say. 

All that I shall remark, is, that you 
seem very fond of all Occasions of throv^^- 
ing in needless Absurdities to make the 
Truth of your Story still the more doubt- '« 
ed. What occasion else had you to make 
Xury speak broken English, when he ne- 
ver con vers 'd with any English but Ro- 
binson Crusoe f so that it had been more 
natural to have made Robinson speak '5 
broken Arabick, which Language he must 
be forc'd in some Measure to learn ; 
whereas Xury had no motive in the 
World to study so much English as he 
makes him speak ; but this is a Pecca- ^o 
dillo and not worth dwelling upon. Well 
then, we are now to suppose Robinson 
Crusoe and Xury got as far almost as Cape 
de Verd, when a Portuguese Ship takes 
them up and carries them to Brasil ; 
where, with the Money he had rais'd by 
the Sale of his Boat, his Skins, and his 
Boy, he settles himself as a Planter, and 
accordingly turns Papist in Thankfulness 
to Heaven for his great Deliverance; and, 
indeed, he alwa3^s retains some Spice of 

the 



-5 



94 



(14) 



the Superstition of that Religion, in that 
\'ain l^aith, which he not only himself 
'*' puts in secret Hints, as he calls them, 
but earnestly recommends to all others. 
Well, having fix'd his Plantation, he 5 
sets out upon new Adventures, as Super- 
cargo to a Portuguese Ship, bound to 
the Coast of Guinea to bu}'' Slaves ; and 
tho' he afterwards proves so scrupulous 
about falling upon the Cannibals or Men- '^ 
Eaters, j^et he neither then nor after- 
wards found any check of Conscience in 

* that infamous Trade of buying and sel- 
ling of Men for Slaves ; else one would 
have expected him to have attributed '5 
his Shipwreck to this very Cause. 

He sets out from Brasil, is taken in a 
Storm, and at last cast away upon an un- 
inhabited Island in the Mouth of the Ri- 
ver Oroonoque ; where he only escapes, all 20 
the rest being drown 'd. But here I can't 
omit one Observation of his, which is, 
that the Waves buried him twenty or 
thirty Foot in their own Body ; I would 

* fain know by what Art Robinson could 25 
distinguish between five Foot, and twen- 
ty five or thirty. Well, be that as it 
will, your Friend Robinson is now got 

on Shore, tho' bruised in Body and trou- 
bled in Mind ; and had, indeed, been in 3° 
a very pitiful Condition, had not you 

the 



95 



(15) 



the next Day sent the Ship on Shore af- 
ter him ; I mean, so near the Shore, that 
Robinson could easily get on Board her, 
and furnish himself with all Necessaries 
which his solitary Mansion requir'd ; that 5 
is, with Tools, Powder, Guns, Cutlasses, 
Bullets, and other Shot, and Lead to 
make more, as well as Cloaths, Linnen 
and Woollen ; besides so large a Car- 
go of Rum, that it lasted him, uncon- 'o 
sum'd, above eight and twenty years. 
The' I should have wonder'd how three 
English Bible came on Board a Portu- 
guese Ship, had he not told us, that 
they had come to him in a cargo from ^5 
England ; yet I must still wonder, why 
Robinson should put three on Board for 
his Voyage to Guinea, when one was 
likely to be more than he would make 
use of, if we may believe his own Account ^o 
of the little regard he had to anj^ Reli- 
gion. But it was necessary that he should 
have a Bible, to furnish you with the 
Means of Burlesquing the Sacred Writ, 
in the tedious Reflections you design 'd to -s 
put into his Mouth ; of which by and by. 

I shall not take Notice of his striping 
himself to swim on Board, and then fil- 
ling his Pockets with Bisket, because 
that is already taken Notice of in Pub- 3o 
lick ; and in the last Edition, at least, of 

the 



96 

(.i6) 

the Book, you have endeavour *d to salve 
this Difhcult}', by making him keep his 
Breeches on ; tho' why he should do so I 
can see no reason ; and tho' he did do so, 
I don't lind how the Pocket of a Sea- 5 

* man's Breeches could receive any Biskets, 
that bein<^ generallv no bii>Q:er than to con- 
tain a Tobacco Pouch, or the like. I can- 
not pretend to dwell upon all the Absur- 
dities of this Part of your Book, I shall ^^ 
only touch upon some few : And first, on 

his stated Account of the Good and 

* Evil of his present Condition in Page "j"] , 
v/here he says, on the dark side of his 
Account, / have no CloatJis to cover me. '5 

* But this is a downright Lie, according to 
his own Account, by which he brought a 
considerable Quantity of Linnen and 
Woollen from on Board the Ship : And 
then the next Head on the same side is, ^o 
/ am zvithoiit any Defence, or Means to re- 
sist any Violence of Man or Beast. This is 
likewise another plain Contradiction of 
what he told us before, when he let us 
know, that he had brought on Shore two 25 
or three Barrels of Gunpowder, six or se- 
ven Guns, and several Pistols, with Shot 
and Bullets, besides Swords, Axes, 
Hatchets, etc. Next, I must observe, that 

* Robinson, like ether great Wits, has but 30 

* a ver}' short Memory ; for in Page 66, he 

tells 



■:!: 



97 

(17) 

tells us, that the Storm had carried the 
Wreck or Ship quite out of sight ; or, as 
he expresses it, It blew very hard all that 
Night, and in the Morning when I looked 
out, behold no more Ship zvas to be seen ; 5 
and yet six Months after, he tells us, 
that looking towards the Wreck, it lay 
higher out of the Water than it us'd to do. 
I think the Contradiction is pretty plain, 
if seeing a Thing and not seeing it be a ^o 
Contradiction. 

Not to examine too nicely into Parti- 
culars ; I shall pass on to Page 155, where 
he again falls foul upon the Seamen and 
a Seafaring Life. But, alas I falling ^5 
early into the Seafaring Life, which of all 
the Lives is most destitute of the Fear of 
God, tho' his Terrors are always before 
them; I say, falling early into a Seafaring 
Life, and into Seafaring Company, all that 20 
little Sense of Religion which I had enter- 
tained, zvas laugh'd out of me by my Mess- 
mates, by a hardened despising of Dangers, 
and the Views of Death, which grew ha- 
bitual to me by my long Absence from all ^s 
manner of Opportunities to converse with any 
thing but what was like myself, or to hear 
anything that was good or tended towards it. 

I have transcribed these Words of 5'our 
Hero, honest D — n , that I may show 3^5 
vou what an ungrateful and lying Rascal 

D h€ 



98 

(i8) 

he is; ungrateful in his Return of so many 
Favours and so much Honesty, which he 
had receiv'd from the Masters of both 

* the Portuguese and English Ships. He be- 
spatters the whole Body of Seafaring Men, 5 
as a Company of impious Rogues, nay the 
most impious and abandon 'd of all Man- 
kind; and as for his Lying, it is plain, from 

his charging them all with profest Infideli- 
ty, and particulary of laughing him out "> 
his Fear of God; when, if we may 
give Credit to his own Narration, he ne- 
ver kept Company with Seamen above 
three Weeks in all his Life, and that was 
from Hull to Yarmouth; and even those '5 
Seamen, Master and all included, sent 
up their Prayers to Heaven in their Dis- 
tress. But was Robinson Crusoe's Religion 
so very little settled in him, by his Free- 
School and House Learning, even at ^o 
eighteen Years of Age, as to be laugh'd 

* out of it in three Weeks time b}^ a Com- 
pany of ignorant Seamen ? They might 
perhaps laugh at his Fear of the Storm, they 
being made intrepid upon that Account ^S 
by Use. But, honest D — n, I am afraid, 
with all your Sagaciousness, you do not 
sufficiently distinguish between the Fear 
of God, and the Fear of Danger to your 
own dear Carcass. The Fear of God is 3o 
an Excellence, a Virtue, a Duty; and, as 

the 



* 



5jC 



* 



99 



(19) 



* the Holy Scripture says, the Beginning of 
Wisdom ; but the Fear of Danger is 

* mean , scandalous , unmanly, a Vice , 
and the Beginning of Folly; and, indeed, 
incompatible with that Fear of God, of 5 
which 3''ou have talk'd so much. Forti- 
tude is by all acknovvledg'd a Virtue, 
and of that Intrepidity is likewise ac- 
knowledg'd a considerable Part; and from 
hence flows that contempt of Danger, ^° 
which you seem to impute to a want of 

the Fear of God; whereas, it may with 
much more Justice, be deriv'd from a 
firm Confidence in, or a perfect Resigna- 
tion to the Divine Providence in all its '5 
Dispensations. It is, indeed, as I have 
observ'd, plain, that you are very much 
mistaken in your Notion of the Fear of 
God, v/hich is a sort of a Filial Awe 

* not only consistent with Love, but, in- ^o 
deed, a Child of it ; for Love makes 
every one, who is possess 'd by it, afraid 

of being guilty of any Thoughts or Ac- 
tions, which may be displeasing or of- 
fensive to the Object belov'd; and this 25 
you would be very sensible of, if in all 

* your Life you had ever lov'd any thing 
better than yourself. But the Fear, which 
you contend for, is a meer abject, wo- 

* manish Pusillanimity, or rank Cowardice 3^ 

D 2 per- 



lOO 



(20) 

perpetually terriried with those Acci- 
dents which all sublunary Things are na- 
turally subject to : a Fear, that has been 
the Mother of all the most dreadful Mis- 
chiefs to which Mankind has ow'd c{reat 5 
Part cf liis Unhappiness. It has produced 
both private and publick 3iurders, De- 
vastations and Ruin of Nations and Peo- 
ple; for to this may we justly attribute 
the inhuman Barbarities cf the Spaniards ^° 
in the West-Indies, who, stimulated by 
this Fury, destroy 'd above one and twen- 
ty Millions of People according to their 
own Writers : This Fear is the Ground 
and Origin of all, or most of our Re- '5 
venges; our supplanting one another, and 
all that Injustice and Dishonesty which is 
too visible in the Transactions of the 
World : This Fear, therefore, being but 
too much spread thro' Humankind, it has 20 
been the Care and Study of the Wise and 
Good of all Polite Nations to root it 
as much as possible out of the Mind, or 
at least so far to abate it, as to render its 
Effect less fatal to our Happiness, And -S 
yet this is the Fear which j^ou endeavour 
to establish as the Fear of God, and 
measure the Piet}'' and Impiety of Men, by 
the Share that they have of this; as if 
Cowards only could be good Chris- 3» 
tians. But to return to Crusoe, at his 

coming 



lOI 



(21) 

coming to Town, he says, lie fell into 
very good Company, and among the rest, 
into the Acquaintance of a Master of a 
Guinea Ship, who was extreamly pleas 'd 
* with iiis Conversation ; which, as he 5 
tells us himself, was not at that time 
to be despis'd. Well, he goes to Guinea 
v/ith this honest Caotain, was his Mess- 
mate, and learnt of him during his 
Voyage the Art of Navigation; so that ^^ 
he could not have so much Time upon 
his Hands, as to be laugh 'd out of his 
Religion in his Conversation with the 
Common Seamen; nor do I think he had 
the ■ Opportunity of knowing their Senti- ^5 
ments in this Particular. It must there- 
fore be the Captain and his Mate, who 
learnt liim to despise God and Religion; 
and he must have a strange Alacrity in 
Sinking, if he could fall from those set- ^o 
tied Notions, that a Religious Education 
must needs have fixt in him, in one 
Voyage to Gitinca; for this is the only 
tim.e, except the Hnll Vo^-age, that he 
had convers'd with Seafaring Men. But ^S 
if this were true, he ought not to lay the 
Crime of the Captain and his Mate upon 
all the Body of Seamen, since no Logick 
v/ill ever allow arguing from a Particular 
to a General ; and as it is bad Logick, so 3° 
it is worse Religion , to lav the Crime of 

Two 



* 



* 



102 



(22) 

Two upon a Million. Early in his next 
voyage he is taken by the Salleetnan; 
and for the greatest Part of his fourth 
Voyage, he had no Companion but poor 
Xury. The Remainder of this Voyage he 5 
made in a Portuguese Ship, to the Master 
of which he ow'd, not only his Life then, 
but his Riches afterwards; and he was too 

* ignorant of the Portuguese Tongue, to 
make any Discovery of the Vices of that ^*^ 
Ship's Crew, or of being corrupted by 

* them; nor could he in his fifth Voyage 
from Brasil, to the Time of his being 
cast awa3v', furnish himself with any fresh 

* Observations of this Kind, they being for '5 
the most part in that Storm which 
brought on their Shipwreck, in which he 

* onl}^ escap'd. So that upon the whole, 
we find that Robinson Crusoe, even when 

he pretends to repent, is for throwing ^o 
the Guilt of his Sin upon others, who, 
as far as we can possibly discover, did 
not at all deserve the Charge; and 1 
dare believe, that he was in reality the 
only Person among them, who ever liv'd ^S 
so many Years without saying his Prayers, 
or acknowledging God and his Provi- 
dence, and is likely therefore rather to 
have been the Corrupter, than the Cor- 
rupted. But it seems he is not yet come 3° 
so forward towards a true Repentance, 

as 



V 



103 

(23) 

as to take the whole Guilt on himself, 
which in reality no Bod}^ else had any 
Share in. He says, indeed, his Repen- 
tance was hinder 'd by his Conversation 
with none but such as were worse than 5 
himself, and where he never heard men- 
tion of any thing that was good. But, 
dear D — n, this seems another gross Fib 
of your Friend Robinson, as I hope I have 
sufiicientiy prov'd in what .1 have said up- ^° 
on this Head. I have been longer than I 
design 'd upon these Remarks, and there- 
fore shall onh' transiently touch upon 
some few Occurrences of your Book : And 
tho' Nonsense be too frequent thro' the '5 
whole to merit a particular Remark as 
often as it occurs, I can't pass over 
this in Page 164 : And now I saw how 
easy it was for the Providence of God to 
make the most miserable Condition, Mankind 20 
could be in, worse. How% Friend D — nl 
Worse than the worst, I thought, that be- 
yond the superlative Degree there was 
nothing; I am sure that Robinson' s School 
Learning could not teach him this, per- 25 
haps he had it from his House Learning, 
with all the other false Grammar, which 
is to be found almost in every Page, par- 
ticulary the Nominative Case perpetually 
put for the Accusative, But this is not 30 
v/orth stopping;' at. To proceed therefore : 

Tho' 



104 

(24) 

* Tlio' I canr.ot see how he could let the 
Goat out of the Pit, when he says it was 
so fierce that he durst not come near it ; yet 
let that pass. He tells us, that he went 

* out for five or six Da3's; he would have 5 
done well to have satisfied us, not only 

* how he carried his Provisions for that long 
Time, but also what became of his 

"■'' Goats, who were not milk'd in so many 

* Days; whereas he afterwards tells us, '^ 
that three Days Absence had lik'd to have 
sipoil'd them on that very Account ; he 
would have done likewise well, to have 
given his Reasons why he thought the Sa- 

* vages more dangerous than the Devil. '5 

Tho' I have a great deal to say upon 
his Reflections, and their frequent Repe- 
tition almost in the same Words; yet for 
Brevity Sake, I shall sa}^ of them all, that 

* the}'' seem brought in only to encrease the ^o 
Bulk of your Book; they are seldom Just 

or truly Religious; but they have this 
terrible Circumstance, that they demon- 
strate that the Author has not the Fear of 

* God before his Eyes. Ludere cum Sacris ^s 
is what he has not at all scrupl'd; as if he 
esteem 'd it no Crime to set off his Fable 
with the Words of the Holy Scripture; 

''^ nay, he makes a Kind of Sortes Virgilianae 
of the Bible, by making Crusoe dip in- 3° 
to it for Sentences to his purpose. To 

me 



105 

(25) 

me the Iinpiety of this Part of the 
Book, in making the Truths of the Bi- 
ble of a Piece with the fictitious Story of 

* Robinson Crusoe, is so horribly shocking 
that I dare not dwell upon it; but must 5 
say, that they make me think that this 

* Book ought to be printed with Vaninus, 

* the Freethinker, and some other Atheisti- 
cal Tracts, which are condemn ' d and 
held in Abhorrence by all good Chris- '*^ 
tians. 

It is an odd Whimsy of Crusoe, to 
think of making Malt, which yet he 
knew not how to compass ; whereas, he 

* might make good Wine with little or no '5 
trouble. But you tell us that 3' our 
Friend Rohinsoii was never in the right in 

his Life, and, I think, that you have 
pretty well kept up that Part of his Cha- 
racter, in all that he says or does 20 

* In Page 207, and several subsequent 
Pages, as 234, 296 and 342, he presses very 
earnestly our serious Regard to the secret 
Hints and Impulses of the Mind, of which 

we can give no Rational Account. But I ^5 
must tell him, that this is only the Effect 
of a blind superstitious Fear, which ought 
not to be minded by any Man of com- 
mon Sense or Religion. We read, indeed, 

* of the Daemon of Socrates, who generally 3° 
gave him notice and warning of any Evil 

E ^ that 



100 



(26) 

* that threaten 'd liim : Cardan, a Modern Ita- 
lian, pretended to the same, but has been 
laugh 'd at for that Pretence by all the 
Learned Men who mention it : There 

* have likewise been some Enthusiastick 5 
Papists, who have believ'd that some of 

, their Saints had done them the same Fa- 
vour ; but for a Protestant to recommend 
this Superstition, is something extraordi- 
nary : But here the Dregs of Popery still 'o 
hang about Air Crusoe. 

* I v/ould ask Mr Crusoe how he could 
see the saucer Eyes of the Goat in the 
Cave, when he tells us it was so dark 
that he could see nothing there ; this is '5 
not lielpt by sa^ang, that a Ray of the 
Light struck thro' the Mouth of the 
Cave, for then there was Light, which 

he says there was not ; and if there was, 
then he might have seen the Goat's Bo- ^o 
dy as well as his Eyes. 

* He tells us that his Man Friday would 
not eat Salt, but we see not how he him- 
self had any to eat ; well, we'll suppose 

he had made it out of the Sea Water. 25 

* He would have done well likewise to 
have told us how Friday could make his 
escape, since he assures us that the Victims 
were all bound till executed ; but per- 
haps this Caution was made use of after 3^ 
Friday had made his escape. He agrees 

with 



* 



I07. 
(27) 

with the Spaniard and Friday's Father, 
that they should bring a Contract in 
Writing, under the Hands of the other 
Spaniards, tho' he knew they had neither 
Pen, Ink, nor Paper ; nay, he had 5 
done well if he had inform 'd us, how he 
could give them Instructions in Writing, 
when his Ink was gone so many Years 
before. 

Well, Crusoe at last, and his Man Fri- ^^ 
day, get away from his Island into En- 
gland ; and from thence he makes a 
Voyage to Portugal, where having set- 
tled all his Affairs and found himself a 
Rich Man, in obedience to his secret '5 
Hints, he resolves not to go by Sea back, 
but thro' Spain and France by Land, and 
so only cross the Seas from Calais to Do- 
ver. All that happens in this Land 
Journey worth taking Notice of, is the -o 
monstrous Story of his Man Friday and 
the Bear ; they are passing the Pyrenean 
Mountains thro' a very great Snow, the 
Roads were so infested with Wolves, that 
two cf them fell upon their Guide, and -5 
wounded him and his Horse, before Fri- 
day could come up and shoot them ; but 
notwithstanding this Wound of the Guide, 
and the how^ling of the Wolves all about, 
and that it was within two Hours of 3° 
Night, and they had near three Leagues 

E 2 to 






1 08 

{28) 

to ride in the Snow, lie makes a matter 
of thirty Passengers, and the wounded 
Guide, stand still in the Cold, to see 

'■ Friday make laugh, as he calls it, with 
a Bear, that b}- Chance cam.e that Way. 5 
Friday pulls off his Boots and claps on his 
Pumps, runs to the Bear and takes up a 

' great Stone, which he throws at him ; but 
how Friday could j^ick up a great Stone 
in a Place all cover'd deep with Snow, "o 
I know not ; nor can I tell, how Friday 
came to know the Nature of the Bear, 

'■ Since that is a Creature, which is never 
found in such a warm Climate, as Fri- 
day's Country must needs be, since it was '5 
so near the Fqiiiuox : I believe it is equal- 

'' ly true, that the whole Company laugh 'd 
at Friday's managing the Bear ; but, in- 
deed, this Book seems calculated for the 
Mob, and will not bear the Bye of a ra- 20 
tional Reader. Well, Robinson at last 
gets again to London, marries, has three 
Children ; he is near sixty five years of 
Age, which one would think was old 
enough to leave off Rambling, having 25 
especially a plentiful Fortune ; yet he 
tell us, that he takes a Trip, as it were 
for Pleasure, to his old Island in America, 
and thence to Brasil, and so rambles 
about till sevent}- five years of Age, and 3° 
how much longer T know not, an Ac- 
count 



109 

(29) 

count of which he promises in his next 
Volume. I hope, dear D — n, that you 
have taken more care of Probability and 
Religion than you have in this ; tho' I 
am afraid you are too harden 'd a Sinner in 
these Particulars, to f^ive us any Proof in 
your Works of your sincere Repentance, 
which yet is heartily wish'd you, by 

Your Friend and Servant, etc. 



POSTSCRIPT. 

Having just run thro' the first Volume 
and clos'd my Letter, I was told that 
the second \''olume was at last com^e out. 
I was too much tir'd with the Badness of 
the Road in my first Journey, to venture ^5 
upon another the same Way, without 
resting to recover my Patience, of which 
I was to have sufficient use in my passing 
thro' the second Part. I am afraid that 
Robinson Crusoe reserv'd so much Opium 20 
for his own Use, v/hen he dispos'd of the 
rest to the Merchant of Japan, that he 
has scarce been thoroughh^ awake ever 
* since ; and has communicated that som- 
niferous Oualitv of the Drus^ to his 25 
Writing thro' the whole second Part, 
which every where prepares you for 

Sleep ; 



* 



1 lO 



* 



(30) 

Sleep ; to avoid a Lethargy therefore, I 
shall not dwell upon it, and its perpetual 
Succession of Absurdities, but only touch 
upon some few, which may serve for 
Samples of the whole. I cannot, how- 5 
ever, omit taking particular Notice of 
the Editor's Preface, because it is not on- 
ly written by the same Hand, but also 
very singular in its Kind : you begin with 
a Boast of the Success of your Book, and '° 
which you sa}^ deserves that Success by 
its Merits, that is, The surprizing Variety 
of the Subject, and the agreeable Man- 
ner of the Performance. It's well 370U tell 
us so yourself, the judicious Reader else '5 
must have been puzzel'd to find out the 
M3^stery of its Success. For first, as to the 
Variety of the Subject, it will be a hard 
Matter to make that good, since it's spread 

* out into at least five and twent}^ Sheets, 20 
clog'd with Moral Reflections, as you 

are pleas 'd to call them, every where in- 

* sipid and awk'ward, and in many Places 
of no manner of Relation to the Occa- 
sion on which they are deliver'd, besides 25 
being much larger than necessary, and 
frequently impious and prophane ; and al- 

* ways canting are the Reflections which 
you are pleas'd to call religious and use- 

* ful, and the brightest Ornainents of your 30 
Book, tho' in reality they were put in by 

you 



Ill 



Jf: 



(31) 

* you to swell the Bulk of your Treatise 
up to a five Shilling Book ; whereas, 
the Want of Variety in your Subject, 
would never have made it reach to half 

the Price ; nay, as it is, you have been 5 
forc'd to give us the same Reflections 
over and over again, as well as repeat 
the same Fact afterwards in a Journal, 
which you had told us before in a plain 
Narration. So agreeable is the Manner *o 
of your Performance ! which is render 'd 
more so by the excessive Sterility of your 
Expression, being forc'd perpetually to 
say the same Things in the very self same 

* Words four or five times over in one ^5 
Page, which puts me in Mind of what 

* Httdibras says, 

Would it not make one strange 
That some Mens Fancies should ne^er change, 
But always make them do and say 20 

The self same Thing, the self same Way ? 



^ 



Another agreeable Thing in the Perfor- 
mance is, that every Page is full of So- 
lecisjns or false Grammar. However, this 
may be, for ought I know, a very agree- 25 
able Performance to most of your Buy- 
ers. 

Your next Triumph is, that the Re- 
proaches of your Book as a Romance, 

and 



112 



* 



(32) 

and as being guilty of bad Geography, 
Contradictions, and the like, hai'c proved 
Abortive (I suppose you mean ineffectu- 
al) a}id as impotent as malicious ; but 
here, as well as in other Places, you are 5 
guilty of a great Abuse of Words : For 
first, they have not been impotent, since all 
but the verj' Canaille are satisfied by them 
of the Worthlessness of the Performance ; 
nor can the exposing the Weakness and '° 
Folly of any assuming and ignorant Scrib- 
bler be properly cali'd malicious ; they 
who malign eminent Worth, ma}^, in- 
deed deserve such a Name ; but what 
hath been said of, or done against such an '5 
incoherent Piece as Robinson Crusoe, can 
at worst been only cali'd Indignation ; and 
tliat was what the eminent Satirist was 
not asham'd to own, as the Motive and 
Support of his Verses. 20 

Si Natura negat facit Indignatio versum. 

And thus I may say of my present Let- 
ter to you ; that if want of Genius for- 
bid my Writing at all, that Defect is 
largely supplied by Indignation, not Ma- 25 
lice or Env}^ ; for Folly and Ignorance 
can never produce them. However, I 
find that these Endeavours you seem to 
contemn as impotent, have yet had so 

great 



113 

(33) 

great a Force upon yourself, as to make 

* you more than tacitly confess, that your 
Book is nothing but a Romance. You 
say, indeed. The just Application of every 
Incident, the religious and useful Inferences s 
drawn from every Part, are so many Testi- 
monies to the good Design of making it Pub- 
lick, and must Legitimate all the Part that 
may be called Invention or Parable in the 
Story. But when it is plain that there are •» 

* no true, useful or just Inferences drawn 
from an}'^ of the Incidents ; when Reli- 
gion has so little to do in any Part of 
these Inferences ; when it is evident that 
what you call Religion, is only to mis- '5 
lead the Minds of Men to reject the Dic- 
tates of Reason, and embrace in its 

* -Room a meer superstitious Fear of I 

know not what Instinct from unbodied 
Spirits ; when you impiously prophane ^o 
the very Name of Providence, by allot- 
ting to it either contradictor}^' Offices, or 
an unjust Partiality : I think we may 
justty say, that the Design of the Publi- 
cation of this Book was not sufficient to ^s 
justify and make Truth of what you al- 
low to be Fiction and Fable ; what you 
mean by Legitimating, Invention, and Pa- 
rable, I know not ; unless you would 
have us think, that the manner of your 3° 
telling a Lie will make it a Truth. One 

F may 



114 



(34) 



may say a great Deal in Answer to what 
you urge against the Abridgment of your 
Book, but it is too absurd to dwell upon, 
and against the Practice of all Ages and 
all Nations : what think j^ou, honest 5 
D — n of the History of Justin ? Was not 
that an Abridgment of Trogiis Pompeius, 
whose long Histor}' of the World is lost, 
and the Abridgment of Justin remains to 
this Di}'? nor can I find that ever he 'o 
was stis;matiz'd for it with a Crime as 
bad as Robbing on the Highwa}^ What 
think \'ou of Darius Tihertiis, a Modern 
Italian, who abridg'd the Lives of Pht 
tarch in the Latin tongue ? what do you '5 
suppose of the Abridgment of the Vo- 
luminous History- of Guarini ? what of 
the Latin Abridoment of Plinv ? what 
think you of the great Fontinel ? (for I 
think I ma}^ call him great, after what ^o 
Sir William Temple has said of him) he 
tells you himself, in his Preface to his 
History of Oracles, that this Book is but 
an Abridgment of Van Dale, who writ a 
prolix Treatise upon that Subject. But 25 
not to dwell upon Foreigners, we have 
a hundred Instances in our own Tongue 
of the like Practice, in many of which 
Booksellers of undoubted Probity have 
been concern 'd ; indeed, there is this 30 
to be said, that most of these Abridg- 
ments 



* 



* 



lO 



115 

(35) 

ments have been of Books of a real 
intrinsick Value ; but yours might for 
me have continu'd unabridg'd, and still 
retain 'd all its brightest Ornaments, as you 
call them ; but if the omitting of those 
be the only Fault of the Abridgment, I 
can't but think his Work more valuable 
than the Original, nor do I see that he 
has done your Proprietor any damage, 
since he has left to your larger Volume 
all those Beauties you are so fond of, and 
may, indeed, be said to be only an Ad- 
vertiser of them to those that have them 
not. If he has preserv'd the Fable entire, 
the Judicious will not want your clum- '5 
sy and tedious Reflections to recom- 
mend it ; for, indeed, by what you say, 
you seem not to understand the very Na- 
ture of a Fable, which is a sort of Wri- 
ting which has always been esteem 'd by -° 
the wisest and best of Men to be of great 
use to the Instruction of Mankind ; but 
then this Use and Instruction should natu- 
rally and plainly arise from the Fable it- 
self, in an evident and useful Moral, either 25 
exprest or understood ; but this is too large 
a Subject to go thro', and to shew that 
by the Rules of Art 3-ou have not attain 'd 
any one End and Aim of a Writer of 
Fables in the Tale that you have given 3° 
us. I shall therefore proceed to those few 

F2 Re- 



no 



{36) 

Remarks, whicli I have made in a cursory 
reading of \'Our second Part. 

The first Thing I remark, is, that you 
are at 3--onr Dreams again Page 3d and 
4th; for most of the Religion of your 5 
Book consists in Dreams. The next Thing 
I shall just hint at, is what you say 
about the three Pirate Sailors in the same 
Page — So if I had hang'd them all, I had 
been r.inch in the riglit, and should have ^° 
been justifiable both by the Laws of God and 
Man, the contrary of which Assertion is 
directly true, viz. That if you had hang'd 
them all, 3'Ou had been guilty of down- 
right Murther b}- all the Laws of God ^5 
and Man ; for pra^-, sweet Sir, what Au- 
thority had Robinson Crusoe so much as to 
fine, or inflict any Punishment upon any 
Man ? 

Some Follies, I find, are like some Dis- 20 
tempers, catching : Thus, Madam Crusoe, 
by conversing with her wise Husband, ex- 
travaganth- fancies his fantastick Whim- 
sies to be the Impulse of Divine Provi- 
dence, ibid. 25 

Against the next Edition of your 
Book, profound Da — /, I wish 3'ou 
would take the Pains to explain the fol- 
lowing Piece of Nonsense, so far as to 
make it intelligible ; for I can meet with 30 
no Bod}', no, not the most skill'd in the 

ab- 



* 



* 



* 



* 



117 

(37) 

abstruser Sciences, that can so much as 
guess what you would be at. I transcribe 
them for your serious Consideration, No- 
thing can be a greater Demonstration of a fu- 
ture State, and of the Existence of an invi- 5 
sible World, than the Concurrence of second 
Causes with the Ideas of Things, which we 
form in our Minds, perfectly reserved and not 
communicated to any in the World, Page 
lo; and in Page 12, he is making it a 'o 
resisting of Providence, if he did not go 
a rambling at about sixty five Years of 
Age. I only note this en passant, to re- 
mind 3^ou of what noble Offices you as- 
sign to the Divine Providence, by attri- '5 
buting to the Impulse of that all Things 
that are irrational; a very pious Notion 
of the eternal Divine Wisdom ! I shall 
only observe on that odd Account, given 
Page 20, of the extravagant Joy of the 20 
French that v/ere sav'd by Crusoe, when 
their Ship was burnt, that they were cer- 
tainly a Ship-load of extreme Cowards or 
Madmen; for nothing but the Extremity 
of Cowardice or Lunacy could ever pro- -5 
duce so general a Distraction. It is con- 
fess 'd, that unexpected Deliverances will 
have strange Effects upon some very few 
particular People, but then this Delive- 
rance must be very sudden and very un- 3° 

ex- 



iiS 

(38) 

expected : but this is not the Case here; 
for all the Time the Ship was burning, 

' Crusoe discharg'd Guns to let them know 
that Relief was at Hand ; and all the 
Night after, when the Flame of the burnt 5 
Ship was extinguish 'd by the Sea, the 

^ same Crusoe set out Lights upon his Ship, 
and frequently discharg'd Guns to direct 
the Boats loaded with the Crew of the 
burnt Ship towards their Safety, which '° 
they found could not be far off; and to- 
wards which, by this Means, the}' might 

■■' every Minute make some approach; so 

^ that Hope was not gone, no not for one 
Minute, which makes all those extrava- '5 
gant Effects of Joy utterly improbable; 
nay, I m.a.j say, impossible. 

I shall pass Friday's speaking broken 
English twelve YearT'aTter he Jiad- —been 
with his Master, and almost as unintelli- 20 
gibly, as after he had been with him 
but twelve Days; nor shall I stop long 
upon the Spaniards Prognosticating Hu- 

'" mour, from Dreams and unaccountable 
Whimsies, because the Spaniard seems to 25 
have learnt this by dwelling so long in 
Crusoe's Habitation; for he has the same 
Notion of secret Correspondence betwixt 
unbodied and embodied Spirits , which 
Crusoe every where avows. But, dear 3^ 
Da — I, you have forgot yourself, yoii 

make 



119 

(39) 

make a Spaniard speak here, the most bi- 

* gotted of all Papists; and therefore it 
had been more natural for him to have 
attributed this secret Intelligence to Saint 
JagOf or the Blessed Virgin, or even to 5 
his Angel Guardian : But, indeed, you 
frequently forget the Religion of your 
Speaker, and make the Spaniard in your 

* first Part quote Scripture Instances, which 

he could never be suppos'd to have read '° 
in all his Life, or ever heard mention 'd. 
But to go on, for I will say nothing of 

* the Savages Landing in the Night to 
make their Feast; for they are your Sa- 
vages, and you may make them go '5 
where and when you please, and for 
what you please. I shall pass, therefore, 

on to Crusoe's Learned Discourse with the 

* French Popish Priest in Page 146, etc. 
which has, indeed, as gross Marks of -^ 
Falshood and inartificial Fiction, as any 
thing in your Book : you make the Priest 
call the Living of the four Englishmen 
with their Indian Wives (because unmar- 
ried according to the Laws and Customs 25 

* of any Christian Country-) Adultery. Had 
Crusoe call'd it so it might have been tole- 
rable, and have pass'd for the Ignorance 
of a Seafaring Man; but to make a Priest 
talk so, whose Trade it is to know the 3° 

distinct 



I20 



(40) 

distinct Names of every Sin, is a plain 
Proof that all this came out of thy in- 
ventive Noddle. For you must know, 
Friend Da — I, that all Carnal Com- 
merce between two single Persons is cal- 5 
led Fornication, and not Adultery; Adul- 
ter}^ is when a married Woman or a 
married Man has this criminal Commerce 
with any other but her Husband, or his 
Wife : How, therefore, a Romish Priest '° 
should tell Crusoe, that his Englishmen 
without Marriage would live in continual 
Adultery, is what you would do well 
to make out; for I am satisfy 'd, no Priest 
in Christendom would call it by any '5 
other Name but Fornication. Nor has that 
a better Face of Truth, which you make 
the Popish Priest speak about Idolatry, 
Page 150; where, in the Person of the 
Popish Priest, he complements Popery 20 
with a known and intolerable Lie, where 
he makes him express his Zeal for bring- 
ing the Indians over to the Christian Re- 
ligion in general; na}^ even to the making 
of them Protestants : Now it is very well 25 
known, that the Papists in general, and 
much more a zealous Popish Priest and 
Missionary, do not allow any Heretick, 
as they call all Protestants, any better 
Place in the next World than that of 3° 

eter- 



* 



* 



121 



(41) 

eternal Damnation; so that unless he 
brought the Pagans over entirely to Po- 
pery, he must throw away all his Labour 
and Pains, in his own Opinion, as much 
as if he had done nothing at all. Of the 5 
same absurd Nature is all that passes be- 
twixt the Priest and Atkins: for tho' At- 
kins knows him not to be a Popish Priest, 
he knows very well that Atkins is an 
English Protestant Heretick, and there- »o 
fore, that he shall set him no nearer to 
Salvation by the Repentance he per- 
swaded him to, than if he had left him 
where he found him. Well, Atkins's Wife 
gets to be christen 'd by this Means, and '5 
is married to her Husband, as Jack of all 
Trades is to the j^oung Woman taken up 
at Sea; but for the rest, we hear no more 
of their Marriage, than of Friday's be- 
ing christen'd himself, during his twelve ^o 
Years Service with that zealous Teacher 
of the Christian Religion Robinson Cru- 
soe. 

I shall not quit this Popish Priest, till 
I have said something upon a Point, for 25 
which he is recommended to our Ad- 
miration by this same Protestant Crusoe; 
and that is, upon the Popish Missiona- 
ries being sent about the World to make 
Converts from one Idolatr\^ to another, 30 

G from 



122 



(42) 

from a less to a greater; that is, from 
Paganism to Popery. Well, let us hear 
what the Priest says in Page 151. It is 
a Maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be 
received among all Christians, of what 5 
Church or pretended Church soever, {viz.) 
That Christian Knowledge ought to be 
propagated b}^ all possible Means, and 
on all possible Occasions. ^Tis on this 
Principle that our Church sends Missiona- ^^ 
ries into Persia, India, and China; and 
that our Clergy, even of the superior Sort, 
willingly engage in the most hazardous 
Voyages, and the most dangerous Residence 
amcmg Murtherers and Barbarians, to teach '5 
them the Knowledge of the true God, and 
to bring them over to embrace the Christian 
Faith. 

There is scarce one Word of Truth in 
all this Quotation; and it is only drest up 20 
in Words, that are calculated to give the 
Protestant Reader an agreeable Idea of 
Popery, on purpose to smooth the Way, 
as far as his little Abilities can do it, for 
the Popish Superstition to enter these 25 
Kingdoms; that the Popish Church does, 
indeed, send Missionaries to these three 
Places, mention 'd in the Quotation, and 
some others, is certainly true. I do con- 
fess that they will roam about the 30 

World 



123 



* 



* 



* 



* 



(43) 



World to make one Proselite, but then 
it is as true, that they make this Prose- 
lite ten times more the Child of the De- 
vil than he was before; it is true, I say, 
that the}'- do send their Clerg}^ abroad, 5 
but not their superiour Clergj^ as this 
Quotation falsly asserts, but Jesuits and 
some other regular Orders; nor is their 
Business in reality to bring the Pagans to 
the Knowledge of the true God and the 'o 
Christian Religion, but to carry on a pri- 
vate interloping Trade, by which they 
bring in vast Treasures into their particu- 
lar Orders. What sort of Christians 
they make, is evident from that great '5 
Noise and Stir, which has been made 
some years before the Congregation De 
Propaganda Fide in Rome itself; where it 
has been prov'd, even by Roman Catho- 
lics, that the Jesuit Missionaries in China ^o 
have only incorporated the Heathen Re- 
ligion of that Place into that which the 
Romish Church professes; and that they 
have admitted Confucius into the Kalen- 
dar among the Saints, to be pray'd to, as ^S 
well as St Peter and St Panl, and the 
Virgin Mary. Dear Da — I art thou not 
now asham'd of having brought in such 
* notorious Falsities in the Defence of Po- 
pery ? If Zeal for the Propagating the 3° 

G 2 Gos- 



124 



* 



* 



(44) 



Gospel of Christ were the Motive that 
set these Itinerant Preachers to work, why 
do they not go to the poor Tartars, whose 
Ignorance and Idolatry you do pretend 
to describe ? why do they not go to the 5 
poor Laplanders and Samoidcs, where 
there is nothing to be got; no Traffick to 
be establish 'd beneficial enough to warm 
their Zeal, and make it travel for the 
Conversion of Souls in those cold Conn- 'o 
tries? why do they seek all the richer 
and more gainful Part of the World for 
their Missions ? But to go on with these 
sort of Queries, would be to swell my 
Postscript to a much greater Bulk than '5 
I design. From what has been said, I be- 
lieve, it may be pretty plain, that this 
sending of Missionaries of the Popish 
Church, is a mere Political Trick, with- 
out the least Tincture of true Reli- ^o 



gion. 



I have been so long upon this, that 
I shall say nothing of honest Robinson's 
being oppress 'd by the Power of the 
Priest's Reasoning, which yet is so ver3^ 25 
weak and false as I have show'd you ; 
or proceed to a particular Confutation of 
what the Priest advances upon Matri- 
mony, tho' in many Things very false. 
But it is observable that Crusoe, after all 3f> 

the 



125 

(45) 

the Zeal of the Popish Priest against the 
Pirates living with their Indian Wives 

* without Marriage, sends from Brasil 
several Women for the use of the Spani- 
ards, who were not before married ; and 5 
that without sending any Priest with 
them to marry them. 

* I shall pass over, likewise, the Maid's 
Discourse upon Starving, because I can- 
not see that it is any ways entertaining ^° 
or instructive, but a very clumsy Pro- 
duct of the most unphilosophical Head in 

the World. 

* And I shall only ask you, how a Man 
should chuse any particular Way or Voca- '5 
tion of Life, if he must not take his own 
Judgment ; for this is plainly to tell us, 
that Man must chuse no Way nor Voca- 
tion at all, since you will not allow him 

the only Means of chusing which God 20 
and Nature has given him : This is the 
plain English of your Assertion in Page 
218. From hence I shall skip to Page 

* 302, where there is a very particular 
Blunder or Contradiction ; for he first 25 

* tells you, that the Horse the Chinese Man- 
darin rid upon, was a poor lean Creature, 
not worth above 30 or 40 Shillings ; and 
yet presently after, in Page 304, he says, 
that there was not a Horse in the Reti- 30 

nue 



:j; 



* 



:r6 

(46) 

uue of the Mandarm, but was so covered 
with Equipages, Mantles, Trappiy^gs, and 
such like Trumpery, that you cannot see 
whether they are Fat or Lean : In a Word, 
we could scarce see any thing but their Feet 5 
and their Heads. 

Before I follow him out of China, I 
shall only add one Word or two on his 
Account of that famous Kingdom, which, 
contrary to all those who have reall}/ been '^ 
there, lie makes a most despicable Place, 
where there is nothing of Politeness or 
Learning ; but that Singularity of yours 
will never perswade us to think, that the 
Writer of it was ever nearer to Pequin '5 
than London : And, therefore, I shall not 
doubt but that Sir IVilliam Temple fol- 
low'd as just Relations of this Country, 
as any Mr De F — e could pretend to 
meet with, who makes it the most Po- ** 
lite and magnificent Empire in the 
World. 

Well, I am quite tir'd with your Jour- 
ne\' of the Caravan, and can but just 
take Notice of Robinson Crusoe and the 25 
Scotchman's burning one of the Tartarian 
Gods, at the Hazard, not only of their 
own Lives, but of all the rest of the Cara- 
van, which must certainly have follow'd, 
had not the Ingenuity of a Tartar in their 3f> 

Re- 



12: 



(47) 

Retinue turn'd off the Storm, and set the 
ten thousand Tartars upon a wrong Scent, 
which should lead them, at least, five 
hundred Miles out of their Way. And 
here I conclude, satisfied with having 5 

* check 'd that Vanity which is so apparent 
in both your Volumes, especially in the 
Preface to your last, by offering some 
few only of that Multitude of Absur- 
dities and Profaneness of which both '° 
Parts are full ; for to have touch 'd upon 
every one, would have swell'd my Re- 
marks to the Bigness of at least one of 

* your Volumes. But ex pede Herculem, 

ex ungue Leonem, a small Sample is suffi- ^5 
cient to give a Taste of the whole. 

The Christian Religion and the Doc- 

* trines of Providence are too Sacred to be 
delivered in Fictions and Lies, nor was 
this Method ever propos'd or follow 'd ^o 
by any true Sons of the Gospel ; it is 
what has been, indeed, made use of by 

* the Papists in the Legends of their 
Saints, the Lying Wonders of which 

are by Length of Time grown into such ^S 
Authorit}^ with that wretched People, 
that they are at last substituted in the 
Place of the Holy Scriptures themselves. 
For the Evil Consequences of allowing 
Lies to mingle with the Holy Truths of 3° 

Re- 



128 



(4S) 



Religion, is the certain Seed of Atheism 
and utter Irreligion; whether, therefore, 
3'ou ought to make a publick Recanta- 
tion of \'our Conduct in this Particular, I 
leave to yourself. 



FINIS. 




NOTES 



TITLE-PAGE 

An imitation of the title-page of De Foe's novel : 
« The I Life | and ! Strange Surprizing | Adventures j 
ol I Robinson Crusoe, | of York, Mariner : [ Who lived 
Eight and Twenty Years, [ all alone in an un-inhabited 
Island on the | Coast of America, near the Mouth of I 
the Great River of Oroonoque ; I Having been cast on 
Shore by Shipwreck, where- | in all the Men perished 
but himself. | "With | An Account hov/ he was at last 
as strangely deli- [ Ver'd by Pyrates. | Written by 
Himself. » The typographical arrangement of both 
titles is practically the same. — The title of Gildon's 
work does not correspond exactly to the contents of the 
pamphlet, but it was intended to excite the reader's 
curiosity. 

I. 6. — D... De F... means Daniel de Foe. Throughout the 
pamphlet D..n is put for Dan, and D...1 for Daniel 
(with perhaps an intention to suggest D(evi)l as well 
as D(anie)l. 

I. 8. — De Foe always styled himself a « trader » and denied 
he had ever stood behind the counter ; and, in fact, as 
early as 1683, he had a wholesale office in Freeman's 
Yard, nearly opposite the entrance to Change Alley. He 
exported hosiery and cloth, and imported wines and 
drugs. Whenever his enemies wanted to wound his 
pride, they called him hosier, sock -seller, or civet-cat 
merchant. 

/. 70. — De Foe was born in 1660, so that he was 59 when 
Gildon wrote his pamphlet. 

I- II. — There is some truth in saying that De Foe lived by 
himself, because his work as a governmental spy pre- 



130 NOTES TO P. (iii) 

vented his having many friends, and he never mixed 
with e polite » or Hterary circles. 

North Britain. This alludes to De Foe's frequent 
visits to Scotland, from 1706 to 1712. He was sent by 
Harley to watch events during the discussions about 
the Union, and later to study the consequences of the 
treaty. 

] 72. — See note to p. Ill, 1. 16. 

I. 73. — Discoveries : this word does not apply to any precise 
part of Gildon's pamphlet. It alludes probably to De 
Foe's plans, most of which had been explained in his 
Essay npon Projects (1697). 

I iS. — Robinson Crusoe always calls Friday « my man 
Friday ». 

/ 22. — « Let him be deceived, who wants to be deceived » 
(Cp. I.uke VIII, "cS). Latin epigraphs were the rule in 
pamphlets. Swift, in the Examiner, taunted De Foe 
with being t illiterate », and De Foe was sufficienth- 
concerned to answer : I have been in my time pretty 
well master of five larg'.iages, and have not lost them 
yet, though I write no bill oVer my door, nor set Latin 
quotations in the jiont of the Re-vie-jj » (Rev. VII, 455). 

I. 23. — /. Roberts had already published two of Gildon's 
works : the ^cw Rehec.rsal (1714), and Canons, or the 
Vision (1717). He always prudently refrajned from pub- 
lishing seditious libels. 

THE PREFACE 

P. III. — The beginning is an imitation of the Preface to 
Robinson Crusoe : « If ever the story of any private 
man's advemtures in the wovVl were worth making pub- 
lic, and were acceptable when published, the Editor 
of this account thinks this will be so. — The wonders 
of this man's life exceed all that (he thinks) is to be 
found extant ; the life of one man being scarce capable 
of a greater variety-. The story is told with modest}', 
with seriousness, and with a religious application of 
events...* — Then the texts differ. 

i. 14. — There is some truth in this sarcasm : in his prefaces 
and dedications, De Foe showed no small opiiiiion of 
his own merits; and even whem he wished to appear 



NOTES TO P. (v) 131 

modest and hiunble (as in the Letter to Mr. How, 1701), 
his humility savoured much of the Pharisee. 

I. 16. — An allusion to De Foe's political changes. He was a 
Moderate Whig, but his attachment to Robert Harley, 
Earl of Oxford, led him to compromise with his con- 
science, whein, iin 17 10, Harley became the head of a 
Tory ministry. 

I. 18 etc. — Proteus, a sea-god who is represented as having 
knowledge of the past, present and future; but unwill- 
ing to give away his knowledge, he assumed different 
shapes in order to terrify those who came to consult 
him. Menelaus took him by surprise during his sleep, 
and seized him, holding more tightly at each new 
shape he assumed, until at last having exhausted his 
tricks, the God returned to his ordinary form and gave 
Menelaus the information he wanted (Odyssey). 

P. IV. — I. J. — lUi reality there were about 19 cities which 
claimed the honour of being Homer's birthplace. But 
the common tradition mentions ouily 7 of them, viz. 
Chioe, Smyrna, Cyme, Colophon, Pylos, Argos and 
Athens. 

I. 10. — Nonjurors, Papists, and Atheists. — This is entire- 
ly false. De Foe, a staunch Dissenter, always waged 
an implacable war against J^-cobite Priests (Nonjurors), 
Roman Catholios, and Atheists whom he called Men- 
devils [Serious Reflections of Robinson Crusoe). He 
had so zealously endeavoured to thwart the efforts of 
the Jacobites that he would probably have been hanged 
if the Pretender « had enjoyed his own again ». 

i. 18. — This last semtence is an imitation of the last sen- 
tence in Robinson Crusoe : « all these things, with 
some very surprising incidents in some new adven- 
tures of my own for ten years more, I may, perhaps, 
give a farther account of hereafter ». 

THE DIALOGUE 

P. V. — I. 4. — De Foe haled being called Daniel Foe, wlwch 
was his real name. In 1695, when, he had become^'' 
courtier, he had assumed the aristocratic particle De, 
thus reverting to the primitive name which was prob- 



132 NOTES TO P. (vi) 

ably bonie by his Flemish ancestors (See our book : 
Daniel De Foe et ses romans, I, 3). Throughout the 
pamphlet itself, Gildon calls him Foe (see p. XIV). 
1. 8. — De Foe had been educated at Ne"ji;ington Green, in 
Morton's Acadeni}-, and findinig the country agreeable, 
fixed his abode at Newivgt >n Toum (also called Stoke 
Newington) in 1709. Robinson Crusoe was written in 
his large house in Church Street, which was almost a 
mansion, with a magnificent garden and extensive 
pleasure-grounds. He often went on horseback to Lon- 
don (5 I miles), returning home in the evening. It is 
u.nlikely that De Foe ever iv reality crossed the fields 
on foot after midnight, when he had a coach and 
horses, and very well knew that the environs of Lon- 
don were not safe. 
I. lb. — The beginning of the Augustan Period was the age 
of kidnappers and highwaymen : the exploits of Car- 
touche, Jack Sheppard, Jonathan Wild, are famous in 
the literature of the time. De Foe invented very success- 
fail biographiifcs of rogues, such as Moll Flanders, and 
Colonel Jack. In 172S, Gay's Beggar's Opera was 
received with extraordinary applause. 

P. VI. . — I. I. — Gene%a, or gin, -( a mixed water », newh- 
imported from Holland. Its cheapness made it very pop- 
ular, and in 1719 gi.n-shops were opening everywhere. 
Some retailers even exhibited placards in- their win- 
dows intimating that there « people might get drun.k 
for I d. and clean straw in comfortable cellars would 
be provided for customers ». De Foe wrote against the 
immoderate use of gin, and advocated good English 
beer in its stead. (See his articles in AppLebee's and 
Mist's Journals, and the pamphlets he wrote under the 
pseudonym of Andrew Moreton). 
1. 2. — That the roads were unsafe about Stoke Newington 
may be seen by a reference to contemporary papers. 
The Daily Post fcr Feb. 6 th 1720 Ginaiounceid : « On 
Wednesday last (Feb. 3rd) in the evening, the stage- 
aoach was robb'd near the Palatine houses, going from 
the town to Stoke Newington, by two highwaymen 
who took from the company their money, a watch, 
and from one gentlewoman about 30 pounds' worth of 



NOTES TO P. (vi) 



OJ 



new cloaths ». But De Foe was no coward. He ofteu 
sent challenges to men who threatenetl to cane him • 
« If this gentleman thinks himself capable to give me 
personal correlation, he knows me well enough, and 
need ftever want an opportunity to be welcome » 
{Letter to Mr. Hoiv)... « I move about the world un- 
guarded and unarmed ; a little stick, not strong enough 
to correct a dog, supplies the place of Mr. Observator's 
[Tutchin] great oaken towel ; a sword sometimes, per- 
haps, for decenc}', but it is all harmless, to a mere noth- 
ing, and can do no hurt anywhere but just at the 
tip of it, called the point : and what is that in the 
hands ot a feeble author ? » (Rci:ic-di\ II, 214)... « As to 
defence, I have some thoughts to stay at home by 
night, and by day to wear a piece of armour on my 
back; the first, because I am persuaded these murderers 
will not do their work by da3-l!ight ; and the second, 
because I firmly believe they will never attempt it 
fairly to my face. » {Review, VI, Pref.). — His ene- 
mies vainlj'- tried to waylay him ; some of them had 
their revenge ou his brother-in-law, Samuel Tuffley, 
whom they mercilessly caned on one occasion (1711). 

/. 7. — Philistines : perhaps Gildon is sneering at De Foe's 
frequent references to the Bible. 

J. 9. — Secret Hint : De Foe believed that the sudden impul- 
ses of our mind are caused by a friendly daimSn, the 
messenger of God's Providence. Instances of the cu- 
rious influence of the Supernatural World on the 
destiny of men. aire innumerable in Robinson Crusoe. 
In ithe Vision of the Angelic World (3 rd vol.) he dedi- 
cates whole pages to the question. He sums up his 
ideas in a passage of the first vol. (p. 72) : « When we 
are in a quandary, as we call it, a doubt, or hesitation, 
whether to go this way or that way, a secret hint shall 
direct v.s to go this way when we intended to go an- 
other way; nay, when sense, our own iurclination, and 
perhaps business has called to go the other way, j'et a 
strange impression upon the mind, from we know not 
wliat springs, and by we know not wl-.at power, 
shall oveirrule us to go this wa}', and it shall after- 
"Wards appear that had we gone that way which we 
would have gone, and even to our imagination ought 



134 NOTES TO P. vvii) 

to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost... i 

/. 14. — This is a mixture of Crusoe's dress as described by 
De Foe and the classical dress of conspirators. — The 
hatchet was the only weapon Crusoe would give at 
iirst to Friday. 

/. 20. — Friday is described as a good sprinter. He fled from 
his would-be butchers « with exceeding strength and 
swiftness », aud Crusoe teLls us ]:e was the swiftest 
fellow of his feet that I ever saw ». (p. 93). 

l. 2S. — Devils of thy oisjn raising. — This expression occurs 
in Lucan (I, 486), and later in Montaigne {Apol.) and 
Pascal (Pens^es, Brunschvicg ed. II, 88). 

I. ji. — Poll (Crusoe's parrotj, waking his master, calls 
aloud : t Poor Robin Crusoe ! Where are you ? Where 
have you been ? How came you here ? » {p. 62). 

P. VII. — I. 2. — Paradise Lost, book II. 

/. /;. — A parody of the absurd episode of the bear in the 
last pages of Ue Foe's novel. Friday-, spying a t very 
monstrous bear » says to his master : « O pray ! O 
pray no shoot ! me shoot by and then ». He entices 
the bear up a tree, then on to a small bough, which 
he shakes lustily, « making good laugh > all the while. 
He at last shoots the bear, and turns triumphantly to 
Crusoe, saying : « .So we kill bear in my countr}-. » 
(p. III). 
/. I J. — Gildon here makes rather witty use of his belief 
that bears could not exist in Friday's tropical country 
(see p, 28). 
I. ig. — It is strange to hear Friday quote this name from 
Reynard the Fox, which was hardly to be kjiown in 
his country « near the mouth of the great river of 
Oroonoque ». 

i. 22. — Perhaps this expression is intended to ridicule De 
Foe's solemn manner in his articles of the Revie-iV, — 
as the idea of the whole sentemce may be intended to 
ridicule Crusoe's reflections -n the helplessness of man i 
f 1 then reflected that God, who was not only righteous 
but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to punish 
and afflict me, so he was able to deliver me; that if 
he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned 
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his 



NOTES TO P. (viii) 135 

will ; and, on the other hand, it was m}- duty also to 
hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend dic- 
tates and directions of his daily providence ». (p. 66). 
/. 30. — « Before the tribunal of Conscience ». — De Foe's 
aidversaries taunted him with not knowing Latin, an 
accusation which anino3-ed him greatly. (See Review 
II, 149, and VIII, 429, and the Complete English Gen- 
tleman, p. 200). — Free-school ajid House learning are 
the vague terms by which De Foe describes his hero's 
learning : « My father, who was very ancieait, had 
given me a competent share of learning as far as 
house education and a country free-school generally 
go. » Gildooi criticises the^e terms again cm pp. X 
and 6 (see the notes to these pages). 

1'. VIII. — L 5. — « I had alas! ik. divine knowledge; what 
I had received by the good instruction of my father 
was then worn out bv an uninterrupted series, for eigfht 
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conver- 
sation with nothing but such as were like myself, 
wicked and profane to the last degree... » (p. 44). 
1. 8. — « ... When I got on shore first here, and found all 
my ship's crew drowned and myself spared, I was 
surprised with a kind of ecst>as\^ and some transports 
of soul, which, had the grace of God assiisted, might 
have come up to true thankfulness, but it ended 
whea-e it begun., in. a mere common flight of jo}"", or 
as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the 
least reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of 
the hatnd which had preserved me...; even just the 
same common sort of joy which seamen generalW have 
after they have got safe on. shore from a shiipwreck, 
which they drown all in the next bowl of punch, and 
forget almost as soon as it is over, and all the 
rest of my life was like it... » (p. 44). Crusoe came 
back to the worship of God only when a violent fever 
put him in mind of death. 

I n-ij. — C^ldon alludes to Crusoe's statement on p. 58 : 
« falling early into seafaring company, all that little 
sense of religion which I had entertained was laughed 
out of me by my messmates ». Gildon's criticism that 
De Foe abused English sailors is unjust. De Foe 



136 NOTES TO P. (viii) 

alwa^'s cousidered individua''s and not nations; Crusoe 
met with a Portuguese who was honest and kind to 
him, but this Portuguese was not an ordinary sailor. 
The English captain of the ship that rescued Crusoe 
from (hiis island is described as a just and bold fellow. 
It is true that, in the Further Adventures, the English 
crew of Crusoe's nephew's ship consists mostly of 
cruel and dissolute Englishmen. But among the colony 
of Crusoe's island there are both « good » and « bad » 
Englishmen. Though De Foe's love for paradox led 
him to describe honest and pious Spaniards and wick- 
ed Englishmen, he did not systematically condemn 
the English nation. Indeed, his writings are more 
conspicuous for jingoism than for xenom.aaiia (cp. p. 
tS). 

I. 22. — « I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, 
and have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, 
naturalised to the place ; but I had some little scruple 
in my mind about religion; which insensibly drew me 
back, of wliich I shall say more presently. However, it 
was not religion that kept me from going thither for the 
present ; and as I had made no scruple of being 
opesnly of the religion of the country all the while . 
was among them, so neither did I yet; only that now 
and then having of late thought more of it than for- 
merly, when I began to think of living amd dj'ing 
among them, I began to regret my having professed 
myself a Papist, and thought it might not be the best 
religion to die in ». (p. loS). 

I JO. — Popish Priests : the Prior of the Monastery of St 
Augusitine in Brazil, who administered Crusoe's prop- 
erty during his stay on the island, is a kind and 
honest man. In the Further Adve^itures, a French Cath- 
olic priest, who is both pious and tolerant is introduced. 
The Catholic Spaniards who inhabit Crusioe's nsland 
flir>e ]ieaceful and industrious men. Faither Simion, a mis- 
sionary whom Crusoe meeits in China, is « courteous, 
easy in his manners and very agreeable comi)any ». De 
Foe loved paradox, and delighted to bewilder the mind 
of his .simple readers; indeed, to a Puritan, reader of De 
Foe's time, a virtuous Papist was a greater wonder 
than a unicorn. 



NOTES TO P. (ix) 137 

I. 31. — Popish religion : this is cxag-gei-ated. Crusoe ad- 
mired some individual Catholics, but not Poipery as a 
whole. He attacked « Romish Superstition » (p. 86), 
the InquiisitiiQii (p. 94), and, in the Further Adventures, 
he demounced Catholic intolerance (p. 46), Cath- 
olic errors (p. 59) and Catuclic fanaticism (pp. 57, 72) ; 
he also bitterly criticised the work of Catholic mis- 
sionaries (pp. 75-76). 

P. IX. — I. 2. — Crusoe is 63 when he leaves England to 
reviisit his island. He returns to Ltondion, ten yeard aft- 
erwards, having visited Madagascar, India, China, 
and having crossed Asia from Pekin to Archangel. A 
strenuous voyage for an old man ! 

/. 10. — Gildon is right : Friday's intelligence and extraor- 
dinary readiness in learning would be impossible in a 
Caribbee savage. 

L 12 etc. — « I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call 
out aloud to them in his language to know what they 
meant; whic^h accordingly he did. Whether they un- 
derstood him or not, that I know not ; but as soon as 
he had called to them, six of them, who were in the 
foremost or nighest boat Lo us, turned their canoes 
from us, and, stooping down, showed us their naked 
backsides... Whether this was a defiance or challenge 
we know not ; or whether it was done in mere con- 
tempt, or a signal to the rest, but immediately Friday 
cried out they were going <o shoot; and unhappily for 
him (poor fellow) they let fly about 300 of their ar- 
rows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri- 
day, no other man being in their sight. » (Further Ad- 
ventures, pp. 55-6). 

I 15. — But Crusoe might reasonably have hoped that Fri- 
day could have made himself understood by men of .n 
neighbouring tribe, even if their -language was not 
exactly the dialect spoken b/ his own.. 

I. 25. — i. e. the French Priest rescued by Crusoe from a 
burning ship, who afterwards evangelized the colony 
on the island ; Will Atkins, the pirate left on the is- 
land, who reformed and became a good Christian ; the 
Priest in China (Father Simon), Crusoe's companion 
in China; the Nephew's ship's Crew, the gang of sail- 



138 NOTES TO P. (x) 

ors who behaved so cruelly in Madagascar, and who, 
annoyed by Crusoe's reproaches, abandoned him on 
shore in India. 

/. 30. — Tuthill . (Totliill St.) in Westminster, — Lime- 
house hole, in the East-End. 

I. 3/. — Though this is intended to ridicule De Foe's book, 
it is a striking- acknowledgment of its extraordinary 
popularity m London (i ist ed. April 25 th — 4 th ed. 
Aug. S th). ■ 

F. X. — /. 2. — The Pilgrim's Progress, by John Bunyan, 
was first published in 167S. Its success was such that 
in 16SS the booksellers were sellimg the 11 th ed. 

/. 3. — The Practice of Piety, directing a Christian how to 
walk that he may please God, by Lewis Bayly, bishop 
of Bangor, was first issued about 161 1. In 1613 it had 
reached its 3 rd, in 1619 its n th, and in 1630 its 25 th 
edition. It was translated into French (Geneva, 1625), 
into German (Zurich 1629), into Polish (1647), into 
Welsh (1630), into the language of the Indians of 
Massachusetts (Cambridge 1665), and into Romansch 
(1668). Bunyan tells us his V/ife « had for her part the 
Plain Man's Pathway to Heaven, amd the Practice of 
Piety, which her father had left her when he died ». 
Bayly's book had an important influence over Bun- 
yan's mind. Many Puritans looked upon it as an 
authority equal to the Bible. 

The Triumphs of God's Revenge against Murther, 
expressed in 30 tragical histories, by John Rainolds (or 
Reynolds), — one of the translators of the Bible, — waus 
first published in 1622. It ran into many successive edi- 
tions (1629, 1635, 1640, 1657, 1662, 1670, 1679, 16S5, 
1704, 1708, etc.). To the 1679 ed. was added God's Re- 
venge against Adultery, and the 1685 ed. bore the fol- 
iLowing title : the Glory of God's Revenge against Mur- 
ther and Adultery. — From one of Reynold's e histo- 
ries » Middleton and Rowley took the plot of their trag- 
edy, the Changeling (1653, 1668). 

/. 6. — Pye Corner, in Giltspur St. near vSmithfield Market; 
a poor quarter. 

/. 7. — Guy of Warwick : the hero of a famous Acglo-Saxoti 
legend which recounts the wonderful achievements by 



NOTES TO P. (x) 139 

which he obtained the hand of his lady, the Fair Fe- 
lice, — and alf-o the adventures he subsequently met 
with in. a pilgrimage to the Holy land and on his re- 
turn home. The first poem that deals with the legend 
is a Norman-French poem of the end of the 13 th cen- 
tury ; the oldest English version is a little later. The 
first popular edition of the Flnglish versioa Avas print- 
ed by John Cawood im the .latter end oi the 16 th 
century {The Historie of Guy, earl of Warwick; 4 to). 
The knight's adventures made the subject of a poem 
by Samuel Rowlands (1607), which suggested a Play 
called the Life and Death of Guy of Warwick- by John 
Day and Thonias Decker ; the play is not now extant. 
A popular ballad on Guy of Warwick, by Huniphre}- 
Crouch, was first printed in 1665, and repeatedJy reis- 
sued in the 17 th and iS th centuries. The romance was 
reduced to prose by Martin Parker in 1640. A chap- 
book in 4 to, first issued in London a-n 1684, was fre- 
quently republished in all the chief cities of England. 
Another version in 12 mo, published in London in 
1706, was still (more successful. — In Hudibras (I, 2) 
Taligol, the butcher, is compared ito Guy of Warwick : 

« He many a Bore and huge Dun Cow 
Did, like another Guy, o'erthrow 
But Guy with him in fight compar'd 
Had like the Bore or Dun Cow far'd. b 

Bevis of Southampton (or more correctly, of Hamp- 
ton) accomplished marvellous exploits of which the 
chief was the slaying of the terrible giant Ascapart. They 
are related iin, the 2 nd book of Drayton's Polyolbion 
(1622) ; the romance was already popular at that time : 
Thomas East, stationer and printer, had published a 
ballad entitled Syr Bevis of Southampton in the last 
years of the 16 th century. Ballads and cbapbooks 
dealing with Bevis were repeatedly reissued through- 
dut the 17 th and 18 th centuries. 
/. 8. — The London Prentice is the title of many romances 
which were spread by pedlars throughout England, in 
ballads and chapbooks. The outlines of these romances 
are the same : they recount the exploits of a London 
apprentice who slew giants or dragons and rescued a 



I40 NOTES TO P. (x) 

■;;;-n',:!:ifi:l princess whom he married. — Hey wood's 
play, the Four Prentices of London (first played in 
1601, published in 1615) was parodied and ridiculetl in 
the Knight of the Burning Pestle (1611) by Beaumont 
and Fletcher. — Under the title The London Prentice, 
s.ome cl'.apbooks of the iS tli century contain .simply the 
well-known storj- of Dick Whittingtou. — Such ro- 
mances as those quoted here by Gildon were certainly 
in the pack of Autol3-cus (Winter's Talc IV, 3). 

M... Zt\.. r.. — I have been u«iable to find with cer- 
tainty what name these initials represent. Perhaps 
Gildon thought of John Mawer, a poor hacR-wruer 
who wrote ballads and achieved some success in 1727 
by his poem Liberty Asserted. But we have no evi- 
dence that connects Mawer in any way with De Foe's 
work . 

I iS. — De Foe himself had already suggested this idea in 
the preface to the Fiirther Aaventures : « The just ap- 
plication of every incident, the religious and useful 
inferances drawn from every part, are so many testi- 
monies to the good design of making it public, and 
must legitimate all the part that may be called inven- 
tion or parable in the story ». By insisting on the 
allegorical character of the tale, Gildon paved the way 
for the 3 rd vol. of Robinson Cnisoe. 

I 23. — Before the Civil War, the city of Kidderminster 
(Worcestershire) was notorious for its ignorance and 
depravity. In 1640, some inhabitants sent a petition 
against their curate, and it was decided to appoint a 
free preacher in his stead. The Presbyterian minister 
Baxter was chosen. His preaching performed miracles, 
and whereas, before, the moral were to be counted on 
the ten fingers, ere long, the passing traveller heard 
the sounds of praj'er in every household. Kiddermiin- 
ster became a model of Pnritan cities, and was the 
stronghold of Puritanism in a county which sided 
with the Cavaliers. Hence the banner of Kidderminster 
became a symbol for the Dissenters. 

/ 26. — De Foe had had a better education at Morton's Acad- 
emy in Xewington (^reen, as gocKl almost as the edu- 
cation given in the Universities. 

I. 3a. — The meaning of the expression out of my time is 



NOTES TO P. (xi) 141 

not cledi. At first sight Gildon seems to mean that De 
P'oe did not belong to his time, — was, according to 
the common expression, « born out of his time ». — 
It is more likel}- from the context that Gildon uses 
« being out of » in. the sense of « issued out of », and 
therefore that De Foe, on the contrary, belonged to 
his age, when impudence was a sure road to success. 
On p. XII De Foe is made to say, « anjlhing that is 
boldly writ will go down with either part}'- ». 
i 3^- — De Foe was very popular as an orator in the Whig 
and Dissenting clubs of the Cit}- during the reign of 
James the Second, when lie denounced the King's pol- 
icy towards Nou-conformi'sts. 

P. XI. — L 5. — De Foe published his first poem in i6gi ; 
he was then 31. The poem, A new discovery of an old 
intreague, was a satire levelled at the Jacobites. 

/. 6. — Authorizing, i. e. authoring : perhaps a lapsus lin- 
guae when Gildon was dictating. De Foe discussed in 
pamphlets or satirical poems the chief problems of the 
reign of King William, as the legitimacj' of a standing 
army, the predominance of Dutch Courtiers, Reforma- 
tion of manners, Occasional Conformity for Dissenters 
etc. 

/. 9-/5. — Lime Kilns : about 1695, De Foe became secre- 
tary to a factory of bricks and pantiles at Tilbury. His 
connexion with this factory could not be the cause of 
his bankruptcy which had happened 3 years before 
(1692) : at thiat time he had been obliged to leave his 
office in Freeman s Court, near the Royal-Exchange, 
and hide in Bristol. During his period of concealment, 
except on Sunday's he never went into the streets for 
fear of bailiflfis. It may be that on bis way to Bristol 
he stopped in several towns, — which would justify 
Gildon 's statement : « rambling from place to place ». 

I. 28. — De Foe became a professional author after his im- 
prisonment in Newgate (1703) which ruined the brick 
and tile factory. 

P. XTT. — I. 2. — De Foe being a Dissenter by upbringing 
had no choice but to joiin tlie New Whig^-., devoted to 
William III, and the Protestant Succession. 

I. II. — Nutcrackers : a cant word for « pillory » {Diction- 



142 NOTES TO P. (xii) 

ary of the canting Crcd^, 1700 : the Cull lookt through- 
the Nutcrackers). De Foe was arrested on May 20 th, 
1703, for \vriting Uie Shortest Way with the Dissent- 
ers in which by ironical suggesiting extreme measures 
against the Dissenters, he ridiculed the intolerance of 
High-Churchmen a.gai,n&t them. He was tried in July, 
found guilty of libel, and condemned to be exposed in 
the pillory on July 29 th in front of the Royal-Ex- 
change in Cornhill, on July 30th near the Conduit in 
Chea])side, and on July 31 st at Temple Bar. But this 
punishment was a triumph, as the crowd sided with 
■him against the governniorjt. 

I. 75 . — De Foe was not bribed b}' the Tories : he merely 
followed Harle}- who had rescued him from Newgate, 
when, in 1709, Harley entered the new ministry as a 
moderate Tory. This obliged De Foe to change the 
tone of the articles in his Review for fear of displeasing 
the (new friends of his patron. 

I. 20. — It is true that for some time the Whigs did not 
perceive the change in De Foe's Review and continued 
to pay him. 

/. 2j. — This happened in February 1711, as we know from 
a letter to Harley in which De Foe complains for the 
first time of the hard -usage he recei.ved from his old 
friends, the Whigs. The Captain was probably the of- 
ficer of the Whig club who paid De Foe for his pro- 
paganda. 

I. 28. — In reality, these words were uttered by Samuel's 
ghost (I Sam. aS). Here Gildon ridicules De Foe's 
fondness for Bible quotations. Even in his correspond- 
ence, De Foe constantly quoted the Bible : thus, in 
a letter to the Secretary of State, dated April 26 th, 
171S, he called watching the Tory papers in the inter- 
est of the Whig ministry : c ^bowing in the House of 
Rimmon ». 

P. XHI. — I. 2. — Buenas Noches : the mistake in the text 
was made either by the printer, or by Eloyd, Gildon 's 
amanuensis, who was not a well-educated man and 
frequently spelt words wrong in the letters Gildon 
dictated to him. De Foe, in his novels, was fonu of 
quoting scraps of foredgn languages : here Gildon sat- 



NOTES TO P. (xiii) 1 43 

irizes this habit, and suggests De Foe's real ignorance 
by his humorous translation of the Spanish. 
/. 5. — Saint-Germain, near Paris, where James II held 
his court, was long the centre of Jacobite intrigues. 
Gildon alludes to the Jacobite tendencies of Harley's 
ministry ; but De Foe remained faithful to the Protes- 
tant Succession, so that Gildon's attack is unjust. 
L. 6. — Proprietors : i. e. Harley, Earl of Oxford, aJid Saint 
John, Viscount Bolingbroke, whose influence appears 
for a .short period in De Foe's writings, for example 
in the commercial aiewspaper M creator. 
I. 8. — In the Further Adventiircs, Crusoe's endeavour to 
burn an inoffensive Tartar Idol vphich he considered 
an insult to the true God brought on him and his 
companions the anger of the natives. 
I. 9. — In 1713 De Foe wrote anti-Jacobite pamphlets with 
ironical titles : Reasons against the succession of the 
House of Hanover, — What if the Pretender should 
come ? or some Considerations of the advantages and 
real conseqtiences of the Pretender's possessing the 
Crown of Great Britain, — and What if the Queen 
should die f — The Whigs tried hard to indict him for 
high treason, hoping that Harley would imprudently 
come to the rescue of his faithful ally, and thus reveal 
their relations. 

I. II. — iripos, i. e. the three-legged stool, upon w^hich con- 
demned men stood when they were to be hanged at 
Tyburn (near Paddington). — • Gildon exaggerates here, 
for the Whigs did not hope to secure De Foe's death : 
they simply sought to have him imprisoned in New- 
gate. 

/. 12-12. — Har.ley helped De Foe to obtain a Royal Pardotti, 
whii/ch was granted on Xo\-. 20 th, 17 13 and signed by 
Bolingbroke. De Foe published the text of his pardon 
in his Appeal to Honour and Justice. 

1. 14. — This is inexact. Siince the king's landing in Eng- 
land, (Sep«t. iS th, 171.1.), De Foe had cessed corre- 
sponding with Harley ; he had deeply reseiiited the lat- 
ter's repudiation of tracts he had written in his behalf 
{History of the White Staff, etc.). His subsequent pam- 
phlets vindicating the conduct of Harley's ministry 
were written not on Harley's account, but to vindicate 



144 NOTES TO P. (xiv) 

himscli. (See Daniel De Foe mystificateur, in Revue 
Gcrmaniqiie, 1923). 

/. iS-ig. — This is a slander : De Foe had a lax conscience, 
but there were three masters who could never have 
bribed h.im into their service : the Pope, the Pretender, 
and the Devil. 

I. 23. — De Foe's faci'lity for writing bad i)oetry was deplor- 
able : John Dunton, the Whig bookseller, described 
him as « rhyming in his sleep ». But De Foe did not 
write Jure Dhnno in three weeks. This long poetical 
poem in 12 books, which he considered his master- 
])iece, was begun in Newgate in the summer of 1703, 
and wat; issued by subscription on July 20 th, 1706. 
De Foe got very little money for his labours, as his 
poem was pirated by a bookseller who bribed a press- 
man to steal copies of the sheets as they were succes- 
sively pri.nted. — I^ is true, as Gi'ldon suggests, that 
there is Little poetry im the composition. 

P. XIV. — I. I. — Dryden got £ 200 for his translation of 
Virgil. But Gildon is certainly referring to Pope, who 
received over ^ 5.000 for his translation of the Iliad 

(1715)- 
I. 4. — Here Oildon enviousl)' alludes to Prior who re- 
ceived from his publisher about 4.000 guineas for a com- 
plete edition of his poems (1718, folio), and on the 
same occasion ^ 4.000 from Harley, to purchase Down 
Hall, an estate in Essex. 
I. 12. — In 1 701, De Foe, indignant at what he thought the 
ingratitude of his countrymen towards their deliverer, 
William of Orange, — and incensed by a poem of Tut- 
chin, the Foreigners, in which the King and the Dutch 
in general were plentifully abused, wrote a satirical 
])oem to prove that the Euglish nation was such a 
mixture of the worst of different races, that the ex- 
pression True-born Englishman was meainjingless. The 
success of the poem was tiemendous : no less than 
So. 000 pirated copies were sold in the streets, and the 
King expressed a wish to know the author personally. 
— De Foe's poem has since been, used by enemies of 
Great Britain in the last years of the 19 th century : 
parts of it were republiished by Indian. Natioaialists. 



NOTES TO P. (xv) 145 

I j6. — Vanity, not hatred of the Eng-iish, was the chief 
motive that Jed De Foe to change his name (See p. V, 
note). De Foe seemed to indicate a Norman origin, 
while Foe looked like a plebeian Saxon name. 

/. 24. — The idea of prepossessing the Papists in one's fa- 
vour would have been preposterous at a time when it 
was becoming more and more impossible that the Pre- 
tender would reign. — De Foe's love of paradox, shown 
in his Tnie-Born Englishman and Shortest Way with 
ine Dissenters is probably the motive that led him to 
iinitroduce some sympathetic Roman Catholics in Rob- 
inson Crusoe. 

I. 27. — Fox-hunters, i. e. the country squires, many of 
whom, though Protestant, had remained attached to 
the Stuarts. 

P. XV. — I. I. — Old teachers : i. e. the Dissenting minis- 
ters and Low-ohurchmeu. 

I. 2. — A Friendly Epistle by way of Reproof, from one 
of the People called Quakers to Thos. Bradbury, a 
uealer in many Words (Feb. 1715) was the first of a 
series of pamphlets by De Foe, all couched in the 
Quaker style. The Friends' way of speaking was so 
well imitated that, in an advertisement in the London 
Gazette, the Quakers protested that they had no hand 
in the pamphlet which, by that time, had reached its 
5 th edition. Bradbury was reproved by De Foe for 
making political addresses m the pulpit, and partic- 
ularly for calling for the blcod of the late ministers. 

I. 5. — i. e. the Bishop of Bangor. De Foe's pamphlet 
(1717) was entitled A Declaration of Truth to Benja- 
min Hoadley, one of the High Priests of the Land, and 
of the Degree whom Men call Bishops. By a Minister- 
ing Friend, who writ to Thomas Bradbury, a Dealer 
in many Words. Gildon had certainly not read this 
pamphlet, which commended Hoadly's Christian 
broad-mindedness. It is true that De Foe, when he 
found these pamphlets had an easy sale, wrote several 
of them on (both sides of the Bangorian controversy. — 
He was so pleased with h\s talent in imitating tiie 
Quaker style that, in two novels. Captain Singleton 



146 NOTES TO P. (xvi) 

and Roxana, he introduced Cli-'aters who are among his 
best drawn oharaetexs. 

I. 7. — Contrarj^ to Gildon's assertion, De Foe was only 59 
in 1719. — The subsequent attack against De Foe for 
his supposed fickleness in religion is unjust, too : De 
Foe always remained a staunch Dissenter. 

/. 10. — Coarse jokes of this kind were charactei'istic of the 
Augustan Period. 

L 12. — Mahomctism, i. e. Mahometan,ism : though un- 
i:*ual, this form of the word was not absolutely incor- 
rect at this time. 

I. I J. — Coryate, a traveller who from the year 1612 till his 
death (1617) journe\-ed throughout Asia. He obtained 
an audience of the Great Mogul and delivered an ora- 
tion in Persian. His letters, sent from the court of the 
mighty potentate to « several persons of quality in 
England », were first published in 1616; they were fre- 
quently reprinted in the 17 th and 18 th centuries. 

I. 28. — This passage may have suggested to De Foe the 
idea of a review of the various religions of the world, 
which forms one of the longest chapters in the Serious 
Reflections. Crusoe concludes that English Protestant- 
ism is by far the best religion. 

I 30. — lO catch a iartar properly means to encounter 
some one who unexpectedly proves to be too strong 
an opponent. There is of course a pun in the text. De 
Foe used this expression in Captain Singleton (XVI) : 
« Tell him, if he should try, he may catch a Tartar ». 
(Haz^litt's ed. p. 79). 

A Leap into the Dark, -i. e. : if De Foe was eaigaged 
in a dangerous enterprise, whose consequences he was 
tinable to foresee. 

i". XVI. — I. 3. — Janesaries, i. e.. Janizaries (or Janissa- 
ries), Turkish soldiers of a privileged class. 
I. 5. — You and I. — Gildon, later (p. 23, sec note) ac- 
cuses De Foe of continually putting the nominative 
for the accusative. 
.1. 6. — This is not true : De Foe was attached to the Prot- 
estant Succession, if merely through self-interest; for 
if the Pretender had succeeded Queen Anne, De Foe 



NOTES TO P. (xvil) 147 

would have been sent to the gallows for his anti-jaco- 
bite pamphlets. 
I. 8. — Monoviotopa is a negro empire in the Zambesi re- 
gion (Africa), about which fabulous tales were current 
at the time. 

I. ig. — Deter all othtrf^ is, of course, ironical, as the fol- 
lowing lines show. 

I. 21. — All Crusioe's adivcii.tures did in fact turn to his 
/proEt. 

I 30-31. — Friday's curious English was intended by De 
Foe to give local colour to his tale. — Here, Gildon 
calls Robinson Crusoe a lie, i. e. a romance, which is 
inconsistent with his general statement that the book 
is allegorical. 

?. XVII. — I. 2. — De Foe frequently quotes the Bible for 
the edification of his readers : in the first volume of 
Robinson Crusoe alone, no less than 20 complete verses 
are quoted. 
I. 7. — i. e. the French Priest, Will Atkins, Father Simon, 
and the Crew of Crusoe's nephew's ship (see note to 
p. IX, 1. 25). I 

I 13. — If De Foe had written a criticism of Gildon's pam- 
phlet, he might have asked how every one of such a 
number of men could hold one of his limbs. 

/. 25. — Bolus (Latin : morsel, bit), i. e. a large pill. The 
word was usual at the time in advertisements of quack 
medicines. 

I. 2y. — The first volume of Robinson Crusoe contains 364 
pages of text, wiith Frontispiece, tdtle-page and a pref- 
ace 2 pp. loaig. — The text of the Further Adventures 
occupies 373 pages with map, title-page and preface 
of 4 pp. 

P. XVIII. — /. lo-ii. — Past three a clock, etc. : the cry of 

the watchmen. 
I. 12. — There is perhaps here a reminiscence of the end of 

the scene of the witches in Macbeth, which Gildon had 

studied for his edition of the spurious 7 th vol. of 

Shakespeare's Works. 
I. ij. — This coarse joke was a favourite with contemporary 

pamphleteers. The author of a .broadsheet entitled t A 



148 NOTES TO P. (xviii) 

Hue and Cry after Daniel De Foe for Denying the 
Queens hereditary right, by Kobin Hog, 171 1, » direct- 
ed the same piece of coarse wit against De Foe : 

Now Daniel De Foe, now run for thy life, 
For Robin Hog swears by's old grunting wife, 
He'll end all your government quarr'ls and strife... 
He'll hunt you thro' all the Fanatical race. 
Throw salt in. your breech lest you stimk in the chase. » 

I. 21-22. — i. e. in 1(391-2. If the Royal Regiment had been 
removed, England would have been left defenceless, 
and a successful Jacobite invasion would have entailed 
punishment for William's zealous supporters. 

/. 2^. — Gildon had already criticised this sentence in the 
Postscript to his epistle (p. 37), and his use of it here 
must have seemed very wittv* to contemporar}'' readers. 



THE EPLSTLE 

P. I. — I. 5. — Robinson Crusoe was issued anonymously ; but 
the author of such a « best-seller •» could not remain 
long undiscovered. De Foe's peculiar tricks of style 
were well-known from the Review which was very 
popular. 
/. S. — See the ^notes to pp. V (1. 4) and XIV (1. 16). 

I /J. — De Foe was in fact over-fond of long-winded sen- 
tences with endless parentheses. He sometimes uses 
popular, but incorrect, forms, such as double negaitioms, 
'cC'ho instead of whom, etc. He has frequent repetitions : 
I) of the same idea (« his famiily and household, a 
kind of appetite and lust ») ; 2) of the same word (p. 
84 : « I catched hold of Friday : hold, said I ») ; amd 
3) of the same descriptions (his ladders, his tame goats, 
etc.). 

/. 14-15. — Practically, the whole of Gildon's criticism turns 
on the improbabilities a.nd impossibilities of De Foe's 
tale. 

V. 2. — I. 5. — This charge had the pcwea.' of wounding De 
Foe to the quick (see the Preface to the Serious 
Reflections). 



NOTES TO P. (2) 149 

I. g. — The last sentence of Robinson Crusoe (published on 
April 25th, 1719) [« all these things, with an account 
how 300 Cariibb-ees came and amvaded them, a.nd xuinetl 
their plantations, a,nd how they fought with that num- 
ber twice, and were ait fi/st defeated and one of 
them killed ; but at last a storm destroying their 
enemies' canoes, they famished and destroyed almost 
all the rest, and renewed the possession of their plan- 
tation, and still lived upon the island; — all these 
things with some very surprising incidents in some 
new adventures of my own for ten years more, I may 
perhaps give a farther account of hereafter. »] shows 
that De Foe expected success. The Further Adven- 
tures, which were written hastily, appeared on August 
20th. Oildon's epistle was composed before the publi- 
cation of this second volume. 

I. 21. — Anything that was ancient found favour with Gil- 
don. 

I. 23. — « Inspired writers » (i. e. the authors of the Bible) 
was Gildon's contemptuous expression when he wrote 
deistical tracts. (See Gildon's life). 

I. 2']. — Useful Moral. — This is exactly what De Foe says 
in his preface to Robinson Crusoe : « The story is 
told... with a religious application of events to the uses 
to whioh wise men always apply them, vdz. To the 
instruction of others by this exiample, and to justify 
and honour the wisdom of Providence in all the variety 
of our circumstances, let them happen how they will. » 

P. 3. — I. II. — When Robinson asked his mother to approacn 
1ms father about his plans, she replied « that she won- 
dered how I could think of any such thing after such 
a discourse as I had had with my father, and such kind 
and tender expressions as she knew my father used to 
me; but I might depend I should never have their 
consent to it ; that for her part she would not have so 
much hand in my destruction ». And later, when Cru- 
soe, alone on his island, repents of his wicked life, 
he particularly deplores his « falling early into the 
seafaring life, which of all the lives is the most desti- 
tute of the fear of God ». So that there is much appar- 
ent truth in Gildon's criticism. But Robinson Crusoe 



150 NOTES TO P. (4) 

roused in many English boys their dormant desire cf 
travelli.ng to diistaut lainds, land so attracted them to a 
seafaring life. 

/. ig. — < I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York... 
— My father... had designed me for the Law ». (Robin- 
son Crusoe, p. 17). 

/ 24. — Here Gildon points out one of the characteristics oE 
rje Foe's work. God's Providence seems to have a spe- 
cial regard for Crusoe; sometimes it helps him, some- 
times it thwarts his designs. It pla\-s in fact the role 
of the Nemesis of the Ancients. 

/. 25. — The first storm occurred during Crusoe's early 
voyage to London. The second, when his ship foundered 
and he was the sole survivor, flung him on his desert 
islaud. 

P. 4. — I. 3, etc. — But i,n the dialogue (p. XVI), Gildon, who 
wishes to find fault with De P'oe at any price, i-nsinu- 
ated that Robinson Crusoe was an, immoral book be- 
cause, in it, Crusoe's disobedience to his parents was 
not punished. 

I. 6. — The popular idea of the potency of the paternal coxrse 
is frequently expressed in De Foe's book. Crusoe's fa- 
ther makes a prophecy (p. 18) : « That boy might be 
happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes abroad, 
he will be the most miserable wretch that was ever 
born », (which, as it turns out, is not entirely true). At 
the end of his first voyage, Crusoe is told by the Cap- 
tain of the ship he was embarked in (p. 21) : « Young 
man, depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever 
you go, you will meet with nothing but disasters aiud 
disappointments tiill your father's words are fulfilled 
upon you ». — Lastly Crusoe, alone on the island, 
laments (p. 45) : « Now my dear father's words are 
come to pass : (iod's justice has overtaken me, and 
I have none to help or hear me ». 

I. 10-20. — In Puritan families the authority of the father 
was still very great. De Foe described a Puritan, and 
wrote for Puritan readers. 

I. 30. — Crusoe was born in 1632, and left his father's house 
in Sept. 1651. 



NOTES TO P. (5) 151 

P. 5. — L 3. — See i]iote on. p. VI {]. 9). — Gildon's argument 
here is cunnmg enougli, but De Foe might have an- 
swered that, after ajll, Crusoe came to fortune and 
happiness. 

I. 16. — « He told me it was for men of desperate fortunes 
on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the 
other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by 
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertak- 
ings of a nature out of the common road ; that these 
thimgs were all either too far alxjve me, or too far 
below me ; tliat mine was the middle state, or what 
might be called the upper station of low life... » (p. 17). 

I. 18. — Though Crusoe's father did not apeak of putting his 
son to a trade, we know that he had contemplated it 
some time or other. — Crusoe represents to his mother 
« that he was iS years old, which was too late to go 
apprentice to a trade ». And a few lines lower, he says 
that « he continued obstinately deaf to ail proposals 
of settling to business ». — GiMon's arguments concern- 
ing Crusoe's problematic trade are tedious and far- 
fetched : his criticism, which sometimes contradicts 
itself, is, in general, mere fault-finding. 

P, 6. — /. ig. — See the note to p. VII. De Foe meant that 
Crusoe's edaication was begun at home and finished in a 
free-school, at, or near, York. He could not assign to 
his hero a particular school or unaversity, as the Gil- 
dons of the time might then have proved that the book 
was « a lie » and thus greatly diminished its sale. 

I. 22. — De Foe does not give us definitely to understand that 
Robinson remained in his « country free-school » till 
the age of iS. 

I. 23. — This statement, and a paragraph (p. X, 1. 26) in the 
dialogue insinuate that De Foe was no scholar and did 
not know Latin. 

1. 28. — This attack on attorneys is excusable when we 

remember that Gildon, when still a very young man, 
was cheated out of £ 400 by a dishonest lawyer (see Gil- 
don's life, I). 

2. 2g. — « But I would be satisfied with nothing but going to 

sea, and my inclination to this led me so strongly 
against the will, nay, the commands of my father... that 



152 NOTES TO P. (7) 

there seemed to be something fatal in that propension 
of nature tending directly to the life of misery which 
was to befall me ». (p. 17). — « I told my mother that 
my thoughts were ^o entirely bent nj>on seeing the 
world, that I should never scUle to anything with reso- 
lution enough to go through with it, and my father had 
better give mc his consent, than force me to go with- 
out it )> (p. i3). 

r. 7. — I. 5. — But De Foe's intention was to represent a rash 
and inconsiderate boy, unable to resist the strong im- 
pulse that urged him to a seafaring life. 

/. 14. — Crusoe never used this expression of himself; but it 
is true he laments that in his youth he often acted 
aigainst « the dictates of commoiL semse and (of his own 
conscience ». 

L 75. — Crusoe, belonging to a Puritan family, would not, 
when very young, have dared to oppo'=e paternal 
authority. 

/ 2r. — Certainly De Foe does not relate conversations be- 
tween Crusoe and the master of the Sihip, but a novelist 
is not obliged to tell ever>-thing. 

/. 26. — Gildon is right in pointing out this contradiction. 
De Foe gives us to understand that the master of the 
ship knew of Crusoe's presence on board at the begin- 
ning (p. 18), and he would need to have a very short 
memory to have forgotten it at Yarmouth. 

/. 30. — € 1 told him some of m\' story, at the end of which 
he burst out with a strange kind of passion. « What had 
I done 1), says he, « that such an unhappy wretch 
should come into my ship ' I would not set my foot 
in the same ship with thee again for a tliousand 
pounds » (p. 21). — This superstitious belief in the evil 
eye was common among sailors (cp. Further Adv. pp. 
64-65). 

r. 8. — I. I. — (Jonah, I). « Perhaps this all has befallen us on 
your account, like Jonah in the Ship of Tarshish », 
the master tells Crusoe (p. 21). 
I. 6. — De Foe's habit of perpetually quoting the Bible was 
due to his upbringing. His father, James Foe, a well- 
to-do butcher of Fore-street, destined him for the minis- 



NOTES TO P. (8) 153 

try. His mother, Alice Foe, made him copy the whole 
Pentateuch as a task. The boy was sent to Morton's 
Dissenting Academy in Newington Green. He might 
have become a peaceful Non-conformist minister, but 
« his inclinationjs led him anolher way ». (Rev. VI, 341). 
— Some traces remained of his training, however ; his 
articles in the Review for instance, and many of his 
pamphlets, almost look like sermons. 

i. 7. — When Christ was tempted in the wilderness (Matt. 
IV, 6). 

I. 12. — Hazlitt's ed. p. 21. 

/. 17-18. — There is much truth in this criticism : De Foe's 
heroes have all of them some traits of the Dissenting 
preacher in their character. 

I. 18-24. — A very awkwardly constructed sentence. Gildon's 
thought is as follows ; « which I should as little suspect 
him to be... as {I should suspect) that... » 

I. 2j. — But Crusoe was sea-sick and terrified, and unable to 
reflect calmly, so that the terrific noise of the gun 
seemed to him the signal of immediate death. 



a 



P. 9. — I. 2. — Crusoe's conception of Providence is unortho- 
dox, but it is part of his character. (See note to p. 3, 
1. 24). 

/ ij etc. — Crusoe, a superstitious Puritan of the lower mid- 
dle class could not be expected to reason like Gildon. 

— De Foe himself, though he believed in « secret 
hints » did not share the superstitious ideas of his hero. 

P. 10. — I. 4, etc. — This comparison between the dangers and 
wickedness of life on sea and life on land is utterly 
futile. 

I. 24. — A creature of your own : this idea is repeated on 
p. II (1. 7). It shows that when he wrote this epistle, 

— that is, before he had read the preface to the Fur- 
ther Adventures, — Gildon did not yet consider the 
tale allegorical. (See : Introduction). 

I. 27. — Being a Puritan, Crusoe was always inclined to 
exaggerate his sins, and trembled all day long in fear 
of God's wrath. 

P. II. — I. 10. — No ways necessary : De Foe's art consists 
exactly in this choice of small details, unnecessaiTy to 



154 NOTES TO P. (ll) 

the plot, which give an api>earance of truth to his tale. 
Many people read Robinson Crusoe because they be- 
lieved it a tnie biograph}'^ : a Fable would not have int- 
erested them. Yet Do Foe, in the preface, with his cus- 
tomary prudence, had clever!}- insinuated a doubt of 
the authenticity of ihis tale : « The Editor believes the 
thing to be a just history of fact ; neither is there any 
appearance of fiction in it; and howcvci thinks, because 
all such things are disputed, that the improvement of 
it, as well to the diversion as to the instruction of the 
reader, will be the same... » 

/. II. — Gildon copies many of De Foe's peculiar tricks of 
style. More of this hereafter is a favourite sentence of 
De Foe's. — Gildon copies other phrases from Robinson 
Crusoe : of which by and by (p. 15), of which in its 
place, etc. 

I. 12. — Monsieur is used with a contemptuous meaning. 
Since the Restoration the word was applied to fops and 
rakes. Cp. Wycherley's Gentleman Dancing-Master, 
and Swift's Salamander : 

« We say monsieur to an. ape. 
Without offence to human shape. » 

Z. jf. — « We walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, 
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great 
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who 
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants 
and owners of ships ; and had money given us suffi- 
cient to carry us either to London, or back to Hull as 
we thought fit » (p. 20). 

/. 77. — Gildon exaggerates : Crusoe only says « he had mon- 
ey in his jx)cket and good clothes upon his back » (p. 
21). 

/. 21. — Crusoe tells us (p. 21) : « I embraced the offer; aad, 
entering into a strict friendship with this captain, 
who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the 
voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with 
me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend 
the captain, I increased ve''y considerably, for I car- 
ried about 40 I. in such toys and trifles as the captain 
directed me to buy. This 40 /. I had mustered together 
by the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor- 



NOTES TO P. (12) 155 

responded with, ajid who, I believe, got tny father, or at 
least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my 
first adventure ». It is not unlikely that a father should 
help a son, once he realised he was bent on keeping to 
the course of life he had chosen. Gildoni himself, on the 
following page, suggests this possibility. 

P. 12. — /. 5. — But Crusoe was young and unhappy, and 
what would not a father, even a Puritan father, do to 
relieve the distress of a son, even of a disobedient S'0<n ? 

./. 77. — Here Gildon misrepresents the text. Crusoe buys 
« good clothes », which is but natural after the wreck, 
and in I^ondon falls « into good company, which does 
not always happen to such loose and unguided young 
fellows » ; the chief of his new friends is the Guinea 
trader, « an honest and plain-dealing man. ». 

/. 75. — Crusoe was not a « 3'oung gentleman » travelling 
for his pleasure », but a boy who, having to earn his 
living, took to a seafaring life because urged to it by 
his « rambling thoughts ». 

I 2$. — Gildon uses on purpose an equivocal term to name 
the widow of the Guinea trader who was « so just » to 
Crusoe. On p. 105 Crusoe calls her : « my benefactor 
and faithful steward ». 

I. 2g. — Sallee, i. e. Sale. a holy city on the coast of Morocco, 
which was, during the i8th century, the chief harbour 
of pirates on the Atlantic coast of Africa. 

P. 13. — I. I. — This episode is very dramatically told in De 
Foe's novel. 

I 5. — Hazards and Adventures : i. e. Crusoe's successive 
landings on the coast of Africa in order to get fresh 
water. He meets peaceful negroes who supply him with 
food, and kills several wild beasts. 

I. 13. — Here Gildon recalls a statement made by De Foe, 
that Crusoe « had nobody to communicate his projects 
of escape to, that would embark with him, no fellow 
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman, but him- 
self ». But De Foe contradicts himself; a few lines fur- 
ther, Crusoe mentions « the carpenter of the ship, who 
also was an English slave » (p. 22). — and again on p. 
24 he states : « Such English Xury spoke by convers- 



156 NOTES TO P. (14) 

ing among us slaves ». — The real i.neonsisteiicy in the 
episode has not been perceived by Gildon. 

I. 23. — Cape Verde, still a Portuguese colony. 

I. 2~. — Skins : i. e. the skins of the wild animals he had 
killed on the coast of Africa. 

/. 29. — Crusoe's chief motive for turning Papist was that he 
could not have stayed in the country if he had been an 
heretic. At his age he had no religious preference of any 
kind ; he tells us that he 4 had no scruple of being 
openly of the religion of the country all the while he 
was among them » (p. loS). 

P. 14. — /. J. — See note to p. VI (il. 9). — But thj« has 
nothing to do with Popery. It is a superstition common 
to the followers of all religions. 

I 73. — Crusoe, like his creator, care<i little about humani- 
tarian ideals. He was too matter-of-fact to indulge in 
philosophical musings about tlie ethics of a custom that 
was highly advantageous for his trade. The absence of 
any denunciation of the slave traffic hindered the popu- 
larity of Robinson Crusoe in America for a long time. 
— In Colonel Jack, De Foe advocates good treatment 
for slaves, but not the suppression of slavery. 

/. 25. — The discussion is futile. Crusoe says « twenty or 
thirty feet » not to give a precise number, but simply 
to convej' a vague impression of depth. 

P. 15. — I. 12. — K Also I found three very good bdbles which 
came to me in my cargo from England, and which I 
had packed up among m\- things ; some Portuguese 
books also, and among them two or three popdsh 
prayer-books, and .several other books, all which I care- 
fully secured » (p. 37). Crusoe does not seem to have 
ever opened any of those books, except the Bible. Like 
Gildon we wonder wh}-, on a Portuguese .ship, he 
needed 3 English bibles. 

I. 22. — This attack is unjust. Crusoe's commentaries on the 
Bible are simple and full of common-sense. — It was 3 
custom among the Puritans, when in doubt about any- 
thing, to oi)en the Bible at random, and take the first 
verse they found as guidance (cp. the Pilgrim's Pro- 
gress, Enoch Arden, etc.). (See note to p. 24, 1. 29). 



NOTES TO P. (15) 157 

1. 26. — See note to p. 11, 1. 11. 

I. 2j. — This absurdity had already been pointed out and 
ridiculed in the coffee-houses. The text is : « So I pulled 
off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity 
and took to water... I found that all the ship's provi- 
sions were dry aad unitouch<-^d by the water ; and being 
very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread room and 
filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went 
about other things... y — De Foe was conscious of the 
contradiction and tried to mend matters in one of the 
next paragraphs : a While I was doing this, I found 
the tide began to flow, though very calm ; and I had 
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, 
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away ; as 
for my breeches, which were only linen and open -kneed, 
I swam on board in them and in my stockings » (p. 
32). — But the only way out of the difficulty would 
be to suppose that Crusoe's breeches were not part of 
his « clothes », which is ridiculous. — De Foe did not, 
as Gildon asserts, make any change in the subsequent 
editions of his novel. Gildon had evidently heard the 
contradiction discussed in conversation, and when the 
whole passage was read to him, he fancied that De 
Foe's afterthought was a modificatiion of the text, 
prompted iby the ridicule it had excited. 

P. 16. — I. 6. — Gildon 's criticism is reasonable enough, 
though we do not know whether Crusoe's breeches were 
of the ordinary pattern of the breeches of seamen of 
that time. 

I. 15. — Page 77 of the ist ed. ; i. e. p. 37 in Hazlitt's ed. 

I 16. — These inconsistemcies are glaring enough. Crusoe's 
items in the balance of evil and good seem strange to 
us when we have just read of the useful tools he found 
in the wreck. 

I. 30. — This applies to Wycherley, or — more likely — to 
Pope, whom Gildon frequently accused of being un- 
grateful (See the New Rehearsal, and the Life of Mr. 
Wycherley). 

L 3:. — i. e. p. 34 in Hazlitt's ed. 

P. 17. — /. 7. — There is an inconsistency between De Foe's 
account in the narrative, and that in the Journal. Gil- 

6 



158 NOTES TO P. (17) 

doll's first quotation is taken from the narrative. The 
seoQiid quotaition iis taken from the Journail uiiidiei' the 
date May i st, and it corresponds to wJiat had been pre- 
viously said in tlie Journal (not in the .narrative) under 
the date Oct. 25111 : « It rained all inight and all day, 
witi'. .some gusts oi wind, during which time the ship 
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than 
before and was /no more to be seen, except the wreck of 
licr, and that only at low water ». 
/ 7^. — To the ordinary Bnglish mind, this would seem the 
most telling of Gildon's attacks against De Foe. The 
paSvSage quoted will be found on p. 5S in Ilazlitt's cd. 

P. 18. — l. 4. — Here Gildon, when it suits his argnmeait, 
acknowledges that De Foe praised some English sailors, 
— which contradicts the statement on p. VIII (see the 
note to 1. 11). 
I. 14. — But Crr.soe must have frequented common sailors : 
I" on the ship that took him to Guinea. — 2° on the 
ship that picked him up at Cape Verde. — 3° on the 
ship that was wrecked off the American coast, — and 
4° on the ship that brought him back to England. 
/. ij. — « However the storm vras so violent, that I saw, 
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and 
some obhers, more iS'Cnsi.ble than the rest, at their 
I^rayers, and expecting ev'Oi'y moment when the ship 
wo-ild go to the bottom » (o. 20). But De Foe says that 
this conduct of the sailors was nnnsual : so it does tnot 
contiadivt lis genera^ statement about the « wicked- 
ness of a seafaring lite ». 
I. Z2 — Cnisue ne\er tells ns definitely that this happened 

in 3 weeks. 
I. 24. — During the first storm, which was not dangerous, 
but made « Crusoe sick and terrified, the saiilors 
laughed at his fear : « Well, Bob,... how do you do after 
it ? I vvaitant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last 
night when it blew but a capfull of wiind ? — A capfull 
do 3-ou ca.ll it, said I, it was a terrible storm. — A storm, 
you fool you, replies he, do you call that a storm ? 
Why it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship and 
sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of 
wind as that ; but you 're but a fresh water sailor. Bob ; 



NOTES TO P. (19) 159 

come, let us make a bowl o£ punch, and we'll forget 
all that » (p. 19). 
l. 28. — But De Foe did not wish to describe a hero. Crusoe 
was an ordinary man, full of human weakness, who 
thought of God only when he was in danger. 

P. ig. — I. I. — v The Fear of the Lord is the beginning of 
knowledge : but fools despise wisdom and instruc- 
tion. » {Prov. I, 7). 

I. 3. — But^the fear of danger is natural, and is found in 
pious men too, along with the fear of the Lord. 

I. 20. — Gildon is right, according to Catholic or Anglican 
ideas. But Crusoe was a Puritan of the old stamp, pre- 
ferring the Old Testament to the New, and believing 
in a vindictive Jehovah rather than in a mild and for- 
giving Christ. — This long and futile argument arises 
simply from the fundamental difference in religious 
point of view between Gi)ldon and De Fee. 

/. 27. — There is some truth in this statement, as selfish- 
ness was De Foe's chief defect. But what of Gildon, 
who « kept six whores and starved his modest wife ? » 

/. 30. — Pusillanimity : Here Gildon's attack seems to be 
directed particular!}' against the peaceful Quakers. 

P. 20. — I. J. — Crusoe began to feel the weight of God's 
wrath when he became very ill of the ague : « through 
all the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen 
me, I never had so mnch as one thought of it being 
the band of God, or that it was a just punishment for 
my sin, my rebellious behaviour against my father, 
or my present sins, which were great, or so much as a 
punishment for the general course of my wicked life r. 
(p. 44). Afterwards, wheoi frightened by the earth- 
quake, he declared that « God had appointed all this 
to befall him » ^p- 45)- 

/. 2. — Sublvvary is a favourite word with De Foe (for e:s. 
p. 87 : in a sublunary state). The word seems to have 
been fashionable at the time : 

« Strolling Gods, whose usual trade is... 
To pick up sublunary ladies. » 

(Swift : Apollo Outwitted). 



l6o NOTES TO P. (21) 

1. 3 etc. — Gildon's reasoning is extremely confused. He 
probably thinks at first of the Puritans of the Cota- 
monwealtli who committed « both private and public 
. murders » because they believed Giod would have pun- 
ished theou icf tlie}- did aiot reveu'ge Hiim agaiusit un- 
believers. The su{)erstitious fear of the Lord, which 
prompted such crimes, is confused by Gildon with that 
fear of material loss which prompts dishonesty and 
conquest. Besides there were other causes than fear, 
for the cruelty of the Spandards in Mexico : viz. greed 
and lust. — De Foe might have retorted to Gildon 
that more crimes are caused by ambition and passion 
than by a fanatic fear of God. 

'. 3/. — To return is another favourite phrase of De Foe's 
(Hazlitt's led. p. 47). Sec r.iOte to p. 11 (1. 11). 

P. 21. — i. 5. — « I first fell acquainted with the master of 
a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea... and who, 
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at 
ail disagreeable at that time, ...told me... I should be 
his messmate and his companion ». (p. 2^). 

1.20. — Notions : not so settled as all that! Crusoe, it is 
true, had received « a good instructicin of his father » ; 
hut, as he tells us himself, he had « a certain stupidity 
of soul, without desire of good or conscience of evil », 
(p. 44) : so that when he entered on a « seafaring life » 
he « entertained only a little sense of religion ». (p. 58). 

/. 23. — These were not the only times : see note to p. 18 
(1. 14). 

P. 22. — I. g. — Gildon forgets there was a Scotchman on 
board the Portuguese ship which rescued Crusoe (Haz- 
litt's ed. p. 26). 

/. 12. — Fifth Voyage : the first was from HiiU to Yarmouth; 
the second to Guinea, the third to Guinea again, but 
Crur.oe V7as captured on the way by a Turkish rover ; 
the fourth to Brazil. 

/. 75. — (jildon forgets that in this voyage there was fair 
weather for 12 days before the storm broke. 

/. 18. — Gildon's attack is beside the point. De Foe had a 
right to choose a wicked character for his hero ; Robin- 
son's defects prove nothing against him. 



NOTES TO P. (23) 16 r 

P. 23. — I. iS. — i. e. p. 61 in Hazlitt's ed. 

l. 21-22. — This is not j>erhaps logical, but the type of ex- 
pression is common in English (cp. better than best). 

1 2g. — Here are a few examples of De Foe's use of who for 
whom : « His name was Ishmael, who they call Mo- 
ley », « the boy who they called Xury » (p. 23). (Cp. 
in the Complete English gentleman, p. 100 : « a gen- 
tleman who I had long had an injtimacy with »). But 
De Foe does not always make this mistake; he writes : 
« from whom I was called Robinson » (p. 17), some 
of my relations whom I corresponded with » (p. 21) 
(Cp. Complete English gentleman, p. 100 « like Solo- 
mon's fool, ot whom... »). 

P. 24. — I. I. — De Foe, in fact, does not tell us how Crusoe 
managed to let the goat escape (p. 63). 

I. 5-5. — This happened when Crusoe, trying to saiil round 

the island, was carried away b}^ the current (p. 60). 
/. 7. — But Crusoe tells us that he stored provisions in his 
-boat before starting : « I victualled my ship for the 
voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I 
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen 
pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal of, 
a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with shot 
for killing more, and two large watch coats. » p. 60). 
— These provisions were easily sufficient for 5 or 6 
days. 
'. (). - • G'ldon's herd of goats consisted at the time of one 
kid ! 

/. JO. — i. e. when Crusoe, in terror at the sight of the foot- 
print, remained hidden in his castle for 3 days (p. 67). 

/. 75. — « Abundance of such things as these assisted to 
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the dev- 
il ; and I presently concloided that it must be some 
more dangerous kind of creature, viz. that it must be 
some of the savages of the main land over against 
me ». (p. 66). — Crusoe's practical common sense led 
him to conclfude that the immediate danger of flesh-and- 
blood savages was greater than the problematic daaiger 
of an hypothetic devil. 

.1. 20. — Gildon is right here. De Foe was paid according to 
the bulk ol his books, and his tendenc}- was of course 



l62 NOTES TO P. (24) 

to make his works as loiig as possible. Thus Crusoe's- 
journal simply repeats the narrative. The same moral 
reflections recur over and over again : for example Cru- 
soe's ideas about the wickedness of sailors are set forth 
in the same terms on pp. 44 and 58. 

i. 2§. — « To trifle with sacred things ». — Gildon was proud 
of his Latim and. liked to show his superiority over De 
Foe in this respect. 

/. 29. — Sortes Virgilianac : a form of divination which con- 
sisted in taking the first passage on which the eye fell 
on opening a volume of Virgil as pTophcsyiing fiuture 
events, or indicating a line of action to be taken. Cru- 
soe used the Bible instead of Virgil's works : but so 
did all Non-conformists. 

P. 25. — I. 4. — So Gildon condemns De Foe's didactic idea 
of 'teaching biblical lessons by meianns of a fictitious' 
tale, thus using Art in the service of Religion. 

/. 7. — This is Lticilio Vanini (1585-1619), an Itailian philos- 
opher who, like Bruno, professed sceptical views and 
even preached atheism. He staj-ed a short time in Eng- 
land (1614) but was imprisoned in London for 49 days 
on account of his doctrines. Later, he was arrested in 
Toulouse and condemned as an atheist to have his 
tongue cut out and to be strangled at the stake, — 
which sentence was carried out. 
I. S. — The Freethinker, a collection of essays on Ignorance, 
Superstition, Biootry, etc. Intermixed with several pie- 
ces of Wit and Humour; by Amlwose Phillips, Boulter, 
etc. — N" I was published on March 24 th, 1718, and. 
n" 159 (the last) on Sept. 28 th, 1719). 

I. jj. — Crusoe, like a good middle-class Englishman, natu- 
rally enough thought first of beer. It is curious, never- 
theless, that De Foe did not think of the easier possi- 
bility of making wine. But Crusoe had no casks for 
either, and had not succeeded in making any. (p. 70). 

I 21. — i. e. p. 72 in Hazlitt's ed. t It came now very warm- 
ly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now 
was my time to get a servant, and perhaps a compan- 
ion or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Pro- 
vidence to save this poor creature's life ». (p. 81). — 
c l^t no man despise the secret hints and notices of 



NOTES TO P. (25) 163 

danger ! » (p. 96). — « Let aio man sJight the strong- 
impulses of his own thoughts » (p. 109). — The same 
idea is repeated on pp. 49, 66, 71, 90, etc.). 

I. 30. — The Daimon of Socrates was probably some kimd 
of internal voice, akin to De Foe's « secret hints ». 

P. 26. — I. J. — Girolamo Cardan (or Cardano) (1501-1576), 
famous as a mathematician published in 1543 a treatise 
on astrology in which he prided himself particularly 

on ihaviing ibieeai \-ouchs.afed the assistance of a guard- 
ian demon. 

I. 5. — This applies to all visionaries and to many Catholic 

saints. But their guardian angel, not their patron saint, 

was their guide. — In Hitdibras (II, i), Butler ridiculed 

the stor}- of Saiait Francis. In the Serious Reflections,. 

■< l-oz iiimr,elf ridiculed the legends of Popish Sainits. 

/. 12. — Be Foe's words are : « while I wais cutting down 
some wood here. I perceived that behamd a very thick 
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a 
kind of hollow place... I found it was pretty larg-e, that 
is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it... ; 
but I must confess to you I made more haste out than 
I did in : when looking further i.nto the place, which 
was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of 
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not, which 
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's 
mouth shining directl}^ ini, and making the reflection. » 
(P- 73)- ~- He repeats on the same page : « The place 
I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto, of its 
kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark. » 
(If the work dark was suppressed, the contradiction 
would disappear). Cox, the piratical abridger of the 
novel, made matters sitill worse. He wrote : « Peeping 
further into the place, and which was totally dark, 1 
saw two glaring e3'es of some creature I knew not, 
which twinkled like stars, the light from the cave's 
mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection ». 
(p. 154). The anonj-mous author of the abridgment of 
the three volumes of Robinson Crusoe (1724) paid care- 
ful heed to Gildon's criticism, and, in summing up this 
-episode, suppressed the wo'ds dark and darkness. 



164 NOTES TO P. (27) 

I 22. — When Crusoe baked his bread, he told us : « Then 
I wanted a mill to grind it (the corn), sieves to dress 
it, yeast and salt to make it into bread. » (p. 54). — 
But, on p. 84, he offered salt to Friday, who « spat and 
sputtered at it, washing his mouth with fresh watei- 
after it. > 

/. 26. — De Foe nowhere says that the victims were bound 
or fettered. 

P. 27. — /. /. — Gilldon is right in pointing out this incon- 
sistency. A few days after the first anniversary of his 
landing (p. 49), Crusoe says : « My ink began to fail 
me », — and, after the third year, (p. 5S) : « My ink 
had been gone for some time ». But on the 28 th year 
of his stay (p. 96), he says : « I gave him a strict 
charge in writing. » 

I. 75. — « I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and 
3'et 1 had a strange aversion to go to England by sea 
at that time » (p. 109). 

I 21. — The epithet tnonstrous is not exaggerated. De Foe 
evidently wanted to fill up a number of pages, and 
imagined this ridiculous story, which, he knew, would 
be a subject of wonder and adnairation to many a cook 
and apprentice. He was a good business man, and 
willing to gratify the popular taste for sensational 
stories. 

P. 28. — i. 4. — « O ! O ! O ! says Friday three times, 
pointing to the bear, O master ! you give me te leave, 
me shakee te hand with him, me makee you good 
laugh. » (p. no). 

I. 6. — « So down he sits, and gets his boots off in a mo- 
ment, and puts on a pair of pumps, as we call the flat 
shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket, and 
gives my other servant his horse, and, with his gun, 
away he flew, swift like the wind. » (p. no). 

I. 8. — « Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the 
bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up a great 
stone and throws at him, and hit him just on the head, 
but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it 
against a wall. » (p. iii). — But it was quite possible 
for Friday to find a stone in the snow which was not 
very deep. 



I 



NOTES TO P. (29) 165 

I- 13- — There are bears in the mountaius of Venezuela and. 
British Guiana, so that Friday might have seen some 
during the wanderings of his tribe, (cp. p. VII). 

I- I?- — Friday climbs up a tree, and the angry bear fol- 
lows him closely : « When we came to the tree, there 
was Friday got out to the small of a large limb of the 
tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon 
as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the 
tree was weaker. Ha, isays he to us, now you see me 
teachee the bear dance ; sd he falls a-jumping and 
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, 
but stood still, and began to look behind him to see 
how he should get back. » (p. ml. 

/ 25. — See note to p. IX, I. 2. 

i. 26, etc. — These later travels are announced in the last 
page of the novel, which shows that De Foe expected 
success and was preparing a second volume. 

THE POSTSCRIPT 

P. 29. — I. n. — Thie 2 nd vol of Robinson Crusoe {Further 
Adventures) was issued on Aug. 20 th, 1719. Gildon's 
Postscript was written in the last da3's of August and 
the beginning of September. 

/. 21. — « Our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan mer- 
chanit to us, who began to inquire what goods we had ; 
and in the first place, he bought all our opium and 
gave us a ver}^ good price for it ». {Further Adv. p. 
76). 

I. 24. — The second vol. is in fact much inferior to the first. 
It contains many tedious passages, such as the epi- 
sode of Atkins's conversion, Crusoe's dearli/ng in China 
etc., but it is an exaggeration to say that it everywhere 
« prepares you for sleep ». 

P. 30. — I. 10. — « The success the former part of this work 
has met with in the world, has yet been no other than 
iis acknowedged to be due to the surprising variet}- of 
the subject and to the agreeable manner of the per- 
formance » . 

I /J. — By the word judicious, Gildon means the same 
thing as rational (p. 28), i. e. amy reader not belong- 



100 NOTES TO P. (30) 

iug- to the vulgar class that was delighted at the time 
by Guy of Warwick. 

I. 20. — There are exactly 24 sheets in Robinson Crusoe. 

/. 2ji. — It must be acknowledged that there are many di- 
gressions, such as the description of the starving maid 
(P- 52) > "!' the disparagement of Chinese greatness 
(p. 78), which have no connexion whatever with the 
narrative. 

I. 2S. — Canting is tlie epithet whicli a severe critic might 
justl}?^ app]^- to Crusoe's religion. 

I. 30. — « By this [i. e. abridging the work by the suppres- 
sion of all didactic elements] they leave the work na- 
ked of iits brightest ornaTnends » (Pref.). 

V. 31. — /. 1-2. — There is some trutli in Gildon's criticism, 
but De Foe was naturally long-winded, and wrote 
exactly as a garrulous person talks. — The price of 
each vol. of Robiiisoii Crusoe was 5 «. 
I. 7. — Gildon is right in complaining that the first pages 
of tlic Journal are a mere repetition of the events Cru- 
soe had already told « in plain narration ». De Foe 
was very careless in matters of style and composition. 

I. ij. — These repetitions are to be fonnd chiefly in the 
Journal (for example : « rain all day », « very ill ><, 
etc.) ; but they are natural in the diary of a « plain 
honest man ». 

I. i~. — Hudibras II, 1st c. 1. 9-12. — (juoting from memory, 
Gildon changed the words slightly : 

« Is't not enough to make one strange. 
That some mens fancies should ne'er change ? 
But make all people do, and say, 
The isame thi^igs istill the self-same way. » 

(The reading in the first authorized edition of the 
second line was : « That a mans fancy should ne'er 
change*) 

/. 23. — See the -notes to p. 1 (1. 13) and p. 23 (1. 29). 

I. 26. — In fact the Further Adventures had a second edi- 
tion before the end of the year. 

P. 32. — I. I. — t All tlie endeavours of envious people to 
reproach it with being a romance, to search it for cr- 



NOTES TO P. (32) 167 

rors in geograph)^ inconsistency in the relation, and 
contradictions in the fact, have proved abortive, and 
as ipipotent as malicious ». — This shows that the 
success of Robinson Crusoe had been much discussed 
in coffee-houses. — The word abortive in the meaning 
of fruitless was not unusual in De Foe's time. Cp. 
Addison, Cato, III, 7 : 

« Our first design, my friends, has prov'd abortive •. 
I. 8. — But the great Pope himself had told vSpence : « The 
first part of Robinson Crusoe is very good ; De Foe 
wrote a vast many things, and none bad, though none 
excellent, except this ». 

I. 18. — a If Nature refuses, IndigTiation makes verses ». 
Juv. Sat. I, 79. 

I. 26. — In spite of this assertion there was much envy in 
Gildon's soul when he considered the tremendous suc- 
cess achieved by a rival writer. 

P. 33. — I. 2-3. — De Foe's sta/tement in the Preface to the 
first vol. was : « The editor believes the thing to be 
a just history of fact ». — In the begiinning of the 18 th 
century the novel was not yet biorn,, and a book of 
which « it is all a lie » could be said, was doomed to 
failure. 

I. II , etc. — Gildon is unjust. The book tends to prove that 
man is entirely in the hands of Cod, Who never fails 
to punish him for his sins. 

/.. 18. — See the r.otes to p. VI (1. 9), p. 3 (il. 24) etc. 

P. 34. — /. 2. — « And this makes the abridging this work as 
scandalous as it is knavish and ridiculous, seeing, 
while to shorten the book that they may seem to 
reduce the value, they strip it of all tliose reflections, 
as well religious as moral, which are not only the great- 
est bieauties of the work, but are calculated for the 
infinite advantage of the reader ». (Pref.). — De Foe 
alludes to a piratical abridgment of the first volume, 
which wa/s issued in the beginning of August by a 
bookseller named Cox, at the price of 2 s. Taylor, De 
Foe's editor, denounced this book in his advertise- 
ment of the 4t,a ed. of Robinson Crusoe : «. The pretend- 
ed abridgmetut of tliis book clandestinely printed for T. 



1 68 NOTES TO r. (54) 

Cox does not contain the third part of the work ; but 
consists onl}' of some scattered passages, incoherently 
tacked together ; wherein the author's sense through- 
out IS wholh- mistaken, the maitters of fact misre- 
presented, and the moral reflections misapplied. It's 
hoped the Public will not give encouragement to so 
base a practice, the proprietor intending to prosecute 
the vendors according to Law » (Daily Courant for 
Aug. Stli, 1719). — Cox's abridgment (pp. 259) is cer- 
tainly very bad : for example, we are not told that 
Crusoe saw a footprint on the sand, so that the sequel 
becomes incoherent. — Ta3'loi began a suit in Chan- 
cer}- for the p'Totection of his copyright. In the Flybig 
Post for October 2gth, Cox replied that the book had 
been published b}' his firm without his knowledge, 
while he was absent in Scotland, and he threatened 
to disclose some secrets about De Foe. The prosecu- 
tion was stopped. — Cox died a few months later. (See 
the Pref. to the Serious Reflections). 
i. 3. — But Gildon himself would have been extremely 
angry if a pirated edition of his Art of Poetry had been 
sold chea]>er than the authorized edition, thus depriv- 
ing kim of part of his benefit. 
I. 6. — Justiji : a Latin historian who lived before the 
5 th cent. A.l). His work, Historiarum Philippicariim 
Libri XLVI is described by himself in the preface as 
an abridgment of an older history written in the time 
of Augustus b}' Trogus Pompcius ; this work, Histo- 
riae Philippicac et totitis Muiidi origines et Terrae si- 
ti{s, was probably ousted from public favour by Jus- 
tin's shorter book. A new English version of Justin's 
work, by Thomas Prown, appeared in 1712, and 
replaced Codrington's older translati<)n. 

I. /J. — Darius Tibertus, or rather Daiio Tiberti was born 
at Cesena ; he died in the beginning of the 16 th cent. 
He made a Latin abridgment of Plutarch's Lives 
(Epitome vitarum Plutarchi, Ferrare 1501), an edition 
of which was issued in Paris in 1573. It was translated 
into French in the same year. Tiberti 's work was used 
by David Lloyd in the abridgment of the Lives which 
he published in 1665. 

I. i-j. — Guarini : this is evidently a mi.stake for Guicciar- 



NOTES TO P. ' "5 169 

dini (1482-1540) whose History of ILrJy was translated 
into English by Fenton as early as 1579 (new editions 
in 1599, 161S). Abridgments of it were published in 
England by Dallington in 1615 (republished in 1629). 

I. 18. — This is of course Pliny the Naturalis-t (23-79), but 
it does not appear his works were ever abridged in 
Latin. The whole of the Natural History was translated 
into English by Philemon Holland (1601). 

I. ig. — Fontenelle (1657-1757), the great French philoso- 
pher, whose History of Oracles (16S7) was immediateh^ 
translated into English and created a sensation in the 
philosophical world. 

I 21. — Sir William Temple (1628-99), the great statesman 
and essayist, professed himself an. enthusiastic admir- 
er of Fontenelle in his Letters (1700-03) and Essays 
{Miscellanies, 1705-08). 

/. 24. — Van Dale (1638-170S), a Dutch philosopher, whose 
Latin treatise De Oraculis veterum ethnicorum (1683) 
was abridged by Fontenelle in his Histoire des Oracles. 

l. 27. — These works were abridgments of foreign or classi- 
cal authors, and not pirated abridgments of living 
English writers. Gildon gives no instance of the lat- 
ter. 

P. 35. — I. 6. — But it was not the only fault of tihe abridg- 
ment. (See note to p. 34, 1. 2). 

/. S. — This clever, but sophistical, argument miist have 
annoyed De Foe greatly. 

I IS- — The chief interest of Cox's abridgment is tliat it 
shows what, in the book, most interested contempo- 
rary readers. Cox dropped all moral reflections and 
briefly summed up Crusoe's early adventures : he gave 
most space to Crusoe's stay on the island. 

I. 28. — Gildon's literary criticism is contained in these 
words : Rules of Art. Nothing can be beautiful, he 
thought, if it does not follow the rules derived from 
the Ancients. 

P. 36 — /. 2. — The book, of course, was read to Gildon. 

I. 4. — « My imagination worked up to such a height... 
that I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the 
spot at my old castle behind the trees, saw my old Span- 



I/O NOTES TO P. (36) 

iard, Friday's father, and the- reprobate sailors whom 
I left upon the island... One time in my sleep I had 
the villany of the three pirate sailors so lively related 
to me by the firs.t Spaniard and Friday's father, that 
it was surprising; tliey told me how they barbarously 
attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that they 
set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose 
to distress and starve them, things tliat I had never 
heard of, and that were \et all of them true in faot. » 

(P- 5)- 

/. ;6. — Though .■somewhat a casuist, Crusoe never tried to 
explain from what authority he derived his power. He 
maintained that land belongs to the first occupant, and 
accepted it as natural that he should be king of his 
island, and absolute master of the lives of the Span- 
iards who arrived on the island after his departure. 

/. 21. — Madam as used here i.ii a contemptuous sense, like 
Monsieur, on p. 11. — Trought the Beggar's Opera 
Gay used the word with this depreciatory meaning : 
isee for exemple Lucy's song in Act IT, sc. 3 : « Why, 
how now. Madam Flirt », etc. 

/. 22. — M3' wife... told me very seriously one night, that 
she believed there was some secret powerful impulse 
of Providence upon me, which had determined me to 
go thitl'cr again. » (p. 6). 

P. 37. — L. 2. — rurtlier Adv. p. 7. — We have seen already 
what ludicrous use Gildon made of this awkward sen- 
tence (p. XVIII). De Foe seems to mean that we have 
premonitions (« secret hints ») of events which come 
to pass later, even though we have not communicated 
these premonitions to any one who could be i.nstru- 
meiLtal iiu the fulfilmeat of them. This shows that 
the secret hints are sent from an invisible superna- 
tural world, — and from the existence of a superna- 
tural world De Foe infers a future state. 

I. JO. — « My ancient good friend tilie widow... earnestly 
struggled with me to consider my years, my easy cir- 
cumstances, and the needless hazard of a long voyage, 
and, above all, my young children ; but it was all to 
no purpose; I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; 
and I told her I thought there was something so un- 



NOTES TO P. I 37) i;i 

common in the impressious i ind 'Upon my mind for 
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Prov- 
idence iif I should iSittempt to sta}- at heme ». (p. 8). 
— Cr.iisoe's departu.re looks like a novelist '« trick 
and gives a poor idea of the cxrcupatioms of Provi- 
dence. 

I- 13- — En passant was then a fashionable expression. De 
Foe did not use it in the homely style of Robinson 
Crusoe, bx:t in the more elaborate s^tyle of Captain 
Carleton (p. 18). 

I. 20. — Ee Fee liked to paimt extreme passions, and there 
is in all his books a display of sentimentality to please 
the popular taste : has heroes weep on -all occasions. 
Tlie description of the violent emodious of the rescued 
occupies a whole page in Hazlitt's edition : « There 
were some in tears, some raging and tearing them- 
selves, as if they had been in the greatest agonies of 
sorrow ; some stark raving and downright lunatic ; some 
T-an about the ship stamping with their feet, others 
wringing their hands ; isome were dancing, several sing- 
ing, some laughing, more crying; mainy quite dumb, 
not able to speak a word ; others sick and vomiting, 
several swooning, and ready to faint ; and a few were 
crossing themselves and giving (^xod thanks ». But 
then Crusoe carefully explains : « Perhaps also the 
oaise may have some addition; to it from the particular 
circumstance of the nation they belonged to; I mean 
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more vola- 
tile, more passionate, and more sprightly, and their 
spirits more fluid, than of other nations. » (p. 10). 

I. 26. — But these people were saved after many long hours 
of anxiety. During the night their hopes rose and fell, 
so that the extremity of their joy in being saved at 
last is quite natural. 

P. 38. — /. 3. — « I ammedniately ^ordered that five giin.s. should 
be fired, one soon after another, that, if possible, we 
might give notice to them that there was help for 
them at hand ». (p. 9). 

I. 7. — « To direct them as well as I could, I caused lighLs 
to be hung out in ail the parts of the sHp where we 
could, and which v^e had lanterns for, and kept firing 



172 NOTES TO P. (38) 

guns all the night long, letting them know by this 
that there was a shiip not far off ». (p. 9). 

I 13. — On the contrary, it is rational to believe that they 
were in agonies of terror in the intervals of the guns, 
and afraid of losing the right direction. 

/. 14. — Friday had been abnormally quick in learning Eng- 
lish ; but, like uneducated i>eople in a foreign coun- 
try, once he had arrived at the stage of making him- 
self understood, he never got rid, or even sought to 
get rid, of his grammatical mistakes. When he saw the 
islaiud again, he exclaimed : « Me see ! me see ! yes, 
yes, me see much man there, and there, and there ». 
(p. II). 

/. 24. — Gildon is right. — De Foe could draw only one 
character ; a Puritan Englishman of the middle class. 
The Spaniard and Crusoe are brothers : so are the 
French Priest and the Spaniard. Thus, on p. 20, in 
the Spaniard's relation of the chief events on the 
island after Crusoe's departure, we find this passage : 
« It happened one niight that the Spaniard governor... 
fouTid himself very uneasy in the night, aind could 
by no means get an}' sleep : he was perfectly well in 
body, as he told me the story, only found his thoughts 
tumultuous ; his mind ran upon men lighting, and 
killing one another, but was broad awake and could 
not by any means get any sleep. In short, he lay a 
great while, but growing more and more uneasy, he 
resolved to rise ». Then he roused one of his comrades 
who said : « Such thiirgs are not to be slighted », and 
added, as C'^usoe wrulcj have done : « I am satisfied our 
spirits embodied have converse with, and receive intel- 
ligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting 
the invisible world ; and this friendly notice is given 
for our advantage, if we know how to make use of 
it i>. — Of course, the « secret hint » was right : there 
was a whole army of cannibals on the island. (Cp. 
the notes to pp. VI and 25). 

P. 39. — I. 2. — As Gildon maintains, the character of the 
Spaniard is full of inconsLstencies and improbabilities. 
De Foe, always writing in haste, very probably forgot 
which of his heroes was speaking at the time. 



NOTES TO P. (39) ' 173 

I g. — In the first vol., p. 95 : the Spaniard quotes Exodus 
XVI, 2-3. « i'ou l:now the cliiildreu' of Israel, though 
they rejoiced at first of tlu-h i>eing delivered out of 
Egypt, yet rebelled even against (lod himself, that 
delivered them when the}^ came to want bread in the 
wilderness ». — In the Further Adventures he quotes 
the Scriptures frequently (pp. 16, 27, etc.). It pleased 
De Foe's paradoxical mind to shock the prejudices of 
his readers. Here he represents a good Spaniard (« the 
most gentlemanlike generous-minded man that ever 
I met with in my life ») — a phenomenon which must 
have astonished many of his readers who had so often 
heard of the cruelty of the Spaniards in the West 
Indies. 

I. 13. — In the Night. — We may suppose they were 
delayed by contrary currents. Besides, we are not told 
that they came for their barbarous feast (p. 20) : they 
might have come to attack the inhabitants of the 
island, of whose presence they had heard. 

I. ig. — This tedious conversation between the two men 
extends over 4 pages (40-43). It must have surprised 
De Foe's readers to find a Popish priest so familiar 
with the Bible. As for De Foe's representation of him 
as a broad-minded man, see note to p. VIII [L 30). 
I. 26. — « You have here 4 Englishmen, who have fetched 
women from among the savages, and have taken them 
as their wives, and have had many children by them 
all, and yet are not married to them after any stated 
legal manner, as the laws of God and man require, and, 
therefore, are yet, in the sense of both, no less than 
adulterers, and living in adultery » (p. 41). De Foe 
must have been greatly mortified by this piece of criti- 
cism, las he hated to be rcjjroached with « writing 
false English ». 

p. ^o. — /. iS. — « Now, sir, — SAid he, — though I do not 
acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we should 
be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the subjects 
of his kingdom, taught to know the general principles 
of the Christian religion ; that they might at least hear 
of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and 
of a future state, things we all believe; they had at 



174 NOTES TO P. ,'40) 

least been so much nearer coming into the bosom of 
the true church, than they are now in the public pro- 
fession of idolatry and devil worship » (p. 42). — Cp. • 
« It lis a maxim, sir, that is, or ought to be, received 
among all Christians, of what church or pretended 
church soever, viz., that Cl-ristiaai knowledge ought 
to be propagated by all po-sible means, and on all 
passible occasions. It is on this principle that our 
church sends missionaries into Persia, India and China ; 
and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willing- 
ly engage in the most hazardous voyages, ajid the 
most dangerous residence, among murderers and bar- 
barians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God, 
and to bring them over to embrace tlie Christian faith ■ 
(p. 42). 
L 20. — Complements is of course a misprint for compli- 
ments. 

/. 25. — GildoH's criticism must have been made already by 
many a good Protestant. But it was for the amazement 
of his readers that De Foe introduced into his tale that 
wonder of wonders, a tolerant Popish priest. — He care- 
fully pointed out that this priest was a very rare excep- 
tion : Crusoe cunningly told the priest (p. 46) : « I can- 
not tell how to object the Ipast thi.ng against that af- 
fectionate concern which you shew for turning the 
poor people from their Paganism to the Cliristian reli- 
gion ; but how does this comfort you, while these 
people are, in your account, out of the pale of the 
Catholic Church, without which, you believe, there is 
no salvation ; so that you esteem tliese but heretics 
still, and, for other reasons, as effectually lost as the 
pagans themselves ? » — To which this Phoenix of 
priests answered « with abundance of candour and 
Christian Charity » (p. 47) : « I am a Catholic of the 
Roman Church and a priest of the order of St. Bene- 
dict... but yet, I do not look upon you, who call your- 
selves reformed, without some charity; I dare not say, 
though I know it is our oi>inion in general, yet I dare 
not say that you cannot be saved ; I will by no meatis 
limit the mercy of Christ so far as to think that he 
cannot receive you into the bosom of his church... you 
will allow it to consist with me, as a Roman, to dis- 



NOTES TO P. (40) 175 

tinguish far between a Protestant and a Pagan , be- 
tween him that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way 
which I do not think is according to the true faith, 
and a savage, a barbarian, that knows no God, no 

Christ, no Redeemer at all I would rejoice if all 

the savages in America were brought, like this poor 
woniain, to pray to God, though they were to be all 
Protestants at first, rather than they should contiimue 
pagans and heathens ». — Crusoe replied that « he 
believed, had all the members of his church the like 
moderation, they would soon ibe all Protestants ». His 
final words are : « I thought he [the priest] had all 
the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a 
Christian, without the errors of a Roman Catholic ; and 
that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman 
bishops were, before the church of Rome assiumed spir- 
itual sovereignty over the consciences of men » (p. 
50). 

I'. 41. — I. 6. — The rapidity of Atkins's conversion is truly 
amazing (pp. 44-5). His long dialogue with Crusoe is 
highly improbable. 
/. 75. — Atkins's wife is abaiiormally quick in graspiug 
abstruse theological ideas. The episode of her baptiism 
is full of humour, but this must have passed unnoticed 
by « vulgar readers », whose sentimentality would have 
been deeply moved by the touching conversion. 

L 76. — Jack of all trades is the expression used by De Foe 
on p. 51. He describes this ingenious fellow in the 
following words : « I carried two carpenters, a smith, 
and a very handy ingenious fellow, who was a cooper 
by trade, but was also a general mechanic, for he was 
dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to grifud 
corn, was a good turner, and q good pot-maker ; he also 
made anything that was proper to be made of earth 
or of wood ; in a word we called him our Jack of all 
trades » (p. 8). 

]. ig. — This is curious : Crusoe who had been at pains to 
iusti-uct Friday in the Protestant religion forgets to 
have him baptized on his return to England; at least 
he does not tell us anything of it in the novel. 



176 NOTES TO P. (42) 

P. 4::. — I. s- — i- c. p. 42 iu Hazlitt's cd. See note to p. 40, 
1. 25. 

I- 21. — (lildon is unfair; the priest is described as a happ}' 
exception. De Foe hated Popery, and Crusoe often 
maintains that English Protestantism is by far the best 
form of rclig'ioii (sec rote to j-i. VIII). Gi.ldon, a 
deserter from Roman Catholicism, was more violent 
against Popery -than De Foe who had always been a 
Dissenter. 

P .43. — I. 6. — There were bishops among Catholic missio- 
naries as well as Jesuits of high rank. It is true, though, 
that missionaries belonged generally to the regular 
clerg}'. 
I. g. — Gildon does not remember that the priest is respon- 
sible for the statement on the preceding page. Crusoe 
himself judged very severel}'- the work of Popish mis- 
sionaries : « [we became] acquainted with three mis- 
sionary Romish priests who were in the town, and who 
had been there some time converting the people to 
Christianity; but we thought they had made but poor 
work of it, and made them but sorry Christians when 
they had done... I mnst confess the conversion, as they 
call it, of the Chinese to Cliristilan/ity i,s so far from the 
true conversion required to bring heathen people to 
the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little 
more than letting them know the name of Christ, say 
some .pra^-ers to the Virgin Mary and her son in a 
tongue which they understand not, and to cross them- 
selves, and the like » (pp. 75-6). — De Foe admired 
the zeal and piet}^ of some missionaries, but scorned 
their doctrine. 

I. II. — Gildon's criticism made an impression on De Foe : 
in the 4 th chapter of the Serious Reflections, he 
charged the Inquisition v/i'^^h condemning men whose 
riches were coveted by the clergy ; « Inquisitors are 
scarce Christians ». he concluded (p. 44). 

/. 75. -- The Dominicans, who were the Jesuits* worst 
enemies, had denounced the trading of the latter and 
their over-supple principles in China before the 
Congregation De Propaganda Fide (for the propagation 
of faith), which had been established by Pope Gregory 



NOTES TO P. (43) 177 

XV, in 1622. — In the Serious Reflections (p. 84), De 
Foe parodied the title of this congregation by applying 
it to the Devil's agents on the earth. 

I. 20. — The Jesuit Ricci (1552-1610), founder of the Jesuit 
mission in China, had resolved to accommodate Chris- 
tianity to the creeds and customs of the Chinese. After 
him, the Jesuits scrupulously respected all Chinese 
rites that were not too contrary to Christian morals, 
and laid aside all Catholic ceremonies that might have 
hurt Chinese prejudice; they admitted for instance the 
worship of Confucius and the cult of Ancestors. These 
facts were denounced by the Dominicans and condemned 
as early as 1645. But the Jesuits were so powerful that, 
though several times condemned, they continued 
their policy till 1742. Pope Clement XI 's Bull in 1715, 
ordering the suppression of all Chinese ceremonies and 
denouncing the conduct of the Jesuits, was hailed with 
contemptuous joy in Protestant England. In the Serious 
Reflections, De Foe, again taking the hint from Gil- 
don's work, condemned the Jesuits « who sung anthems 
to the immortal Idols of Tonquin » (p. 44). 

/. 24. — In the Serious Reflections, De Foe, a severe judge 
of China and the Chinese, speaks thus of the great phi- 
losopher : « As to their religion, it is all summed up 
in Confucius's Maxims, whose theology I take to be 
a rhapsody of moral conclusions; a foundation, or 
what we may call elements of polity, morality and 
superstition, huddled together in a rhapsody of words, 
without consistency, and, indeed, with very little rea- 
soning in it » (p. 40). 

I. 2g. — De Foe was no promoter of Popery, but he was not 
siich a fanatic as to condemn systematically all Pa- 
pists. As the priest in Robinson Crusoe preferred Prot- 
estantism to Paganism, De Foe preferred Popery to 
Paganism. In the Serious Reflections, he wrote : « I 
hope none will object against calling the Roman 
Church a Christian Church, and the professors of the 
Popish Church Christians » (p. 66). 

P. 44. — I. 4. — Speaking of the Tartars, Crusoe says : « 1 
wondered how the Chinese empire could be conquered 
by such contemptible fellows ; for they are a mere herd 



\ ;8 NOTES TO P. (44) 

or crowd of wild fellows, keeping no order, and under- 
standiing no discipline or mai}ner of light » (p. 82). — 
He is unable to find words strong enough for his imdig- 
nation. at the sight of the barbarous Tartar idol, 
« frightful as the Devil », at Nartschinsky ; with a 
Crusader's zeal he destroys it and gets into endless 
trouble (pp. S6-90). 
/. 6. — i. e. Samoycdes. 
J. 28. — « But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matri- 
mony (so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only 
in the mutual consent of the parties to take one 
another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal 
obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the 
man and woman at all times, to own and acknowledge 
each other ; obliging the man to abstain from all other 
women, to engage in no other contract while these 
subsist, and on all occasions, as ability allows, to pro- 
vide honestly for them and their chdltlren ; and to 
oblige the women to the same or like conditions, mu- 
tatis mutandis, on their side » (p. 41). — Gildon would 
probably have been at a loss to explain what he found 
specially Popish in this passage. 

1'. 45 — I. s- — « For my Spaniards, according to my promise, 
I engaged three Portugal women to go ; and recommend- 
ed it to them to marry them and use them kindly. I 
could have procured more women, but I remembered 
that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and 
there were but five of the Spaniards that wanted ; the 
rest had wives of their own, though in another coun- 
try. — AjU this cargo arrived safe, and as you may 
easily suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, 
who were now (with this addition) between 60 and 70 
people, besides little children, of which there were a 
great many » (p. 57). — A curious oversight for a Pu- 
ritan ! 
/. 8. — The episode is quite useless for the story, but, being 
full of grim and terrible details, it mtist have been 
very « entertaining for the canaille ». 

I. 14. — « Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength 
of his own judgment, as if he was able to choose any 
particular station of life for himself. Man. is a short- 



NOTES TO P. (45) 179 

■siglited creature, sees but a very little way before liim ; 
and as his passions are none of his best friends, so his 
particular affections are generally his worst counsel- 
lors » (p. 58). — De Foe siin,ply states here that no man 
knows the future, and in the following sentence — 
whieli Gildon overlooked — he draws a moral con- 
clusion from this : « But the secret ends of Divine 
Providence in thus permitting us to be hurried down 
the stream of our own desires, are only to be understood 
of those who can listen to the voice of Providence, 
anid ditiaw religious consequences from God's justice and 
their own mistakes ». 
I 24. — i. e. p. 79 ill Hazlitt's ed. — Gdldon is right : there 
is a contradiction in the text. 

I. 26. — « His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling 
creature, such as in England might sell for about 30 
or 40 shillings ; and he had two slaves followed him on 
foot to drive the poor creature along » (p. 79). 

P. 46. — I. II. ■ — This is another instance of De Foe's love 
for paradox. It was fashionable at the time to exalt the 
Chinese Fmpire. De Foe contends that it is inferior to 
the English. His arguments are poor : « 30.000 Ger- 
man or English foot or 10.000 French horse would 
fairly beat all the forces of China... There is not a for- 
tified town in China could hold out one month against 
the batteries and attacks of an European army, b — 
He calls the Chinese » a contemptible herd and crowd 
of ignonant, sordid slaves ». (p. 78). — De Foe took 
his theories about China from the Relation de M. 
Evert Isbrants, envoye de S. M. Czarienne a I'Empe- 
reur de la Chine en i6g2, 1693 et i6g4 par le Sr Ada^n 
Brand (Amsterdam 1699). 

I i-j. — Sir William Temple adopted Father Le Comte's 
favourable opinion of China. — In the Serious Reflec- 
tioiis (pp. 40-42), De Foe, who had probably been an- 
noyed by Gildon's criticis.n, renewed his attack on 
Chinese greatness. 

l. 26. — Though not so ridiculous as the episode of the bear 
in the first vol., this burning of the Idol seems to 
indicate that De Foe was again hard pressed to find 



l80 NOTES TO P. (46) 

a new incident to fill a certain nombcr of pages (pp. 
86-S9). 
/. JO. — « A cunni-ng fellow, a Cossack, as they call them, 
of Jarawena, in the pay of the Moscovites, calling to 
the leader of the caravan, said to him : I will send all 
these people away to Sibeilka. This was a city 4 or 
5 days' journey at least to the south, and rather behind 
us » (p. 89). 

r. 47. — I. 6. — How angry Gildon must have been, when 
the Publisher's Introduction to the Serious Reflections 
was read to him : « If the foundation has beeii so well 
laid, the structure cannot but be expected to bear a 
proportion; and while the parable has been so divert- 
ing, the moral must certainly be equally agreeable ». 

/. 14. — One recognizes Hercules by the foot, and a lion 
by the claw ». A Greek proverb made popular by 
Erasmus in his Adagia (I, 9). 

/. iS. — This theory would tend to the suppression of all 
didactic tales. 

/. 2^. — De Foe would be m sympathy with Gildon, here. 
In the Serious Reflections (p. 10) he ridiculed the story 
of St. Hilary. 

P. 48. — I. I. — De Foe must have been very astonished and 
not a little troubled to fiiiid .himself accused, of promot- 
ing atheism ; and this probably explains why he in- 
troduced in the Serious Reflections a long dialogue 
against atheists, or « men -devils ». 



INDEX TO GILDON'S LIFE 



Addieon, 27, 34, 36, 4°. 
Aitken, 25. 
AnacreoD, 12. 
Andensoxn (Rev.), 28. 
Anne (Queen), 22, 29. 
A-pology for poetry, 11. 
Aristotle, 42. 
Athenian Society, 7, 8. 

B 

Beaumont and Fletcher, 17. 

Behn (Mrs), 7, 11, 15. 

Betterton, 17, 19. 

Bickerstaff (Isaac), 27. 

Bickley, 44. 

Blount (Charles), 9, lo, 11. 

Boileau, 39, 42. 

Borrett, 24. 

Boyer, 45. 

Boyle (Lord), 12. 

Bracegirdle (Mrs), 19. 

Brightland, 27. 

Briscoe (Sam.), 13. 

Brown (Tom), 13, 43- 

Buckinghamshire (Duchess of), 

40, 42. 
Buckinghamshire (Duke of), 13, 

40. 

C 

Camma^ reine de Galatie, 16. 
Canons J 39. 



Carnarvon (Earl of), 39, 45- 

Cases in Latin, 27, 35. 

Chandos (Duke of), 39, 45- 

Charlaimne, 39. 

Charles II, 18. 

Chorus Poetarunij 11, 21. 

Cibber, 7. 

Clarke (S.), 10. 

Clowns ( io Shakespeare ' s 

plays), 14 
Codrington, 15. 
Collier, 16, 
Coin-parison between the 2 

Stages {a), 19. 
Complete Art of Poetry {the), 

38- 
Congreve, 1 1 . 
Comeille (Thomas), 16. 
Courthope, 34. 
Crawford (David), 12. 
Creech, 15. 
Curll, 30, 32. 

D 

D'Avenant, 17. 

De Foe, 7, 20, 21, 25, 27, 28, 

30. 32> 39, 46. 
Deist's Manual {the), 22. 
Dennis (John), 11, 15, 16, 18, 

32, 33' 36, 37, 45- 
Desdemona, i4- 
Dorset (Earl of), 13. 
Dryden, 13, 14, 19^ 39- 



— IS2 — 



Dunciad {the), 30, ^^2, 37. 
Dunton, 7, 8. 
D'Urfey, 12, 13. 



Epistle to Arbuthnot, 34, 36. 

Euripides, 16. 

Euiden, 37. 

Examen Miscellanetnn, 12, 13. 



Farquhar (George), i8. 
Fouquet, 30. 



Genest, 15, 16, 17, 18. 

George I, 26, 39. 

GiLDON : his ancestors 5 ; his 
father 5 ; his birth 5 ; sent to 
Douai 6 ; back again in Eng- 
land 6 ; his marriage 7 ; he 
frequents Mrs Behn 7 ; mem- 
ber of the Athenian Society 
7 ; he abjures Poper)^ 8 ; be- 
comes a deist 9 ; his first lit- 
erary works 9 ; he writes 
the Oracles of Reason 10; 
his relations with D'Urfey 
12; his defence of Shake- 
speare 14 ; he begins play- 
writing 15; dedicates a play 
to the Queen 18; becomes a 
friend of popular actors 19; 
is attacked by De Foe 20 ; 
abjures deism 21 ; publishes 
Sir Rowland Gwynne''s let- 
ters 23 ; is arrested 24 ; his 
bail taken 24 ; his petition to 
the Queen 25 ; he is protect- 



ed hf Steele 25 ; writes to 
Harley 27 ; his projects 28 ; 
he is employed by Curll 30 ; 
becomes blind 31 ; attacks 
Pope 31 ; is involved m\ the 
quarrel between Pope and 
Addison 34 ; publishes his 
Coynflete Art of Poetry ^y ; 
receives money from the 
Duchess of Buckinghamshire 
40; makes a collection for 
himself 40 ; his correspond- 
ence with Prior 41 ; his last 
days 45 ; his death 45 ; and 
epitaph 46. 

Golden Spy {the) 30. 

Grammar of the English 
Tongue, 27. 

Green (Matthew), 38. 

Gwynne (Sir Rowland), 23. 

H 

Harley (Edward), 29. 

Harley (Lady), 42. 

Harley (Robert), 24, 26, 27, 29, 

31, 41, 42. 
Higgons. (Bevil), 19. 
Hobbes, 9. 
Hopkins (Ch.), 12. 
Horace, 42. 
Howe, 24. 
Huchon, 14 



Jacob (Giles), 43. 
James II, 8, 19. 
Jonson (Ben), 19. 

K 

King (Josiah), 10. 



i83 — 



LandsdoANTie (Lord), 40. 
Langbaine, 5, 8, 15, 16, ig. 
Laws of English Poetry {the), 

40. 
Lee, 14, 16, 18, 42. 
Leeds (Duke of), 18. 
Leigh (Thomas), 19. 
Leland, 8. 

Leslie (Ch.), 21, 22. 
Lewis (Erajsmus), 24. 
Life of Betterton, ig, 26. 
Life of Mr Wyckerleyj 32. 
Lin tot, 12. 
Lives and Characters of the 

English dramatic Poets, ig. 

Lloyd, 45- 

Lovers Victim, 17, ig. 

Lowde, 10. 

Lucian, g, 27, 43. 

M 

Macaulay, g. 

MachiavelH, g. 

Mainwaring, 25, 26. 

Mandeville, 19. 

Marlborough (Duchess of), 18. 

Marlborough (Duke of), 26. 

Marriage.Hater match'' d {the), 

12. 
Measure for measure, 16. 
Milton, 40- 

Miscellaneous letters, 11. 
Miscellaneous works of Blount 

II. 
Miscellany Poems, ii. 
Moliere, 20. 
Montague (Ch.), 16. 
Montpenisier (Mme de), 30. 
Moyle (Wfllter), 11. 
Musgrave's Obituary, 45. 



N 

New Project for the Regula- 
tion of the Stage {a), 36. 
New Rehearsal {the), 31. 
Nicholls (Wm), 10, 11. 
Nichol>s, 34, 45- 
Nuncius I wf emails, g, 12. 

O 

Oldmixon, 16. 

Oracles of Reason {the), 10. 

Oroonoko, 7. 

Othello, 14. 

Otway, 14, i7> 42. 

Ovid, 12. 

Ovidius Britannicus, 12. 



Pallavicino, g. 

Patriot {the], 18. 

Persiue, 11. 

Peterborough (Earl of), 30. 

Phaeton, 16. 

Pope, 12, 18, 26, 28, 30, 31-36. 

Porter (Mrs), ig. 

Post-boy robVd of his mail 

{the), g. 
Pretender (the), 22. 
Prior, 28, 2g, 41, 43, 45- 
Purcell (Daniel), 17, 18. 



Quinault, 16. 



Rapin-Thoyras, 23. 
Richardson (a deist), 10. 
Robinson Crusoe, 39. 
Rochester (Earl of), 13. 
Rogers (a deist), 10. 



i84 — 



Roman Bride's Re7'cuge {the), 

'5- 
Roscommon (Earl of), 28, 40. 
Rovve, 30, 32. 
Rymer, 13, 14. 



Sarma (D. S.), 38. 

Shiikespearc, 14, 17, 19, 30, 38. 

Shakes feariana, 38. 

Sherburn, 35. 

Sidney (Sir Philip), 38. 

Soame, 39. 

Sophia (Princess), 23. 

Southerne, 7. 

Spectator {the) 40. 

Spence, 34. 

Stanford (Earl of), 23. 

Stanhope, 32. 

Steele (Richard), 25, 36. 

Stephen, 24. 

Swift, 27, 28, 30. 



Tatler {the), 27. 



Tibullu&, 12, 
Tickell, 34. 
Tillotison, 8. 
To land, 9. 
Turner (Wun), 19. 
Tutchin, 21. 

W 

Waller, 20. 

War burton, 34. 

Ward, 37. 

Warwick (Earl of), 34, 35. 

Wesley (Samuel), 7. 

William III, 19. 

Withers, ;3y. 

Wycherley, 26, 32, 33. 

Y 

Yaxly (a deist), 10. 
Young (Gildon's Schoolmas- 
ter), 6. 
Younig (the poet), 20. 
I Younger Brother {the), 15. 



INDEX TO THE PAMPHLET 



Abridgments, (34)- 
Account of Good and Evil : 
see Robinson Crusoe. 

Adultery, (39-40)- 

Allegory {Rohmson Crusoe, an) 

(X°), (33)- 
America, (28). 
Atheists, (IV), (48). 
Atkins (Will.), (IX), (41)- 
Attorney, (3), (5), (6). 

B 

Bear (episode of the), (VII), 

(27-28). 
Bevis of Southampton, (X). 
Bible. (XVin, (2), (8), (15), 

(19), (24), (39), (47)- 
Bolus, (XVII). 
Brazil, (VIII), (XI), (13), (i4>, 

(22), (28), (45)- 
Bruin, (VII). 



Calais, (27). 
Cape Verde, (13). 
Caravan, (XV), (46). 
Cardan, (26). 

China, (IX), (XV), (43), (46). 
Chinese Mandarin, (45)- 
Common-sense, (XV). 
Confucius, (43)- 



Contract : see Inconsistencies. 

Contradictions : see Incon- 
sistencies. 

Coryat (Tom.) ^-IV). 

Crusoe (Madam), (36). 

Crusoe (Robinson) ; see Ro- 
binson Crusoe. 

Czar, (XVI). 

D 

Dario Tiberto, (34)- 

Death, (VII). 

De Foe : a bad Englishman 
(XIV), (2-3) ; his life (X-XV) ; 
his name (XIV); his politi- 
cal opinions, (IV); his pun- 
ishment, (XVII); his reli- 
gious opinions, (XIV-XVI), 
(2), (36); his vanity, (47)- 

De -propaganda Fide, (43). 

Devil (in Milton), (VII). 

Devil (in the Bible), (VI), (8), 

(24). 
Disobedience (to Parents), 

(XVI), (4-5)- 
Disseaiiters, (IV). 
Dover, (27). 
^ Dreams, (36), (38). 



Education : see Robinson Cru- 
soe. 



— i86 — 



Endor (Witch of), (XII). 
Englkh sailore, (VIII), (i8). 
Errors ; sfr Inconsistenciea 



Kables, (2), (35), (47)- 
p-ear of God, (18-20), (24). 
Flandens, (XVIII). 
Fontenelle, (34)- 
Fox-hunters, (XIV). 
France, (27). 
Free-thinker (the), (25). 
French Priest (the), (IX), (39- 

44). 
Friday : his bad English (IX), 
(XVI), (38); his aptitude, 
(IX) -, his country, (28) ; his 
death, (IX), his swiftness, 
(VI) ; inconsistencies in his 
character, (26) ; not baptized, 

(41). 

5^1? also : Inconsis- 
tencies. 
Friday's father, (27). 

G 

Geneva, (VI). 
Goat : see Inconsistencies. 
GotPs Revenge against Mur- 
der, (X). 
Grammar (false), (23), (31), 

(37), (39)- 
Greek Church, (XV). 

Guarini, (34)- 

Guinea, (11), (12), (14), (15). 

(21). 

Guy of War'iuick (X). 

H 
Hint : see Secret Hint. 



History of Oracles, (34). 
Homer, (IV). 
Hudibras, (31). 
Hull, (7), (18), (21). 



Idol (Tartar), (XIII), (46). 
Impulse : see Secret Hint 
Inconsistencies in Robinson 
Crusoe : Crusoe's father's in- 
tentions (5) ; the Master's 
speech (7-8 ; Crusoe's con- 
duct on the ehip (8) ; the 
wickedness of sailors (10) ;. 
Crusoe's money ("); he 
travels to Guinea, (12); Xu- 
r>'"s English, (13); the height 
of the waves (14); Crusoe's 
Riblcs, (15) ; he fills his pock- 
ets, (15-16); his clothes (16); 
he is not defenceless (16) ; 
he -iees the wreck (17); he is 
laugh'd out of his religion 
(21-22); the goat in the pit 
(24) ; Crusoe abandons his 
goats (24) ; he does not make 
wine (25); the goat in the 
dark cave (26) ; Friday's salt 
(26); Friday's escape (26); 
his readimess in learning 
(IX); Crusoe's contract in 
writing, (27) ; the episode of 
the bear (27-28); Crusoe too 
old to travel, (28), (37). 
Inconsistencies in the Fttr- 
iher Adventures : the Pref- 
ace, (35); Crusoe's dream 
(36) ; joy of the French (37- 
38); Friday's bad English 
and death {see Friday); the 
Spaniard's character (38) ; the 



l87 — 



French priest's discourse 
(39), (41), (44); character 

(40) and conduct (41); Cru- 
aoe'o idea-s about baptism 

(41) and marriage (45); the 
maid's discourse upon starv- 
ing (45) ; the Chinese Man- 
darin s horse (45) ; De Foe's 
account of China (46). 

Indians (IX), (39), (40), (45). 
Ink : see contract. 
Inquisition (the), (XVI), (20). 
Invisible World, (XVIII). 

J 

Jack-of-all-trades, (41). 
Jago (Saint), (39). 
Janizaries, (XVI). 
Jesuits, (43). 
Jonas, (8). 

Joy (extravagant), (37-38). 
Jure Divmo, (XIII). 
Jiistin {History of), (34). 

K 
Kidderminster, (X). 



Laplanders, (44). 

Latin quotations, (I), (VII), 

(24), (32), (47). 
Lime-house Hole, (IX). 
Lime-Kilns, (XI). 
London, (n), (21), (28), (46). 
London Prentice {the), {X\ 

M 

Mahometanism, (XV). 
Mecca, (XVI). 



Mercenary writer (De Foe, a), 

(xni). 

Middle state of life, (5). 

Milton, (VII).. 

Missionaries (Popish), (41-44)- 

Mogul (the Great), (XV). 

Monomotopa, (XVI). 

Morality (offended by De Foe): 

see Robinson Crusoe. 
Multitheism, (XV). 
Muscovy, (XVI). 

N 

Nephew (Crusoe's), (IX). 
Newington, (V). 
Nonsense, (23), (36-37). 
Nutcrackers, (XII), (XIII). 



O 



Opium, (29). 
Orinoco (River), (14)- 



Paddington, (XIII). 

Papists, (IV), (VIII), (13), (26)- 

(30), (4o-40> (47)- 
Patriotism : see Robinson 

Crusoe. 

Paul (SaiTit), (43)- 

Pekin., (46). 

Peter (Saint), (43)- 

Philistines, (VI). 

Pilgrim's Progress (the), (X). 

Pliny, (34). 

Plutarch, (34)- 

Pockets (Crusoe's) : see Incon- 
sistencies. 

Popery, (VIII), (XIV), (XV), 
(26), (40), (47)- 

Portugal, (27). 



— i88 



Portuguese sailors, (VIII), (i8). 
Portuguex?e ^hip, (13), (14), 

(15), (")• 
Practice of Piety (the), (X). 

Priest in China (the), (IX). 
Prophancnciss : see Robinson 

Crusoe. 
Prophecy, (8). 
Protestants, (40-41). 
Proteus, (III). 

Providence, (3), (5), (8), (19). 
Pyecorner, (X). 
Pyrenees, (27). 



Quakers, (XV). 

R 

Reflections (Moral), (3031), 

(35)- 

Religion ; see Robinson Cru- 
soe. 

Robinson Crusoe : an allegoric- 
al character (X) ; his dress 
(VI); his education (VII), 
(X), (6), (18), (21), (23); hifi 
religion (VIII), (lo-ii), (18), 
(21-22), (36); justification of 
his conduct, (5); he goes to 
sea (7); stays in London (11); 
goes to Guinea, (12), (21); is 
captured by Rovere, (12); 
escapes (13); turns Papist 
(13); hi shipwrecked (14); 
ransacks the Ship, (15) ; his 
accouTt of Good and Evil, 
(16); complains of the Wick- 
edness of a Seafaring Life 
(17), (21); he leaves his in- 
land, (27); crosses the Pyre- 
nees, (27) ; travels again (28) ; 



has a Dream, (36) ; dis- 
courses with the French 
Priest, (39) ; travels ini China 
(45) ; burns the Tartarian 
Idol (46). 
Robinson Crusoe {Life of) : a 
badly-written book, (i), (23), 
(30) > (3O, (32); a book for 
the Canaille (32) ; damigerous 
for good morals (VII), 
(XVI), (2), (30); for patriot- 
ism (3), (9); for religion, 
(VII), (2), (8-9), (15), (18-19). 
(24), (26), (29), (33) ; — a Ro- 
mance (31), (33). 
Robinson Crusoe {Further Ad- 
ventures of) : a tedious book 
(29) ; its absurd Preface (30- 
35) ; its falise English (37), 
(39) ; its defence of Popery, 
(40), (42), (43); its religion, 
(36), (38), (47); it> account of 
China, (46). 
Rome, (43)- 

Royal-Exchange, (XI). 
Royal Regiment, (XVIII). 
Rules of Art, (35). 
Rum, (15). 



Sailors (praise of), (10), (18). 
Saint-Germain, (XIII). 
Saints (Popish), (26), (43), (47)- 
Sale (Morocco), (12), (22). 
Salt ; see Inconsistencies. 
Samoyedes, (44). 
Saul,' (XII). 
Savages, (39). 
Scotchman, (46). 
Seafaring life, (VIII), (3), (9). 
(17-18). 



1 89 



Secret Hint, (VI). (5), (14), (25), 

' {27), i33)- 

Shipwreck (Crusoe's), (14). 

Siam, (XV). 

Sin (Madam), (VU). 

Slaves, (14). 

Socrates, (25). 

Soliloquy (De Foe's), (XVIII). 

Sortes Virgilimuie, (24). 

Spain, (27). 

Spaniard (the), (27), (38), (45) 

SfanisJi iiiiotation^ (XIII). 

Spanish saiior?, (VIII). 

Starving, (45). 

Stench, (XV Hi). 

Super,stiti.on sec Robins,on 

Crusoe. 



T 



.Tartars, (44), (46). 
Tartary, (XIII), (46). 
T . B . a Dealer in many W ords 

(XV). 
Temple (Sir V\'illiam), (34), 

(46). 
Thames St. (XII). 
Tories. (IV), rXII), (XIII), 

(XIV). 
Tory v.riterh. (XIV). 
Trade, (5). 



Tripos, (XUl). 

'i'rogu- i'ompeiu.s, (34). 

T nie-born Engtishman {the)^ 

(XIV). 
Turki:h Rover, (12). 
Tuttlr St. (IX). 

V 

Van Dale, (34). 
V;uiinus, (25). 
Virgin, (59), (43). 

\V 

Vv'avos : iw Inconsistencies. 

Vvest-Indies, (20). 

Whigs, (IV), (XII), (XIII), 

(XIV). 
Whimsical being (Crusoe, a) 

(VIII), (IX), (10), (25). 
Whimsical beiug (De Foe, a) 

(X), (XI), (XV). 
William (King), (XVIII). 
Vrine : see Inconsistencies. 



X 



Xury, (13), (22). 



Y 



Yarmouth. (7), di), (18) 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Preface * 3 

The Life of Charles Gildon 5 

I. Gildon's fir^st attempts as a writer 5 

II. Gildon't career as a playwright 13 

III. Gildon a^ pamphleteer 22 

IV. Gildon's quarrel with Pope, and last days.... 31 

A Chronological List of Gildonfis works 47 

Introduction to Gildons pamphlet 55 

The Life and Str.'uige Surprizing Adventures of Mr D... 

De F 6 



J 



The Preface 65 

A Dialogue betwixt D... F...e, Robinson Crusoe, 

and his Man Friday C7 

An Epistle to D... D' F...e Si 

Postscript 109 

Notefc 1 2Q 

Index to Gildons Life 181 

Index to the pamphlet 185 



PR Gildon, Charles 

34.03 Robinson Crusoe exainin'd 

Z5G55 and criticis'd 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



