ROBINSON'S MATHEMATICAL SERIES, 
 
 ELEMENTS 
 
 OF 
 
 GEOMETRY, 
 
 PLANE AND SPHERICAL; 
 
 WITH 
 
 NUMEROUS PRACTICAL PROBLEMS, 
 
 BY 
 
 HORATIO N. ROBINSON, LL.D., 
 
 AUTHOR OP A FULL COURSE^OF MATHEMATICS. 
 REWRITTEN BY 
 
 I. F. QUINBY, A.M., LL.D., 
 
 PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, UNIVER8rTY OF EOCHE8TER ; 
 AUTHOR OF DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL CALCULUS. 
 
 IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO. 
 NEW YORK: CHICAGO: • 
 
ptOBusrsoisrs 
 SERIES OF MATHEMATICS. 
 
 The most Complete, most Practical, and most Scientific Series of 
 Mathematical Text-Books ever issued in this country. 
 
ptOBusrsoisrs 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Table HooJe, ....... 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Primary Arithmetic, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Intellectual Arithmetic, .... 
 
 Robinson's Rudiments of Written Arithmetic, - 
 Robinson's Progressive Practical Arithmetic, - 
 Robinson's Key to Practical Arithmetic, ------ 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Higher Arithmetic, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's Key to Higher Arithmetic, .---.- 
 Robinson's Arithmetical Examples, ------- 
 
 Robinson's New Elementary Algebra, 
 
 Robinson's Key to Elementary Algebra, 
 
 Robinson's "University Algebra, -------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to University Algebra, ------ 
 
 Robinson's New University Algebra, ------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to New University Algebra, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's New Geometry and Trigonometry, 
 
 Robinson's New Geometry only, -------- 
 
 Robinson's New Trigonometry only, 
 
 Robinson's Surveying and Navigation, ------ 
 
 Robinson's Analytical Geometry and Conic Sections, - - - 
 Robinson's Differential and Integral Calculus, - 
 Kiddle's New Elementary Astronomy, ---.-. 
 Robinson's University Astronomy, ..-.--- 
 Robinson's Mathematical Operations, ------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to Geometry and Trigonometry, Conic Sections, 
 and Analytical Geometry, --------- 
 
 ), according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by 
 DANIEL W. FISH, A.M., 
 in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern 
 District of New York. 
 

 PEEFAOE, 
 
 In the preparation of this work, the author's previous 
 treatise, Elements of Geometry, has formed the ground- 
 work of construction. But in adapting the work to the 
 present advanced state of Mathematical education in our 
 best Institutions, it was found necessary so to alter the 
 plan, and the arrangement of subjects, as to make this 
 essentially a new work. The demonstrations of proposi- 
 tions have undergone radical changes, many new proposi- 
 tions have been introduced, and the number of Practical 
 Problems greatly increased, so that the work is now believed 
 to be as full and complete as could be desired in an elemen- 
 tary treatise. 
 
 In view of the fact that the Seventh Book is so much 
 larger than the others, it may be asked why it is not divided 
 into two. We answer, that classifications and divisions 
 are based upon differences, and that the differences seized 
 upon for this purpose must be determined by the nature of 
 the properties and relations we wish to investigate. There 
 is such a close resemblance between the geometrical prop- 
 erties of the polyedrons and the round bodies, and the 
 demonstrations relating to the former require such slight 
 modifications to become applicable to the latter, that there 
 seems no sufficient reason for separating into two Books 
 that part of Geometry which treats of them. 
 
 M5498G7 
 
i T PREFACE. 
 
 Practical rules with applications will be found throughout 
 the work, and in addition to these, there is a full collection 
 of carefully selected Practical Problems. These are given 
 to exercise the powers and test the proficiency of the pupil, 
 and when he has mastered the most or all of them, it is 
 not likely that he will rest satisfied with present acquisi- 
 tion, but, conscious of augmented strength and certain of 
 reward, he will enter new fields of investigation. 
 
 The author has been aided, in the preparation of the 
 present work, by I. F. Quinby, A.M., of the University of 
 Eochester, N. Y., late Professor of Mathematics in the 
 United States Military Academy at West Point. The 
 thorough scholarship and long and successful experience 
 of this gentleman in the class-room, eminently qualify him 
 for such a task; and to him the public are indebted for* 
 much that is valuable, both in the matter and arrangement 
 of this treatise. 
 
 October, 1860. 
 
CONTENTS. 
 
 PLANE GEOMETRY. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 Geometrical Magnitudes ... ... ....... . .. . Page 9 
 
 Plane Angles 10 
 
 Plane Figures of Three Sides w*.-~.U^ 12 
 
 Plane Figures of Four Sides. .....-^. ...... ....... 13 
 
 The Circle ......... ..... ... 14 
 
 Units of Measure .................. 15 
 
 Explanation of Terms. 16 
 
 Postulates.. —...-...-r. .. . 16 
 
 Axioms -. .. 17 
 
 Abbreviations 17 
 
 BOOK I. 
 Of Straight Lines, Angles, and Polygons... ....... -^.. ... . 19 
 
 BOOK II. 
 Proportion, and its Application to Geometrical Investigations. ... 59 
 
 BOOK III. 
 Of the Circle, and the Investigation of Theorems dependent on its 
 
 Properties 88 
 
 1* M 
 
 
 BOOK IV. 
 
 Problems in the Construction of Figures in Plane Geometry.. ... Ill 
 
 BOOK V. 
 
 On the Proportionalities and Measurement of Polygons and Circles. 130 
 Practical Problems 142 
 
 BOOK VI. 
 
 On the Intersections of Planes, the Kelative Positions of Planes, 
 
 and of Planes and Lines 152 
 
 BOOK VII. 
 
 Solid Geometry t 172 
 
 Practical Problems 229 
 
 BOOK VIII. 
 
 Practical Geometry. — Application of Algebra to Geometry, and 
 
 also Propositions for Original Investigation 231 
 
 Miscellaneous Propositions in Plane Geometry 238 
 
 BOOK IX. 
 
 Spherical Geometry 243 
 
 Definitions 243 
 
GEOMETRY. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. Geometry is the science which treats of position, and 
 of the forms, measurements, mutual relations, and pro- 
 perties of limited portions of space. 
 
 Space extends without limit in all directions, and contains all 
 bodies. 
 
 2. A Point is mere position, and has no magnitude. 
 
 3. Extension is a term employed to denote that pro- 
 perty of bodies by virtue of which they occupy definite 
 portions of space. The dimensions of extension are 
 length, breadth, and thickness. 
 
 4. A Line is that which has extension in length only. 
 The extremities of a line are points. 
 
 5. A Right or Straight Line is one all of whose parts 
 lie in the same direction. 
 
 6. A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how- 
 ever small, do not lie in the same direction. 
 
 7. A Broken or Crooked Line is 
 composed of several straight lines, 
 joined one to another successively, 
 and extending in different directions. 
 
 When the word line is used, a straight line is to be understood, 
 unless otherwise expressed. 
 
 8. A Surface or Superficies is that which has extension 
 in length and breadth only. 
 
 9. A Plane Surface, or a Plane, is a surface such that 
 
 (9) 
 
 
 if any two of its points be joined by a straight line, every' 
 point of this line will lie in the surface. 
 
 10. A Curved Surface is one which is neither a plane, 
 nor composed of plane surfaces. 
 
 11. A Plane Angle, or simply an Angle, 
 is the difference in the direction of two 
 lines proceeding from the same point. 
 
 The other angles treated of in geometry will be named and defined 
 in their proper connections. 
 
 12. A Volume, Solid, or Body, is that which has exten- 
 sion in length, breadth, and thickness. 
 
 These terms are used in a sense purely abstract, to denote mere 
 space — whether occupied by matter or not, being a question with 
 which geometry is not concerned. 
 
 Lines, Surfaces, Angles, and Volumes constitute the 
 different kinds of quantity called geometrical magnitudes. 
 
 13. Parallel Lines are lines which have 
 
 the same direction. 
 
 Hence parallel lines can never meet, however far they may be 
 produced ; for two lines taking the same direction cannot approach 
 or recede from each other. 
 
 Two parallel lines cannot be drawn from the same point; for it 
 parallel, they must coincide and form one line. 
 
 PLANE ANGLES. 
 
 To make an angle apparent, the two 
 lines must meet in a point, as AB and 
 A 0, which meet in the point A , 
 
 Angles are measured by degrees. 
 
 14. A Degree is one of the three hundred and sixty 
 equal parts of the space about a point in a plane. 
 
 If, in the above figure, we suppose A C to coincide with AB, 
 there will be but one line, and no angle ; but if AB retain its posi 
 tion, and A G begin to revolve about the point A, an angle will be 
 formed, and its magnitude will be expressed by that number of the 
 
fl. 
 
 c 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 11 
 
 860 equal spaces about the point A, which is contained between 
 AB and A G. 
 
 Angles are distinguished in respect to magnitude by 
 the terms Right, Acute, and Obtuse Angles. J 
 
 15. A Right Angle is that formed by one 
 line meeting another, so as to make equal 
 angles with that other. 
 
 The lines forming a right angle are perpendicular 
 to *ach other. 
 
 16. An Acute Angle is less than a right 
 angle. 
 
 17. An Obtuse Angle is greater than 
 a right angle. 
 
 Obtuse and acute angles are also called 
 oblique angles; and lines which are neither parallel nor perpen- 
 dicular to each other are called oblique lines. 
 
 18. The Vertex or Apex of an angle is the point in which 
 the including lines meet. 
 
 19. An angle is commonly designated by a letter at its 
 vertex; but when two or more angles have their vertices 
 at the same point, they cannot be 
 thus distinguished. 
 
 For example, when the three lines 
 AB y A C, and AD meet in the common 
 point Aj we designate either of the an- 
 gles formed, by three letters, placing 
 that at the vertex between those at the 
 opposite extremities of the including 
 lines. Thus, we say, the angle BAG, 
 etc. B 
 
 20. Complements. — Two angles are said to be comple 
 ments of each other, when their sum is equal to one right 
 angle. 
 
 21. Supplements. — Two angles are said to be supple- 
 ments of each other, when their sum is equal to two n^ht 
 angles. 
 
 r 
 
 
 PLANE FIGURES. 
 
 22. A Plane Figure, in geometry, is a portion of a 
 plane bounded by straight or curved lines, or by both 
 combined. 
 
 23. A Polygon is a plane figure bounded by straight 
 Hues, called the sides of the polygon. 
 
 The least number of sides that can bound a polygon is 
 three, and by the figure thus bounded all other polygons 
 are analyzed. 
 
 FIGURES OF THREE SIDES. 
 
 24. A Triangle is a polygon having three sides and 
 three angles. 
 
 Tri is a Latin prefix signifying three ; hence a Triangle is lite < 
 /ally a figure containing three angled. Triangles are denominated 
 from the relations both of their sides and angles. 
 
 25. A Scalene Triangle is one in 
 which no two sides are equal. 
 
 26. An Isosceles Triangle is one in 
 which two of the sides are equal. 
 
 27. An Equilateral Triangle is one in 
 arhich the three sides are equal. 
 
 28. A Right -Angled Triangle is one 
 which has one of the angles a right 
 angle. 
 
 29. An Obtrse-Angled Triangle is one 
 1 aving an obtuse angle. 
 
DEFINITIONS. 13 
 
 30. An Acute- Angled Triangle is one 
 in which each angle is acute. 
 
 31. An Equiangular Triangle is one 
 having its three angles jqual. 
 
 Equiangular triangles are dso equilateral, and vice versa. 
 FIGURES OF FOUR SIDES. 
 
 32. A Quadrilateral is a polygon having four sides and 
 four angles. 
 
 33. A Parallelogram is a quadrilateral 7 
 
 which has its opposite sides parallel. / / 
 
 Parallelograms are denominated from the rela- _• 
 
 tions both of their sides and angles. 
 
 34. A Rectangle is a parallelogram hav- 
 ing its angles right angles. 
 
 35. A Square is an equilateral rectangle. 
 
 36. A Rhomboid is an oblique-angled parallelogram. 
 
 37. A Rhombus is an equilateral rhom- 
 boid. 
 
 38. A Trapezium is a quadrilateral having 
 10 two sides parallel. 
 
 39. A Trapezoid is a quadrilateral in f 
 hich two opposite s* J 
 i le other two oblique. 
 
 v/hich two opposite sides are parallel, and / 
 
 40. Polygous bounded by a greater number of sides 
 2 
 
 
 than four are denominated only by the number of sides. 
 A polygon of five sides is called a Pentagon • of six, a 
 Hexagon ; of seven, a Heptagon / of eight, an Octagon ; 
 of nine, a JVonagon, etc. 
 
 4L Diagonals of a polygon are lines 
 joining the vertices of angles not ad- 
 jacent. 
 
 42. The Perimeter of a polygon is its boundary consid 
 ered as a whole. 
 
 43. The Base of a polygon is the side upon which the 
 polygon is supposed to stand. 
 
 44. The Altitude of a polygon is the perpendicular 
 distance between the base and a side or angle opposite 
 the base. 
 
 45. Equal Magnitudes are those which are not only 
 equal in all their parts, but which also, when applied the 
 one to the other, will coincide throughout their whole 
 extent. 
 
 46. Equivalent Magnitudes are those which, though they 
 do not admit of coincidence when applied the one to the 
 other, still have common measures, and are therefore 
 numerically equal. 
 
 47. Similar Figures have equal angles, and the same 
 number of sides. 
 
 Polygons may be similar without being equal ; that is, the angles 
 and the number of sides may be equal, and the length of the sides 
 and the size of the figures unequal. 
 
 X THE CIRCLE. 
 
 48. A Circle is a plane figure bound- 
 ed by one uniformly curved line, all of 
 the points in which are at the same 
 distance from a certain point within, 
 called the Center, 
 
 49. The Circumference of a circle is 
 the curved line that bounds it. 
 
 \ 
 
 
 50. The Diameter of a circle is a line passing througn 
 its center, and terminating at both ends in the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 51. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from 
 its center to any point in the circumference. It is one 
 half of the diameter. All the diameters of a circle are 
 equal, as are also all the radii. 
 
 52. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 53. An angle having its vertex at the center of a 
 circle is measured by the arc intercepted by its sides. 
 Thus, the arc AB measures the angle A OB ; and in gen- 
 eral, to compare different angles, we have but to compare 
 the arcs, included by their sides, of the equal circles 
 having their centers at the vertices of the angles. 
 
 UNITS OF MEASURE. 
 
 54. The Numerical Expression of a Magnitude is a number 
 expressing how many times it contains a magnitude of the 
 Bame kind, and of known value, assumed as a unit. 
 For lines, the measuring unit is any straight line of fixed 
 value, as an inch, a foot, a rod, etc. ; and for surfaces, the 
 measuring unit is a square whose side may be any linear 
 unit, as an inch, a foot, a mile, etc. The linear unit 
 being arbitrary, the surface unit is equally so ; and its 
 selection is determined by considerations of convenience 
 and propriety. 
 
 For example, the parallelogram A BBC is mea- c D 
 
 sured by the number of linear units in CD, mul- 
 tiplied by the number of linear units in AC ox 
 BD; the product is the square units in ABDC. 
 For, conceive CD to be composed of any number A B 
 
 of equal parts — say five — and each part some unit of linear measure, 
 and AC composed of three such units; from each point of divi- 
 sion on CD draw lines parallel to A C, and from each point of divi- 
 sion on A C draw lines parallel to CD or AB ; then it is as obvious 
 
 
 as an axiom that the parallelogram will contain 5 X 3 = 15 square 
 units. Hence, to find the areas of right-angled parallelograms, mul- 
 tiply the base by the altitude. 
 
 EXPLANATION OF TERMS. 
 
 55. An Axiom is a self-evident truth, not only too sim- 
 ple to require, but too simple to admit of, demonstration. 
 
 56. A Proposition is something which is either pro- 
 posed to be done, or to be demonstrated, and is either a 
 problem or a theorem. 
 
 57. A Problem is something proposed to be done. 
 
 58. A Theorem is something proposed to be demon- 
 strated. 
 
 59. A Hypothesis is a supposition made with a view to 
 draw from it some consequence which establishes the 
 truth or falsehood of a proposition, or solves a problem. 
 
 60. A Lemma is something which is premised, or demon- 
 strated, in order to render what follows more easy. 
 
 61. A Corollary is a consequent truth derived imme- 
 diately from some preceding truth or demonstration. 
 
 62. A Scholium is a remark or observation made upon 
 something going before it. 
 
 63. A Postulate is a problem, the solution of which is 
 self-evident. 
 
 POSTULATES. 
 
 Let it be granted — 
 
 I. That a straight line can be drawn from any one poirt 
 to any other point ; 
 
 IL. That a straight line can be produced to any distance, 
 or terminated at any point ; 
 
 III. That the circumference of a circle can be de- 
 Bcrjbed about any center, at any distance from that center. 
 
 
 AXIOMS. 
 
 1. Things which are equal to the same thing are equal U 
 each other. 
 
 2. Wlien equals are added to equals the wholes are equal, 
 
 3. When equals are taken from equals the remainders are 
 equal. 
 
 4. When equals are added to unequals the wholes are 
 unequal. 
 
 5. Wlien equals are taken from unequals the remainders 
 are unequal. 
 
 6. Things which are double of the same thing, or equal 
 things, are equal to each other. 
 
 7. Things which are halves of the same thing, or of equal 
 things, are equal to each other. 
 
 8. The whole is greater than any of its parts. 
 
 9. Every whole is equal to all its parts taken together. 
 
 10. Things which coincide, or fill the same space, are 
 identical, or mutually equal in all their parts. 
 
 11. All right angles are equal to one another. 
 
 12. A straight line is the shortest distance between two 
 points. 
 
 18. Two straight lines cannot inclose a space. 
 
 ABBREVIATIONS. 
 
 The common algebraic signs are used in this work, 
 and demonstrations are sometimes made through the 
 medium of equations ; and it is so necessary that the 
 student in geometry should understand some of the more 
 simple operations of algebra, that we assume that he is 
 acquainted with the use of the signs. As the terms 
 circle, angle, triangle, hypothesis, axiom, theorem, cor- 
 ollary, and definition, are constantly occurring in a course 
 of geometiy, we shall abbreviate them as shown in the 
 following list : 
 
 
 By Th. 1, any two supplementary angles, as ABD^ 
 ABO, are together equal to two right angles. And since 
 the angular space about the point B is neither increased 
 nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that 
 point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABU, JEBH, 
 HBQ, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD, 
 HBO. Hence the theorem ; from any point in a line, the 
 sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of 
 the line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be 
 formed on the other side of the line, OB, is also equal to 
 two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be 
 formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are 
 together equal to four right angles. 
 
 Oor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum- 
 ference of a circle, being the sum of the 
 measures of all the angles that can be 
 made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the 
 measure of four right angles; conse- 
 quently, a semicircumference. is the mea- 
 sure of two right angles ; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the 
 measure of one right angle. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 X 
 
 If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles, which together are equal 
 tc two right angles the 'two straight lines are one and the. 
 tame line. 
 
 Let the line AB meet the 
 lines BD and BE at the com- 
 mon point B, making the sum 
 of tne two angles ABB, ABB, 
 equal to two right angles; We j£ 
 are to prove that DB and BE* 
 
 are one straight line 
 
 j^' 
 
BOOK I. 21 
 
 If I)B and BE are not in the same line, produce DB 
 to 0, thus forming one line, BBC 
 
 Now by Th. 1, ABB + ABO must be equal to two 
 right angles. But by hypothesis, ABB 4- ABE is equal 
 to two right angles. 
 
 * Therefore, ABB + ABO is equal to ABB -f ABE, 
 (Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com- 
 mon angle ABB, and the angle ABO will be equal to 
 ABE, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with 
 BO, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and 
 they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if one line meets two other lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles which together are equal 
 to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line. 
 
 THEOKEM IV. 
 
 If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 If AB and OB intersect each 
 other at E, we are to demonstrate 
 that the angle AEO is equal to 
 the vertical angle BEB ; and the 
 angle AEB, to the vertical angle 
 OEB. 
 
 As AB is one line met by BE, another line, the two 
 angles AEB and BEB, on the same side of AB, are equal 
 to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because OB is a right 
 line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEO and AEB 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Therefore, AEB + BEB = AEO + AEB. (Ax. 1.) 
 
 If from these equals we take away the common angle 
 AEB, the remaining angle BEB must be equal to the 
 remaining angle AEO, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we can 
 prove that AEB is equal to OEB. Hence the theo**en. ; 
 if the two lines intersect each other, the vertic %l angle* mu it 
 be equal. 
 
 
 By Th. 1, any two supplementary angles, as ABD^ 
 ABC, are together equal to two right angles. And since 
 the angular space about the point B is neither increased 
 nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that 
 point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABU, EBH, 
 HBO, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD, 
 HBQ. Hence the theorem ; from any point in a line, the 
 sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of 
 the line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be 
 formed on the other side of the line, CD, is also equal to 
 two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be 
 formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are 
 together equal to four right angles. 
 
 Cor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum- 
 ference of a circle, being the sum of the 
 measures of all the angles that can be 
 made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the 
 measure of four right angles; conse- 
 quently, a semicircumference, is the mea- 
 sure of two right angles ; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the 
 measure of one right angle. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 t 
 
 If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles, which together are equal 
 tc two right angles the 'two straight lines are one and the 
 tame line. 
 
 Let the line AB meet the 
 lines BD and BE at the com- A 
 
 mon point B, making the sum 
 of tne two angles ABB, ABE, 
 equal to two right angles ; We 
 are to prove that DB and BlM 
 are one straight line. 
 
 
 If 1)B and BE are not in the same line, produce BB 
 to 0, thus forming one line, BBC. 
 
 Now by Th. 1, ABB -f ABO must be equal to two 
 right angles. But by hypothesis, ABB + ABB is equal 
 to two right angles. 
 
 * Therefore, ABB + ABO is equal to ABB + ABB, 
 (Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com- 
 mon angle ABB, and the angle ABO will be equal to 
 ABB, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with 
 BO, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and 
 they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if one line meets two other lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles which together are equal 
 to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 If AB and OB intersect each 
 other at E, we are to demonstrate 
 that the angle AEO is equal to 
 the vertical angle BEB ; and the 
 angle AEB, to the vertical angle 
 OEB. 
 
 As AB is one line met by BE, another line, the two 
 angles AEB and BEB, on the same side of AB, are equal 
 to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because OB is a right 
 line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEO and AEB 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Therefore, AEB + BEB = AEO + AEB. (Ax. 1.) 
 
 If from these equals we take away the common angle 
 AEB, the remaining angle BEB must be equal to the 
 remaining angle AEO, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we can 
 prove that AEB is equal to OEB. Hence the thecen. ; 
 if the two lines intersect each other, the vertic il angle* km it 
 be equal. 
 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 
 By Def. 11, the angle DEB is the difference in the 
 direction of the lines ED and EB ; and the angle AEQ 
 is the difference in the direction of the lines EC and EA. 
 
 But ED is opposite in direction to EC; and EB is 
 opposite in direction to EA. 
 
 Hence, the difference in the direction of ED and EB 
 is the same as that of EC and EA> as is obvious by in- 
 spection. 
 
 Therefore, the angle DEB is equal to its opposite AEC 
 
 In like manner, we may prove AED = CEB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two lines intersect each other, ths 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 If a straight line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of 
 the two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting 
 line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 [Note. — By interior angles, we mean angles which lie between the 
 parallels ; the exterior angles are those not between the parallels.] 
 
 Let the line EF intersect the 
 parallels AB and CD \ then 
 we are to demonstrate that 
 the angles BGE + GHD = 
 
 2K.L 
 
 Because GB and ED are C /H d 
 
 parallel, they are equally in- <£ 
 
 clined to the line EF, or have 
 
 the same difference of direction from that line. There- 
 fore, |_ FGB = [__ GHD. To each of these equals add 
 the \_BGH, and we have FGB +BGH=GITD+BGB:. 
 But by Th. 1, the first member of this equation is equal 
 to two right angles ; and the second member is the sum 
 of the two angles between the parallels. Hence the theo- 
 rem ; if a line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of the two 
 interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line must 
 be equal to two right angle*. 
 
 
 Sctt&Ln* — As AB and CD are parallel lines, and EF is a line 
 intersecting them, AB and EF must make angles equal to those made 
 by CD and EF. That is, the angles about the point G must be equal 
 to the corresponding angles about the point H. 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 If a line intersects two parallel lines, the alternate interior 
 angles are equal. 
 
 Let AB and CD be paral- 
 lels, intersected by EF at E 
 and G. Then we are to prove 
 
 that the angle A GE is equal 
 
 to the alternate angle GED, 
 
 and QEG = EGB. c ~7W " D 
 
 By Th. 5, [_BGE + \__ / 
 
 GED = two right angles. Al- 
 so, by Th. 1, \_AGE + [_BGE = two right angles. 
 From these equals take away the common angle BGE, 
 and L GHD will be left, equal to \_AGE, (Ax. 3). In 
 like manner, we can prove that the angle QEG is equal 
 to the angle EGB. Hence the theorem ; if a line intersects 
 two parallel lines, the alternate interior angles are equal. 
 
 Cor. 1. Since [__ A GE = [__ FGB, 
 
 and \_AGE=[__GED; 
 
 Therefore, L FGB - |_ &HD (Ax. 1). 
 
 Also, L A &F + L A GH = 2 R - L> (Th. 1), 
 
 and L OEG + [_AGE = 2 K. L, (Th. 5); 
 
 Therefore 
 
 \_AGF + l_AGE= [_CEG + L_AGE,(Ax.l); 
 
 and L A GF = L OEG, (Ax. 3). 
 
 That is, the exterior angle is equal to the interior opposiU 
 angle on the same side of the intersecting line. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since \_AGE = [_FGB, 
 
 and l_AGE=\_CEE; 
 
 Therefore, [__FGB = |_ OEE. 
 
 In the same manner it may be shown that 
 [__AGF = \_EED. 
 
 Hence, the alternate exterior angles are equal. 
 
 v * 
 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If a line intersects two other lines, making the sum of the 
 two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line 
 equal to two right angles, the two straight lines are parallel. 
 
 Let the line EF intersect 
 the lines AB and OB, making 
 the two angles BQR + GHB A 
 = to two right angles ; then 
 we are to demonstrate that 
 AB and OB are parallel. C /H "~ d 
 
 As EF is a right line and E ' 
 
 BGr meets it, the two angles 
 
 FCrB and BGH are together equal to two right angles, 
 (Th. 1). But by hypothesis, the angles, BGHnnd GHB, 
 are together equal to two right angles. From these two 
 equals take away the common angle BGrH, and the re- 
 maining angles FGB and GHD must be equal, (Ax. 3). 
 Now, because GB and HD make equal angles with the 
 same line EF, they must extend in the same direction ; and 
 lines having the same direction are parallel, (Def. 13). 
 Hence the theorem ; if a line intersects two other lines, making 
 the sum of the two interior angles on the same side of the in- 
 tersecting line equal to two right angles, the two lines must b« 
 'parallel. 
 
 Cor. 1. If a line intersects two other lines, making the 
 alternate interior angles equal, the two lines intersected 
 must be parallel. 
 
 Suppose the \_ AGH = |__ & HI) - Adding L H& B 
 to each, we have 
 
 [_AGH + [_HGB = L_ GHB + [__HGB. 
 but the first member of this equation, that is, [_AGfH-+ 
 |__ HGB, is equal to two right angles ; hence the second 
 member is also equal to the same ; and by the theorem, 
 the lines AB and OB are parallel. 
 
 Cor. 2. If a line intersects two other lines, making the 
 
 
 opposite exterior and interior angles equal, the two lines 
 
 intersected must be parallel. 
 Suppose the [_ FGB = [_ GRD. Adding the [__ HGB 
 
 to each, we have 
 
 [_FGB + \_EGB = L &HD + ##£. 
 
 But the first member of this equation is equal to two 
 
 right angles ; hence the second member is also equal to 
 
 two right angles ; and by the theorem, the lines AB and 
 
 OB are parallel. 
 
 Oor. 3. If a line intersects two other lines, making tbo 
 
 alternate exterior angles equal, the lines must be parallel: 
 Suppose [_BGF=[_ORF, and [_AGF = [_DRF, 
 ByTh.4, [_BGF^[__AGR,2ind[_ORF = [_DRG 
 And since [_BGF = [_ORF, [__AGR=[_DRG . 
 That is, the alternate interior angles are equal; an* J 
 
 hence (by Cor. 1) the two lines are parallel. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If two angles have their sides parallel, the two angles will 
 be either equal or supplementary. 
 
 Let A be parallel to BD, and AH 
 parallel to BF or to BG. Then we are 
 to pror^ that the angle DBx is equal 
 to the angle OAR, and that the angle 
 DBG is supplementary to the angle A. 
 The angle OAR is formed by the differ- 
 ence in the direction of A and A R; and 
 the angle DBF is formed by the differ- 
 ence in the direction of BB and BF. 
 But A and A R have the same direc- 
 tions as BB and BF, because they are respectively paral- 
 lel. Therefore, by Def. 11, L CAR= \__BBF. But the 
 line BG has the same, direction as BF, and the angle 
 DBG is supplementary to DBF. Hence the theorem; 
 angles whose sides are parallel are either equal or supple* 
 inentary. 
 3 
 
 X 
 
 \ 
 
 
 v, • THEOREM IX. 
 
 The opposite angles of any parallelogram we equal. 
 
 Let AEBG be a parallel- 
 ogram. Then we are to \ 
 
 prove that the angle GBE 6 \] 
 
 is equal to its opposite angle 
 A. 
 
 Produce EB to D, and GB 
 to F; then, since BD is par- 
 allel to AG, and BF to AE, the angle DBF is equal co 
 the angle A, (Th. 8). 
 
 But the angles GBE and DBF, being vertical, are 
 equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, the opposite angles GBE and 
 A, of the parallelogram AEBG, are equal. 
 
 In like manner, we can prove the angle E equal to 
 the angle G. Hence the theorem ; the opposite angles of 
 any parallelogram are equal. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The sum of the angles of any parallelogram i» equal to 
 four right angles. 
 
 Let ABQD be a parallelo- 
 gram. We are to prove that 
 the sum of the angles A, B, 
 and D, is equal to four right 
 angles, or to 360°. 
 
 Because AD and BO are parallel lines, and AB inter- 
 sects them, the two interior angles A and B are together 
 equal to two right angles, (Th. 5). And because CD in- 
 tersects the same parallels, the two interior angles O and 
 D are also together equal to two right angles. By addi- 
 tion, we have the sum of the four interior angles of the 
 parallelogram ABCD, equal to four right angles. Hence 
 the theorem ; the sum of the angles of any parallelogram is 
 taual tc four right angles. 
 
 is. x 
 
A 
 
 BOOK I. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 27 
 
 V 
 
 The sum of the three angles of any triangle is equal to two 
 right angles. 
 
 Let A B be a triangle, 
 and through its vertex 
 draw a line parallel to the 
 base AB, and produce 
 the sides A C and BO. 
 Then the angles A and 
 a, being exterior and in- 
 terior opposite angles on 
 the same side of the line AC, are equal to each other. 
 For the same reason, [_ E = L b. The angles C and c, 
 being vertical angles, are also equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, 
 the angles A, B, C are equal to the angles a, b, c respect- 
 ively. But the angles around the point C, on the upper 
 side of the parallel CD, are equal to two right angles, 
 (by Th. 2). Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three 
 angles, etc. 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 Let AEBG- be a parallelogram 
 
 Draw the diagonal GE ; thus di- 
 viding the parallelogram into two 
 triangles, and the opposite angles 
 G and E each into two angles. 
 
 Because GB and AE are parallel, the alternate interior 
 angles BGE and GEA are equal, (Th. 6). Designate 
 each of these by b. 
 
 In like manner, because EB and AG are parallel, the 
 alternate interior angles, BEG and EGA, are equal. 
 Designate each of these by a. 
 
 Now we are to prove that the three angles B, b, and a, 
 and also that the three angles A, a, and b, are equal to 
 two right angles. 
 
 
 Because A and B are opposite angles of a parallelo- 
 gram, they are equal, (Th. 9), and [_A -f [_B = 2 [__A. 
 
 And all the interior angles of the parallelogram are 
 equal to four right angles, (Th. 10). 
 
 Therefore, 2 A + 2a -f- 2b = 4 right angles. 
 
 Dividing by 2, and J. + a + & = 2 " 
 
 That is, all the angles of the triangle AGrE are together 
 equal to two right angles 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three angles, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Any triangle, as AGE, may be conceived to be part of 
 a parallelogram. For, let A GE be drawn independently of the paral- 
 lelogram ; then draw EB from the point E parallel to A G, and through 
 the point G draw GB parallel to AE, and a parallelogram will be 
 formed embracing the triangle ; and thus the sum of the three angles 
 of any triangle is proved equal to two right angles. 
 
 This truth is so fundamental, important, and practical, 
 as to require special attention ; we therefore give a 
 
 Third Demonstration. 
 
 Let ABQ be a triangle. Then 
 we are to show that the angles A, 
 Q, and ABQ, are together equal 
 *o two right angles. 
 
 Let AB be produced to D, and 
 from B draw BE parallel to A 0. 
 
 Then, EBB and CAB being exterior and interior op- 
 posite angles on the same side of the line AB, are equal, 
 (Th. 6, Cor.1). Also, QBE and AQB, being alternate 
 angles, are equal, (Th. 6). 
 
 By addition, observing that [__ QBE, added to \__EBB, 
 must make |__ QBD, we have 
 
 l_CBB = l_A + \_Q. (1.) 
 
 To each of these equals add the angle QBA, and we 
 shall have 
 
 L QBA + L OBB =L^ + L_tf+L OB A. 
 
 But (by Th. 1), the sum of the first two is equal to two 
 
 
 rigltt angles; therefore, the three angles, A, C, and CBA f 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three angles, etc. 
 
 y THEOREM XII. 
 
 If any side of a triangle is produced, the exterior angle i* 
 equal to the sum of the two interior opposite angles. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle. Pro- 
 duce AB to B; and we are to 
 prove that the angle CBB is equal 
 to the sum of the two angles A 
 and C. 
 
 We establish this theorem by a 
 course of reasoning in all respects the same as that hy 
 which we obtained Eq. (1.), third demonstration, (Th. 11). 
 
 Cor. 1. Since the exterior angle of any triangle is equal 
 to the sum of the two interior opposite angles, therefore 
 it is greater than either one of them. 
 
 Cor. 2. If two angles in one triangle be equal to two 
 angles in another triangle, the third angles will also be 
 equal, each to each, (Ax. 3); that is, the two triangles 
 will be mutually equiangular. 
 
 Cor. 3. If one angle in a triangle be equal to one angle 
 in another, the sum of the remaining angles in the one 
 will also be equal to the sum of the remaining angles in 
 the other, (Ax. 3). 
 
 Cor. 4. If one angle of a triangle be a right' angle, the 
 sum of the other two will be equal to a right angle, 
 and each of them singly will be acute, or less than a right -. 
 angle. 
 
 Cor. 5. The two smaller angles of every triangle are 
 acute, or each is less than a right angle. 
 
 Cor. 6. All the angles of a triangle may be acute, but 
 no triangl 3 can have more than one right or one obtuse 
 angle. 
 
 
 V THEOREM XIII. 
 
 In any polygon, the sum of all the interior angles is equal 
 to twice as many riglit angles, less four, as the figure has 
 
 Let ABODE be any polygon ; 
 we are to prove that the sum of 
 all its interior angles, A+B + O 
 + D+E, is equal to twice as 
 many right angles, less four, as 
 the figure has sides. 
 
 From any point, p, within the 
 figure, draw lines pA, pB, pG, etc., to all the angles, 
 thus dividing the polygon into as many triangles as it 
 has sides. Now, the sum of the three angles of each of 
 these triangles is equal to two right angles, (Th. 11) j and 
 the sum of the angles of all the triangles must be equal 
 to twice as many right angles as the figure has sides. But 
 the sum of these angles contains the sum of four right 
 angles about the point p ; taking these away, and the 
 remainder is the sum of the interior angles of the figure. 
 Therefore, the sum must be equal to twice as many right 
 angles, less four, as the figure has sides. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; in any polygon, etc. 
 
 From this Theorem is derived the rule for finding the 
 sum of the interior angles of any right-lined figure : 
 
 Subtract 2 from the number of sides, and multiply the re- 
 mainder by 2 ; the product will be the number of right angles. 
 
 Thus, if the number of sides be represented by S, the 
 number of right angles will be represented by (2#— 4). 
 
 The Theorem is not varied in case n 
 
 of a re-entrant angle, as repre- ^/"^ 
 
 sen ted at d, in the figure ABCdEF. -^^^^ L 
 
 Draw lines from the angle d to \ "/( 7 E 
 
 the several opposite angles, making \ / \ / 
 
 as many triangles as the figure has \/ \y 
 
 sides, less two, and the sum of the A F 
 
 three angles of each triangle equals two right angles. 
 
 X 
 
 BOOK I. 31 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 If the sides of one angle be respectively perpendicular 
 to the sides of a second angle, these two angles will be either 
 equal or supplementary. 
 
 Let BAD be the first angle, and 
 from any point within it, as C, draw / 
 
 CB and CD, at right angles, the 3 T^>C 
 first to AB } and the second to AD, I \ ^""-Jl 
 
 and produce CD in the direction / j 
 
 CD, thus forming at C the supple- A B 
 
 entary angles BCE, BCD ; then 
 will the angle BCD be equal to the angle A, and therefore 
 BCD, which is the supplement of BCD, will also be the 
 supplement of the angle A. 
 
 For since ABCD is a quadrilateral, the sum of the four 
 interior angles is four right angles (Prop. 13), and because 
 the angles ABC and ADC are each right angles, the sum 
 of the angles BAD, BCD is two right angles. But the 
 sum of the adjacent angles BCD, BCD is also two right 
 angles. Hence, if in these last two sums we omit the com- 
 mon angle BCD, we have remaining the angle BCD, equal 
 to the angle BAD, and consequently the angle BCD which 
 is the supplement of the first of these equal angles is also 
 the supplement of the other. 
 
 Hence the Theorem. 
 
 ScnoLiUM. — If the vertex of the second angle be without the first angle, 
 we would draw through any assumed point within the first angle parallels to 
 the sides of the second ; the above demonstration will then apply to the first 
 angle, and the angle formed by the parallels. 
 
 THEOREM XT. ,X 
 
 From any point ivithout a straight line, but one perpen- 
 dicular can be drawn to that line. 
 
 From the point A let us suppose 
 it possible that two perpendiculars, 
 A B and A C, can be drawn. Now, be- 
 cause AB is a supposed perpendicu- 
 lar, the angle ABC is a right angle ; — 
 and because AC is a supposed per- 
 
 B C 
 
 
 pendicular, the angle ACB is also a right angle ; and if 
 two angles of the triangle ABC are together equal to two 
 right angles, the third angle, BAG, must be infinitely 
 small, or zero ; that is, the two perpendiculars being drawn 
 through the common point A, and including no angle, 
 must necessarily coincide, and form one and the same per- 
 pendicular. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; from any point without a straight 
 line, etc. 
 
 Cor. At a given point in a straight line but one per- 
 pendicular can be erected to that line ; for, if there could 
 be two perpendiculars, we should have unequal righ 
 angles, which is impossible. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 Two triangles which have two sides and the included angle 
 in the one, equal to two sides and the included angle in the 
 other, each to each, are equal in all respects. 
 
 In the two A's, ABC and BEF, 
 on the supposition that AB = BE, 
 AC=BF, and [_A = \__B, we 
 are to prove that BC must = EF, 
 the [__B = [__E, and the [_C = 
 
 LJJ 
 
 Conceive the A ABC cut out of the paper, taken up, 
 and placed on the A BEF in such a manner that the 
 point A shall fall on the point B, and the line AB on 
 the line BE; then the point B will fall on the point E, 
 because the lines are equal. Now, as the [__A = [__B, 
 the line A C must take the same direction as BF, and fall 
 on BF; and as AC = BF, the point C will fall on F, B 
 being on E and C on F, BC must be exactly on EF, 
 (otherwise, two straight lines would enclose a space, Ax. 
 13), and BC= EF, and the two magnitudes exactly fill 
 the same space. Therefore, BC = EF, [_B = [__E, 
 _C ~ [_F, and the two A's are equal, (Ax. 10). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; two triangles which have two sides, evo. 
 
 
 33 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two triangles have a side and two adjacent angles in 
 the one, equal to a side and two adjacent angles in the other, 
 each to each, the two triangles are equal in all respects. 
 
 In two A's, as ABC and 
 T)EF, on the supposition 
 th&tBC = EF, \_B=\_E, 
 and [_C — [_F, we are to 
 prove that AB = BE, AC 
 = DF, andL^. = L^>- 
 
 Conceive the A ABC taken up and placed on the A 
 DBF, so that the side BC shall exactly coincide with its 
 equal side EF; now, because the angle B is equal to the 
 angle E, the line BA will take the direction of ED, and 
 will fall exactly upon : t ; and because the angle C is equal 
 to the angle F, the line CA will take the direction of 
 FD, and fall exactly upon it ; and the two lines BA and 
 CA, exactly coinciding with the two lines EB and FD, 
 the point A will fall on B, and the two magnitudes will 
 exactly fill the same space ; therefore, by Ax. 10, they are 
 equal, and AB » DE, AC=DF, and the [_A = \__D. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; when two triangles have a side and 
 two adjacent angles in the one, equal to, etc. 
 
 /\ THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If two sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite to 
 these sides are also equal. 
 
 Let ABC be a triangle; and on 
 the supposition that AC = BC, we 
 are to prove that the l_A=the [_B. 
 
 Conceive the angle C divided into 
 two equal angles by the line CD; 
 then we have two A's, ADC and 
 BDC, which have the two sides, AC 
 and CD of the one, equal to the two 
 
 sides, CB and CD of the other ; and 
 
 o 
 
 
 the invaded angle AOB, of the one, equa. to the in- 
 cluded angle BOB of the other: therefore, (Th. 16), AB 
 = BB, and the angle A, opposite to OB of the one tri- 
 angle, is equal to the angle B, opposite to OB of the 
 other triangle ; that is, |_ A = |__ B. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two sides of a triangle are equal, 
 the angles, etc. 
 
 Cor, 1. Conversely : if two angles of a triangle are equal, 
 the sides opposite to them are equal, and the triangle is 
 isosceles. 
 
 For, if A is not equal to BO, suppose BO to be the 
 greater, and make BE— AE; then will A ABB be isos- 
 celes, and [_EAB = l_EBA ; hence [_EAB = [_ CAB, 
 or a part is equal to the whole, which is absurd ; therefore, 
 OB cannot be greater than AO, that is, neither of the 
 sides AO, BO, can be greater than the other, and conse- 
 quently they are equal. 
 
 Cor. 2. As the two triangles, A CB and BOB, are in all 
 respects equal, the line which bisects the angle included 
 between the equal sides of an isosceles A also bisects the 
 base, and is perpendicular to the base. 
 
 Scholium 1. — If in the perpendicular DC, any other point than C 
 be taken, and lines be drawn to the extremities A and B, such lines 
 will be equal, as is evident from Th. 16 ; hence, we may announce 
 this truth: Any point in a perpendicular drawn from the middle of a 
 line, is at equal distances from the two extremities of the line. 
 
 ScnoLiuM 2. — Since two points determine the position of a line, it 
 follows, that a line which joins two points each equally distant from the 
 extremities of a given line, is perpendicular to this line at its middle 
 point, 
 
 < K 
 
 r^ THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The greater side of every trianjle has the greater angle 
 opposite to it. 
 
 Let ABC be a A ; and on the supposition that A C is 
 greater than AB, we are to prove that the angle ABCi* 
 
 
 greater than the [_ 0. From AC, the 
 greater of the two sides, take AB, equal ^ 
 
 to the less side AB, and draw BB, thus /\ 
 
 making two triangles of the original tri- / \ 
 
 angle. As AB = AB, the [__ABB = / \ 
 
 theL^^A (Th.18). B \r~\ 
 
 But the |__ ABB is the exterior angle ^\\ 
 
 of the A BBC, and is therefore greater c 
 
 than C, (Th. 12, Cor. 1); that is, the 
 L ABD is greater than the [_ C. Much more, then, is 
 the angle ABC greater than the angle C. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the greater side of every triangle, etc. 
 
 Cor, Conversely: the greater angle of any triangle has 
 the greater side opposite to it. 
 
 In the triangle ABC, let the angle B be greater than 
 the angle A ; then is the side AC greater than the side 
 BC 
 
 For, if BC — A C, the angle A must be equal to the 
 angle B, (Th. 18), which is contrary to the hypothesis ; 
 and if BC^>AC, the angle A must be greater than the 
 angle B, by what is above proved, which is also contrary 
 to the hypothesis ; hence BC can be neither equal to, nor 
 greater, than AC; it is therefore less than AC. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The difference between any two sides of a triangle is less 
 than thi third side. 
 
 Let ABC he a A, in which A C is greater 
 than AB ; then we are to prove that A C 
 —AB is less than BC. 
 
 On AC, the greater of the two sides, 
 lay off AB equal to AB. 
 
 Now, as a straight line is the shortest 
 distance between two points, we have 
 
 AB + BOAC. (1) 
 
36 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 x 
 
 From these unequals suotract the equals AB = AB, 
 and we have BO>AO— AB. (Ax. 5). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the difference between any two Met 
 of a triangle, etc. -^ 
 
 \ 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 ff two triangles have the three sides of the one equal to 
 the three sides of the other, each to each, the two triangles are 
 equxl, and the equal angles are opposite the equal sides. 
 
 In two triangles, as ABO and ABB, on the supposition 
 that the side AB of the one = the side AB of the other, 
 AO=AB, and BO=BJ), we are to demonstrate that 
 [_AOB = \__ABB, L BAO = 
 l_BAB, and [_ABO= [_ABD. 
 
 Conceive the two triangles to 
 t>e joined together by their long- 
 est equal sides, and draw the 
 line OB. 
 
 Then, in the triangle AOD, 
 because AO is equal to AB, 
 
 the angle AOD is equal to the angle ABO, (Th. 18). In 
 like manner, in the triangle BOB, because BO is equal 
 to BB, the angle BOB is equal to the angle BBO. Now, 
 the angle AOB being equal to the angle ABO, and the 
 angle BOB to the angle BBO, [_AOB + [_BOB = L. 
 ABO + [_BBO, (Ax. 2) ; that is, the whole angled OB ia 
 equal to the whole angle ABB. 
 
 Since the two sides A and OB are equal to the two sides 
 AB and BB, each to each, and their included angles A OB, 
 ABB, are also equal, the two triangles ABO, ABB, are 
 equal, (Th. 16), and have their other angles equal ; that 
 is, [_BAO= \_BAB, and [_ABO= [__ABB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two triangles have the three siie* 
 of the one, etc. 
 
 
 87 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 If two triangles have two sides of the one equal to tw* 
 tides of the other, each to each, and the included angles ui> 
 equal, the third sides will be unequal, and the greater third 
 side will belong to the triangle which has the greater included 
 angle. 
 
 In the two A's, ABO and 
 ACB, let AB and AC of the 
 one A be equal to AB and A 
 of the other A, and the angle 
 BAC greater than the angle 
 BAG; we are to prove that 
 the side BO is greater than the 
 side OB. 
 
 Conceive the two a's joined together by their shorter 
 equal sides, and draw the line BB. Now, as AB = AB, 
 ABB is an isosceles A. From the vertex A, draw a line 
 bisecting the angle BAB. This line must be perpendic- 
 ular to the base BB, (Th. 18, Cor. 2). Since the \_BAO 
 is greater than the \_BAO, this line must meet BO, and 
 will not meet OB. From the point E, where the per- 
 pendicular meets BO, draw BB. 
 
 Now BB - BB, (Th. 18, Scholium 1). 
 
 Add BO to each ; then BO = BE + EC. 
 
 But BE + EO is greater than BO. 
 
 Therefore BOy BO. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two triangles have two sides of 
 one equal to two sides of the other, etc. 
 
 Cor. Any point out of the perpendicular drawn from 
 the middle point of a line, is unequally distant from the 
 extremities of the line. 
 
 -f 
 
 y 
 
 
 THEOREM XXIII, 
 
 A perpendicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from 
 any point to a straight line ; and if other lines be drawn from 
 the same point to the same straight line, that which meets it 
 farthest from the perpendicular will be longest ; and lines 
 at equal distances from the perpendicular, on opposite 
 sides, are equal. 
 
 Let A be any point without the 
 line BE ; let AB be the perpen- 
 dicular; and AC, AB, and AE 
 oblique lines: then, if BO is less 
 than BB, and BO— BE, we are to 
 show, 
 
 1st. That AB is less than A C 
 2d. That A is less than AB. 3d. That AC= AE. 
 
 1st. In the triangle ABO, as AB is perpendicular to 
 BC, the angle ABC is a right angle; and, therefore (by 
 Theorem 12, Cor. 4) ; the angle BCA is less than a right 
 angle ; and, as the greater side is always opposite the 
 greater angle, AB is less than AC; and AC may be 
 any line not identical with AB ; therefore a perpen- 
 dicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from A 
 to the line DE. 
 
 2d. As the two angles, A OB and A CD, are together 
 equal to two right angles, (Th. 1), and A OB is less than 
 a right angle, AOB must be greater than a right angle ; 
 consequently, the [__ B is less than a right angle ; and, in 
 the A AOB, AB is greater than AC, or A is less than 
 AB, (Th. 19 Cor). 
 
 3d. In the A's ABC and ABE, AB is common, CB=> 
 BE, and the angles at B are right angles; therefore, AC — 
 AE, (Th. 16). 
 
 Hence the theorem; a perpendicular is the shortest line 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. Conversely : if two equal oblique lines be drawn 
 
 
 from the same point to a given straight line, they will 
 meet the line at equal distances from the foot of the per- 
 pendicular drawn from that point to the given line. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 The opposite sides, and also the opposite angles of any par- 
 allelogram, are equal. 
 
 Let ABOD be a parallelogram. 
 Then we are to show that AB = 1)0, 
 AD = BO, [__A - L °> and [_ADC 
 « \__ABO. 
 
 Draw a diagonal, as BD; now, be- 
 cause AB and DC are parallel, the al- 
 ternate angles ABB and BBC are equal, (Th. 6). Foi 
 the same reason, as AB and BO are parallel, the angles 
 ABB and BBO are equal. !Now, in the two triangles 
 ABB and BOB, the side BD is common, 
 
 the \_ABB = [_DBO (1) 
 
 tmd[_BDO = \_ABD (2) 
 
 Therefore, the angle A = the angle C, and the two tri- 
 angles are equal in all respects, (Th. 17); that is, the 
 sides opposite the equal angles are equal ; or, AB — DO, 
 and AD = BO. By adding equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ? we have 
 the angle ADO= the angle ABO, (Ax. 2). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the opposite sides, and the opposite 
 angles, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. As the sum of all the angles of a parallelogram 
 is equal to four right angles, and the angle A is always 
 equal to the opposite angle O; therefore, if A is a right 
 angle, is also a right angle, and the figure is a rect- 
 angle. 
 
 Oor. 2. As the angle ABO, added to the angle A, gives 
 the same sum as the angles of the /\ADB; therefore, 
 the two adjacent angles of a parallelogram are together 
 equal to two right angles. 
 
 -f 
 
 X 
 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 If the opposite sides of a quadrilateral are equal, they are 
 also parallel, and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Let A BCD be any quadrilateral; 
 on the supposition that AD = BC, and 
 AB =* DC. we are to prove that AD is 
 parallel to BC, and AB parallel to DC 
 
 Draw the diagonal BD; we now 
 have two triangles, ABD and BOB, 
 which have the side BD common, AD of the one =. BO 
 of the other, and AB of the one = CD of the other ; 
 therefore the two A's are equal, (Th. 21), and the 
 angles opposite the equal sides are equal ; that is, the 
 angle ADB = the angle CBD ; but these are alternate 
 angles; hence, AD is parallel to BC, (Th. 7, Cor. 1); 
 and because the angle ABD = the angle BDC, AB is 
 parallel to CD, and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the opposite sides of a quadri- 
 lateral, etc. 
 
 Cor. This theorem, and also Th. 24, proves that the 
 two A's which make up the parallelogram are equal; 
 and the same would be true if we drew the diagonal 
 from A to C; therefore, the diagonal of any parallelogram 
 bisects the parallelogram. 
 
 THEOREM XXVI. 
 
 The lines which join the corresponding extremities of two 
 equal and parallel straight lines, are themselves equal and 
 parallel; and the figure thus formed is a parallelogram. 
 
 On the supposition that AB is 
 equal and parallel to DC, we are to 
 prove that AD is equal and parallel 
 to BC; and that the figure is a par- 
 allelogram. 
 
 Draw the diagonal BD ; now, since 
 
 
 AB and DO are parallel, and BB joins them, the alter- 
 nate angles ABB and BBO are equal ; and since the 
 side AB = the side BO, and the side BB i« common to 
 the two A's ABB and OBB, therefore the two triangles 
 are eqnal, (Th. 16) ; that is, AB —BO, the angle A = 0, 
 and the \__ABB = the [_BBO; also AB is parallel to 
 BO; and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the lines which join the corresponding 
 extremities, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXVII. 
 
 Parallelograms on the same base, and between the same 
 parallels, are equivalent, or equal in respect to area or sur- 
 face. 
 
 Let ABEO and ABBF be two 
 parallelograms on the same base 
 AB, and between the same paral- 
 lels AB and OB ; we are to prove 
 that these two parallelograms are 
 equal. 
 
 Now, OB and FB are equal, be- 
 cause they are each equal to AB, (Th. 24) ; and, if from 
 the whole line OB we take, in succession, OB and FB, 
 there will remain EB = OF, (Ax. 3) ; but BB = A 0, and 
 AF= BB, (Th. 24); hence we have two A's, OAF and 
 EBB, which have the three sides of the one equal to the 
 three sides of the other, each to each ; therefore, the tv r o 
 A's are equal, (Th. 21). If, from the whole figure 
 A BBO, we take away the A OAF, the parallelogram 
 ABBF will remain ; and if from the whole figure we take 
 away the other A EBB, the parallelogram ABEO will 
 remain. Therefore, (Ax. 3), the parallelogram ABBF = 
 the parallelogram ABEO. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms on the same base, etc. 
 4* 
 
 
 THEOREM XXVIII. 
 
 Triangles on the same base and between the same parallel* 
 are equivalent. 
 
 Let the two A's ABE and ABF 
 have the same base AB, and be be- 
 tween the same parallels AB and 
 EF', then we are to prove that they 
 are equal in surface. 
 
 From B draw the line BB, par- 
 allel to AF; and from A draw the line AC, parallel to 
 BE ; and produce EF, if necessary, to C and D ; now the 
 parallelogram ABBF = the parallelogram ABEC, (Th. 
 27). But the A ABE is one half the parallelogram 
 ABEC, and the A ABF is one half the parallelogram 
 ABDF; and halves of equals are equal, (Ax. T); there-, 
 fore the A ABE - the A ABF. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; triangles on the same base, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXIX. 
 
 Parallelograms on equal bases, and between the same par 
 allels, are equal in area. 
 
 Let ABCB and EFaH, be two 
 parallelograms on equal bases, AB 
 and EF, and between the same 
 parallels, AF and BG ; then Ve are 
 to prove that they are equal in area. 
 
 AB = EF=HG; but lines which join equal and 
 parallel lines, are themselves equal and parallel, (Th. 26) ; 
 therefore, if AH said BGr be drawn, the figure ABGrlTis 
 a parallelogram == to the parallelogram ABCB, (Th. 27) ; 
 and if we turn the whole figure over, the two parallelo- 
 grams, G-HEF and GRAB, will stand on the same base, 
 GH, and between the same parallels ; therefore, GHEF 
 - GHAB, and consequently ABCB = EFGff, (Ax. 1). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms on equal bases, (tc. 
 
 DC H G 
 
 
 Cor. Triangles on equal bases, and between the same 
 parallels, are equal in area. For, draw BB and E Gr\ the 
 A ABB is one half of the parallelogram AC, and the 
 A EFGr is one half of the equivalent parallelogram FE; 
 therefore, the A ABB - the A EFG, (Ax. 7). 
 
 THEOREM XXX. 
 
 If a triangle and a parallelogram are upon the same or equal 
 bases, and between the same parallels, the triangle is equiva- 
 lent to one half the parallelogram. 
 
 Let ABC be a A, and ABBE a 
 parallelogram, on the same base AB, 
 and between the same parallels ; then 
 we are to prove that the A ABC is 
 equivalent to one half of the parallel- 
 ogram ABBE. 
 
 Draw EB the diagonal of the parallelogram ; now, 
 because the two A's ABC and ABE are on the same 
 base, and between the same parallels, they are equiva- 
 lent, (Th. 28) ; but the A ABE is one half the parallel- 
 ogram ABBE, (Th. 25, Cor.) ; therefore the A ABC is 
 equivalent to one half of the same parallelogram, (Ax. 7). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a triangle and a parallelogram, 
 etc 
 
 THEOREM XXXI. 
 
 The complementary parallelograms described about any 
 point in the diagonal of any parallelogram, are equivalent to 
 each other. 
 
 Let A C be a parallelogram, and 
 BB its diagonal ; take any point, 
 as E, in the diagonal, and through 
 this point draw lines parallel to the 
 sides of the parallelogram, thus 
 forming four parallelograms. 
 
 We are now to prove that the complementary paral- 
 lelograms, AE and EC, are equivalent. 
 
 
 By (Th. 25, Cor.) we learn that the A ABB = A BBC. 
 Also by the same Cor., A a = A b, and Ac = A<i; there- 
 fore by addition 
 
 Aa-fAc = A5 + Ac?. 
 
 Now, from the whole A ABB take A a + A e, and 
 from the whole A BBC take the equal sum, A b + A d, 
 and the remaining parallelograms AE and EC are equiv~ 
 alent, (Ax. 3). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the complementary parallelogram^ 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXII. 
 
 The perimeter of a rectangle is less than that of any rhom- 
 hoid standing on the same base, and included between the same 
 parallels. 
 
 Let ABCB be a rect- 
 angle, and ABEF a rhom- 
 boid having the same base, 
 and their opposite sides 
 in the same line parallel 
 to the base. 
 
 We are now to prove that the perimeter ABCB A is less 
 than ABEFA. 
 
 Because AB is a perpendicular from A to the line BE t 
 and AF an oblique line, AB is less than AF, (Th. 23). 
 For the same reason BC is less ^than BE; hence AT) + 
 BC<AF+ BE. Adding the sum, AB + BC, to the first 
 member of this inequality, and its equal AB 4- FE to 
 the second member, we have AB + BC + CD + BA, or 
 the perimeter of the rectangle, less than AB -f BE -f 
 EF -f FA, or the perimeter of the rhomboid. Hen ?e 
 the theorem; the perimeter of a rectangle, etc. 
 
 
 45 
 
 Thus far, areas have "been considered only relatively 
 and in the abstract. We will now explain how we may 
 pass to the absolute measures, or, more properly, to the 
 numerical expressions for areas. 
 
 THEOREM XXXIII. 
 
 The area of any plane triangle is measured by the pro* 
 duct of its base by one half its altitude ; or by one half of 
 the product of its base by its altitude. 
 
 Let ABO represent any triangle, AB 
 its base, and AD, at right angles to AB, 
 its altitude ; now we are to show that the 
 area of A BO is equal to the product of 
 AB by one half of AB ; or one half of 
 AB by AB ; or one half of the product of AB by AB. 
 
 On AB construct the rectangle ABED; and the area 
 of this rectangle is measured by AB into AB (Def. 
 54) ; but the area of the A ABO is equivalent to one 
 half this rectangle, (Th. 30). Therefore, the area of the 
 A is measured by } AB x AB, or one half the product 
 of its base by its altitude. Hence the theorem ; the area 
 of any plane triangle, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXIV. 
 
 The area of a trapezoid is measured by one half the mm 
 of its parallel sides multiplied by the perpendicular distance 
 between them. 
 
 Let ABBQ represent any trape- 
 zoid; draw the diagonal BO, divid- 
 ing it into two triangles, ABO 'and 
 BOB: OB is the base of one tri- 
 angle, and AB may be considered 
 as the base of the other ; and EF is the common altitude 
 of the two triangles. 
 
 Now, by Th. 33, the area of the triangle BOB =-\OB 
 v EF; and the area of the A ABO= \AB X EF; but 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 L K I 
 
 II 
 
 by addition, the area of the two A's, or of the trape* 
 zoid, is equal to i (AB+ CD)xEF. Hence the theorem; 
 the area of a trapezoid, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXV. 
 
 If one of two lines is divided into any number of parts, the 
 rectangle contained by the two lines is equal to the sum of the 
 several rectangles contained by the undivided line and the seve- 
 ral parts of the divided line. 
 
 Let AB and AD be two lines, 
 and suppose AB divided into any 
 number of parts at the points E, 
 F, Gr, etc. ; then the whole rect- 
 angle contained by the two lines 
 is AH, which is measured by AB 
 into AD. But the rectangle AL is measured by AB 
 into AD ; the rectangle EK is measured by EF into EL, 
 which is equal to EF into AD; and so of all the other 
 partial rectangles ; and the truth of the proposition is as 
 obvious as that a whole is equal to the sum of all its 
 parts. Hence the theorem ; if one of two lines is divided, 
 etc. ^/f ^ Uc , 
 
 v. One*. 
 
 X THEOREM XXXVI. 
 
 G B 
 
 X 
 
 C B 
 
 If a straight line is divided into any two parts, the square 
 described on the whole line is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares described on the two parts plus twice the rectangle con- 
 tained by the parts. 
 
 Let AB be any line divided into 
 any two parts at the point 0; now we 
 are to prove that the square on AB 
 is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares on A and OB plus twice the 
 rectangle contained by AC and CB. 
 
 On AB describe the square AD. 
 Through the point draw QM, par- 
 
 M D 
 
 
 allel to BD ; take BE = BO, and through E draw EKN, 
 parallel to AB. We now have OH, the square on OB, by 
 direct construction. 
 
 As AB = BD, and OB - £.0", by subtraction, AB — 
 OB = BD — BE; or A0= ED. But NK=AO, being 
 opposite sides of a parallelogram ; and for the same rea- 
 son, KM = I7D. Therefore, (Ax. 1), NK = KM, and the 
 figure NM is a square on NK, equal to a square on .AG 7 . 
 But the whole square on AB is composed of the two 
 squares OE, NM, and the two complements or rectangles 
 AK and KB ; and since each of these latter is AC in 
 length, and BO in width, each has for its measure AC into 
 (7i?; therefore the whole square on AB is equivalent to 
 AC 2 + BC 2 + 2A0x OB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a straight line is divided into any 
 two parts, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus : 
 
 Let w represent any whole right line divided into any 
 two parts a and b ; then we shall have the equation 
 
 w = a + b 
 By squaring, w 2 = a 2 -f b 2 -f 2ab. 
 
 Oor. If a = b, then w 2 = 4a 2 ; that is, the square de- 
 scribed on any line is four times the square described on 
 one half of it. 
 
 THEOREM XXXVII. 
 
 The square described on the difference of two lines is equiv- 
 alent to the sum of the squares described on the two lines di- 
 minished by twice the rectangle contained by the lines. 
 
 Let AB represent the greater of two lines, OB the 
 Jess line, and A their difference. 
 
 We are now to prove that the square described on A C 
 is equivalent to the sum of the squares on AB and BC 
 diminished by twice the rectangle contained by AB 
 and BO. 
 
 Conceive the square AF to be described on AB, and 
 
L E 
 
 48 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the square BL on CB ; on AC describe H F 
 
 the square ACGM, and produce MG 
 
 to K. M 
 
 As GC=AC, and CL ^ CB, by 
 addition, (GC + CL), or GL, is equal 
 to AC + CB, or J.jB. Therefore, the 
 rectangle GE is AB in length, and 
 Oi? in width, and is measured by AB 
 
 y.BC. 
 
 Also AH= AB, and AM = J. (7; by subtraction, Jfff 
 
 = <7i?; and as MK = AB, the rectangle HK is J.i? in 
 length, and CB in width, and is measured by AB x BC; 
 and the two rectangles GE and .ffif are together equiva- 
 lent to 2AB x BC. 
 
 Now, the squares on AB and BC make the whole figure 
 AHFELC; and from this whole figure, or these two 
 squares, take away the two rectangles HK and G E, and 
 the square on A C only will remain; that is, 
 AC 2 = AB* + B~C* — 2AB x BC 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the differ 
 ence of two lines, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus : 
 
 Let a represent the greater of two lines, b the less, and 
 d their difference ; then we must have this equation : 
 d = a — b 
 By squaring, d 2 = a 2 + b 2 — 2ab. 
 
 a a 2 
 
 Cor. If d = b, then d = -~, and d 2 = -r ; that is, the 
 
 equare described on one half of any line is equivalent 
 to one fourth of the square described on the whole line. 
 
 THEOREM XXXVIII. 
 
 The difference of the squares described on any two lines is 
 equivalent to the rectangle contained by the sum and difference 
 of the lines. 
 
 Let A B be the greater of two lines, and A C the less, 
 and on these lines describe the squares AB, AM; then, the 
 
 
 difference of the squares on AB and A is the two rect- 
 angles EF and FO. We are now to 
 show that the measure of these reck 
 angles may be expressed by (AB + AC) 
 x(AB—AO). 
 
 i The length of the rectangle EF is ED, 
 or its equal AB; and the length of the 
 rectangle FO is MO, or its equal AO; 
 therefore, the length of the two together (if we con 
 ceive them put between the same parallel lines) will be 
 AB-\- AO; and the common width is OB, which is equal 
 to AB—AO; therefore, AB 2 — A0 2 = (AB+AO) x (AB 
 —AO). 
 
 Hence the theorem; the difference of the squares de- 
 scribed on any two lines, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically: thus, 
 
 Let a represent one line, and b another ; 
 
 Then a -f b is their sum, and a — b their difference ; 
 
 and (a + b) X (a — b) = a 2 — b\ 
 
 THEOREM XXXIX. 
 
 The square described on the hypotenuse of any right-angled 
 triangle is equivalent to the sum of the squares described on 
 the other two sides. 
 
 Let ABO represent any righkangled triangle, the right 
 angle at B; we are to prove that the square on A is 
 equivalent to the sum of two squares; one on AB, the 
 other on BO. 
 
 On the three sides of the triangle describe the three 
 squares, AB, AL and BM. Through the point B, draw 
 BNE perpendicular to AO, and produce it to meet tho 
 line Grim K; also produce AF to meet CrI in S, and 
 ML to meet GI produced in K. 
 
 Remark. — That the lines, GI and ML, produced, meet at the point 
 BT, may be readily shown. As the proof of this fact is not necessary for 
 tht- demonstration, it is left as an exercise for the learner. 
 5 D 
 
50 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The angle BAG is a right angle, and the angle NAH 
 is also a right angle ; if 
 from these equals we 
 subtract the common 
 angle BAH, the re- 
 maining angle, BAO, 
 must be equal to the re- 
 maining angle &AH. 
 The angle G- is a right 
 angle, equal to the 
 angle ABC; and AB 
 = AGr; therefore, the 
 two A's ABO and 
 AGrH are equal, and 
 AH=AQ. But^<7 = 
 AF; therefore, AH= 
 AF. Now, the two 
 
 parallelograms, AE and AHKB are equivalent, because 
 they are upon equal bases, and between the same paral- 
 lels, Zffand UK, (Th. 29). 
 
 But the square AI, and the parallelogram AHKB, are 
 equivalent, because they are on the same base, AB, and 
 between the same parallels, AB and GrK; therefore, the 
 square AI, and the parallelogram AF, being each equiv- 
 alent to the same parallelogram AHKB, are equivalent 
 to each other, (Ax. 1). In the same manner we may 
 prove that the square BM is equivalent to the rectangle 
 ND ; therefore, by addition, the two squares, AI and 
 BM, are equivalent to the two parallelograms, AF and 
 ND, or to the square AD. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the hypoU 
 nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc. 
 
 Cor. If two right-angled triangles have the hypotenuse, and 
 a side of the one equal to the hypotenuse and a side of the 
 other, each to each, the two triangles are equal. 
 
 
 Let ABO ard AGS be the two A's, in which we sap- 
 pose AC = AH, and BC = GH; then will AG = AB 
 
 For, we have AC 2 = AB 2 + ff(7 2 , 
 
 or, by transposing, AC 2 — BO 2 = ~A&, 
 
 and AE 2 = ~AG 2 +G1I 2 , 
 
 or, by transposing, A H 2 — GH 2 = AG 2 . 
 
 But by the hypothesis AC 2 —~BQ 2 = AS* — (JS* ; 
 
 hence, AB 2 = J. G 2 , or, ^ J5 = A G. 
 
 Scholium. — The two sides, AB and BC, may vary, while A C remain* 
 constant. AB may be equal to BC\ then the point JVwill be in th* 
 middle of A C. When AB is very near the length of A C, and BC very 
 email, then the point N falls very near to C. Now as AE and ND are 
 right-angled parallelograms, their areas are measured by the product 
 of their bases by their altitudes ; and it is evident that, as they have the 
 same altitude, these areas will vary directly as their bases AN and 
 NC; hence the squares on AB and BC, which are equivalent to those 
 rectangles, vary as the lines AN and NC. 
 
 The following outline of the demonstration of this pro- 
 position is presented as a useful disciplinary exercise for 
 the student. 
 
 We employ the same figure, in which no change is 
 made except to draw through the line OP, parallel to BK. 
 
 The first step is to prove the equality of the triangles 
 AGE and ABO, whence AH = AC. But AO = AF; 
 therefore AH= AF. 
 
 The parallelograms AFEJSF and AEKB are equiva 
 
 lent. Also, the parallelogram AHKB = the square ABIG, 
 
 (Th. 27), and the parallelogram KBCP= NEDC= square 
 
 BOML. Now, by adding the equals 
 
 AFEN= ABIG 
 
 JSTEBO = BOML 
 
 we obtain AFDO = ABIG + BOML. 
 
 That is, the square on AO is equivalent to the sum of 
 the squares on AB and BO. 
 
 The great practical importance of this theorem, in the 
 extent and variety of its applications, and the frequency 
 of its use in establishing subsequent propositions, ren- 
 ders it necessary that the student should master it com- 
 pletely. To secure this end, we present a 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Second Demonstration 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle 
 right-angled at B. On the 
 hypotenuse AO, describe the 
 square A OEB. From B and 
 E let fall the perpendiculars 
 Bb and Ed, on J.1? and AB 
 produced. Draw Bn and Ca, 
 making right angles with 
 Ed. 
 
 We give an outline only 
 of the demonstration, requiring the pupil to make it 
 complete. 
 
 First Part. — Prove the four triangles ABO, AbB, BnE, 
 and EaO, equal to each other. 
 
 The proof is as follows: The A's ABO and BnE are 
 equal, because the angles of the one are equal to the 
 angles of the other, each to each, and the hypotenuse 
 AO of the one, is equal to the hypotenuse BE of the 
 other. In like manner, it may be shown that the a's 
 AbB and EaO are equal. 
 
 Now, the sum of the three angles about A, is equal to 
 the sum of the three angles of the A ABO; and if, from 
 the first sum, we take \__BAO + [__ OAB, and from the 
 second we take L^ + L GAB == [_BAO+ [_ OAB, the 
 remaining angles are equal ; that is, [__ BAb is equal to 
 \__AOB ; hence the A's ABO and BbA have their angles 
 equal, each to each; and since A (7= BA, the A's are 
 themselves equal, and the four triangles ABO, AbB, 
 DnE, and EaO, are equal to each other. 
 
 Second. — Prove that the square bBnd is equal to a 
 iquare on AB. The square BdaO is obviously on BO. 
 
 Third. — The area of the whole figure is equal to the 
 square on AO, and the area of two of the four equal 
 right-angled triangles. 
 
 Also, the area of the whole figure is equal to two other 
 
 
 Bquares, bDnd and daOB, and two of the tour equal tri- 
 angles, DnE and EaO, 
 
 Omitting or subtracting the areas of two of the four 
 right-angled a's from each of the two expressions for 
 the area of the whole figure, there will remain the square 
 on AO, equal to the sum of the two squares, Dndb and 
 daCB. 
 
 That is, AB* + BO* = AC*. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the hypote- 
 nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Hence, to find the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle, 
 extract the square root of the sum of the squares of the two sides about 
 the right angle, 
 
 THEOREM XL. 
 
 In any obtuse-angled triangle, the square on the side oppo- 
 site the obtuse angle is greater than the sum of the squares 
 on the other two sides, by twice the rectangle contained by 
 either side about the obtuse angle, and the part of this side 
 produced to meet the perpendicular drawn to it from the 
 vertex of the opposite angle. 
 
 Let ABO be any triangle in which 
 the angle at B is obtuse. Produce 
 either side about the obtuse angle, 
 as OB, and from A draw AD perpen- 
 dicular to OB, meeting it produced 
 atD. 
 
 It is obvious that OD m OB -f BD, 
 By Th. 36 we have, CD* = CB* + 20B x BD + JU)', 
 Adding AD to each member of this equation, we have 
 
 AD* + CD*=CB*t BD* + AD 1 + 20B x BD. 
 But, (Th. 39), the first member of the last equation is 
 equal to AO % , and 
 
 BD* -f AD* - AB % , 
 
 5* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Therefore, this equation becomes 
 
 ~AO % = CB 2 + AB* + 20B x BD. 
 
 That is, the square on A is equivalent to the sum of 
 the squares on OB and AB, increased by twice the rect- 
 angle contained by CB and BD. 
 
 Hence the theorem; in any obtuse- angled triangle, the 
 square on the side opposite the obtuse angle, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Conceive AB to turn about the point A, its intersection 
 with CD gradually approaching D. The last equation above will be 
 true, however near this intersection is to D, and when it falls upon D 
 the triangle becomes right-angled. 
 
 In this case the line BD reduces to zero, and the equation becomes 
 AC 2 = CB 2 + AB* y in which CB and AB are now the base and per- 
 pendicular of a right-angled triangle. This agrees with Theorem 39, 
 as it should, since we used the property of the right-angled triangle 
 established in Theorem 39 to demonstrate this proposition ; and in the* 
 equation which expresses a property of the obtuse-angled triangle, we 
 have introduced a supposition which changes it into one which is 
 right-angle 1. 
 
 THEOREM XLI. 
 
 In any triangle, the square on a side opposite an acute angle 
 is less than the sum of the squares on the other two sides, by 
 twice the rectangle contained by either of these sides, and the 
 distance from the vertex of the acute angle to the foot of the 
 perpendicular let fall on this side, or side produced, from the 
 vertex of its opposite angle. 
 
 Let ABO, either 
 figure, represent 
 any triangle ; an 
 acute angle, OB 
 the base, and AB 
 the perpendicular, 
 which falls either 
 without or on the base. Now we are to prove that 
 
 AB*=OB 2 -\- AO 2 — 20Bx OB. 
 
 
 55 
 
 From the firs t figure we get BD=CD—CB ( 1 ) 
 and from the second BD=CB—CD ( 2 ) 
 
 Either one of these equations will give, (Th. 37), 
 
 BD 2 = CD 2 + CB 2 —2CD x OB. 
 
 Adding AD 2 to each member and reducing, we obtaiu, 
 (Th. 39), AB 2 - AC 2 + CB 2 — 2CBx CD, whi«h proves 
 the proposition. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XLII. 
 
 If in any triangle a line be drawn from any angle to the 
 middle of the opposite side, twice the square of this line, 
 together with twice the square of one half the side bisected, will 
 be equivalent to the sum of the squares of the other two sides 
 
 Let AB be a triangle, and 
 M the middle point of its 
 base. 
 
 Then we are to prove that 
 2 AM 2 + 2 CM 2 = AC 2 +AB*. 
 
 Draw AD perpendicular to 
 the base, and make AD = p, 
 AC=b, AB = c, CB=2a, 
 
 AM mm m, and MD — x; then CM = a, CD = a+x, DB 
 = a — x, 
 
 Now by, (Th. 39), we have the two following equations : 
 
 ^ + (a — aO» = c» (1) 
 
 f + (a + xf = b* (2) 
 
 By addition, 2p % + 2x 2 + 2a 2 = #• + <?. But p* + z» - m\ 
 Therefore, 2m* + 2a 7 = b* + <?\ 
 
 This equation is the algebraic enunciation of tho 
 theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XLIII. 
 
 The two diagonals of any parallelogram bisect each other ; 
 and the sum of their squares is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares of the four sides of the parallelogram, 
 
 ~LetABQB be any parallelogram, 
 and A and BB its diagonals. 
 
 We are now to prove, 
 
 1st. That AM - EQ, and BE - 
 EB. 
 
 2d. That AC 2 + BD 2 = ~AB 2 + ~BQ* 4- CD 2 +~AD\ 
 
 1. The two triangles ABE and QBE are equal, be- 
 cause AB — QD, the angle ABE = the alternate angle 
 QBE, and the vertical angles at E are equal ; therefore, 
 AE, the side opposite the angle ABE, is equal to QE, 
 the side opposite the equal angle QBE; also EB, the 
 remaining side of the one A, is equal to EB, the remain- 
 ing side of the other triangle. 
 
 2. As AQB is a triangle whose base, A Q, is bisected 
 in E, we have, by (Th. 42), 
 
 2AE 2 + 2EB 2 = AB 2 + DC 2 ( l ) 
 
 And as AQB is a triangle whose base, ^4 C\ is bisected 
 in i£, we have 
 
 2AE 2 + 2EB 2 ==~AB 2 + BQ 2 (2) 
 By adding equations (1) and (2), and observing that 
 EB* m EB 2 , we have 
 4AE 2 + 4EB 2 - AD 2 + 2><7* + "AS 2 +7RP 
 But, four times the square of the half of a line is equiv- 
 alent to the square of the whole line, (Th. 36, Corollary) ; 
 therefore ±AW = AQ\ and 4EB 2 = BB 2 ; and by sub- 
 stituting these values, we have 
 
 AQ 2 + BB 2 =~AB 2 +~BQ % +~BQ 2 + ~AB 2 , 
 which equation conforms to the enunciation of tfc* 
 theorem. 
 
 
 
 K H 
 
 L 
 
 
 BOOK I. 57 
 
 THEOREM XLIV. 
 
 If a line be "bisected and produced, the rectangle contained 
 by the whole line and the part produced, together with the 
 square of one half the bisected line, will be equivalent to the 
 square on a line made up of tlie part produced and one half the 
 bisected line. 
 
 Let AB be any line, bi- 
 sected in and produced 
 to D. On OB describe 
 the square OF, and on 
 BB describe the square 
 BE. 
 
 The sides of the square 
 BE being produced, the G~~ m" 
 
 square GrL will be form- 
 ed. Also, complete the construction of the rectangle 
 ABEK. 
 
 Then we are to prove that the rectangle, AE, and the 
 aquare, GrL, are together equivalent to the square, 
 CBFa. 
 
 The two complementary rectangles, CL and LF, are 
 equal, (Th. 31). But OL=AH, the line AB being bisected 
 at 0; therefore AL is equal to the sum of the two com- 
 plementary rectangles of the square OF. To AL add 
 the square BE, and the whole rectangle, AE, will be 
 equal to the two rectangles CE and EM. To each of 
 these equals add EM, or the square on HL or its equal 
 OB, and we have rectangle AE -f square EM = OB 2 ; 
 but rectangle AE = AB x BB, and square EM = CB 2 * 
 Hence the theorem, etc. 
 
 Scholium, — If we represent AB by 2a, and BD by x, then AD — 
 2a -f x, and AD X BD = 2ax + x*. But CB 1 = a' ; adding this 
 equation to the preceding, member to member, we get AD X BD -f- 
 CB 2 = a* -f- 2ax -f x 3 = a + x\ But CD — a + s; hence this equa- 
 tion is equivalent to the equation AL X DB -f- CE? = CD , which is 
 the algebraic proof of the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XLV. 
 
 If a straight line be divided into two equal parts, and also 
 into two unequal parts, the rectangle contained by the two un- 
 equal parts together with the square of the line between the 
 points of division, will be equivalent to the square on one half 
 the line. 
 
 Let AB be a line bisected in 0, and divided into two 
 unequal parts in B, 
 
 We are to prove 
 
 that AB x BB + . p c 
 
 Cff^AQ\ov~CB\ B A 
 
 We see by inspection that AB = AC + CB, and BB 
 m, AC— OB; therefore by (Th. 38), we have 
 ABx BB = AC 2 —~CB\ 
 
 By adding UB 2 to each of these equals, we obtain 
 AB x BB + ~CD* =~AC % 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 BOOK II 
 
 PROPORTION. 
 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 
 
 The word Proportion, in its common meaning, de- 
 notes that general relation or symmetry existing between 
 the different parts of an object which renders it agree- 
 able to our taste, and conformable to our ideas of beauty 
 or utility ; but in a mathematical sense. 
 
 1. Proportion is the numerical relation which one quan- 
 tity bears to another of the same kind. 
 
 As the magnitudes compared must be of the same kind, 
 proportion in geometry can be only that of a line to a 
 line, a surface to a surface, an angle to an angle, or a volume 
 to a volume. 
 
 2. Ratio is a term by which the number which meas- 
 ures the proportion between two magnitudes is desig- 
 nated, and is the quotient obtained by dividing the one 
 
 by the other. Thus, the ratio of A to B is --, or A : B, 
 
 in which A is called the antecedent, and B the consequent. 
 If, therefore, the magnitude A be assumed as the unit or 
 standard, this quotient is the numerical value of B ex- 
 pressed in terms of this unit. 
 
 It is to be remarked that this principle lies at the found- 
 ation of the method of representing quantities by num- 
 bers. For example, when we say that a body weighs 
 twenty-five pounds, it is implied that the weight of this 
 body has been compared, directly or indirectly, with that 
 of the standard, one pound. And so of geometrica 
 
 
 magnitudes ; when a line, a surface, or a volume is said 
 to be fifteen linear, superficial, or cubical feet, it is un- 
 derstood that it has been referred to its particular unit, 
 and found to contain it fifteen times ; that is, fifteen is 
 the ratio of the unit to the magnitude. 
 
 "When two magnitudes are referred to the same unit, 
 the ratio of the numbers expressing them will be the 
 ratio of the magnitudes themselves. 
 
 Thus, if A and B have a common unit, a, which is 
 contained in A, m times, and in B, n times, then A =• ma 
 
 j t> , B na n 
 
 and B = na. and -r = — = — . 
 A ma m 
 
 To illustrate, let the 
 
 line A contain the line . A 
 
 a six times, and let the , 
 
 line B contain the same a 
 
 line a five times : then 
 
 i i i j j j 
 
 A= 6a and B—5a, which B 
 
 . B ba 5 
 glVe 2 = 6-a = 6- 
 
 3. A Proportion is a formal statement of the equality 
 of two ratios. 
 
 Thus, if we have the four magnitudes A, B, and D, 
 
 fmch that -r = ^, this relation is expressed by the pro- 
 portion A: B :: C: D, or A : B = : D, the first of 
 which is read, A is to B as O is to D ; and the second, 
 the ratio of A to B is equal to that of to D. 
 
 4. The Terms of a proportion are the magnitudes, or 
 caore properly the representatives of the magnitudes 
 compared. 
 
 5. The Extremes of a proport on are its first and fourth 
 terms. 
 
 6. The Means of a proportion are its second and third 
 terms. 
 
 7. A Conplet consists of the two terms of a ratio. The 
 
 
 first and second terms of a proportion are called the 
 first couplet, and the third and fourth terms are called 
 the second couplet. 
 
 8. The Antecedents of a proportion are its first and 
 third terms. 
 
 9. The Consequents of a proportion are its second and 
 fourth terms. 
 
 In expressing the equality of ratios in the form of a 
 proportion, we may make the denominators the ante- 
 cedents, and the numerators the consequents, or the 
 reverse, without affecting the relation "between the magni- 
 tudes. It is, however, a matter of some little importance 
 to the "beginner to adopt a uniform rule for writing the 
 terms of the ratios in the proportion ; and we shall always, 
 unless otherwise stated, make the denominators of the 
 ratios the antecedents, and the numerators the conse- 
 quents.* 
 
 10. Equimultiples of magnitudes are the products arising 
 from multiplying the magnitudes by the same number. 
 Thus, the products, Am and Bm, are equimultiples of 
 A and B. 
 
 U. A Mean Proportional between two magnitudes is a 
 magnitude which will form with the two a proportion, 
 when it is made a consequent in the first ratio, and an 
 antecedent in the second. Thus, if we have three mag- 
 nitudes A, B y and 0, such that A : B : : B : (7, B is a 
 mean proportional between A and 0. 
 
 12. Two magnitudes are reciprocally, or inversely pro- 
 portional when, in undergoing changes in value, one is 
 multiplied and the other is divided by the same number. 
 
 Thus, if A and B be two magnitudes, so related that when 
 
 j> 
 A becomes mA, B becomes — , A and B are said to be 
 
 m 
 
 inversely proportional. 
 
 * For discussion of the two methods of expressing Ratio, see Uni 
 vorsity Algebra. 
 6 
 
 
 13. A Proportion is taken inversely when the ante- 
 cedents are made the consequents and the consequents 
 the antecedents. 
 
 14. A Proportion is taken alternately, or by alternation, 
 when the antecedents are made one couplet and the con- 
 sequents the other. 
 
 15. Mutually Equiangular Polygons have the same num- 
 ber of angles, those of the one equal to those of the 
 ethers, each to each, and the angles like placed. 
 
 16. Similar Polygons are such as are mutually equi- 
 angular, and have the sides about the equal angles, taken 
 in the same order, proportional. 
 
 17. Homologous Angles in similar polygons are those 
 which are equal and like placed ; and 
 
 18. The Homologous Sides are those which are like dis- 
 posed about the homologous angles. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 If the first and second of four magnitudes are equal, and 
 also the third and fourth, the four magnitudes may form a 
 proportion. 
 
 Let A, B, 0, and B represent four magnitudes, such 
 that A — B and C—B; we are to prove that A : B : : 
 C : B. 
 
 Now, by hypothesis, A is equal to B, and their ratio is 
 therefore 1 ; and since, by hypothesis, is equal to B, 
 their ratio is also 1. 
 
 Hence, the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to B ; 
 and, (by Def. 3), 
 
 A : B : : : D. 
 
 Therefore, four magnitudes which are equal, two and 
 two, constitute a proportion. 
 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the product of 
 the extremes is equal to the product of the means. 
 
 Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D form the pro- 
 portion A : B : : : D ; we are to prove that A x D 
 = Bx C. 
 
 The ratio of A to B is expressed hy -j = r. 
 The ratio of to B is expressed hy ^ = r. 
 
 Hence, (Ax. 1), ^ - ~. 
 
 Multiplying each of these equals hy A x C, we have 
 B x C=Ax D. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are in propor- 
 Hon, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Conversely; If we ha/ve the product of two mag- 
 nitudes equal to the product of two other magnitudes, they 
 will constitute a proportion of which either two may be 
 made the extremes and the other two the means. 
 
 Let the magnitudes B x C = A x D. Dividing both 
 members of the equation by A x C, we obtain 
 B _B 
 A~ C 
 
 Hence the proportion A : B : : (7:2). 
 
 Cor. 2. If we divide both members of the equation 
 Ax B = B x C by A, 
 
 we have D = — - A — . 
 A 
 
 That is, to find the fourth term of a proportion, mul- 
 tiply the second and third terms together and divide the pro- 
 duct by the first term. This is the Rule of Three of 
 Arithmetic- 
 
 
 This equation shows that any one of the foui terms 
 can be found by a like process, provided the other three 
 are given. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 If three magnitudes are continued proportionals, the product 
 of the extremes is equal to the square of the mean. 
 
 Let A, B, and represent the three magnitudes : 
 
 Then A : B : : B : C, (by Def. 11). 
 
 But, (by Th. 2), the product of the extremes is equal 
 to the product of the means ; that is, A x (7= B*. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if three magnitudes, etc, 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 Equimultiples of any two magnitudes have the same ratio 
 as the magnitudes themselves ; and the magnitudes and their 
 equimultiples may therefore form a proportion. 
 
 Let A and B represent two magnitudes, and mA and 
 mB their equimultiples. 
 
 Then we are to prove that A : B : : mA • *nB, 
 
 The ratio of A to B is ~, and of mA Us mB is 
 
 mB B '. ,. 
 
 — T = -r, the same ratio. 
 mA A 7 
 
 Hence the theorem; equimultiples of any twc &4y*i 
 
 tudes, etc, 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, they will be propor~ 
 tional when taken inversely. 
 
 If A : B : : mA : mB, then B : A : : mB : mA ; 
 
 For in either case, the product of the extremes equals 
 that of the means; or the ratio of the couplets is the 
 same. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four quantities are propor- 
 tional, etc. 
 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Magnitudes which are proportional to the same propor 
 tionals, are proportional to each other. 
 If A : B = P : Q 1 Then we are to prove that 
 and a : b = P : Q) A : B = a : b. 
 
 From the 1st proportion, — = ~ ; 
 
 A. Jr 
 
 From the 2d " - = -^; 
 
 a P 
 
 7? h 
 
 Therefore, by (Ax. 1), -j = -, or A : B = a : b. 
 
 jA. a 
 
 Hence the theorem ; magnitudes which are proportional 
 to the same proportionals, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. This principle may be extended through any 
 number of proportionals. 
 
 Cor. 2. If the ratio of an antecedent and consequent of one 
 proportion is equal to the ratio of an antecedent and conse- 
 quent of another proportion, the remaining terms of the two 
 proportions are proportional. 
 
 For, if A : B : : C : D 
 
 and M : N : : P : Q 
 
 in which A= W then C=P> 
 
 hence : D : : P : Q. 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If any number of magnitudes are proportional, any one of 
 the antecedents will be to its consequent as the sum of all the 
 antecedents is to the sum of all the consequents. 
 
 Let A, B, C, B, E, etc., represent the several magni 
 tudes whi 3h give the proportions 
 
 6* 
 
 A : B 
 
 :: : D 
 
 A : B 
 
 :: E : F 
 
 A : B 
 
 : : a : H, 
 
 
 E 
 
 etc., etc 
 
 
 To which we may annex the identical proportion, 
 
 A : B : : A : B. 
 Now, (by Th. 2), these proportions give the following 
 equations, 
 
 A x D - B x 
 A x F = B x E 
 A x H= B x a 
 A x B = B x A, etc. etc. 
 From which, by addition, there results the equation, 
 A(B + D + F + H, etc.) = B(A+ C+F+ #, etc.) 
 But the sums B + D + F, etc., and A -f C + U, etc., 
 may be separately regarded as single magnitudes ; there- 
 fore, (Th. 2, Cor. 1), 
 
 A : B :: A+C+F+ G, etc. : .B + D -f #+ J7", etc. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any number of magnitudes are pro- 
 portional, etc. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the first will be 
 to the sum of the first and second as the third is to the sum of 
 the third and fourth. 
 
 By hypothesis, A : B :: C : D; then we are to prove 
 that A : A + B :: : C + D. 
 
 By the given proportion, — = — . 
 Adding unity to both members, and reducing them to 
 the form of a fraction, we have — - — = — ^ — . Chang- 
 ing this equation into its equivalent proportion al form, 
 we have 
 
 A : A 4- B : : : C + B. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes constitute a pro* 
 portion, etc. 
 
 T> 
 
 Cor. If we subtract each member of the equation -j = 
 
 
 D 
 
 p from unity, and reduce as before, we shall have 
 
 A : A — B :: : C — D. 
 Hence also ; if four magnitudes constitute a proportion, 
 the first is to the difference between the first and second, as the 
 third is to the difference between the third and fourth. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, the sum of the first and 
 second is to their difference as the sum of the third and fourth 
 is to their difference. 
 
 Let A, B, 0, and D be the four magnitudes which give 
 the proportion 
 
 A : B :: C : D; 
 
 we are then to prove that they will also give the propor- 
 tion 
 
 A + B : A—B :: C + D : Q — D. 
 By Th. 8 we have A : A + B - : (7+2). 
 Aisoby Corollary, sameTh., A : A — B = C : C—D. 
 Xow, if we change the order of the means in these pro- 
 portions, which may be done, since the products of ex- 
 tremes and means remain the same, we shall have 
 A : C = A + B : C+ B. 
 A : C = A — B : C—B. 
 Hence, (Th. 6), we have 
 
 A + B : 0+ D - A — B : C—D. 
 Or, A + B : A — B - + D : Q—D. 
 Ilence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are proportional, 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, like powers or like 
 roots of the same magnitudes are also proportional. 
 
 If the four magnitudes, A, B, C, and D, give the pro- 
 portion 
 
 
 A : B : : : D, 
 
 we are to prove that 
 
 A n : B n :: C n : B n . 
 
 The hypothesis gives the equation — = — . Eaising 
 
 A G 
 
 both members of this equation to the nth power, we have 
 
 B n D n 
 
 -^ = -^, which, expressed in its equivalent proportional 
 
 form, gives 
 
 A n : B n :: C n : B n . 
 
 If n is a whole number, the terms of the given propor- 
 tion are each raised to a power ; but if n is a fraction 
 having unity for its numerator, and a whole number for its 
 denominator, like roots of each are taken. 
 
 As the terms of the proportion may be first raised to 
 like powers, and then like roots of the resulting propor- 
 tion be taken, n may be any number whatever. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others, 
 the products which arise from multiplying the first four by the 
 second four, term by term, are also proportional. 
 
 Admitting that A : B 
 
 and X: Y 
 
 We are to show that AX : BY 
 
 : B, 
 Mi N, 
 
 QMiBK 
 
 From the first proportion, — = — ; 
 
 a. o 
 
 Y N 
 From the second, __ = -_. 
 
 X M 
 
 Multiply these equations, member by member, and 
 
 AX CM' 
 Or, AX i BY n CM: BN. 
 
 The same would be true in any number oi proportions. 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are, etc. 
 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 If four magnitude* are 'proportional, and also four others, 
 the quotients which arise from dividing the first four by the 
 swond four, term by term, are proportional. 
 By hypothesis, A : B : : : D, 
 and X : Y ::M: K 
 
 Multiply extremes and means, AD == OB, ( 1 ) 
 and XN=MY. (2) 
 
 Divide (1) hy (2), and ± x * ? JJ x * 
 
 Convert these four factors, which make two equal pro- 
 ducts, into a proportion, and we have 
 
 X : Y' : M l JV" 
 
 By comparing this with the given proportions, we find 
 it is composed of the quotients of the several terms of 
 the first proportion, divided by the corresponding terms 
 of the second. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are proportional, 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, we may multiply the 
 first couplet, the second couplet, the antecedents or the conse- 
 quents, or divide them by the same quantity, and the results 
 will be proportional in every case. 
 
 Let the four magnitudes A, B, 0, and D give the pro- 
 portion A: B :: 0: D. By multiplying the extremes 
 and means we have 
 
 A.D = B.O (1) 
 
 Multiply both members of this equation by any num- 
 ber, as a, and we have 
 
 aA.D = aB.O 
 
 By converting this equation into a proportion in four 
 different ways, we have as follows : 
 
 
 GEOMETRK 
 
 
 aA 
 
 : aB 
 
 :: 
 
 : B 
 
 A : 
 
 B :: 
 
 aO : 
 
 aB 
 
 aA 
 
 : B : 
 
 : aQ 
 
 : B 
 
 A : 
 
 aB : 
 
 : C: 
 
 aB. 
 
 Kesuming^the original equation, (1), and dividing both 
 members by a, we have 
 
 A.B _ B.Q 
 a a 
 
 This equation may also be converted into a proportion 
 in four different ways, with the following results : 
 
 ; 
 
 x> 
 
 : : 
 
 : 
 
 D 
 
 a 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 
 A : 
 
 B 
 
 • : 
 
 . 
 a 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 A . 
 
 B 
 
 . . 
 
 (7. 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 a 
 
 
 A : 
 
 B 
 a 
 
 : : 
 
 C : 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are in proportion, 
 etc, 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 If three magnitudes are in proportion, the first is to the 
 third as the square of the first is to the square of the second. 
 
 Let A, B, and C, be three proportionals. 
 
 Then we are to prove that A : C— A 2 : B* 
 
 By(Th. 3) AC=B> 
 
 Multiply this equation by the numeral value of A, and 
 we have % A*C=A& 
 
 This equation gives the following proportion : 
 
 Ax C=A 2 :B\ 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Remark. — It is now proposed to make an application of the pre- 
 ceding abstract principles of proportion, in geometrical investigations 
 
 
 71 
 
 D 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 If two parallelograms are equal in area, the base and per- 
 pendicular of either may be made the extremes of a propor- 
 tion, of which the base and perpendicular of the other are the 
 means. 
 
 Let ABQD, 
 and HLNM, 
 be two paral- 
 lelograms hav- 
 ing equal areas, A 
 by hypothesis ; then we are to prove that 
 
 AB : LN : : MK : BF, 
 in which MK and BF are the 
 altitudes or perpendiculars of 
 the parallelograms. 
 
 This proportion is true, if 
 the product of the extremes 
 is equal. to the product of the means; 
 that is, if the equation 
 
 AB.BF = LN.MKis true. 
 But AB.BF is the measure of the rectangle ABFE, 
 by (Definition 54, B. I.), and this rectangle is equal in 
 area to the parallelogram ABOD, (B. I., Th. 27). 
 
 In the same manner, we may prove that LN.MK is 
 the measure of the parallelogram NLHM. But these 
 two parallelograms have equal areas by hypothesis. 
 
 Therefore, AB.BF = LN.MK is a true equation, and 
 Th. 2, Cor. 1), gives the proportion 
 
 AB : LN : : MK : BF. 
 Hence the theorem ; if two parallelograms are equal in 
 area, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 Parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each other as 
 their bases. 
 
 Since parallelograms having equal bases and equal 
 altitudes are equal in area, however much their angle* 
 
 
 may differ, we can suppose the two parallelograms under 
 consideration to be mutually equiangular, without in the 
 least impairing the generality of this theorem. There- 
 fore, let ABOB 
 and AEFB be two 
 parallelograms 
 having equal alti- 
 tudes, and let them 
 be placed with 
 their bases on the same line AE, and let the side, AB t 
 be common. First suppose their bases commensurable, 
 and that AE being divided into nine equal parts, AB 
 contains five of those parts. 
 
 If, through the points of division, lines be drawn paral- 
 lel to AB, it is obvious that the whole figure, or the 
 parallelogram, AEFB, will be divided into nine equal 
 parts, and that the parallelogram, ABOB, will be com- 
 posed of five of those parts. 
 
 Therefore, ABCB : AEFB : : AB : AE : : *5 : 9. 
 
 Whatever be the whole numbers having to each other 
 the ratio of the lines AB and AE, the reasoning would 
 remain the same, and the proportion is established when 
 the bases are commensurable. But if the bases are not 
 to each other in the ratio of any two whole numbers, it 
 remains still to be shown that 
 
 AEFB : ABOB :: AE : AB (1) 
 
 If this propor- 
 tion is not true, 
 there must be a 
 line greater or less 
 than AB, to which 
 
 AE will have the A B L 
 
 same ratio that AEFB has to ABOB. 
 
 Suppose the fourth proportional greater than AB, as 
 AK, then, 
 
 AEFB : ABOB :: AE : AK (2). 
 
 
 If we now divide the line AE into equal parts, each 
 less than the line BK, one point of division, at least, will 
 fall between B and K. Let L be such point, and draw 
 LM parallel to BO. 
 
 This construction makes AE and AL commensura- 
 ble; and by what has been already demonstrated, we 
 
 have 
 
 AEFD : ALMD :: AE : AL. (3) 
 
 Inverting the means in proportions ( 2 ) and ( 3 ), they 
 
 become 
 
 AEFD : AE :: ABQD : AK; 
 
 and AEFD : AE : : ALMD : AL. 
 
 Hence, (Th. 6), 
 
 ABOD : AK : : ALMD : AL. 
 By inverting the means in this last proportion, we have 
 
 ABOD : ALMD : : AK : AL. 
 
 But AK is, by hypothesis, greater than AL; hence, if 
 this proportion is true, ABOD must be greater than 
 ALMD; but on the contrary it is less. We therefore 
 conclude that the supposition, that the fourth propor- 
 tional, AK, is greater than AB, from which alone this 
 absurd proportion results, is itself absurd. 
 
 In a similar manner it can be proved absurd to sup- 
 pose the fourth proportional less than AB. 
 
 Therefore the fourth term of the proportion ( 1 ) can be 
 neither less nor greater than AB ; it is then AB itself, 
 and parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each 
 other as their bases, whether these bases are commensur- 
 able or not. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms having equal alti- 
 tudes, etc. 
 
 Oor. 1. Since a triangle is one half of a parallelogram 
 having the same base as the triangle and an equal alti- 
 tude, and as the halves of magnitudes have the same 
 ratio as their wholes ; therefore, 
 7 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Triangles having the same or equal altitudes are to each 
 other as their bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. Any triangle has the same area as a right- 
 angled triangle having the same hase and an equal alti- 
 tude ; and as either side about the right angle of aright- 
 angled triangle may be taken as the base, it follows that 
 
 Two triangles having the same or equal bases are to each 
 other as their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. Since either side of a parallelogram may be 
 taken as its base, it follows from this theorem that 
 
 Parallelograms having equal bases are to each other as their 
 altitudes. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 If lines are drawn cutting the sides, or the sides 'produced, of 
 a triangle proportionally, such secant lines are parallel to the 
 base of the triangle ; and conversely, lines drawn parallel 
 to the base of a triangle cut the sides, or the sides produced, 
 proportionally. 
 
 Let ABC be any triangle, and 
 draw the line BE dividing the sides 
 AB and AC into parts wmich give 
 the proportion 
 
 AB : BB : : AE : EC. 
 We are to prove that BE is parallel 
 to BC. 
 
 If BE is not a parallel through 
 the point B to the line BC, suppose 
 Bm to be that parallel ; and draw the 
 lines BC and Bm. 
 
 Now, the two triangles ABm and 
 mBC, have the same altitude, since 
 they have a common vertex, B, and their bases in the 
 same line, AC; hence, they are to each other as their 
 bases, Am and mC, (Th. 16, Cor. 1). 
 
 
 That is, A ADm : A mDQ : : Am : mO, 
 Also, A AmD : £ J>mB :: AD : DB. 
 
 But, since Dm is supposed parallel to BO, the triangles 
 DBm and DCm have equal areas, because they are on 
 the same base and between the same parallels, (Th. 28, 
 B.I). 
 
 Therefore the terms of the first couplets in the two 
 preceding proportions are equal each to each, and conse- 
 quently the terms of the second couplets are proportional, 
 (Theorem 6). 
 
 That is, AD : DB : : Am : mO 
 
 But AD : DB :: AE : EQ by hypothesis. 
 
 Hence we again have two proportions having the first 
 couplets, the same in both, and we therefore have 
 
 AE : EC : : Am : mO 
 
 By alternation this becomes 
 
 AE : Am :: EC : mO 
 
 That is, AE is to Am, a greater magnitude is to a less, 
 as EQ is to mO, a less to a greater, which is absurd. 
 Had we supposed the point m to fall between E and 0, 
 our conclusion would have been equally absurd ; hence 
 the suppositions which have led to these absurd results 
 are themselves absurd, and the line drawn through the 
 point D parallel to BO must intersect AO in the point 
 E. Therefore the parallel and the line DE are one and 
 the same line. 
 
 Conversely : JfDE be drawn parallel to the base of the 
 triangle, then will 
 
 AD i DB :: AE i EQ 
 For as before, 
 
 A ADE : a EDO : : AE : EQ 
 and A DEB : A ADE x; DB i AD 
 
 Multiplying the corresponding terms of these propor- 
 
 
 tions, and omitting the common factor, a ADE, in the 
 first couplet, we have 
 
 A DEB : A EDO : : AE x DB : EC x AD. 
 
 But the a's DEB and EDO have equal areas, (Th. 28, 
 B. I) ; hence AE x DB = EC x AD, which in the form 
 of a proportion is 
 
 AE : EC : : AD : DB 
 
 or, AD : DB : : AE : EC 
 
 and therefore the line parallel to the base of the triangle, 
 divides the sides proportionally. 
 
 It is evident that the reasoning would remain the same, 
 had we conceived ADE to be the triangle and the sides 
 to be produced to the points B and 0. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if lines are drawn cutting the 
 sides, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Because DE is parallel to BO, and intersects 
 the sides AB and A 0, the angles ADE and ABO are 
 equal. For the same reason the angles AED and AOB 
 are equal, and the A's ADE and ABO are equiangular. 
 
 Let us now take up the triangle ADE, and place it on 
 ABO; the angle ADE falling on |__ B, the side AD on 
 the side AB, and the side DE on the side BO 
 
 Now, since the angle A is common, and the angles 
 AED and A OB are equal, the side AE of the A ADE, 
 in its new position, will be parallel to the side AO of the 
 A ABO. 
 
 The last proportion of this Th. gives (Th. 8 and Th. 5), 
 AD : AE w AB : AC 
 
 From the above construction we obtain, by a similar 
 course of reasoning, the proportion 
 
 AD : DE : : AB : BO 
 
 And in like manner it may be shown that 
 AE : ED :: AO : OB 
 
 That is, the sides about the equal angles of equiangular 
 triangles, taken in the same order, are proportional, and the 
 triangles are similar, (Def. 16). 
 
 
 77 
 
 Cor. 2. Two triangles having an angle in one equal to an 
 angle in the other, and the sides about these equal angles pro* 
 portional, are equiangular and similar. 
 
 For, if the smaller triangle be placed on the larger, 
 the equal angles of the triangles coinciding, then will 
 the sides opposite these angles be parallel, and the triau- 
 gles will therefore be equiangular and similar. 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If any triangle have its sides respectively proportional to 
 the like or homologous sides of another triangle, each to each, 
 then the two triangles will be equiangular and similar. 
 
 Let the triangle abc have its sides pro- 
 portional to the triangle ABO ; that is, ac 
 to A as cb to OB, and ac to AC as ab to 
 AB ; then we are to prove that 
 the a's, abc and ABO, are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 On the other side of the base, 
 AB, and from A, conceive the 
 angle BAB to be drawn = to the 
 |__ a ; and from the point B, 
 conceive the angle ABB to be 
 drawn = to the [_ b. Then the third [__ D must be =a 
 to the third [_ o, (B. I, Th. 12, Cor. 2) ; and the A ABB 
 will be equiangular to the A abc by construction. 
 
 Therefore, ac : ab = AB : AB 
 
 By hypothesis, ac : ab = A O : AB 
 
 Hence, AB : AB = A : A B, (Th. 6). 
 
 In this last proportion the consequents are equal; 
 therefore, the antecedents are equal : that is, 
 AB - AO 
 
 In the sa me manner we may prove that 
 BB = OB 
 
 
 But AB is common to the two triangles ; therefore, 
 the three iides of the A ABB are respectively equal to 
 the three sides of the A ABO, and the two a's are equal, 
 (B. I, Th. 21). 
 
 But the A's ABB, and abc, are equiangular by con- 
 struction; therefore, the A's, ABO, and abc, are also 
 equiangular and similar. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any triangle have its sides, etc, 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 
 Let abc and ABO be two triangles 
 whose sides are respectively propor- 
 tional, then will the triangles be equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 That is, L« = LA L& = L 2> and 
 
 If the [_ c be in fact 
 equal to the [__ 0, the tri- 
 angle abc can be placed 
 on the triangle ABO, ca 
 taking the direction of 
 OA and cb of OB. The 
 line ab will then divide 
 the sides OA and OB proportionally, and will therefore 
 be parallel to AB, and the triangles will be equiangular 
 and similar, (Th. 17). 
 
 But if the [_c be not equal to the [_ 0, then place ae 
 on i(J as before, the point c falling on 0. Under the 
 present supposition cb will not fall on OB, but will take 
 another direction, OV, on one side or the other of OB 
 Make OV equal to cb and draw aV. 
 
 Now, the A abc is represented in magnitude and posi- 
 tion by the A a VO; and if, through the point a, the line 
 ab be drawn parallel to AB, we shall have 
 
 Oa : OA n ab : AB; 
 hut by (Hy.) Oa : OA : : aV : AB. 
 
 
 79 
 
 Hence, (Th. d), 
 
 ab : AB :: aV : XB; 
 which requires that ab = aV, but (Th. 22, B. 1) ab can 
 not be equal to aV; hence the last proportion is absurd, 
 and the supposition that the [__ c is not equal to the [__ (7, 
 which leads to this result, is also absurd. Therefore, 
 the [_c is equal to the [__ (7, and the triangles are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any triangle have its sides, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 If four straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle con- 
 tained by the lines which constitute the extremes, is equivalent 
 to that contained by those which constitute the means of the 
 proportion. 
 
 Let A, B, C, D, represent the four A '~ 
 lines ; 
 
 then 
 
 T> 
 
 we are to show, geo- c , 
 metrically, that A x JD — B x Q. D j 
 
 Place A and B at right angles to each 
 other, and draw the hypotenuse. Also place 
 and D at right angles to each other, and 
 draw the hypotenuse. Then bring the two 
 triangles together, so that shall be at right 
 angles to B, as represented in the figure. 
 
 Now, these two A's have each a E. [_, 
 and the sides about the equal angles are pro- 
 portional ; that is, A : B : : C : D ; hence, 
 (Th. 17, Cor. 2), the two A's are equiangular, and the 
 acute angles which meet at the extremities of B and (7, 
 are together equal to one right angle, and the lines B 
 and G are so placed as to make another right angle; 
 therefore, also, the extremities of A, B, 0, and D, are in 
 one right line, (Th. 3, B. I), and that line is the diag- 
 
 l\ B 
 
 
 \ 
 
 BC 
 
 \ 
 
 C 
 
 
 \» 
 
BOOK II. 
 
 \ 
 
 
 onal of the parallelogram be. By Th. 31, B. I, the 
 complementary parallelograms about this diagonal are 
 equal ; but, one of these parallelograms is B in length, 
 and in width, and the other is D in length and A in 
 width; therefore, 
 
 B x C = A x B. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if four straight lines are in propor- 
 tion, etc. 
 
 Cor. When B = (7, then A X B = B\ and B is the 
 mean proportional between A and D. That is, if three 
 straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle contained 
 by the first and third lines is equivalent to the square 
 described on the second line. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 Similar triangles are to one another as the squares of their 
 
 homologous sides. 
 
 Let ABO and DBF be two 
 
 similar triangles, and LQ and 
 
 MF perpendiculars to the sides 
 
 A B and BE respectively. Then 
 
 we are to prove that 
 
 aABC:aBEF = AB*:BE\ 
 By the similarity of the tri- 
 angles, we have, 
 
 AB :BE = LC : MF 
 But, AB ; BE = AB : BE 
 Hence, AB 2 : JJW = AB x LQ : BE x MF. 
 But, (by Th. 30, B. I), AB x LQ is double the area 
 
 of the A ABC, and BE x MF is double the area of the 
 
 A BEF. 
 Therefore, A ABO: ABEFnAB x LQ :BExMF 
 And, (Th. 6), A ABC: A BEF= AW : BE\ 
 
 Hence the theorem ; similar triangles are to one another, 
 
 etc. 
 
 
 81 
 
 The following illustration will enable the learner fully 
 to comprehend this important theorem, and it will also 
 serve to impress it upon his memory. 
 
 Let abc and ABO represent two equiangular triangles. 
 Suppose the length of 
 the side ac to be two 
 units, and the length 
 of the corresponding 
 side A to be three 
 units. 
 
 Now, drawing lines 
 through the points of 
 
 division of the sides ac and A 0, parallel to the other sides 
 of the triangles, we see that the smaller triangle is com- 
 posed of four equal triangles, while the larger contains 
 nine such triangles. That is, 
 
 the sides of the triangles are as 2 : 3, 
 
 and their areas are as 4 : 9 = 2 2 : 3'. 
 
 THEOREM XXI 
 
 Similar polygons may be divided into the same number of 
 triangles; and to each triangle in one of the polygons there 
 will be a corresponding triangle in the other polygon, these 
 triangles being similar and similarly situated. 
 
 JjQtABCDUtmd. abcde 
 be two similar polygons. 
 Now it is obvious that we 
 can divide each polygon 
 into as many triangles as 
 the figure has sides, less 
 
 two; and as the polygons have the same number of sides, 
 the diagonals drawn from the vertices of the homologous 
 angles will divide them into the same number of tri- 
 angles. 
 
 
 Since the polygons are similar, the angles EAB and cab, 
 are equal, and 
 
 EA : AB : : ea : ab. 
 
 Hence the two triangles, EAB and eab, having an angle 
 in the one equal to an angle in the other, and the sides 
 about these angles proportional, are equiangular and 
 similar, and the angles ABE and abe are equal. 
 
 But the angles ABO and abc are equal, because the 
 polygons are similar. 
 
 Hence, [_ABO— [_ABE= \__abc — [__abe; 
 
 that is, [___EBO = [__ebc. 
 
 The triangles, EAB and eab, being similar, their ho- 
 mologous sides give the proportion, 
 
 AB : BE : : ab : be; ( 1 ) 
 and since the polygons are similar, the sides about the 
 equal angles B and b are proportional, and we have 
 AB : BO :: ab : be; 
 
 or, BO : AB :: be : ab. (2) 
 
 Multiplying proportions (1) and (2), term by term, and 
 omitting in the result the factor AB common to the terms 
 of the first couplet, and the factor ab common to the 
 terms of the second, we have 
 
 BO : BE n be i be. 
 Hence the A's EBO and ebe are equiangular and similar; 
 and thus we may compare all of the triangles of one 
 polygon with those like placed in the other. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; similar polygons may be divided^ etc 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 The perimeter 8 of similar polygons are to one another as 
 their homologous sides ; and their areas are to one another as 
 the squares of their homologous sides. 
 
 Let ABODE and abode be two similar polygons ; then 
 we are to prove that AB is to the sum of all the sides 
 
 
 of the polygon A BOB, as 
 ah \% to the sum of all 
 the sides of the polygon 
 abed. E 
 
 We have the identical 
 proportion 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : : 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah; 
 
 
 and since 
 
 the 
 
 polygons are 
 
 similar, we may write the 
 
 following : 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 1 BO : 
 
 he 
 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 : OB : 
 
 cd 
 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 : BE 
 
 : de 9 
 
 etc. etc. 
 
 Hence, (Th. 7), 
 AB : ah :: AB+BO+OD+DE, etc.: ab+bc+cd+de, etc. 
 
 Therefore, the perimeters of similar polygons are to 
 one another as their homologous sides. This is the first 
 part of the theorem. 
 
 Since the polygons are similar, the triangles EAB, eah, 
 are similar, and if the triangle EAB is a part expressed 
 
 by the traction -, of the polygon to which it belongs, 
 n 
 
 the triangle eah is a like part of the other polygon. 
 
 Therefore, EAB : eah : : ABOBEA : ahedea. 
 
 But, (Th. 20), EAB : eah : : AB 2 : ah\ 
 
 Therefore, (Th. 6), 
 
 ABOBEA : ahedea : : AB 2 : ah\ 
 
 Therefore, the similar polygons are to one another as 
 the squares on their homologous sides. This is the 
 second part of the theorem. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the perimeters of similar polygon* 
 are to one another, ete, 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 Two triangles which have an angle in the one equal tc an 
 angle in the other, are to each other as the rectangle of thu 
 aides about the equal angles. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Let ABC and def be two triangles having the angles 
 A and d equal. It is to 
 be proved that the areas 
 ABC and def are to each 
 other as AB.AC is to 
 de.df. 
 
 Conceive the triangle 
 def placed on the tri- 
 angle ABC, so that d 
 shall fall on A, and de on 
 AB ; then df will fall on 
 AC, because the L'si 
 and d are equal. On AB, lay off Ae, equal to de ; and 
 on AC, lay off Af, equal to df, and draw ef The tri- 
 angle Aef will then be equal to the triangle def Join 
 B and/. 
 
 Now, as triangles having the same altitude are to each 
 other as their bases, (Th. 16, Cor. 1), we have 
 
 Aef : ABf :: Ae : AB 
 also, ABf : ABC : : Af : AC 
 
 Multiplying these proportions together, term by term, 
 omitting from the result ABf, a factor common to the 
 terms of the first couplet, we have 
 
 Aef : ABC : : Ae . Af : AB . AC 
 
 But Aef is equal to def, Ae to de, and Af to df; therefoie, 
 
 def : ABC :: de . df : AB . AC 
 
 Hence the theorem ; two triangles which have an angle, ttc. 
 
 Scholium. — If we suppose that 
 
 AB : AC :: de : df 
 
 the two triangles will be similar ; and if we multiply the terms ot the 
 first couplet of this proportion by AC, and the terms of the second 
 ccmplet by df, we shall have 
 
 AB . AC : AC % : : de ^ : dj* 
 U, AB . AC : de . df :: AC 2 : df 
 
 
 Comparing this with the last proportion in this theorem, and we have, 
 (Th.6); _ _ 
 
 def: ABC xx df : AC 9 
 
 Remark. — This scholium is therefore another demonstration of 
 Theorem 20, and hence that theorem need not necessarily have been 
 made a distinct proposition. We require no stronger proof of the cer- 
 tainty of geometrical truth, than the fact that, however different the 
 processes by which we arrive at these truths, we are never led into 
 inconsistencies ; but whenever our conclusions can be compared, they 
 will harmonize with each other completely, provided our premises are 
 true and our reasoning logical. 
 
 It is hoped that the student will lose no opportunity to exercise 
 his powers, and test his skill and knowledge, in seeking original 
 demonstrations of theorems, and in deducing consequences and 
 conclusions from those already established. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If the vertical angle of a triangle be bisected, the bisecting 
 line will cut the base into segments proportional to the adja- 
 cent sides of the triangle. 
 
 Let ABO be any triangle, 
 and the vertical angle, 0, be bi- *s1 
 
 sected by tbe straight line CD. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 AB : BB = AC : OB. 
 
 Produce A O to E, making A — D r 
 
 OE = OB, and draw EB. The exterior angle A OB, of 
 the A CEB, is equal to the two angles E, and CBE; 
 but the angle E = QBE, because OB — OE, and the tri- 
 angle is isosceles; therefore the angle AOB, the half of 
 the angle A OB, i3 equal to the angle E, and BO and BE 
 are parallel, (Cor.2,Th. 7,B. I). 
 
 Now, as ABE is a triangle, and OB is parallel to BE, 
 we have AD : BB = AQ : OE or OB, (Th. 17). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the vertical angle of a triangle 
 be bisected, etc. 
 8 
 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 If from the right angle of a right-angled triangle, a per 
 pendicular is drawn to the hypotenuse ; 
 
 1. The perpendicular divides the triangle into two similar 
 triangles, each of which is similar to the whole triangle, 
 
 2. The perpendicular is a mean proportional between the 
 segments of the hypotenuse. 
 
 3. The segments of the hypotenuse are in proportion to the 
 squares on the adjacent sides of the triangle. 
 
 4. The sum of the squares on the two sides is equivalent to 
 the square on the hypotenuse. 
 
 Let BAG be a triangle, right an- 
 gled at A ; and draw AD perpendicu- 
 lar to BO. 
 
 1. The two A 's, ABO and ABB, B DC 
 have the common angle, B, and the right angle BAQ = 
 the right angle BDA ; therefore, the third |_ 's are equal, 
 and the two A's are similar by Th. 17, Cor. 1. In the 
 same manner we prove the A ADC similar to the A 
 ABC; and the two triangles, ABB, ABC, being similar 
 to the same A ABO, are similar to each other. 
 
 2. As similar triangles have the sides about the equal 
 angles proportional, (Def. 16), we have 
 
 BB : AD :: AD : OD; 
 
 or, the perpendicular is a mean proportional between the seg- 
 ments of the hypotenuse. 
 
 3. Again, BO j_BA :: BA : BD 
 hence, BA* - BO.BD (1) 
 also, BQjJJA : : OA : OD 
 hence, OA 2 = BOOD (2) 
 
 Dividing Eq. (1) by Eq. (2), member by member, wo 
 
 obtain 
 
 ~BA* , BD 
 
 ~OA 2 "" OD 
 
 
 which, in the form of a proportion, is 
 
 CA* :~BA* :: CD : BD; 
 
 that is, the segments of the hypotenuse are proportional to the 
 squares on the adjacent sides. 
 4. By the addition of (1) and (2), we have 
 
 BJl + CA* m BQ(BD + CD) =BC\ 
 
 that is, the sum of the squares on the sides about the right 
 angle is equivalent to the square on the hypotenuse. This ia 
 another demonstration of Theorem 39, B. I. 
 
 Hence the theorem , if from the right angle of a right* 
 angled triangle, etc. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 BOOK III. 
 
 OF THE CIRCLE, AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THEtt 
 REMS DEPENDENT ON ITS PROPERTIES. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. * A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how- 
 ever small, do not lie in the same direction. 
 
 2. A Circle is a plane figure bounded by one uniformly 
 curved line, all of the points of which are at the same 
 distance from a certain point within, called the center 
 
 3. The Circumference of a cir- 
 cle is the curved line that 
 bounds it. 
 
 4. The Diameter of a circle 
 is a line passing through the 
 center, and terminating at both 
 extremities in the circumfer- 
 ence. Thus, in the figure, is 
 the center of the circle, the 
 curved line ACrBD is the cir- 
 cumference, and AB is a diameter. 
 
 5. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from the 
 center to any point in the circumference. Thus, CD is 
 a radius of the circle. 
 
 6. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 * The first six of the above definitions have been before given among 
 the general definitions of Geometry, but it was deemed advisable to 
 reinsert them here. 
 
 
 7. A Chord of a circle is the line connecting the ex- 
 tremities of an arc. 
 
 8. A Segment of a circle is the portion of the circle on 
 either side of a chord. 
 
 Tims, in the last figure, EGrF is an arc, and EF is a 
 chord of the circle, and the spaces bounded by the chord 
 EF, and the two arcs EGrF and EDF, into which it 
 divides the circumference, are segments. 
 
 9. A Tangent to a circle is a line which, meeting the 
 circumference at any point, will not cut it on being 
 produced. The point in which the tangent meets the 
 circumference is called the point of tangency. 
 
 10. A Secant to a circle is a line which meets the cir- 
 cumference in two points, and lies a part within and a 
 part without the circumference. 
 
 11. A Sector of a circle is a portion of the circle included 
 between any two radii and their intercepted arc. 
 
 Thus, in the last figure, the line HL, which meets the 
 circumference at the point D, but does not cut it, is a 
 tangent, D being the point of tangency; and the line 
 MN, which meets the circumference at the points P and 
 Q, and lies a portion within and a portion without the 
 circle, is a secant. The area bounded by the arc BD, and 
 the two radii OB, CD, is a sector of the circle. 
 
 12. A Circumscribed Polygon is 
 one all of whose sides are tangent 
 to the circumference of the circle ; 
 and conversely, the circle is then 
 said to be inscribed in the polygon. 
 
 13. An Inscribed Polygon is one 
 the vertices of whose angles are 
 all found in the circumference 
 of the circle ; and conversely, the circle is then said to be 
 circumscribed about the polygon. 
 
 14. A Regular Polygon is one which is both equiangu- 
 lar and equilateral. 
 
 8* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The last three definitions are illustrated by the last 
 figure. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 Any radius perpendicular to a chord, bisects the chord, and 
 also the arc of the chord. 
 
 Let AB be a chord, the center of 
 the circle, and OE & radius perpen- 
 dicular to AB ; then we are to prove 
 that AB = BB, and AE = EB. 
 
 Since is the center of the circle, 
 AC— BO, CB is common to the two 
 A's A OB and BOB, and the angles 
 at B are right angles ; therefore the two A's ABO and 
 BBO are equal, and AB = BB, which proves the first 
 part of the theorem. 
 
 Now, as AB — BB, and BE is common to the two 
 spaces, ABE and BBE, and the angles at B are right 
 angles, if we conceive the sector OBE turned over and 
 placed on CAE, OE retaining its position, the point B 
 will fall on the point A, because AB = BB and AO = 
 BO; then the arc BE will fall on the arc AE; otherwise 
 there would be points in one or the other arc unequally 
 distant from the center, which is impossible ; therefore, 
 the arc AE — the arc EB, which proves the second part 
 of the theorem. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. The center of the circle, the middle point of 
 the chord AB, and of the subtended arc AEB, are 
 three points in the same straight line perpendicular to 
 the chord at its middle point. Now as but one perpen- 
 dicular can be drawn to a line from a given point in that 
 line, it follows : 
 
 1st. That the radius drawn to the middle point 3f 
 any arc bisects, and is perpendicular to, the chord of 
 the arc. 
 
 
 91 
 
 2d. That the perpendicular to the cl ord at its middle 
 point passes through the center of the circle and the 
 middle of the subtended arc. 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 Equal angles at the center of a circle are subtended by 
 equal chords. 
 
 Let the angle A CE = the angle 
 ECB; then the two isosceles triangles, 
 ACE, and ECB, are equal in all re- 
 spects, and AE = EB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords are 
 equally distant from the center. 
 
 Let AB and EF be equal chords, 
 and C the center of the circle. From 
 C, draw CG and CH, perpendicular 
 to the respective chords. These 
 perpendiculars will bisect the chords, 
 (Th. 1), and we shall have A G = EH. 
 "We are now to prove that CG = CH. 
 
 Since the A's ECH and AQG are right-angled, we 
 have, (Th. 39, B. I), 
 
 EH 2 +~WC 7 =-EC 2 
 
 and, AG 2 + GO 2 = 'AC 2 . 
 
 By subtracting these equations, member from mem- 
 ber, we find that 
 
 EH 2 — AG 2 + 7W 2 — ~GC 2 =~EC 2 — AC* (1) 
 But the chords are equal by hypothesis, hence their 
 halves, EH and AG, are equal; also EC = AC, being 
 radii of the circle. Wherefore, 
 
 
 EH 2 — AG 2 « 
 and, W — ~A0 2 - 0. 
 
 These values in Equation ( 1 ) reduce it to 
 
 HC? - GO 2 = 
 or, H0 2 =G0 2 
 
 and, #(7 - #(7. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 (7<?r. Under all circumstances we have 
 EH 2 + HQ 2 = Z# 2 + #tf 2 , 
 
 because the sum of the squares in either member of the 
 equation is equivalent to the square of the radius of the 
 circle. 
 
 Now, if we suppose HO greater than GO, then will 
 HQ 2 be greater than GO 2 . Let the difference of these 
 squares be represented by d. 
 
 Subtracting GO 2 from both members of the above 
 equation, we have 
 
 EH 2 +d=AG 2 
 
 whence, ~AG 2 > EH 2 , and A G > EH. 
 
 Therefore, AB, the double of AG, is greater than EF, 
 the double of EH; that is, of two chords in the same or 
 equal circles, the one nearer the center is the greater. 
 
 The equation, EH 2 + HO 2 = AG 2 -f ~G0 2 , being true, 
 whatever be the position of the chords, we may suppose 
 GO to have any value between and A 0, the radius of 
 the circle. 
 
 When GO becomes zero, the equation reduces to 
 EH 2 + ~H0 2 - AG* - B 2 ; 
 that is, under this supposition, AG coincides with A 0, 
 and AB becomes the diameter of the circle, the greatest 
 chord that can he drawn in it. 
 
 
 THEOREM IV 
 
 A line tangent to the circumference of a circle is at right 
 angles with the radius drawn to the point of contact. 
 
 Let A be a line tangent to the circle 
 at the point B, and draw the radius, EB, 
 and the lines, AE and OE. 
 
 Now, we are to prove that EB is per- 
 pendicular to AC. Because B is the 
 only point in the line A which meets 
 the circle, (Def. 9, B. Ill), any other line, 
 as AE or CE, must be greater than EB ; 
 therefore, EB is the shortest line that can be drawn from 
 the point E to the line A 0; and EB is the perpendicu- 
 lar to AC, (Th. 23, B. I). 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords subtend 
 or stand on equal portions of the circumference. 
 
 Conceive two equal circles, and two equal chords drawn 
 within them. Then, conceive one circle taken up and 
 placed upon the other, center upon center, in such a po- 
 sition that the two equal chords will fall on, and exactly 
 coincide with, each other; the circles must also coin- 
 ciie, because they are equal; and the two arcs of the two 
 circles on either side of the equal chords must also coin- 
 cide, or the circles could not coincide; and magnitudes 
 which coincide, or exactly fill the same space, are in all 
 respects equal, (Ax. 10). 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Through three given points, not in the same straight line, 
 one circumference can be made to pass, and but one. 
 
 Let A, B, and be three given 
 
 points, not in the same straight 
 
 line, and draw the lines AB and 
 
 BO. If a circumference is made 
 
 to pass through the two points A 
 
 and B, the line AB will be a chord 
 
 to such a circle ; and if a chord is 
 
 bisected by a line at right angles, 
 
 the bisecting line will pass through 
 
 the center of the circle, (Cor., Th. 1) ; therefore, if we 
 
 bisect the line AB, and draw DF, perpendicular to AB, 
 at the point of bisection, any circumference that can 
 pass through the points, A and B, must have its center 
 somewhere in the line DF. And if we draw FIG- at 
 right angles to BO at its middle point, any circumference 
 that can pass through the points B and must have its 
 center somewhere in the line EO. Now, if the two lines, 
 DF and EGr, meet in a common point, that point will be 
 a center, about which a circumference can be drawn to 
 pass through the three points, A, B, and 0, and DF and 
 EO will meet in every case, unless they are parallel ; but 
 they are not parallel, for if they were, it would follow 
 (Th. 5, B. I) that, since DF is intersected at right angles 
 by the line AB, it must also be intersected at right angles 
 by the line BO, having a direction different from that of 
 AB ; which is impossible, (Th. 7, B. I). 
 
 Therefore the two lines will meet ; and, with the point 
 H, at which they meet, as a center, and HB — HA = HQ 
 as a radius, one circumference, and but one, can be made 
 to pass through the three given points. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If two rircles touch each other, either internally or exter- 
 nally, the two centers and the point of contact will be in one 
 right line. 
 
 Let two circles touch each 
 other internally, as represented 
 at A, and conceive AB to be a 
 tangent at the common point A. 
 Now, if a line, perpendicular to 
 AB, be drawn from the point 
 A, it must pass through the 
 center of each circle, (Th. 4) ; 
 
 and as but one perpendicular can be drawn to a line at a 
 given point in it, A, 0, and B, the point of contact and 
 the two centers must be in one and the same line. 
 
 Next, let two circles touch each other externally, and 
 from the point of contact conceive the common tangent, 
 AB, to be drawn. 
 
 Then a line, A 0, perpendicular to AB, will pass 
 through the center of one circle, (Th. 4), and a per- 
 pendicular, AB, from the same point, A, will pass 
 through the center of the other circle ; hence, BAG and 
 BAB are together equal to two right angles ; therefore 
 CAB is one continued straight line, (Th. 3, B. I). 
 
 Cor. "When two circles touch each other internally, the 
 distance between their centers is equal to the difference 
 of their radii ; and when they touch each other extern- 
 ally, the distance between their centers is equal to the 
 sum of their radii. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 An angle at the circumference of any circle is measured by 
 one half the arj on which it stands. 
 
 In this work it is taken as an axiom that any angle 
 whose vertex is at the center of a circle, is measured by 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the arc on which it stands ; and we now proceed to prove 
 that when the arcs are equal, the angle at the circumference 
 is equal to one half the angle at the center. 
 
 Let ACB be an angle at the center, 
 and D an angle at the circumference, 
 and at first suppose D in a line with 
 AC. We are now to prove that the 
 angle ACB is double the angle D. 
 
 The A DCB is an isosceles triangle, 
 because CD = CB ; and its exterior 
 angle, ACB, is equal to the two interior angles, D, and 
 CBD, (Th. 12, B. I), and since these two angles are equal 
 to each other, the angle ACB is double the angle at 
 D. But ACB is measured by the arc AB ; therefore the 
 angle D is measured by one half the arc AB. 
 
 Next, suppose D not in a line with 
 AC, but at any point in the circum- 
 ference, except on AB ; produce DC 
 to E. 
 
 Now, by the first part of this 
 theorem, 
 
 the angle ECB = 2EDB, 
 
 also, EC A = 2EDA, 
 
 by subtraction, ACB = 2 ADB. 
 
 But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore ADB 
 or the angle D, is measured by one half of the same arc 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 An angle in a semicircle is a right angle ; an angle in a 
 (segment greater than a semicircle is less than a right angle ; 
 and an angle in a segment less than a semicircle is greater 
 than a right angle. 
 
 If the angle ACB is in a semicircle, the opposite seg- 
 ment, ADB, on which it stands, is also a semicircle ; and 
 the angle ACB is measured by one half the arc ADB 
 
 
 b« 
 
 (Th. 8) ; that is, one half of 180°, or 90°, which is the 
 measure of a right angle. 
 
 If the angle A CB is in a segment 
 greater than a semicircle, then the 
 opposite segment is less than a semi- 
 circle, and the measure of the angle 
 is less than one half of 180°, or less 
 than a right angle. If the angle 
 ACB is in a segment less than a 
 semicircle, then the opposite segment, ABB, on whiefc 
 the angle stands, is greater than a semicircle, and its half 
 is greater than 90°; and, consequently, the angle is 
 greater than a right angle. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. Angles at the circumference, 
 and standing on the same arc of a 
 circle, are equal to one another ; for 
 all angles, as BAG, BBC, BBC, are 
 equal, because each is measured by 
 one half of the arc BC. Also, if the 
 angle BEC is equal to CEG-, then 
 the arcs Bd and CG- are equal, be- 
 cause their halves are the measures of equal angles. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The sum of two opposite angles of any quadrilateral in* 
 scribed in a circle, is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Let ACBD represent any quadri- 
 lateral inscribed in a circle. The 
 angle ACB has for its measure, one 
 half of the arc ABB, and the angle 
 ABB has for its measure, one half of 
 the arc ACB; therefore, by addition, 
 the sum of the two opposite angles at 
 C and B, are together measured by 
 one half of the whole circumference, or by 180 degrees, 
 «= two right angles. Hence the theorem 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 An angle formed by a tangent and a chord is measured ty 
 one half of the intercepted arc. 
 
 Let AB be a tangent, and AD a 
 chord, and A the point of contact ; 
 then we are to prove that the angle 
 BAD is measured by one half of the 
 arc AED. 
 
 From A draw the radius AC; and 
 from the center, C, draw CE per- 
 pendicular to AD. 
 
 The [_BAD + [__DAC = 90°, (Th. 4). 
 
 Also, [_C+l_DAC= 90°, (Cor. 4, Th. 12, B. 1), 
 
 Therefore, by subtraction, BAD — (7=0; 
 
 by transposition, the angle BAD = C. 
 
 But the angle C, at the center of the circle, is measured 
 by the arc AE, the half of AED ; therefore, the equal 
 angle, BAD, is also measured by the arc AE, the half 
 of AED. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 An angle formed by a tangent and a chord, is equal to an 
 angle in the opposite segment of the circle. 
 
 Let AB be a tangent, and AD a 
 chord, and from the point of contact, 
 A, draw any angles, as AOD, and 
 AED, in the segments. Then we are 
 to prove that [__ BAD = [__ A CD, and 
 L GAD = L AED- 
 
 By Th. 11, the angle BAD is meas- 
 ured by one half the arc AED ; and 
 as the angle A CD is measured by one half of the same 
 arc, (Th. 8), we have |_ BAD = [_ ACD. 
 
 
 Again, as AEBO is a quadrilateral, inscribed in a 
 circle, the sum of the opposite angles, 
 
 AOB + AEB - 2 right angles. (Th. 10). 
 
 Also, the sum of the angles 
 
 BAD + BAG = 2 right angles. (Th. 1, B. I). 
 
 By subtraction (and observing that BAB has just been 
 proved equal to AOB), we have, 
 
 AEB — BAG = 0. 
 Or, by transposition, AEB = BAG* 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 Arcs of the circumference of a circle intercepted by paral- 
 lel chords, or by a tangent and a parallel chord, are equal. 
 
 Let AB and OB be parallel chords, 
 and draw the diagonal, AB ; now, be- 
 cause AB and CB are parallel, the 
 angle BAB - the angle ABO (Th. 6, B. 
 I) ; but the angle BAB has for its meas- 
 ure, one half of the arc BB\ and the 
 angle ABO has for its measure, one half of the arc AO, 
 (Th. 8) ; and because the angles are equal, the arcs are 
 equal ; that is, the arc BB = the arc A 0. 
 
 Next, let EF be a tangent, parallel to a chord, OB, and 
 from the point of contact, G, draw GB. 
 
 Since EF and OB are parallel, the angle OBG = the 
 angle BGF. But the angle OBGr has for its measure, 
 one-half of the arc 00-, (Th. 8) ; and the angle BGF 
 has for its measure, one half of the arc GB, (Th. 11) ; 
 therefore, these measures of equals must be equal ; that 
 is, the arc CG=the arc GD. 
 
 Hence, the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 When two chords intersect each other within a circle, the 
 angle thus formed is measured by one half the sum of the twa 
 intercepted arcs. 
 
 Let AB and CD intersect each 
 other within the circle, forming the 
 two angles, E and E f , with their 
 equal vertical angles. 
 
 Then, we are to prove that the 
 angle E is measured by one half the 
 sum of the arcs AC and BD; and 
 the angle E' is measured by one half the sum of the 
 arcs AD and CB. 
 
 First, draw AF parallel to CD, and FD will be equal 
 to AC, (Th. 13); then, by reason of the parallels, [__ BAF 
 = |__ E. But the angle BAF is measured by one half 
 of the arc BDF; that is, one half of the arc BD plus one 
 half of the arc AC. 
 
 Now, as the sum of the angles E and E f is equal to 
 two right angles, that sum is measured by one half the 
 whole circumference. 
 
 But the angle E, alone, as we have just proved, is 
 measured by one half the sum of the arcs BD and AC; 
 therefore, the other angle, E', is measured by one half 
 the sum of the other parts of the circumference, 
 AD + CB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 When two secants intersect, or meet each other without a 
 circle, the angle thus formed is measured by one half the dif 
 ference of the intercepted arcs. ^ 
 
 
 101 
 
 Let DE and BE be two secants 
 meeting at E ; and draw A F parallel to 
 CD. Then, by reason of the parallels, 
 the angle E, made by the intersection 
 of the two secants, is equal to the 
 angle BAF. But the angle BAF is 
 measured by one half the arc BF; 
 that is, by one half the difference be- 
 tween the arcs BD and A C. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 The angle formed by a secant and a tangent is measured 
 by one half the difference of the intercepted arcs. 
 
 Let BQ be a secant, and CD a tan- 
 gent, meeting at C. We are to prove 
 that the angle formed at C, is meas- 
 ured by one half the difference of the 
 arcs BD and DA. 
 
 From A, draw AE parallel to CD ; 
 then the arc AD = the arc DE; 
 BD --DE = BE; and the [__ BAE = 
 L O. But the angle BAE is measured 
 by one half the arc BE, (Th. 8,) that is, by one half 
 the difference between the arcs BD and AD; there- 
 fore, the equal angle, C, is measured by one half the 
 arc BE. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two chords intersect each other in a circle, the rect- 
 angle contained by the segments of the one, will be equivahrt 
 to the rectangle contained by the segments of the other. 
 9* 
 
102 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Let AB and CB be two chords inter- 
 Becting each other in E. Then we are 
 to prove that the rectangle AE x EB = 
 the rectangle CE X EB. 
 
 Draw the lines AB and. CB, forming 
 the two triangles AEB and CEB. The 
 angles B and B are equal, because they 
 are each measured by one half the arc, AG. Also the 
 angles A and C are equal, because each is measured by 
 one half the arc, BB ; and L AEB = |__ CEB, because 
 they are vertical angles ; hence, the triangles, AEB and 
 CEB, are equiangular and similar. But equiangular tri- 
 angles have their sides about the equal angles propor- 
 tional, (Cor. 1, Th. 17, B. II); therefore, AE and EB, 
 about the angle E, are proportional to CE and EB, about 
 the same or equal angle. 
 
 That is, AE : EB :: CE : EB; 
 
 Or, (Th. 19, B. II), AE x EB = CE x EB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. When one chord is a diameter, and the other at right 
 angles to it, the rectangle contained by the segments of the 
 diameter is equal to the square of one half the other chord ; 
 or one half of the bisected chord is a mean proportional be- 
 tween the segments of the diameter. 
 
 For, ABxBB*=FBx BE. But, if 
 AB passes through the center, C, at 
 right angles to FE, then FB = BE 
 (Th. 1) ; and in the place of FB, write 
 its equal, BE, in the last equation, and 
 we have 
 
 ABxBB = EE\ 
 
 or, (Th. 3, B II), AB : BE : : BE : BB. 
 
 Put, BE = x, CB == y, and CE = B, the radius of the 
 circle. 
 
 
 103 
 
 Then AD ~ B - -y, and DB - B -f #. With this nota- 
 tion, 
 
 AD x DB = DE % 
 
 becomes, (B -y)(R + y) = x* 
 
 or, B % — y 2 = x* 
 
 or, B 2 = x*+y* 
 
 That is, f A« square of the hypotenuse of the right-angled 
 triangle, DCE, is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 
 two sic 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If from a point without a cirde, a tangent line be drawn to 
 the circumference, and also any secant line terminating in tht- 
 concave arc, the square of the tangent will be equivalent to b*. 
 rectangle contained by the whole secant and its external sea 
 ment. 
 
 Let A be a point without the 
 circle DUG, and let AD be a 
 tangent and AE any secant line. 
 
 Then we are to prove that 
 AOxAE = AD\ 
 In the two triangles, ADE and 
 ADC, the angles ADO and AED 
 are equal, since each is meas- 
 ured by one half of the same 
 arc, DO; the angle A is com- 
 mon to the two triangles ; their 
 
 third angles are therefore equal, and the triangles are 
 equiangular and similar. 
 
 Their homologous sides give the proportion 
 AE : AD i :_AZ) : AC 
 
 whence, AE xAC = AD 2 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. If AE and AF are two secant lines drawn from 
 %\ e same point without the circumference, we shall have 
 
 
 AOx AF=AB* 
 and, ABxAF^AB* 
 
 hence, AOx AF = AB x AF, 
 
 which, in the form of a proportion, gives 
 AC : AF ::AB : AF. 
 That is, the secants are reciprocally proportional to their ex- 
 ternal segments. 
 
 Scholium. — By means of this theorem we can determine the diam- 
 eter of a circle, when we know the length of a tangent drawn from a 
 point without, and the external segment of the secant, which, drawn 
 from the same point, pasees through the center of the circle. 
 
 Let Am be a secant passing through the center, and 
 suppose the tangent AB to he 20, and the external seg- 
 ment, An, of the secant to be 2. Then, if D denote the 
 diameter, we shall have 
 
 im=2+i), 
 
 whence, Am x An = 2 (2 + B) = 4 -f 2B = (20) 2 = 400, 
 22) = 396, and B = 198. 
 
 Ifiw, the height of a mountain on the earth, and AB, 
 the distance of the visible sea horizon, be given, we may 
 determine the diameter of the earth. 
 
 For example ; the perpendicular height of a mountain 
 on the island of Teneriffe is about 3 miles, and its summit 
 can be seen from ships when they are known to be 154 
 or 155 miles distant ; what then is the diameter of the 
 earth ? 
 
104 GEOMETRY. 
 3 + 2), and Am x An = 9 + SB. AB = 154. 5 ; hence, 
 9 + 32) = (154. 5) 2 = 23870. 25, from which we find 2) = 
 7953.75, which differs but little from the true diameter* 
 of the earth. 
 
 One source of error, in this mode of computing the 
 diameter of the earth, is atmospheric refraction, the ex 
 planation of which does not belong here. 
 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 If a circle be described about a triangle, the rectangle con- 
 tained by two sides of the triangle is equivalent to the rectangle 
 contained by the perpendicular let fall on the third side, and 
 the diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle, AC and 
 OB, the side3, OB the perpendicular 
 let fall on the base AB, and OB the 
 diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 
 AO x OB= OEx OB. 
 
 The two A's, A OB and OEB, are 
 equiangular, because \__A=\__E, both 
 being measured by the half of the arc OB; also, ABO is 
 a right angle, and is equal to OBB, an angle in a semi- 
 circle, and therefore a right angle ; hence, the third angle, 
 AOB = [_BOE, (Th. 12, Cor. 2, B. I). Therefore, (Cor. 1, 
 Th. 17, B. II), 
 
 AO x OB :: OE : OB 
 
 and, AOxBO=OEx OB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a circle, etc. 
 
 Oor. The continued product of three sides of a triangle is 
 equal to twice the area of the triangle into the diameter of its 
 tircumscribing circle. 
 
 Multiplying both members of the last equation by A B, 
 we have, 
 
 AOx BOxAB=OEx {AB x OB). 
 
 But OB is the diameter of the circle, and (AB x OB) 
 «= twice the area of the triangle ; 
 
 Therefore, AOx OB x AB= diameter multiplied 
 by twice the area of the triangle. 
 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The square of a line bisecting any angle of a triangle, to* 
 gether with the rectangle of the segments into which it cuts the 
 opposite side, is equivalent to the rectangle of the two sides 
 including the bisected angle. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle, and CD a 
 Line bisecting the angle C. Then 
 we are to prove that 
 
 CD* + (AD x DB) = ACx CB. 
 The two A's, ACE and CDB, are 
 equiangular, because the angles E 
 and B are equal, both being in the 
 same segment, and the [__ ACE = BCD, by hypothesis. 
 Therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. H), 
 
 AC : CE :: CD : CB. 
 But it is obvious that CE = CD -f DE, and by substi- 
 tuting this value of CE, in the proportion, we have, 
 AC i CD + DE :: CD : CB. 
 By multiplying extremes and means, 
 
 CD 2 + (DE x CD) = ACx CB. 
 But by (Th. 17), 
 
 DE x CD = ADx DB, 
 and substituting, we have, 
 
 HB* + (AD x DB) = ACx CB. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 The rectangle contained by the two diagonals of any quad- 
 rilateral inscribed in a circle, is equivalent to the sum of the 
 two rectangles contained by the opposite sides of the quadri- 
 lateral. 
 
 Let ABCD be a quadrilateral inscribed in. a circle; 
 then we are to prove that 
 
 ACx BD = (AB x DC) + (AD x BC). 
 
 From 0, draw CE, making the angle DOE equal to 
 
 
 the angle A OB ; and as the angle BAO is equal to th* 
 angle ODE, both being in the same seg- 
 ment, therefore, the two triangles, BEO 
 and ABO, are equiangular, and we have 
 (Th. IT, Cor. 1, B. II), 
 
 AB : AC :: BE : BO (1) 
 The two A's, ABO and BEO, are 
 equiangular; for the [_BAO= \_EBO, 
 both being in the same segment; and the L BOA — 
 \_EOB, for BOE = BOA; to each of these add the ai gle 
 EOA, smdL BOA = EOB; therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, 
 
 B.II), 
 
 AB : AO :: BE : BO (2). 
 
 By multiplying the extremes and means in proportions 
 (1) and (2), and adding the resulting equations, we have, 
 
 (AB x BO) + (AB x BO) = (BE + BE) x AO. 
 But, BE + BE = BB; therefore, 
 
 (AB x 2)(7) -f (AB x 5(7) = i(Jx BB, 
 
 Oor. When two adjacent sides of the quadrilateral are 
 equal, as AB and BO, then the resulting equation is, 
 
 (AB x BO) + (AB x AB) = AO x 5D; 
 
 or, -15 x (2)<7 -f AB) = AO x BB; 
 
 or, AB : AO : : BB : BO + AB. 
 
 That is, one of the two equal sides of the quadrilateral 
 is to the adjoining diagonal, as the transverse diagonal is to 
 the sum of the two unequal sides. 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 If two chords intersect each other at right angles in a cir- 
 cle, the sum of the squares of the four segments thus formed 
 is equivalent to the square of the diameter of the circle. 
 
 Let AB and OB be two chords, intersecting eacb 
 other at right angles. Draw BE parallel to EB, and 
 draw BE and AF. Now, we are to prove that 
 IE 1 +^F +~W % f EB 2 =~AF\ 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 As BF is parallel to ED, ABF is a 
 right angle, and therefore AF is a diam- 
 eter, (Th. 9). Also, because BF is 
 parallel to CD, OB = DF, (Th. 13). 
 
 Because CEB is a right angle, 
 
 CE 2 + EB 2 =CB 2 = DF\ 
 
 Because AED is a right angle, 
 
 • AE 2 +~ED 2 = AD\ 
 
 Adding these two equations, we have, 
 
 W 2 + EB 2 + AE 2 +~ED 2 = DF 2 + ~AD\ 
 
 But, as AF is a diameter, and ADF a right ang\e, 
 (Th. 9), _ _ 
 
 DT+AD 2 = AF 2 ; 
 
 therefore, CE 2 + EB 2 -f AE 2 + Ji) 2 = ZF 2 . 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Scholium. — If two chords intersect each other at right angles, in a 
 circle, and their opposite extremities be joined, the two chords thus 
 formed may make two sides of a right-angled triangle, of which tho 
 diameter of the circle is the hypotenuse. 
 
 For, AD is one of these chords, and CB is the other ; and we have 
 shown that CB = DF; and AD and DF are two sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, of which AF is the hypotenuse ; therefore, AD and 
 CB may be considered the two sides of .a right-angled triangle, and 
 AF its hypotenuse. 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 If two secants intersect each other at right angles, the sum 
 of their squares, increased by the sum of the squares of the 
 two segments without the circle, will be equivalent to the square 
 of the diameter of the circle. 
 
 Let AE and ED be two secants in- 
 tersecting at right angles at the point 
 E. From B, draw BF parallel to CD, 
 and draw AF and AD. Now we are to 
 prove that 
 
 f3M ED 2 -r EB 2 +~Wf T IF. 
 
 
 Because BF is parallel to CD, ABF is a light angle, 
 and consequently AF is a diameter, and BC = BF; and 
 because AF is a diameter, J.2>^ is a right angle. As 
 ABB is a right angle, 
 
 AF'+FD^AD' 
 
 Also, FB'+EC^BC^DF 2 
 
 Byadditio^XI^^SV^'+^^ZS'+SF^AF 1 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If perpendiculars be drawn bisecting the three sides of a 
 triangle, they will, when sufficiently produced, meet in a com- 
 mon point. 
 
 The three angular points of a triangle are not in the 
 same straight line; consequently one circumference, 
 and but one, may be made to pass through them. 
 
 Conceive a triangle to be thus circumscribed. The 
 sides of the triangle then become chords of the circum- 
 scribing circle. Now if these sides be bisected, and at the 
 points of bisection perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, 
 each of these perpendiculars will pass through the center 
 of the circle (Th. 1, Cor.) ; and the perpendiculars will 
 therefore meet in a common point. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 The sums of the opposite sides of a quadrilateral circum- 
 scribing a circle are equal. 
 
 Let ABOB be a quadrilateral circumscribed about a 
 circle, whose center is 0. Then we are to prove that 
 AB + BC=AB + BC. 
 From the center of the circle draw OF and OF to 
 the points of contact of the sides AB and BO. Then, 
 10 
 
ttO 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the two right-angled triangles, OEB and OFB, are equal, 
 because they have the hypotenuse 
 OB common, and the side OF = 
 OE; therefore, BE = BF, (Cor., 
 Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 In like manner we can prove 
 that 
 AE= AH, CF= Ca, nn&DG=DK 
 
 Now, taking the equation BE = 
 BF, and adding to its first mem- 
 ber CG-, and to its second the 
 equal line CF. we have, 
 
 BE+ CG = BF+ OF (1) 
 
 The equation AE=AH, by adding to its first member 
 DCr, and to the second the equal line, DH, gives 
 AE+DG=AH+DH (2) 
 
 By the addition of (1) and (2) ? we find that 
 
 BE + AE+CG + DG = BF + CF+AK+DIT. 
 
 That is, AB + CD = BC + AD. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
aooK IV. 
 
 Ill 
 
 BOOK IV. 
 
 PROBLEMS 
 
 In this section, we have, in most instances, merely 
 shown the construction of the prohlem, and referred to 
 the theorem or theorems that the student may use, to 
 prove that the object is attained by the construction. 
 
 In obscure and difficult problems, however, we have 
 gone through the demonstration as though it were a 
 theorem. 
 
 PROBLEM I. 
 
 To bisect a given finite straight line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and from 
 its extremities, A and B, with any 
 radius greater than one half of AB, 
 (Postulate 3), describe arcs, cutting A — 
 each other in n and m. Draw the line 
 nm ; and 0, where it cuts AB, will be 
 the middle of the given line. 
 
 Proof, (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2). 
 
 PROBLEM II. 
 
 To bisect a given angle. 
 
 Let ABO be the given angle. With any 
 radius, and B as a center, describe the arc 
 AC. From A and 0, as centers, with a 
 radius greater than one half of AC, de- 
 scribe arcs, intersecting in n; join B and n; 
 the joining line will bisect the given angle. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 21, B. I). 
 
 X 
 
 X 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Proof, 
 
 X-tf 
 
 PROBLEM III. 
 
 From a given point in a given line, to draw a perpendicular 
 to that line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and 
 the given point. Take n and m, 
 at equal distances on opposite sides 
 of 0; and with the points m and 
 n, as centers, and any radius 
 greater than nO or mO, describe 
 arcs cutting each other in & Draw 
 SO, and it will be the perpendicular required. 
 (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2). 
 
 The following is another method, 
 which is preferable, when the given 
 point, 0, is at or near the end of the 
 line. 
 
 Take any point, 0, which is mani- 
 festly one side of the perpendicular, 
 as a center, and with 00 as a radius, describe a circum- 
 ference, cutting AB in m and 0. Draw mn through the 
 points m and 0, and meeting the arc again in n ; mn is 
 then a diameter to the circle. Draw On, and it will be 
 the perpendicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM IV. 
 
 From a given point without a line, to draw a 'perpendicular 
 to that line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and 
 the given point. From draw any 
 oblique line, as On. Find the mid- 
 dle point of On by Problem 1, and 
 with that point, as a center, describe 
 a semicircle, having On as a diam- 
 eter. From m, where this semi-cir- 
 cumference cuts AB, draw Om, and it will be the pcrpcn 
 dicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. III). 
 
 
 113 
 
 PROBLEM V. 
 
 At a given point in a line, to construct an angle equal to 
 a given angle. 
 
 Let A be the point given in the line 
 AB, and DOE the given angle. 
 
 With as a center, and any radius, 
 OE, draw the are ED. 
 
 With i as a center, and the radius 
 AF=OE, describe an indefinite arc; and 
 with J 7 as a center, and FCr as a radius, 
 equal to ED, describe an arc, cutting the 
 other arc in Q-, and draw A G\ QAF will be the angle 
 required. Proof, (Th. 2, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM VI. 
 
 From a given point, to draw a line parallel to a given line. 
 
 Let A be the given point, and BO the 
 given line. Draw A 0, making an angle, 
 AOB; and from the given point, A, in 
 the line A 0, draw the angle OAD m 
 AOB, by Problem 5. 
 
 Since AD and BO make the same angle with A 0, they 
 are, therefore, parallel, (B. I, Th. 7, Cor. 1). 
 
 PROBLEM VII. 
 To divide a given line into any number of equal parte. 
 
 Let AB represent the given 
 line, and let it be required to di- 
 vide it into any number of equal 
 parts, say £ve. Prom one end of 
 the line A, draw AD, indefinite 
 in both length and position. Take 
 any convenient distance in the di- 
 10* h 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 viders, as A a, and set it off on the line AD, thus making 
 the parts Aa, ab, be, etc., equal. Through the last point, 
 e, draw EB, and through the points a, b, c, and d, draw 
 parallels to eB, by Problem 6 ; these parallels will divide 
 the line a3 required. Proof, (Th. 17, Book II). 
 
 PROBLEM VIII. 
 To find a third proportional to two given lines. 
 
 Let AB and A be any two lines. 
 Place them at any angle, and draw 
 OB. On the greater line, AB, take 
 AD mm AC, and through D, draw 
 DE parallel to BO', AE is the third 
 proportional required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 17, B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM IX, 
 
 To find a fourth proportional to three given lines. 
 
 L^t AB, AC, AD, represent the 
 ihrca given lines. Place the first 
 two at any angle, as BAO, and draw 
 BO On AB place AD, and from 
 the point D, draw DE parallel to 
 BO, by Problem 6 ; AE will be the 
 fourth proportional required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 17, B. H). 
 
 PROBLEM X. 
 
 Tt find the middle, m mean proportional, between two given 
 lines 
 
 
 115 
 
 Place AB and BC in one right 
 jne, and on A C, as a diameter, de- 
 scribe a semicircle, (Postulate 3), 
 and from the point B, draw BD at 
 right angles to AC, (Problem 3); 
 BD is the mean proportional re- 
 quired. 
 
 Proof, (B. m, Th. 17, Cor.). 
 
 PROBLEM XI. 
 
 To find the center of a given circle. 
 Draw any two chords in the given cir- 
 cle, as AB and CD, and from the middle 
 points, m and n, draw perpendiculars to 
 AB and CD ; the point at which these 
 two perpendiculars intersect will be the 
 center of the circle. 
 
 Proof, (B. m, Th. 1, Cor.). 
 
 PROBLEM XII. 
 
 To draw a tangent to a given circle, from a given 
 either in or without the circumference of the circle* 
 
 When the given point is in the cir- 
 cumference, as A, draw the radius A C, 
 and from the point A, draw AB per- 
 pendicular to AC; AB is the tangent 
 required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 4, B. III). 
 
 When the given point is without 
 the circle, as A, draw AC to the 
 center of the circle ; on A C, as a 
 diameter, describe a semicircle ; and 
 from B, where the semi-ciruumfer- 
 ence cuts the given circumference, 
 draw AB, and it will be tangent to the circle. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 9, B. Ill), and, (Th. 4, B. III). 
 
 point, 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM XIII. 
 
 On a given line, to describe a segment of a circle, that shall 
 contain an angle equal to a given angle. 
 
 Let AB be the given 
 line, and the given 
 angle. At the ends of 
 the given line, form angles 
 DAB, DBA, each equal 
 to the given angle, C. 
 Then draw AH and BE 
 perpendiculars to AD and BD ; and with E as a center, 
 and EA, or EB, as a radius, describe a circle; then AFB 
 will be the segment required, as any angle F, made in 
 it, will be equal to the given angle, 0. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 11, B. Ill), and (Th. 8, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM XIV. 
 
 From any given circle to cut a segment, that shall contain 
 a given angle. 
 
 Let be the given angle. Take 
 any point, as A, in the circumfer- 
 ence, and from that point draw the 
 tangent AB ; and from the point 
 A, in the line AB, construct the 
 angle BAD = 0, (Problem 5), and O 
 AED is the segment required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 11, B. HI), and (Th. 8, B. HI). 
 
 PROBLEM XV. 
 
 To construct an equilateral triangle on a given straight line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line; from 
 the extremities A and B, as centers, 
 with a radius equal to AB, describe arcs 
 cutting each other at 0. From 0, the 
 point of intersection, draw QA and CB; 
 ABO will be the triangle required. 
 
 The construction is a sufficient demonstration. Or, (Ax. 1\ 
 
 
 117 
 
 PROBLEM XVI. 
 
 To construct a triangle, having its three sides equal to three 
 jiven lines, any two of which shall be greater than the third. 
 
 Let AB, OB, and EF, represent the E p 
 
 three lines. Take any one of them, as c D 
 
 AB, to be one side of the triangle. From 
 B, as a center, with a radius equal to OB, 
 describe an arc ; and from A, as a center, 
 with a radius equal to EF, describe an- 
 other arc, cutting the former in n. Draw 
 An and Bn, and AnB will be the A re- 
 quired. Proof, (Ax. 1). 
 
 PROBLEM XVII. 
 
 To describe a square on a given line. 
 Let AB be the given line ; and from the 
 extremities, A and B, draw A and BB per- 9 
 pendicular to AB. (Problem 3.) 
 
 From A, as a center, with AB as radius, 
 strike an arc across the perpendicular at 0; i 
 and from draw OB parallel to AB ; AOBB 
 is the square required. Proof, (Th. 26, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XVIII. 
 
 To construct a rectangle, or a parallelogram, whose adia 
 .ent sides are equal to two given lines. 
 
 Let AB and A be the two given A c 
 
 lines. From the extremities of one A n 
 
 line, draw perpendiculars to that line, as in the last prob- 
 lem; and from these perpendiculars, cut off portions 
 equal to the other line ; and, by a parallel, complete the 
 figure. 
 
 
 When the figure is to be a parallelogram, with oblique 
 angles, describe the angles by Problem 5. Proof, (Th 
 26, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XIX. 
 
 To describe a rectangle that shall be equivalent to a given 
 square, and have a side equal to a given line. 
 
 Let AB be a side of the given square, c D 
 
 and CD one side of the required rect- A B 
 
 angle. E p 
 
 Find the third proportional, FF, to CD and AB, (Prob- 
 lem 8). Then we shall have 
 
 CD : AB : : AB : FF, 
 
 Construct a rectangle with the two given lines, CD 
 and FF, (Problem 18), and it will be equal to the given 
 square, (Th. 3, B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM XX. 
 
 To construct a square that shall be equivalent to the differ 
 ence of two given squares. 
 
 Let A represent a side of the greater of two given 
 squares, and B a side of the less square. 
 
 On A, as a diameter, describe a 
 semicircle, and from one extremity, 
 n, as a center, with a radius equal to 
 B, describe an arc. and, from the 
 point where it cuts the circumference, — - — 
 
 draw mp and np ; mp is the side of 
 a square, which, when constructed, 
 (Problem 17), will be equal to the difference of the two 
 given squares. Proof (Th. 9, B. Ill, and Th. 39, B. I.) 
 
 To construct a square equivalent to the sum of two 
 given squares, we have only to draw through any point 
 two lines at right angles, and lay off on one a distance 
 equal to the side of one of the squares, and on the other 
 
 
 119 
 
 a distance equal to the side of the other. The straight 
 line connecting the extremities of these lines will be the 
 side of the required square, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XXI. 
 
 To divide a given line into two parts, which shall be in the 
 ratic of two other given lines. 
 
 M^ 
 
 NH 
 
 Let AB be the line A — ~<B 
 
 to be divided, and M 
 and N the lines hav- 
 ing the ratio of the 
 required parts of AB. 
 From the extremity 
 A draw AB, making 
 any angle with AB, 
 and take AC = M, 
 and OB = N. Join 
 the points B and B 
 by a straight line, 
 and through (7 draw 
 CG parallel to BB. 
 Then will the point G divide the line AB into pa„U 
 having the required ratio. (Proof, Th. 17, B. II). 
 
 Or, having drawn AB, lay off A = M, and through 
 B draw B V parallel to AB, making it equal to N, and 
 join and Vbj a line cutting AB in the point G. 
 
 Then the two triangles AOG and GrBV are equiangu- 
 lar and similar, and their homologous sides give tho 
 proportion, 
 
 AG : GB :: AC : BV :: M : if 
 
 The line AB is therefore divided, at the point G, into 
 parts which are in the ratio of the lines M and JV1 
 
l;*0 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 r> 
 
 PROBLEM XXII. 
 
 To divide a given line into any number of parts, having to 
 each other the ratios of other given lines* 
 
 Let AB be the given M»- 
 line to be divided, and Nl 
 M, It, P, etc., the lines 
 to which the parts of 
 AB are to be propor- 
 tional. 
 
 Through the point A 
 draw an indefinite line, making, with AB, any conve- 
 nient angle, and on this line lay off from A the lines M, 
 N, P, etc., successively. Join the extremity of the last 
 line to the point B by a straight line, parallel to which 
 draw other lines through the points of division of the 
 indefinite line, and they will divide the line AB at the 
 points 0, D, etc., into the required parts. (Proof, Th. 17, 
 B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM XXIII. 
 
 To construct a square that shall be to a given square, as a 
 line, M, to a line, N. 
 
 Place M and N in a line, and 
 on the sum describe a semicir- 
 cle. From the point where the 
 two lines meet, draw a perpen- 
 dicular to meet the circumfer- 
 ence in A. Draw Am and An, 
 and produce them indefinitely. On An or An produced, 
 take AG = to the side of the given square ; and from C, 
 draw CB parallel to mn ; AB is a side of the required 
 square. 
 
 For, 
 Also, 
 
 Am 
 
 An* 
 An 
 
 Am* 
 Therefore, ~A& :A0 2 ::M 
 
 AB 2 : AC\ (Th. 17, B. II). 
 M :JST, (Th.25,B.II). 
 JST, (Th. 6, B. II). 
 
 
 PROBLEM XXIV. 
 
 To cut a line into extreme and mean ratio ; that is, sj that 
 the whole line shall be to the greater part, as that greater part 
 is to the less. 
 
 Remark. — The geometrical solution of this problem is not imme- 
 diately apparent, but it is at once suggested by the form of the equa- 
 tion, which a simple algebraic analysis of its conditions leads to. 
 
 Represent the line to be divided by 2a, the greater 
 part by x, and consequently the other, or less part, by 
 2a — x. 
 
 Now, the given line and its two parts are required, to 
 satisfy the following proportion : 
 
 2a : x : : x : 2a — x 
 
 whence, x % = 4a 2 — 2ax 
 
 By transposition, x 2 -f 2ax = 4a 2 = (2a) 2 
 
 If we add a 2 to both members of this equation, we 
 shall have, 
 
 x 2 + 2ax + a 2 = (2a) 2 -f a 2 
 
 or, (x -fa) 2 = (2a) 2 -f a 2 
 
 This last equation indicates that the lines represented 
 by (x + a), 2a, and a, are the three sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, of which (x + a) is the hypotenuse, the 
 given line, 2a, one of the sides, and its half, a, the other. 
 
 Therefore, let AB represent the 
 given line, and from the extremity, B, 
 draw BO at right angles to AB, and 
 make it equal to one half of AB. 
 
 With C, as a center, and radius OB, 
 describe a circle. Draw A C and pro- 
 duce it to F. With A as a center 
 and AD as a radius, describe the arc 
 D.E; this arc will divide the line AB, 
 as required. 
 
 We are now to prove that 
 
 AB : AE :: AE : EB 
 11 
 
 
 By Th. 18, B. Ill, we have, 
 
 AF x AD = AB 2 
 
 or, AF : AB : : AB : AD 
 
 Then, (by Cor., Th. 8, Book II), we may have, 
 (AF— AB) : AB :: (AB — AD) : AD 
 Since OB = \AB = \DF\ therefore, AB = LI 
 Hence, AF — AB = AF — DF — AD = A#. 
 
 Therefore, AF : AB :: FB : AF 
 By taking the extremes for the means, we have, 
 AB i AF ii AF : FB. 
 
 PROBLEM XXV. 
 
 To describe an isosceles triangle, having its two equal angles 
 each double the third angle, and the equal sides of any given 
 length. 
 
 Let AB be one of the equal sides of 
 the required triangle ; and from the 
 point A, with the radius AB, describe 
 an arc, BD. 
 
 Divide the line AB into extreme acd 
 mean ratio by the last problem, and sup- 
 pose the point of division, and A the 
 greater segment. 
 
 From the point B, with AC, the greater segment, as a 
 radius, describe another arc, cutting the arc BD in D. 
 Draw BD, DO, and DA. The triangle ABD is the tri- 
 angle required. 
 
 As AC = BD, by construction ; and as AB is to A 
 as A C is to B C, by the division of AB ; therefore 
 AB : BD : : BD : BC 
 
 Now, as the terms of this proportion are the sides ot" 
 the two triangles about the common angle, B, it follows, 
 (Cor. 2, Th. 17, B. II), that the two triangles, ABD and 
 
 
 123 
 
 BBC, are equiangular; but the triangle ABB is isos- 
 celes; therefore, BBQ is isosceles also, and BB == BC\ 
 but BB = AC: hence, BC = AC, (Ax. 1), and the tri- 
 angle ACB is isosceles, and the [__ CBA = | -^L. But 
 
 the exterior angle, BCB = CBA -f A, (Th. 12, B. I), 
 Therefore, \__BCB, or its equal [__B = L CBA + [__A ; or 
 the angle B = 2[__A. Hence, the triangle ABB has each 
 of its angles, at the base, double of the third angle. 
 
 Scholium. — As the two angles, at the base of the triangle ABD, are 
 equal, and each is double the angle A, it follows that the sum of the 
 three angles is Jive times the angle A. But, as the three angles of every 
 triangle are always equal to two right angles, or 180°, the angle A 
 must be one fifth of two right angles, or 36° ; therefore, BD is a chord 
 of 36°, when AB is a radius to the circle ; and ten such chords would 
 extend exactly round the circle, or would form a decagon. 
 
 PROBLEM XXVI, 
 
 Within a given circle to inscribe a triangle, equiangular to 
 a given triangle. 
 
 Let ABC be the circle, and 
 abc the given triangle. From 
 any point, as A, draw EB tan- 
 gent to the given circle at A 9 
 (Problem 12). 
 
 From the point A, in the line 
 AB, lay off the angle BAC — 
 the angle b, (Problem 5), and the angle BAB — the angle 
 c, and draw BC. 
 
 The triangle ABC is inscribed in the circle; It 13 equi- 
 angular to the triangle abc, and hence it is the triangle 
 required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 12, B. HI). 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM XXVII, 
 
 To inscribe a regular pentagon in a given circle. 
 
 1st. Describe an isosceles tri- 
 angle, abc, having each of the 
 equal angles, b and c, double the 
 third angle, a, by Problem 25. 
 
 2d. Inscribe the triangle, 
 ABO, in the given circle, equi- 
 angular to the triangle abc, by 
 Problem 26 ; then each of the angles, B and 0, is double 
 the angle A. 
 
 3d. Bisect the angles B and 0, by the lines BD and 
 OE, (Problem 2), and draw AE, EB, OB, BA; and the 
 figure AEBOB is the pentagon required. 
 
 By construction, the angles BAO, ABB, BBO, BOE, 
 EOA, are all equal ; therefore, (B. in, Th. 9, Cor.), the 
 arcs, BO, AB, BO, AE, and EB, are all equal; and if 
 the arcs are equal, the chords AE, EB, etc., are equal. 
 
 Scholium. — The arc subtended by one of the sides of a regular pen- 
 
 360° 
 tagon, being one fifth of the whole circumference, is equal to — — ==72°' 
 
 u 
 
 PROBLEM XXVIII. 
 
 To inscribe a regular hexagon in a circle. 
 
 D aw any diameter of the circle, as 
 AB. and from one extremity, B, draw 
 BB equal to BO, the radius of the 
 circle. The arc, BB, will be one sixth 
 part of the whole circumference, and 
 the chord BB will be a side of the regu- 
 lar polygon of six sides. 
 
 In the A OBB, as OB = OB, and BB= OB by con- 
 struction, the A is equilateral, and of course equiangular. 
 
 Since the sum of the three angles of every A is equal 
 to two right angles, or to 180 degrees, when the 
 
 
 three angles are equal to one another, each one of them 
 must be 60 degrees ; but 60 degrees is a sixth part of 
 360 degrees, the whole number of degrees in a circle ; 
 therefore, the arc whose chord is equal to the radius, is a 
 sixth part of the circumference ; and, if a polygon of six 
 equal sides be inscribed in a circle, each side will be 
 equal to the radius. 
 
 Scholium. — Hence, as BD is the chord of 60°, and equal to BC or 
 CD, we say generally, that the chord of 60° is equal to radius. 
 
 PROBLEM XXIX. 
 
 To find the side of a regular polygon of fifteen sides, which 
 may be inscribed in any given circle. 
 
 Let CB be the radius of the given 
 circle; divide it into extreme and 
 mean ratio, (Problem 24), and make 
 BD equal to CB, the greater part; 
 then BD will be a side of a regular 
 polygon of ten sides, (Scholium to 
 Problem 25). Draw BA = to CB, and 
 it will be a side of a polygon of six sides. Draw DA, 
 and that line must be the side of a polygon which cor- 
 responds to the arc of the circle expressed by \ less j\, 
 of the whole circumference ; or J — j^ = g % = T ^ ; that 
 is, one-fifteenth of the whole circumference ; or, DA is 
 a side of a regular polygon of 15 sides. But the 15th 
 part of 360° is 24° ; hence the side of a regular inscrioed 
 polygon of fifteen sides is the chord of an arc of 24°. 
 
 PROBLEM XXX. 
 
 In a given circle to inscribe a regular polygon of any num 
 her of sides, and then to circumscribe the circle by a similar 
 polygon. 
 
 11* 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 Let the circumference of the circle, whose cetter is C, 
 be divided into any number of equal arcs, as amb, bnc, 
 cod, etc. ; then will the polygon abode, etc., bounded by 
 the chords of these arcs, be regu- 
 lar and inscribed ; and the poly- 
 gon ABODE, etc., bounded by 
 the tangents to these arcs at their 
 middle points m, n, o, etc, be a 
 3imilar circumscribed polygon. 
 
 First. — The polygon abode, 
 etc., is equilateral, because its 
 sides are the chords of equal 
 
 arcs of the same circle, (Th. 5, B. Ill) ; and it is equi- 
 angular, because its angles are inscribed in equal segments 
 of the same circle, (Th. 8, B. III). Therefore the poly- 
 gon is regular, (Def. 14, B. Ill), and it is inscribed, since 
 the vertices of all its angles are in the circumference of 
 the circle, (Def. 13, B. III). 
 
 Second. — If we draw the radius to the point of tangency 
 of the side AB of the circumscribed polygon, this radius 
 is perpendicular to AB, (Th. 4, B. Ill), and also to the 
 chord ab, (B. Ill, Th. 1, Cor.) ; hence AB is parallel to a5, 
 and for the same reason BO is parallel to be ; therefore 
 the angle ABO is equal to the angle abc, (Th. 8, B. I). 
 In like manner we may prove the other angles of the 
 circumscribed polygon, each equal to the corresponding 
 angle of the inscribed polygon. These polygons are 
 therefore mutually equiangular. 
 
 Again, if we draw the radii Om and On, and the line 0B> 
 the two A's thus formed are right-angled, the one at n 
 and the other at n, the side OB is common and Om is 
 equal to On ; hence the difference of the squares descril^ed 
 on OB and Om is equivalent to the difference of the 
 squares described on OB and On. But the first difference 
 is equivalent to the square described on Bm, and the 
 second diffeience is equivalent to the square described 
 
 
 on Bn ; hence Brn is equal to Bn, and the two right- 
 angled triangles are equal, (Th. 21, B. I), the angle BOm 
 opposite the side Bm being equal to the angle BOn, op- 
 posite the equal side Bn. The line OB therefore passea 
 through the middle point of the arc mbn ; hut because m 
 and n are the middle points of the equal arcs amb and 
 bnc, the vertex of the angle abc is also at the middle 
 point of the arc mbn. Hence the line OB, drawn from 
 the center of the circle to the vertex of the angle ABC, 
 also passes through the vertex of the angle abc. By pre- 
 cisely the same process of reasoning, we may prove that 
 00 passes through the point e, OB through the point d, 
 etc. ; hence the lines joining the center with the vertices 
 of the angles of the circumscribed polygon, pass through 
 the vertices of the corresponding angles of the inscribed 
 polygon ; and conversely, the radii drawn to the vertices 
 of the angles of the inscribed polygon, when produced, 
 pass through the vertices of the corresponding angles 
 of the circumscribed polygon. 
 
 Now, since ab is parallel to AB, the similar A's abO 
 and ABO, give the proportion 
 
 Ob : OB :: ab : AB, 
 
 and the A'a,bcO and BOO, give the proportion 
 
 Ob : OB : : be : BO. 
 
 As these two proportions have an antecedent and con- 
 sequeut, the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. II), 
 
 ab : AB : : bo : BO. 
 
 In like manner we may prove that 
 
 be : BO : : cd : OB, etc., etc. 
 
 The two polygons are therefore not only equiangular, 
 but the sides about the equal angles, taken in the same 
 order, are proportional ; they are therefore similar, (Def 
 16. B. IT). 
 
 
 Cor. 1. To inscribe any regular polygon in a circle, we 
 have only to divide the circumference into as many equal 
 parts as the polygon is to have sides, and to draw the 
 chords of the arcs; hence, in a given circle, it is possible 
 to inscribe regular polygons of any number of sides 
 whatever. Having constructed any such polygon in a 
 given circle, it is evident, that by changing the radius of 
 the circle without changing the number of sides of the 
 polygon, it may be made to represent any regular poly- 
 gon of the same name, and it will still be inscribed in a 
 circle. As this reasoning is applicable to regular poly- 
 gons of whatever number of sides, it follows, that any 
 regular polygon may be circumscribed by the circumference 
 of a circle. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since ab, be, cd, etc., are equal chords of the 
 same circle, they are at the same distance from the 
 center, (Th. 3, B. Ill) ; hence, if with as a center, and 
 Ot, the distance of one of these chords from that point, 
 as a radius, a circumference be described, it will touch 
 all of these chords at their middle points. It follows, 
 therefore, that a circle may be inscribed within any regular 
 polygon. 
 
 Scholium. — The center, 0, of the circle, may be taken as the center 
 of both the inscribed and circumscribed polygons ; and the angle 
 A OB, included between lines drawn from the center to the extremities 
 of one of the sides A B, is called the angle at the center." The perpen- 
 dicular drawn from the center to one of the sides is called the Ajpothem 
 of the polygon. 
 
 Cor. 3. The angle at the center of any regular polygon 
 is equal to four right angles divided by the number of 
 sides of the polygon. Thus, if n be the number of sides 
 of the polygon, the angle at the center will be expressed 
 v 360° 
 n 
 
 Cor. 4. If the arcs subtended by the sides of any 
 regular inscribed polygon be bisected, and the chords 
 of these semi-arcs be drawn, we shall have a regular 
 
 
 inscribed polygon of double the number of sides. Thus, 
 from the square we may pass successively to regular 
 inscribed polygons of 8, 16, 32, etc., sides. To get the 
 corresponding circumscribed polygons, we have merely 
 to draw tangents at the middle points of the arcs sub- 
 tended by the sides of the inscribed polygons. 
 
 Cor, 5. It is plain that each inscribed polygon is but 
 a part of one having twice the number of sides, while 
 each circumscribed polygon is but a part of one having 
 o^p hqlf thp. number of sides 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 BOOK V. 
 
 ON THE PROPORTIONALITIES AND MEASUREMENT 
 OF POLYGONS AND CIRCLES. 
 
 PROPOSITION I. — THEOREM. 
 
 The area of any circle is equal to the product of its radius 
 by one half of its circumference. 
 
 Let CA be the radius of a circle, 
 and AB a very small portion of its 
 circumference; then AOB will be a 
 sector. We may conceive the whole 
 circle made up of a great number of 
 such sectors; and when each sector 
 is very small, the arcs AB, BB, etc., 
 each one taken separately, may be regarded as nght 
 lines ; and the sectors CAB, CBD, etc., will be triangles. 
 The triangle, AOB, is measured by the product of the 
 base, A 0, multiplied into one half the altitude, AB, (Th. 
 33, Book I) ; and the triangle BCD is measured by the pro- 
 duct of BC, or its equal, AC, into one half BB ; then the 
 area, or measure of the two triangles, or sectors, is the 
 product of A C, multiplied by one half of AB plus one 
 half of BB, and so on for all the sectors that compose 
 the circle ; therefore, the area of the circle is measured 
 by th g product of the radius into one half the circumference. 
 
 
 PROPOSITION II. — THEOREM. 
 
 Circumferences of circles are to one another as their radii, 
 and their areas are to one another as the squares of their 
 radii. 
 
 Let CA be the radius of a circle, 
 and Ca the radius of another circle. 
 Conceive the two circles <x> be so 
 placed upon each other so as to have 
 a common center. 
 
 Let AB be such a certain definite 
 portion of the circumference of the 
 larger circle, that m times AB will represent that cir- 
 cumference. 
 
 But whatever part AB is of the greater circumference, 
 the same part ab is of the smaller; for the two circles 
 have the same number of degrees, and are of course sus- 
 ceptible of division into the same number of sectors. 
 But by proportional triangles we have, 
 CA : Ca : : AB : ab 
 
 Multiply the last couplet by m, (Th. 4, B. II), and we 
 have 
 
 CA : Ca :: m.AB : m.ab. 
 
 That is, the radius of one circle is to the radius of another, 
 as the circumference of the one is to the circumference of the 
 other. 
 
 To prove the second part of the theorem, let C repre- 
 sent the area of the larger circle, and c that of the 
 smaller ; now, whatever part the sector CAB is of the 
 circle C, the sector Cab is the corresponding part of the 
 circle c. 
 
 That is, C : c 
 
 but, CAB : Cab 
 
 Therefore, C : c 
 
 CAB : Cab, 
 
 {CAf:(Ca) 2 , (Th.20,B.H). 
 
 (CAY : (Caf, (Th. 6, B. II). 
 
 That is, the area of one circle is to the area of another, as 
 
 
 the square of the radius of the one is to the square of the 
 radius of the other. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. If : c :: (OAf : (Ca) 2 , 
 
 then, C : c ::4(£M) 2 : 4 ((7a) 2 . 
 
 But 4 (QAf is the square of the diameter of the larger 
 circle, and 4 (Oaf is the square of the diameter of the 
 smaller. Denoting these diameters respectively by B 
 and d, we have, 
 
 : c : : D 2 : d\ 
 
 That is, the areas of any two circles are to each other, a% 
 the squares of their diameters. 
 
 Scholium. — As the circumference of every circle, great or small, is 
 assumed to be the measure of 360 degrees, if we conceive the circum- 
 ference to be divided into 360 equal parts, and one such part repre- 
 sented by AB on one circle, or ab on the other, AB and ab will be very 
 near straight lines, and the length of such a line as ^LBwill be greater 
 or less, according to the radius of the circle ; but its absolute length 
 cannot be determined until we know the absolute relation between th« 
 diameter of a circle and its circumference. 
 
 PROPOSITION III. — THEOREM. 
 
 When the radius of a circle is unity, its area and semi- 
 circumference are numerically equal. 
 
 Let B represent the radius of any circle, and the Greek 
 letter, *, the half circumference of a circle whose radius 
 is unity. Since circumferences are to each other as their 
 radii, when the radius is B, the semi-circumference will 
 be expressed by *B. 
 
 Let m denote the area of the circle of which B is the 
 radius ; then, by Theorem 1, we shall have, for the area 
 of this circle, icB 2 = m y which, when B = 1, reduces to 
 «r = m. 
 
 This equation is to be interpreted as meaning that the 
 semi-circumference contains its unit, the radius, as many 
 
 
 times as the area of the circle contains its unit, the 
 square of the radius. 
 
 Remark. — The celebrated problem of squaring the circle has for its 
 object to find a line, the square on which will be equivalent to the area 
 of a circle of a given diameter ; or, in other words, it proposes to find 
 the ratio between the area of a circle and the square of its radius. 
 
 An approximate solution only of this problem has been as yet dis- 
 covered, but the approximation is so close that the exact solution ii 
 no longer a question of any practical importance. 
 
 PROPOSITION IV. — PROBLEM. 
 
 Given, the radius of a circle unity, to find the areas of 
 regular inscribed and circumscribed hexagons. 
 
 Conceive a circle described with the radius CA, and in 
 this circle inscribe a regular polygon of six sides (Prob. 
 28, B. IV), and each side will be 
 equal to the radius CA ; hence, 
 the whole perimeter of this poly- 
 gon must be six times the ra- 
 dius of the circle, or three times 
 the. diameter. The chord bd is Ft 
 
 bisected by CA. Produce Cb and Cd, and through the 
 point A, draw BD parallel to bd ; BD will then be a 3ide 
 of a regular polygon of six sides, circumscribed about 
 the circle, and we can compute the length of this line, 
 BD, as follows : The two triangles, Cbd and CBD, are 
 equiangular, by construction ; therefore, 
 
 Ca : bd : : CA : BD. 
 
 Now, let us assume CA = Cd = the radius of the 
 circle, equal unity; then bd = l, and the preceding pro- 
 portion becomes 
 
 Ca : 1 :: 1 : BD (1) 
 
 In the right-angled triangle Cad, we have, 
 
 (Cay + (ad)* = (C'dy, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 That is, (Ca) 2 + i = l, because Cd=l, and ad— \. 
 12 
 
 
 "Whence, Ca = J >/3. This value of Ca, substituted in 
 proportion ( 1 ), gives 
 
 |^3 : 1 : : 1 : BD; hence, BD= JL 
 
 But the area of the triangle Cbd is equal to bd(= 1,) 
 multiplied by J Ca = \ ^3 ; and the area of the triangle 
 CBD is equal to BD multiplied by \CA. 
 
 "Whence, area, Cbd = J v/3, 
 
134 GEOMETRY. 
 
 But the area of the inscribed polygon is six times that 
 of the triangle Cbd, and the area of the circumscribed 
 polygon is six times that of the triangle CBD. 
 
 Let the area of the inscribed polygon be represented 
 by p, and that of the circumscribed polygon by P. 
 
 Then^ = ?V3, andP ?« ^J - 2^3. 
 
 2 •a v/3 
 
 3 3 
 
 Whence^ : P : : ^3 : 2%/3 ::£:2::3:4::9 : 12 
 
 ^ = 2^3 = 2.59807621. P = 2^3 = 3.46410161. 
 
 Now, it is obvious that the area of the circle must be 
 included between the areas of these two polygons, and 
 not far from, but somewhat greater than, their half sum, 
 which is 3.03 -f ; and this may 'be regarded as the first 
 approximate value of the area of the circle to the radius 
 unity. 
 
 PROPOSITION Y. — PROBLEM. 
 
 (riven, the areas of two regular polygons of the same nvm 
 her of sides, the one inscribed in and the other circumscribed 
 about, the same circle, to find the areas of regular inscribed and 
 circumscribed polygons of double the number of sides. 
 
 Let j? represent the area of the given inscribed polygon, 
 and P that of the circumscribed polygon of the same 
 
 
 135 
 
 nunibei of sides. Also denote by p' the area of the 
 inscribed polygon of double the number of sides, and by 
 P' that of the corresponding circumscribed polygon. 
 Now, if the arc KAL be some exact part, as one-fourth, 
 one fifth, etc., of the circumference of the circle, of which 
 is the center and CA the radius, then will KL be the 
 side of a regular inscribed polygon, and the triangle 
 KCL will be the same part of the whole polygon that 
 the arc KAL is of the whole circumference, and the 
 triangle CDB will be a like part of the circumscribed 
 polygon. Draw QA to the point of tangency, and bisect 
 the angles ACB and ACD, by the lines CGr and CLJ, and 
 draw KA. 
 
 It is plain that the triangle 
 ACK is an exact part of the 
 inscribed polygon of double the 
 number of sides, and that the 
 A ECG- is a like part of the cir- 
 cumscribed polygon of double 
 the number of sides. Repre- 
 sent the area of the A LCKbj 
 a, and the area of the A BCD 
 by b, that of the A ACK by x, 
 
 and that of the A ECG- by y, and suppose the A's, KCL 
 and BBC, to be each the nth. part of their respective 
 polygons. 
 
 Then, na—p, nb = P, 2nx = p', 
 
 and, 2ny = P f ; 
 
 But, by (Th. 33, B. I), we have 
 
 CM. MK=a (1) 
 CA . AD =b (2) 
 QA . MK= 2x (3) 
 
 Multiplying equations (1) and (2), member by member, 
 we have 
 
 (CM . AD) x (CA . MK) =- ab (4 ) 
 
 
 From the similar A's OMK and CAD, we have 
 
 CM : MK :: CA : AD 
 whence CM . AD = CA . MK 
 
 But from equation ( 3 ) we see that each memher of 
 this last equation is equal to 2x; hence equation (4) 
 becomes 
 
 2x . 2x = <*5 
 
136 GEOMETRY. 
 we shall have 
 
 4t& 2 .z 2 = wa.w5 = p.P 
 
 or, taking the square root of both members, 
 
 2nx = s/p^P 
 
 That is, the area of the inscribed polygon of double the 
 number of sides is a mean proportional between the areas of 
 the given inscribed and circumscribed polygons p and P. 
 
 Again, since CE bisects the angle ACD, we have, by, 
 (Th. 24, B. II), 
 
 AE : ED 
 
 CA : CD 
 CM: CK 
 CM: CA 
 CM: CM+ CA. 
 
 hence, AE : AE +ED 
 
 Multiplying the first couplet of this proportion by CA, 
 and the second by MK, observing that AE -f ED = AD, 
 we shall have 
 
 AE.CA : AD.CA :: CM.MK : (CM + CA) MK. 
 
 But AE. CA measures the area of the A CEG-, whi 3h 
 we have called y, AD.CA = A CBD — b, CM.MK - 
 A CKL = a, and (CM 4- CA)MK= a CKL + 2 a CAK = 
 a -h 2x, as is seen from equations (1) and (3). Therefore, 
 the above proportion becomes 
 
 y : b :: a : a + 2x. 
 
 Multiplying the first couplet by 2n, and the second by 
 w, we shall have 
 
 
 2m/ : 2nb : : na : na -f 2wa: 
 That is, P' : 2P :: p : p + / 
 
 whence, P' = — -±- 
 
 and as the value of p r has been previously fourd equal to 
 *SPp, the value of P' is known from this last equation, 
 and the problem is completely solved. 
 
 PROPOSITION VI. — PROBLEM. 
 
 To determine the approximate numerical value of the area 
 of a circle, when the radius is unity. 
 
 "We have now found, (Prob. 4), the areas of regular 
 inscribed and circumscribed hexagons, when the radius 
 of the circle is taken as the unit ; and Prob. 5 gives us 
 formulae for computing from these the areas of regular 
 inscribed and circumscribed polygons of twelve sides, 
 and from these last we may pass to polygons of 
 twenty-four sides, and so on, without limit. Now, it is 
 evident that, as the number of sides of the inscribed 
 polygon is increased, the polygon itself will increase, 
 gradually approaching the circle, which it can never sur- 
 pass. And it is equally evident that, as the number of 
 sides of the circumscribed polygon is increased, the poly- 
 gon itself will decrease, gradually approaching the circle, 
 less than which it can never become. 
 
 The circle being included between any two corres- 
 ponding inscribed and circumscribed polygons, it will 
 differ from either less than they differ from each other ; 
 and the area of either polygon may then be taken as tne 
 area of the circle, from which it will differ by an amount 
 less than the difference between the polygons. 
 
 It is also plain that, as the areas of the polygons ap- 
 proach equality, their perimeters will approach coinci- 
 dence with each other, and with the circumference of 
 the circle. 
 12* 
 
 
 Assuming the areas already found for the inscribed 
 and circumscribed hexagons, and applying the formulae 
 of Prob. 5 to them and to the successive results ob. 
 tained, we may construct the following table : 
 
 NUMBER OB 
 
 1 SIDES. 
 
 n 
 
 INSCRIBED POLYGONS. 
 
 CIRCUMSCRIBED POLYGONS. 
 
 6 
 
 1^ 
 
 - 2.59807621 
 
 2^3= 
 
 =3.46410161 
 
 12 
 
 24 
 
 3 
 6 
 
 = 3.0000000 
 = 3.1058286 
 
 12 
 2+/3 
 
 -3.2153904 
 3.1596602 
 
 ^2+x/3 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 3.1326287 
 
 
 3.1460863 
 
 96 
 
 
 3.1393554 
 
 
 3.1427106 
 
 192 
 
 
 3.1410328 
 
 
 3.1418712 
 
 384 
 
 
 3.1414519 
 
 
 3.1416616 
 
 768 
 
 
 3.1415568 
 
 
 3.1416092 
 
 1536 
 
 
 3.1415829 
 
 
 3.1415963 
 
 3072 
 
 
 3.1415895 
 
 
 3.1415929 
 
 6144 
 
 
 3.1415912 
 
 
 3.1415927 
 
 Thus we have found, that when the radius of a circle is 
 1, the semi-circumference must be more than 3.1415912, 
 and less than 3.1415927; and this is as accurate as can 
 be determined with the small number of decimals here 
 used. To be more accurate we must have more decimal 
 places, and go through a very tedious mechanical opera- 
 tion; but this is not necessary, for the result is well 
 known, and is 3.1415926535897, plus other decimal places 
 to the 100th, without termination. This result was dis- 
 covered through the aid of an infinite series in the Dif- 
 ferential and Integral Calculus. 
 
 The number, 3.1416, is the one generally usod in prac- 
 tice, as it is much more convenient than a greater num- 
 ber of decimals, and it is sufficiently accurate for all 
 ordinary purposes. 
 
 In analytical expressions it has become a general cus- 
 tom with mathematicians to represent this number by 
 
 
 the Greek letter #, and, therefore, when any diameter of 
 a circle is represented by D, the circumference of the 
 same circle must be *D. If the radius of a circle is re- 
 presented by B, the circumference must be represented 
 by 2«B. 
 
 Scholium. — The side of a regular inscribed hexagon subtends an 
 arc of 60°, and the side of a regular polygon of twelve sides subtends 
 an arc of 30° ; and so on, the length of the arc subtended by the sides 
 of the polygons, varying inversely with the number of sides. 
 
 Angles are measured by the arcs of circles included between their 
 sides ; they may also be measured by the chords of these arcs, or rather 
 by the half chords called sines in Trigonometry. For this purpose, it 
 becomes necessary to know the length of the chord of every possible 
 arc of a circle. 
 
 PROPOSITION VII. — PROBLEM. 
 
 Given, the chord of any arc, to find the chord of one half 
 that arc, the radius of the circle being unity. 
 
 Let FE be the given chord, and draw 
 the radii QA and QE, the first perpen- 
 dicular to FE, and the second to its ex- 
 tremity, E. 
 
 Denote FE by 2c, and the chord of 
 the half arc AE by. a;. 
 
 Then, in the right-angled triangle, 
 DOE, we have ~ DQ 2 = QE 2 — DE 2 . Whence, since 
 QE = 1, D<7 = ^l — c\ 
 
BOOK V. 139 
 That is, AD = 1 — </T= 7; but AD 2 + DE 2 = AE\ 
 and AD* = 2 — 2^1 — c 2 — c\ Adding to the first 
 member of this last equation DE 2 , and to the second its 
 value c 2 , we have 
 
 AD 2 + DE 2 =2-2 Vl^ 7. 
 
 Whence, AE = x/ 2 — 2<Sl — c 2 , the value sought. 
 
 By applying this formula successively to any known 
 chord, we can find the chord of one half the arc, that of 
 half of the half, and so on, to the chords of the most 
 minute arcs. 
 
 
 Application, 
 
 The greatest chord in a circle is its diameter, which is 
 2 when the radius is 1; therefore, we may commence 
 by making 2c = 2, and c- = 1. 
 
 Then, AE = ^2-21/T^c 8 = v/ 2—2v' l^T - ^2 - 
 1.41421356, which is the chord of 90°. 
 
 ISTow make 2c = 1.41421356, and c -.70710678 - J^X 
 
 We shall then have, 
 
 chord of 45°= V2- V2= i/2- 1.41421356- ^.58578644- 
 .7653 + . 
 
 Again, placing 2<?=.7653-f-, and applying the formula, 
 we can obtain the chord of 22° 30', and from this the 
 chord of 11° 15', and so on, as far as we please. 
 
 We may take, for another starting point, the chord of 
 60°, which is known to be equal to the radius of the 
 circle,(Prob. 26, B. IV). If, as above, we make successive 
 applications of the formula, putting first 2c = 1, we shall 
 arrive at the results in the following 
 
 
 
 TABLE 
 
 • 
 
 
 Chord of 60°, 
 
 = J of a 
 
 circumference, 1.0000000000 
 
 k 
 
 « 30°, 
 
 _ l a 
 
 M 
 
 .5176380902 
 
 a 
 
 " 15°, 
 
 l (( 
 
 — 2* 
 
 a 
 
 .2610523842 
 
 u 
 
 " 7° 30', 
 
 1 u 
 
 — 35 
 
 a 
 
 .1308062583 
 
 U 
 
 " 3° 45', 
 
 1 « 
 
 — -S3 
 
 a 
 
 .0654381655 
 
 u 
 
 " 1° 52' 30", 
 
 1 (( 
 
 — T52 
 
 it 
 
 .0327234632 
 
 (( 
 
 « 56' 15", 
 
 -ih " 
 
 ti 
 
 * .0163622792 
 
 (I 
 
 " 28' 7" 30'", 
 
 1 (( 
 
 u 
 
 .0081812080 
 
 a 
 
 " 14' 3" 45"', 
 
 1 u 
 
 a 
 
 .0040906112 
 
 u 
 
 « V 1" 521"', 
 
 1 (( 
 
 = 37T72 
 
 a 
 
 .0020453068 
 
 etc. etc. 
 
 It is obvious that an arc so small as seven minutes of a 
 degree can differ but very little from its chord ; therefore, 
 if we take .002045307 to be the true value of the ,^3 of 
 !.he circumference, the whole circumference must be the 
 
 
 product of .002045307 by 3072, which is 6.283183104 - 
 circumference whose radius is unity. The half of this, 
 3.141592552, is the semi-circumference, the more exact 
 value of which, as stated, (Prop. 6), is 3.141592653. 
 
 The value of the half circumference being now deter- 
 mined, if that of any arc whatever be required, we have 
 merely to divide 3.141592, etc., by 10800, the number of 
 minutes in a semi-circumference, and multiply the quo- 
 tient by the number of minutes in the arc whose length 
 is required. 
 
 But this investigation has been carried far enough for 
 our present purposes. It will be resumed under the 
 subject of Trigonometry. 
 
 We insert the following beautiful theorem for the tri- 
 section of an arc, although not necessary for practical 
 application. Those not acquainted with cubic equations 
 may omit it. 
 
 PROPOSITION VIII. — THEOREM. 
 
 Given, the chord of any arc, to determine the chord of one 
 third of such arc. 
 
 Let AE be the given chord, and 
 conceive its arc divided into three 
 equal parts, as represented by AB, 
 BD, and BE. 
 
 Through the center draw BCCr, and 
 draw AB. The two A's, CAB and 
 ABF, are equiangular; for, the angle 
 FAB, being at the circumference, is 
 measured by one half the arc BE, which is equal to AB, 
 and the angle BOA, being at the center, is measured by 
 the arc AB ; therefore, the angle FAB = the angle BOA ; 
 but the angle OB A or FBA, is common to both tri- 
 angles ; therefore, the third angle, CAB, of the one tri- 
 angle, is equal to the third angle, AFB, of the other, 
 
 
 (Th. 12, B. I, Cor. 2), and the two triangles are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 But the A ACB is isosceles; therefore, the A AFB is 
 alsc isosceles, and AB = A F, and we have the following 
 proportions : 
 
 CA : AB : : AB : BF. 
 
 Now, let AF= e, AB = x, AC= 1. Then AF= x> and 
 EF— c — x, and the proportion becomes, 
 
 1 : x : : x : BF, Hence, BF= x\ 
 
 Also, Fa = 2 — x\ 
 
 As AE and i?6r are two chords intersecting each other 
 at the point F, we have, 
 
 GFx FB = AFx FE, (Th. 17, B. HI). 
 
 That is, (2 — x 2 ) x* = x (c — x) ; 
 
 or, # 3 — 3a; = — <?. 
 
 If we suppose the arc AE to be 60 degrees, then c = 1, 
 and the equation becomes or 5 — 3x = — 1 ; a cubic equa- 
 tion, easily resolved by Horner's method, (Robinson's 
 New University Algebra, Art. 464), giving x = .347296 + 
 the chord of 20°. This again may be taken for the value 
 of c, and a second solution will give the chord of 6° 40', 
 and so on, trisecting successively as many times as we 
 please. 
 
 PRACTICAL PROBLEMS. 
 
 The theorems and problems with which we have been 
 thus far occupied, relate to plane figures; that is, to 
 figures all of whose parts are situated in the same plane. 
 It yet remains for us to investigate the intersections and 
 relative positions of planes ; the relations and positions 
 of lines with reference to planes in which they are not 
 contained ; and the measurements, relations, and proper- 
 ties of solids, or volumes. But before we proceed to this, 
 it is deemed advisable to give some practical problems 
 for the purpose of exercising the powers of the student, 
 
 
 and of fixing in his mind those general geometrical prin- 
 ciples with which we must now suppose him to be 
 acquainted. . 
 
 1. The base of an isosceles triangle is 6, and the oppv>- 
 site angle is 60° ; required the length of each of the other 
 two equal sides, and the number of degrees in each of 
 the other angles. 
 
 2. One angle of a right-angled triangle is 30° ; what 
 is the other angle ? Also, the least side is 12, what is 
 the hypotenuse ? 
 
 A J The hypotenuse is 24, the double of the least 
 ***' \ side. Why? 
 
 3. The perpendicular distance between two parallel 
 lines is 10 ; what angles must a line of 20 make with 
 these parallels to extend exactly from the one to the 
 other ? Arts. The angles must be 30° and 150°. 
 
 4. The perpendicular distance between two parallels 
 is 20 feet, and a line is drawn across them at an angle of 
 45° ; what is its length between the parallels ? 
 
 Ans. 20^2. 
 
 5. Two parallels are 8 feet asunder, and from a point 
 in one of the parallels two lines are drawn to meet the 
 other ; the length of one of these lines is 10 feet, and 
 that of the other 15 feet ; what is the distance between 
 the points at which they meet the other parallel ? 
 
 Ans. 6.69 ft., or 18.69 ft. (See Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 6. Two parallels are 12 feet asunder, and, from a point 
 on one of them, two lines, the one 20 feet and the other 
 18 feet in length, are drawn to the other parallel ; what 
 is the distance between the two lines on the other parallel, 
 and what is the area of the triangle so formed ? 
 
 c The distance on the other parallel is 29.416 
 Ans. < feet, or 2.584 feet; and the area of the tri 
 1 angle is 176.496, or 15.504 square feet. 
 
 7. The diameter of a circle is 12, and a chord of the 
 
 
 circle is 4; what is the length of the perpendicular 
 drawn from the center to this chord ? (See Th. 3, B. III). 
 
 Ans. 4^2. 
 
 8. Two parallel chords in a circle were measured and 
 found to be 8 feet each, and their distance asunder was 
 6 feet ; what was the radius of the circle ? 
 
 Ans. 5 feet. 
 
 9. Two chords on opposite sides of the center of a 
 cirsle are parallel, and one of them has a length of It) 
 and the other of 12 feet, the distance between them 
 being 14 feet. What is the diameter of the circle ? 
 
 Ans. 20 feet. 
 
 10. An isosceles triangle has its two equal sides, 15 
 each, and its base 10. What must be the altitude of a 
 right-angled triangle on the same base, and having an 
 equal area? 
 
 11. From the extremities of the base of any triangle, 
 draw lines bisecting the other sides ; these two lines in- 
 tersecting within the triangle, will form another triangle 
 on the same base. How will the area of this new tri- 
 angle compare with that of the whole triangle ? 
 
 Ans. Their areas will be as 3 to 1. 
 
 12. Two parallel chords on the same side of the center 
 of a circle, whose diameter is 32, are measured and found 
 to be, the one 20, and the other 8. How far are they 
 asunder? Ans. ^240"— ^156"= 3 +. 
 
 If we suppose the two chords to be on opposite sides of the 
 center, their distance apart will then be v'240 -j- v/156 = ] 5.49 -f- 
 12.49 = 27.98. 
 
 13. The longer of the two parallel sides of a trapezoid 
 is 12, the shorter 8, and their distance asunder 5. What 
 is the area of the trapezoid ? and if we produce the two 
 inclined sides until they meet, what will be the area of 
 the triangle so formed ? 
 
 Ans. Area of trapezoid, 50 ; area of triangle, 40 ; area 
 of triangle and trapezoid, 90. 
 
 
 145 
 
 14. The base of a triangle is 697, one of the sides is 
 534, and the other 813. If a line be drawn bisecting the 
 angle opposite the base, into what two parts will the 
 bisecting line divide the base ? (See Th. 24, B. II). 
 
 A ( The greater part will be 420.684 ; 
 m ' \ The less " " 276.316. 
 
 15. Draw three horizontal parallels, making the dis- 
 tance between the two upper parallels 7, and that be- 
 tween the middle and lower parallels 9 ; then place be- 
 tween the upper parallels a line equal to 10, and from 
 the point in which it meets the middle parallel draw to 
 the lower a line equal to 11, and join the point in which 
 this last line meets the lower parallel, with the point in 
 the upper parallel, from which the line 10 was drawn. 
 Required the length of this line, and the area of the 
 triangle formed by it and the two lines 10 and 11. 
 
 The adjoining figure 
 will illustrate. Let A be 
 the point on the upper 
 parallel from which the 
 line 10 is drawn. Then, 
 AF = 7, AB = 10, 
 FB = \/l00 — 19 = 
 
 •51. 
 
 BI1 = FD = 9, B C 
 = U,HC= </l21_81 
 = %/40. 
 
 Whence, DC = ^51 
 f ^40. 
 
 AC 2 - (V5l 4. </40) 8 -f (16) a ; AG = 20.89, Ans. 
 
 The area of the triangle, ABC, can be determined by first find- 
 ing the area of the trapezoid, ABHD, then the area of the trian- 
 gle, BHC, and from their sum subtracting the area of the triangle, 
 ADC. 
 
 16. Construct a triangle on a base of 400, one of the 
 angles at the base being 80°, and the other 70° ; and 
 13 k 
 
Ans. 
 
 146 GEOMETRY. 
 
 determine the third angle, and the area of the triangle 
 thus constructed. 
 
 r The third angle is 30°, and as nearly as our 
 scale of equal parts can determine for us, the 
 side opposite the angle 80° is 787, and that 
 opposite 70° is 740. 
 The exact solution of problems like the last, except in a few par- 
 ticular cases, requires a knowledge of certain lines depending on 
 the angles of the triangle. The properties and values of these lines 
 are investigated in trigonometry ; and as we are not yet supposed 
 to be acquainted with them, we must be content with the approxi- 
 mate solutions obtained by the constructions and measurements 
 made with the plane scale. 
 
 17. If we call the mean radius of the earth 1, the 
 mean distance of the moon will he 60 ; and as the mean 
 distance of the sun is 400 times the distance of the 
 moon, its distance will he 400 times 60. The sun and 
 moon appear to have the same diameter; supposing, 
 then, the real diameter of the moon to be 2160 miles, 
 what must he that of the sun ? 
 
 Let E be the center of the earth, M that of the moon, and S 
 that of the sun, and suppose ENP to be a line from the -center of 
 the earth, touching the moon and the sun. 
 
 Then, EM : MN : : ES : SP-, 
 
 but MNia the radius of the moon, and SP that of the sun. Mul- 
 tiplying the consequents by 2, the above proportion becomes 
 EM: 2MN :: ES : 2SP-, 
 
 or in numbers, 60 : 2160 :: 400 X 60 : 2SP; 
 whence, 2 JSP = sun's diameter = 864000 miles, Ans. 
 18. In Problem 15, suppose BO to be drawn on the 
 other side of BR, what, then, will be the value of A O, 
 and what the area of the triangle AQB1 
 Am <AC= 16,021; 
 
 1 A.rea of triangle, £(9t / 51 + 7V40). 
 
 
 19. A man standing 40 feet from a building which was 
 24 feet wide, observed that when he closed one eye, the 
 width of the building just eclipsed or hid from view 90 
 rods of fence which was parallel to the width of the 
 building; what was the distance from the eye of the 
 observer to the fence ? Ans. 2475 feet. 
 
 20. Taking the same data as in the last problem, ex- 
 cept that we will now suppose the direction of the fence 
 to be inclined at an angle of 45° to the side of the 
 building which we see ; what, in this case, must be the 
 distance between the eye of the observer and the remoter 
 point of the fence ? 
 
 Let EF be the width of the house, E the position of the eye, and 
 AB that of the fence. Draw BD perpendicular to EA produced ; 
 then, since the triangle ABE is right-angled and isosceles, we have 
 AE = EB } and 2AE* = AB 2 = (90) 2 ; BE = 63.64 rods, and the 
 similar triangles EFH and EEB give the proportion 
 EF : EF : : BE : EE = 1750.1 feet; 
 and from this we find 
 
 EB 2 mm EE 2 + BE 2 = (63.64 x 3 2 3 ) 2 -f (1750.1)* 
 Whence EB = 2040.94 -f Ans. 
 
 21. In a right-angled triangle, ABO, we have AB m 
 493, AC= 1425, and BC = 1338 ; it is required to divide 
 this triangle into parts by a line parallel to AB, whose 
 areas are to each other as 1 is to 3. How will the sides 
 AC and BO be divided by this line ? (See Th. 20, B. II). 
 
 Ans. Into equal parts. 
 
 22. In a right-angled triangle, ABO, right-angled at 
 B, the base AB is 320, and the angle A is 60° ; required 
 the remaining angle and the other sides. 
 
 A /The angle (7=30°; 
 n8 ' \ AC= 640; BO= 554.24. 
 
 
 23. A hunter, wishing to determine his distance from 
 a village in sight, took a point and from it laid off two 
 lines in the direction of two steeples, wnich he supposed 
 equally distant from him, and which he knew to be 100 
 rods asunder. At the distance of 50 feet on each line 
 from the common point, he measured the distance be- 
 tween the lines, and found it to be 5 feet 8 inches. How 
 far was he from the steeples ? 
 
 5 ft. 8 in. : 100 rods : : 50 ft. : distance. c 14,55y feet, 
 
 or, 68 : 100 x ^ x 12 : : 50 : distance. An8 ' 1 ° r n f arl ? 
 z 13 miles. 
 
 24. A person is in front of a building which he knowa 
 to be 160 feet long, and he finds that it covers 10 minutes 
 of a degree ; that is, he finds that the two lines drawn 
 from his eye to the extremities of the building include 
 an angle of 10 minutes. What is his distance from the 
 building? ^^ ( 55 ; 004 feet, or 
 
 ' ( more than 10 miles. 
 Remark. — The questions of distance, with which we are at present 
 occupied, depend for their solution on the properties of similar tri- 
 angles. In the preceding example we apparently have but one tri- 
 angle, but we have in fact two ; the second being formed by the dis- 
 tances unity on the lines drawn from the eye of the observer, and the 
 line which connects the extremities of these units of distance. This 
 last line may be regarded as the chord of the arc 10 minutes to the 
 radius unity. We have seen that the length of the arc 180° to the 
 radius 1, is 3.1415926 ; hence the chord of 1° or 60' is 0.017453, and 
 of 10 / it must be 0.0029089. Therefore, by similar triangles, we have 
 
 0.0029089 : 160 : : 1 : Ans. = ^~. 
 
 25. In the triangle, ABO, we have given the angles 
 A = 32°, and B = 84°. The side AB is produced, and 
 the exterior angle CBD thus formed, is bisected by the 
 line BE, and the angle A is also bisected by the line AE, 
 BE and AE meeting in the point E. "What is the angle 
 ft and what is the relation between the angles O and E ! 
 
 Ans. (7=64°; E=\ ft 
 
 
 26. Suppose a line to be drawn in any direction be- 
 tween two parallels. Bisect the two interior angles thus 
 formed on either side of the connecting line, and prove 
 that the bisecting lines meet each other at right angles, 
 and that they are the sides of a right-angled triangle of 
 which the line connecting the parallels is the hypotenuse. 
 
 27. If the two diagonals of a trapezoid be drawn, 
 show that two similar triangles will be formed, the 
 parallel sides of the trapezoid being homologous sides 
 of the triangles. "What will be the relative areas of 
 these triangles ? 
 
 {The triangles will be to each other 
 as the squares on the parallel sides 
 of the trapezoid. 
 
 28. If from the extremities of the base of any triangle, 
 lines be drawn to any point within the triangle, forming 
 with the base another triangle ; how will the vertical 
 angle in this last triangle compare with that in the 
 original triangle ? 
 
 r It will be as much greater than the angle 
 in the original triangle as the sum of 
 angles at the base of the new triangle is 
 less than the sum of those at the base 
 of the first. 
 
 29. The two parallel sides of a trapezoid are 12 and 
 20, respectively, and their perpendicular distance is 8. 
 If a line whose length is 14.5 be drawn between the in- 
 clined sides and parallel to the parallel sides, what is the 
 area of the trapezoid, and what the area of each part, 
 respectively, into which the trapezoid is divided ? 
 
 Area of the whole, 128 square units; 
 " smaller part, 33J " 
 
 I " larger " 94J " 
 
 Dividing line at the distance of 2J from 
 shortei parallel side. 
 •80. If we assume the diameter of the earth to be 
 13* 
 
 
 7956 miles, and the eye of an observer be 40 feet above 
 the level of the sea, how far distant will an object be, 
 that is just visible on the earth's surface. (Employ Th* 
 18, B. Ill, after reducing miles to feet.) 
 
 Ans. 40992 feet = 7 miles 4032 feet. 
 
 31. The diameter of a circle is 4 ; what is the area of 
 the inscribed equilateral triangle ? Ans. 3^3. 
 
 32. Three brothers, whose residences are at the ver- 
 tices of a triangular area, the sides of which are severally 
 10, 11, and 12 chains, wish to dig a well which shall be 
 at the same distance from the residence of each. Deter- 
 mine the point for the well, and its distance from their 
 residences. 
 
 Remark. — Construct a triangle, the sides of which are, respectively, 
 10, 11, and 12. The sides of this triangle will be the chords of a cir- 
 cle whose radius is the required distance. To find the center of this 
 circle, bisect either two of the sides of the triangle by perpendiculars, 
 and their intersection will be the center of the circle, and the location 
 of the well. 
 
 Ans. The well is distant 6.405 chains, nearly, from each 
 residence. 
 
 33. The base of an isosceles triangle is 12, and the 
 equal sides are 20 each. "What is the length of the per- 
 pendicular from the vertex to the base; and what the 
 area of the triangle ? 
 
 Ans. Perpendicular, 19.07; area, (19.07) x 6. 
 
 34. The hypotenuse of a 
 right-angled triangle is 45 
 inches, and the difference be- 
 tween the two sides is 8.45 
 inches. Construct the triangle. 
 
 Suppose the triangle drawn and 
 ^presented by ABC, DC being the 
 difference between the two sides. 
 
 Now, by inspection, we discover the 
 steps to be taken for the construc- 
 tion of the triangle As AD = AB, 
 
 
 the angle ADB, must be equal to the angle DBA, and each equal 
 to 45°. 
 
 Therefore, draw any line, AC, and from an assumed point in it 
 as D, draw BD, making the angle ADB = 45°. Take from a 
 scale of equal parts, 8.45 inches, and lay them off from D to C, and 
 with C as a center, and CB = 45 inches as a radius, describe an 
 arc cutting BD in B. Draw CB, and from B, draw BA at right 
 angles to A C) then is ABC the triangle sought. 
 
 Ans. AB =27.3; AC= 35.76, when carefully constructed. 
 
 35. Taking the same triangle as in the last problem, if 
 we draw a line bisecting the right angle, where will it 
 meet the hypotenuse? 
 
 Ans. 19.5 from B ; and 25.5 from Q. 
 
 36. The diameters of the hind and fore wheels of a 
 carriage, are 5 and 4 feet, respectively ; and their centers 
 are 6 feet asunder. At what distance from the fore wheels 
 will the line, passing through their centers, meet the 
 ground, which is supposed level ? Ans. 24 feet. 
 
 37. If the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is 35, 
 and the side of its inscribed square 12, what are its sides? 
 
 Ans. 28 and 21. 
 
 38. What are the sides of a right-angled triangle 
 having the least hypotenuse, in which if a square be in- 
 scribed, its side will be 12 ? 
 
 r The sides are equal to 24 each, and the 
 Ans. < least hypotenuse is double the diagonal 
 I of the square. 
 
 39. The radius 6f a circle is 25 ; what is the area cf a 
 sector of 50° ? 
 
 Remark. — First find the length of an arc of 50° in a circle Vncsa 
 
 radius is unity. Then 25 times that will be the length of an arc of 
 
 the same number of degrees in a circle of which the radius is 25. 
 
 , , -.o ,- • 3.14159265 
 Length of arc 1° radius unity = ^r — . 
 
 (i « goo u « _ 1.04/1J7 55 g 
 
 6 
 
 •Area of sector = L04719755 X 125 x f = 272 7077. Ans. 
 o 2 
 
 
 BOOK VI. 
 
 ON THE INTERSECTIONS OF PLANES, AND THE EEL. 
 ATIVE POSITIONS OF PLANES AND OF PLANES 
 AND LINES. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 A Plane has been already defined to be a surface, such 
 that the straight line which joins any two of its points 
 will lie entirely in that surface. (Def. 9, page 9.) 
 
 1. The Intersection or Common Section of two planes is 
 the line in which they meet. 
 
 2. A Perpendicular to a Plane is a line which makes 
 right angles with every line drawn in the plane through 
 the point in which the perpendicular meets it; and, con- 
 versely, the plane is perpendicular to the line. The 
 point in which the perpendicular meets the plane is 
 called the foot of the perpendicular. 
 
 3. A Diedral Angle is the separation or divergence of 
 two planes proceeding from a common line, and is meas- 
 ured by the angle included between two lines drawn 
 one in each plane, perpendicular to their common sec- 
 tion at the same point. 
 
 The common section of the two planes is called the 
 edge of the angle, and the planes are its faces, 
 
 4. Two Planes are perpendicular to each other, when their 
 diedral angle is a right angle. 
 
 5. A Straight Line is parallel to a plane, when it will 
 not meet the plane, however far produced. 
 
 
 6. Two Planes are parallel, when they will not intersect, 
 however far produced in all directions. 
 
 7. A Solid or Polyedral Angle is the separation or diver- 
 gence of three or more plane angles, proceeding from a 
 common point, the two sides of each of the plane angles 
 being the edges of diedral angles formed by these plane 
 angles. 
 
 The common point from which the plane angles pro- 
 ceed h called the vertex of the solid angle, and the inter- 
 sections of its bounding planes are called its edges, 
 
 8. A Triedral Angle is a solid angle formed by three 
 plane angles. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 Two straight lines which intersect each other, two parallel 
 straight lines, and three points not in the same straight line, 
 will severally determine the position of a plane. 
 
 Let AB and A be two lines 
 Intersecting each other at the 
 point A ; then will these lines 
 determine a plane. For, conceive 
 a plane to be passed through AB, 
 and turned about AB as an axis 
 until it contains the point in the line AC The plane, 
 in this position, contains the lines AB and AC, and will 
 contain them in no other. Again, let AB and BE be 
 two parallel straight lines, and take at pleasure two 
 points, A and B, in the one, and two points, D and E, 
 in the other, and draw AE and BD. The last lines, AB, AE, 
 or the lines AB, DB from what precedes, determine the posi- 
 tion of the parallels AB, BE. And again, if A, B, and 
 be three points not in the same straight line, and we draw 
 the lines AB and AC, it follows, from the first part of this 
 proposition, that these points fix the plane. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Cor. A straight line and a point out of ic determine 
 the position of a plane. 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 If two planes meet each other, their common points will be 
 found in, and form one straight line. 
 
 Let B and D he any two of the 
 points common to the two planes, 
 and join these points by the straight 
 line BB ; then will BB contain all 
 the points common to the two planes, 
 and he their intersection. For, suppose the planes have 
 a common point out of the line BB; then, (Cor. Th. 1), 
 since a straight line and a point out of it determine a 
 plane, there would be two planes determined by this one 
 line and single point out of it, which is absurd. Hence 
 the common section of two planes is a straight line. 
 
 Remark. — The truth of this proposition is implicitly assumed in the 
 definitions of this Book. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 If a straight line stand at right angles to each of two other 
 straight lines at their point of intersection, it will be at right 
 angles to the plane of those lines. 
 
 Let AB stand at right angles to i^Fand 
 CB, at their point of intersection A. Then 
 AB will be at right angles to any other 
 line drawn through A in the plane, pass- 
 ing through EF, OB, and, of course, at 
 right angles to the plane itself. (Def. 2.) 
 
 Through A, draw any line, A G, in the 
 plane EF, CB, and from any point G, draw GH parallel 
 to AB. Take HF = AH, and join F and G and produce 
 FG to B. Because HG is parallel to AB, we have 
 FH : HA : : FG : GB. 
 
 
 But, in this proportion, the first couplet is a ratic of 
 equality; therefore the last couplet is also a ratio of 
 equality, 
 
 That is, FG = GD, or the line FD is bisected in G. 
 
 Draw BD, BG, and BF. 
 
 "Now, in the triangle AFD, as the base FD is bisected 
 in G, we have, 
 
 AF 2 +~AD 2 - 2AG 2 + 2GF 2 (1) (Th. 42, B. I). 
 
 Also, as DF is the base of the a BDF, we have by the 
 same theorem, 
 
 "SF +~BD 2 = 2BG 2 + 2GF % (2) 
 
 By subtracting ( 1 ) from ( 2 ), and observing that BF 2 — 
 AF 2 = AB\ because BAF is a right angle ; and BD 2 — 
 AD 1 — AB 2 , because BAB is a right angle, we shall have, 
 
 AB + AB = 2BG 1 — 2AG 
 
 lhviding by 2, and transposing AG , and we have, 
 
 AB' + AG =BG . 
 
 This last equation shows that BAG is a right angle. 
 But AG is any line drawn through A, in the plane FF, 
 CD ; therefore AB is at right angles to any line in the 
 plane, and, of course, at right angles to the plane itself 
 
 Cor. 1. The perpendicular BA is shorter than any of 
 the oblique lines BF, BG, or BD, drawn from the point 
 B to the plane ; hence it is the shortest distance from a 
 point to a plane. 
 
 Cor. 2. But one perpendicular can be erected to a plane 
 from a given point in the plane ; for, if there could be 
 two, the plane of these perpendiculars would intersect 
 the given plane in some line, as AG, and both the per- 
 pendiculars would be at right angles to this intersection 
 at the same point, which is impossible. 
 
 Cor. 3. But one perpendicular can be let fall from a 
 given point out of a plane on the plane ; for, if there can 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 be two, let BCr and BA be such perpendiculars, then 
 would the triangle BAGf be right angled at both A and 
 <r, which is impossible. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 If from any 'point of a perpendicular to a plane, oblique 
 lines be drawn to different points in the plane, those oblique 
 lines which meet the plane at equal distances from the foot of 
 the perpendicular are equal; and those which meet the plane 
 at unequal distances from the foot of the perpendicular are 
 unequal, the greater distances corresponding to the longer 
 oblique lines, 
 
 Take any point B in 
 the perpendicular BA to 
 the plane ST, and draw 
 the oblique lines BO, 
 BD, and BE, the points 
 C, J), and E, being equally 
 distant from A, the foot 
 of the perpendicular. 
 Produce AE to F, and 
 draw BF; then will BC= BD — BE, and BF> BE. 
 
 For, the triangles BAG, BAB, and BAE are all right- 
 angled at J., the side BA is common, and AC= AD=AE 
 by construction, hence, (Th. 16, B. I), BC=BD = BE. 
 Moreover, since AF> AE, the oblique line BF> BE. 
 
 Cor. If any number of equal oblique lines be drawn 
 from the point B to the plane, they will all meet the 
 plane in the circumference of a circle having the foot of 
 the perpendicular for its center. It follows from this, 
 that, if three points be taken in a plane equally distant 
 from a point out of it, the center of the circle whose cir* 
 cumference passes through these points will be the foot of 
 *he ]aerx>endicular drawn from the point to the plane. 
 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 The line which joins any point of a perpendicular to a 
 plane, with the point in which a line in the plane is inter- 
 sected, at right angles, by a line through the foot of the per- 
 pendicular, will be at right angles to the line in the plane 
 
 Let AB be perpendic- 
 ular to the plane ST, and 
 AD a line through its foot 
 at right angles to EF, a line 
 in the plane. Connect D 
 with any point, as B, of the 
 perpendicular; and BD will 
 be perpendicular to EF. 
 
 Make DF '= DE, and join B to the points E and 
 F. Since DE = DF, and the angles at D are right 
 angles, the oblique lines, AE and AF, are equal ; and, 
 since AE= AF, we have, (Th. 4), BE=BF; therefore 
 the line BD has two points, B and D, each equally distant 
 from the extremities E and F of the line EF, and hence 
 BD is perpendicular to EF at its middle point D. 
 
 Cor. Since FD is perpendicular to the two lines AD 
 und BD at their intersection, it is perpendicular to their 
 plane ADB, (Th. 3). 
 
 ScnoLiuM. — The inclination of a line to a plane is measured by the 
 angle included between the given line and the line which joins the 
 point in which it meets the plane and the foot of the perpendicular 
 drawn from any point of the line to the plane ; thus, the angle BFA ia 
 the inclination of the line BF to the plane ST. 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 If either of two parallels is perpendicular to a plane, the 
 other is also perpendicular to the plane. 
 
 Let BA and ED be two parallels, of which one, BA, 
 is perpendicular to the plane ST; then will the other also 
 be. perpendicular to the same plane. 
 14 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The two parallels de- 
 termine a plane which 
 intersects the given plane 
 in AD; through D draw 
 MN perpendicular to 
 AD; then, (Cor., Th. 5,) 
 will MN be perpendicu- 
 lar to the plane BAD, 
 and the angle MDE is 
 
 therefore a right angle ; but ED A is also a right angle, 
 since BA and ED are parallel, and BAD is a right angle 
 by hypothesis; hence, ED is perpendicular to the two 
 lines MD and AD in the plane ST; it is therefore perpen- 
 dicular to the plane, (Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. 1. The converse of this proposition is also true , 
 that is, if two straight lines are both perpendicular to the same 
 plane, the lines are parallel. 
 
 For, suppose BA and ED to be two perpendiculars ; if 
 not parallel, draw through D a parallel to BA, and this 
 last line will be perpendicular to the plane ; but ED is 
 a perpendicular by hypothesis, and we should have two 
 perpendiculars erected to the plane at the same point, 
 which is impossible, (Cor. 2, Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. 2. If two lines lying in the same plane are each 
 parallel to a third line not in the same plane, the two 
 lines are parallel. For, pass a plane perpendicular to 
 the third line, and it will be perpendicular to each of tlva 
 others ; hence they are parallel , 
 
 THEOREM VII, 
 
 A straight line is parallel to a plane, when it is parallel 
 to a line in the plane. 
 
 Suppose the line MX to be parallel to the line CD, in 
 the plane ST; then will Jf^be parallel to the plane ST 
 
 
 159 
 
 For, OB being in the plane 
 
 ST, and at the same time g 
 
 parallel to MN, it must be the 
 
 intersection of the pl°.ne of 
 
 these parallels with the plane 
 
 ST; hence, if MN meet the 
 
 plane ST, it must do so in the T 
 
 line OB, or OB produced; but MN and OB are parallel, 
 
 and cannot meet; therefore MN, nowever far produced, 
 
 can have no point in the plane ST, and hence, (Def. 5), it 
 
 is parallel to this plane. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If two lines are parallel, they will be equally inclined to 
 any given plane. 
 
 Let AB and OB be 
 two parallels, and ST 
 any plane met by them 
 in the points A and 
 0; then will the lines 
 AB and OB be equally 
 inclined to the plane 
 ST. 
 
 For, take any distance, AB, on one of these parallels, 
 and make OB = AB, and draw A and BB. From the 
 points B and B let fall the perpendiculars, BE and BF, 
 on the plane ; join their feet by the line BF, and draw 
 AB and OF. 
 
 Now, since AB is equal and parallel to OB, ABBOh 
 ft parallelogram, and BB is equal and parallel to A 0, 
 and BB is parallel to the plane ST, (Th. 7) ; and, since 
 BE and BF are both perpendicular to this plane, they 
 are parallel ; but BB and EF are in the plane of these 
 parallels; and as EF is in the plane ST, and BB is 
 parallel to this plane, these two lines must be parallel 
 and equal, and BBFE is also a parallelogram Now, 
 
 
 we have shown that BD is equal and parallel to AC, and 
 EF equal and parallel to BD; hence, (Cor. 2, Th. 6), 
 EFis equal and parallel to AC, and ACFE is a parallel- 
 ogram, and AE — CF. The triangles J.^J/ and CDF 
 have, then, the sides of the one equal to the sides of the 
 other, each to each, and their angles are consequently 
 equal; that is, the angle BAE is equal to the angle 
 DCF; but these angles measure the inclination of the 
 lines AB and CD to the plane ST, (Scholium, Th. 5). 
 
 Scholium. — The converse of this proposition is not generally true ; 
 that is, straight lines equally inclined to the same plane are not neces- 
 sarily parallel. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 The intersections of two parallel planes by a third plane, 
 are parallel. 
 
 Let the planes QR and ST he intersected by the third 
 plane, AD : then will the intersections, AB and CD, be 
 parallel. 
 
 Since the lines AB and CD are in the same plane, if 
 they are not parallel, they will 
 meet if sufficiently produced; 
 but they cannot meet out of the 
 planes QR and ST, in which 
 they are respectively found; 
 therefore, any point common to 
 the lines, must be at the same 
 time common to the planes ; and 
 since the planes are parallel, 
 
 (hey have no common point, and the lines, therefore, do 
 not intersect ; hence they are parallel. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 If two planes are perpendicular to the same straight line, 
 they are parallel to each other. 
 
 Let QR and ST be two planes, perpendicular to the 
 line AB; then will these planes be parallel. 
 
'- 
 
 — \ 
 
 s 
 
 ] 
 
 1— 
 
 i" 
 
 
 
 
 
 n 
 
'- 
 
 \ 
 
 BOOK VI. 161 
 
 For, if not parallel, suppose M to be a point in their 
 line of intersection, and 
 from this point draw 
 lines to the extremities 
 of the perpendicular m" 
 AB, thus forming a tri- 
 angle, MAB. Now, 
 since the line AB is 
 perpendicular to both 
 
 planes, it is perpendicular to each of the lines MA and 
 MB, drawn through its feet in the planes, (Def. 2); 
 hence, the triangle has two right angles, which is impos- 
 sible ; the planes cannot therefore meet in any point as 
 M, and are consequently parallel. 
 
 Cor. Conversely : The straight line which is perpendicu- 
 lar to one of two parallel planes, is also perpendicular to the 
 other. For, if AB be perpendicular to the plane QB, 
 draw in the other plane, through the point in which the 
 perpendicular meets it, any line, as AC. The plane of 
 the lines AB and A C will intersect the plane QB in the 
 line BD ; and since the planes are parallel by hypothesis, 
 the lines AC and BD must be parallel, (Th. 9) ; but the 
 angle DBA is a right angle ; hence, BA C must be a right 
 angle, and the line BA is perpendicular to any line what; 
 ever drawn in the plane through the point A ; BA is 
 therefore perpendicular to the plane ST. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 If two straight lines be drawn in any direction through 
 parallel planes, the planes will cut the lines proportionally. 
 
 Conceive three planes to be parallel, as represented 
 in the figure, and take any points, A and B, in the first 
 and third planes, and draw AB, the line passing through 
 the second plane at E. 
 
 14* L 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Also, take any other two points, as 
 and D, in the first and third planes, 
 and draw OB, the line passing through 
 the second plane at F. 
 
 Join the two lines by the diagonal 
 
 AB, which passes through the second 
 plane at G. Draw BB, EG, GF, and 
 
 AC. We are now to prove that, 
 
 AE : EB : : OF : FB. 
 For the sake of brevity, put AG=X, and GD= Y. 
 As the planes are parallel, BD is parallel to EG ; from 
 the two triangles ABD and AEG, we have, (Th. 17, 
 B.II); 
 
 A E : EB : : X : Y. 
 
 Also, as the planes are parallel, GF is parallel to A 0, 
 and we have, 
 
 OF : FD : : X : Y. 
 
 By comparing the proportions, and applying Th. 6, 
 B. II, we have 
 
 AE : EB : : OF : FB. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 If a straight line is perpendicular to a plane, all planes 
 passing through that line will be perpendicular to the plane. 
 
 Let MNbe a plane, and AB a per- 
 pendicular to it. Let BO be any 
 other plane, passing through AB ; 
 this plane will be perpendicular to 
 MM 
 
 Let BB be the common intersec- 
 tion of the two planes, and from 
 the point B, draw in MN BE at right angles to DB. 
 
 Then, as AB is perpendicular to the plane MN, it is 
 perpendicular to every line in that plane, passing through 
 
 M 
 
 D ^ 
 
 
 163 
 
 B ; (Def. 2,) ; therefore, ABE is a right angle. But the 
 angle ABE, (Def. 3), measures the inclination of the two 
 planes ; therefore, the plane CB is perpendicular to the 
 plane MN; and thus we can show that any other plane, 
 passing through AB, will be perpendicular to MN. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If two planes are perpendicular to each other, and a line 
 be drawn in one of them perpendicular to their common in- 
 tersection, it will be perpendicular to the other plane. 
 
 Let the two planes, QR and ST, be perpendicular to 
 each other, and draw in QR the line CD at right angles 
 to their common intersection, R V; then will this line be 
 perpendicular to the plane ST. 
 
 In the plane ST draw ED, perpen- 
 dicular to VR at the point D. 
 Then, since the planes QR and ST 
 are perpendicular to each other, the 
 angle ODE is a right angle, and 
 CD is perpendicular to the two 
 lines, ED and VR, passing through 
 
 its foot in the plane ST. CD is therefore perpendicular 
 to the plane ST, (Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. Conversely: if we erect a perpendicular to the 
 plane ST, at any point, D, of its intersection with the 
 plane QR, this perpendicular will lie in the plane QR. 
 For, if it be not in this plane, we can draw in the plane 
 the line CD, at right angles to VR', and, from what has 
 been shown above, CD is perpendicular to the^lane ST, 
 and we should thus have two perpendiculars erected to 
 the plane, ST, at the same point, which is impossible, 
 (Cor. 2, Th. 8V 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 The common intersection of two planes, 'both of which are 
 perpendicular to a third plane, will also be perpendicular to 
 the third plane. 
 
 Let MN be the common 
 intersection of the two 
 planes, QR and VX, both 
 of which are perpendicular 
 to the plane ST; then will 
 MZ^be perpendicular to the 
 plane ST For, if we erect 
 a perpendicular to the plane 
 ST, at the point M, it will 
 lie in both planes at the 
 
 same time, (Cor. Th. 13); and this perpendicular must 
 therefore be their intersection. Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 Parallel straight lines included between parallel planes, 
 are equal. 
 
 Let AB and 2) (7 be two parallel lines, 
 included by the two parallel planes, 
 QR and ST; then will AB = BO. 
 
 For, the plane AC, of the parallel 
 lines, intersects the planes, QR and ST, 
 in the parallel lines, AB and BO, 
 (Th. 9) ; hence ABGD is a parallelogram, and its oppo- 
 site sides, AB and BO, are equal. 
 
 Oot. It follows from this proposition, that parallel planes 
 are everywhere equally distant ; for, two perpendiculars 
 drawn at pleasure between the two planes are parallel 
 lines, (Cor. 1, Th. 6), and hence are equal ; but these per- 
 pendiculars measure the distance between the planes. 
 
 
 165 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 Two planes are parallel when two lines not parallel, lying 
 in the one, are respectively parallel to two lines lying in the 
 other. 
 
 Let QR and ST be 
 two planes, the first 
 containing the two 
 lines AB and CD 
 which intersect each 
 other at E, and the 
 second the two lines 
 LM and NO, respect- 
 ively parallel to AB 
 and CD-, then will 
 these planes be par- 
 allel. 
 
 For, if the two planes 
 are not parallel, they must intersect when sufficiently 
 produced; and their common section lying in both planes 
 at the same time, would be a line of the plane QR. Now, 
 the lines AB and CD intersect each other by hypothesis ; 
 hence one or both of them must meet the common sec- 
 tion of the two planes. Suppose AB to meet this com- 
 mon section ; then, since AB and LM are parallel, they 
 determine a plane, and AB cannot meet the plane ST in 
 a point out of the line LM; but AB and LM being par- 
 allel, have no common point. Hence, neither AB nor 
 CD can meet the common section of the two planes ; that 
 », they have no common section, and are therefore par- 
 allel. 
 
 Cor. Since two lines which intersect each other, deter- 
 mine a plane, it follows from this proposition, that the 
 plane of two intersecting lines is parallel to the plane of two 
 other intersecting lines respectively parallel to the first lines 
 
 
 GEOMETRS*. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two intersecting lines are respectively parallel to two 
 other intersecting lines lying in a different plane, the angles 
 formed by the last two lines will be equal to those formed by 
 the first two, each to each, and the planes of the angles will be 
 parallel. 
 
 Let QB be the plane 
 of the two lines AB 
 and CD, which inter- 
 sect each other at the 
 point E, and ST the 
 plane of the two lines 
 LM and NO, respect- 
 ively parallel to AB 
 and QB ; then will the 
 [__BED = \_MPO, 
 and L EEC - L 
 MPN, etc., and the 
 planes QB and ST 
 will be parallel. 
 
 That the plane of one set of angles is parallel to that 
 of the other, follows from the Corollary to Theorem 16 ; 
 we have then only to show that the angles are equal, 
 each to each. 
 
 Take any points, B and B, on the lines AB and CD, 
 and draw BD. Lay off PM, equal to and in the same 
 direction with JEB, and PO, equal to and in the same 
 direction with BD, and draw MO. Now, since the planes 
 QR and ST are parallel, and BD is equal and parallel to 
 PO, BDOP is a parallelogram, and DO is equal and par 
 allel to EP. For the same reason, BM is equal and 
 parallel to EP; therefore, BDOM is a parallelogram, and 
 MO is equal and parallel to BD. Hence the A's, EBD 
 and PMO, have the sides of the one equal to the sidea 
 of the other, each to each; they are therefore equal, and 
 
 
 the I MPO — the [ BED. In the same manner it can 
 be proved that \_BEC = \_MPN, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. The plane of the parallels AB and LM is in- 
 tersected by the plane of the parallels CD and NO, in the 
 line EP. Now, EB and ED are the intersections of these 
 two planes with the plane QR, and PM and PO are the 
 intersections of the same planes with the parallel plane 
 ST. It has just been proved that the |__ BED = [_MPO. 
 Hence, if the diedral angle formed by two planes, be cut by 
 two parallel planes, the intersections of the faces of the diedral 
 angle with one of these planes will include an angle equal 
 to that included by the intersections of the faces with the other 
 plane. 
 
 Cor. 2. The opposite triangles formed by joining the cor- 
 responding extremities of three equal and parallel straight 
 lines lying in different planes, will be equal and the plane* of 
 the triangles will be parallel. 
 
 Let EP, BM, and DO, be three equal and parallel 
 straight lines lying in different planes. By joining their 
 corresponding extremities, we have the triangles EBD 
 and PMO. Now, since EP and BM are equal and 
 parallel, EBMP is a parallelogram, and EB is equal and 
 parallel to PM; in the same manner, we show that ED 
 is equal and parallel to PO, and BD to MO; hence the 
 triangles are equal, ha ring the three sides of the one, 
 respectively, equal to the three sides of the other. 
 That their planes are parallel, follows from Cor., Theo 
 rem 16. 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 Any one of the three plane angles bounding a triedral 
 angle, is less than the sum of the other two. 
 
 Let A be the vertex of a solid angle, bounded by the 
 three plane angles, BAG, BAD, and DAC; then will any 
 one of these three angles be less than the sum of the 
 
 
 other two. To establish this proposition, we have only 
 to compare the greatest of the three 
 angles with the sum of the other 
 two. 
 
 Suppose, then, BAG to be the 
 greatest angle, and draw in its plane B« 
 the line AE, making the angle 
 CAE equal to the angle CAD. On "iT 
 
 AE, take any point, E, and through it draw the line CEB. 
 Take AD, equal to AE, and draw BD and DC. 
 
 Now, the two triangles, CAD and CAE, having two 
 sides and the included angle of the one equal to the two 
 sides and included angle of the other, each to each, are 
 equal, and CE = CD; but in the triangle, BDC, BC< 
 BD + DC. Taking EC from the first member of this 
 inequality, and its equal, DC, from the second, we have, 
 BE < BD. In the triangles, BAE and BAD, BA is 
 common, and AE = AD by construction ; but the third 
 side, BD, in the one, is greater than the third side, BE, 
 in the other ; hence, the angle BAD is greater than the 
 angle BAE, (Th. 22, B. I); that is, [_BAE < [_BAD; 
 adding the \_EAC to the first member of this inequality, 
 and its equal, th.e.[_DAC, to the other, we. have 
 
 [_BAE+l_EAC< [_BAD + [_DAC. 
 And, as the [_ BAG is made up of the angles BAE and 
 EAC, we have, as enunciated, 
 
 ]_BAC< [_BAD + [_DAC. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The sum of the plane angles forming any solid angle, is 
 always less than four right angles. 
 
 Let the planes which form the solid angle at A, be cut 
 by another plane, which we may call the plane of the 
 base, BCDE. Take any point, a, in this plane, and draw 
 aB y aC, aD, aE, etc., thus making as many triangles on 
 
 
 169 
 
 the plane of the base as there are tri- 
 angular planes forming the solid angle 
 A. Now, since the sum of the angles 
 of every A is two right angles, the sum 
 of all the angles of the A's which 
 have their vertex in A, is equal to the 
 Bum of all angles of the A's which have 
 their vertex in a. But, the angles BOA 
 + AOD, are, together, greater than 
 the angles BOa + aOD, or BCD, by the last proposition. 
 That is, the sum of all the angles at the bases of the A's 
 which have their vertex in A, is greater than the sum of 
 all the angles at the bases of the A's which have their 
 vertex in a. Therefore, the sum of all the angles at a is 
 greater than the sum of all the angles at A ; but the sum 
 of all the angles at a is equal to four right angles ; there- 
 fore, the sum of all the angles at A is less than four right 
 angles. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 If two solid angles are formed by three plane angles respect- 
 ively equal to each other, the planes which contain the equal 
 angles will be equally inclined to each other. 
 
 Letthe [_ASC=the [_DTF, 
 the |_ ASB = the [_ J> TE, and 
 the [_BSO= the [_ETF; then 
 will the inclination of the 
 planes, A SO, ASB, be equal 
 to that of the planes, DTF, 
 DTE. 
 
 Having taken SB at pleas- 
 are, draw BO perpendicular 
 
 to the plane ASO; from the point 0, at which that perpen- 
 dicular meets the plane, draw OA and 00, perpendicular 
 to SA and SO; draw AB and BO; next take TE = SB, 
 and draw EP perpendicular to the plane DTF; from the 
 15 
 
 
 point P, draw PB and PF, perpendicular to TB and 
 TF; lastly, draw BE and FF. 
 
 The triangle SAB, is right-angled at A, and the tri- 
 angle TBF, at B, (Th. 5) ; and since the |__ ASB = the 
 L J> TF, we have [_ SB A - L 2^ J likewise, SB=TF; 
 therefore, the triangle SAB is equal to the triangle TBF) 
 hence, SA = TB, and AB = Di?. In like manner it 
 may be shown that SO = TF, and BO = J£F. That 
 granted, the quadrilateral SAOO is equal to the quadri- 
 lateral TBPF; for, place the angle A SO upon its equal, 
 2)2^, and because SA = 2'i), and SO = TF, the point A 
 will fall on i), and the point on F; and, at the same time, 
 A 0, which is perpendicular to SA, will fall on PB, which 
 is perpendicular to TB, and, in like manner, 00 on PF; 
 wherefore, the point will fall on the point P, and A 
 will be equal to BP. But the triangles, A OB, BPF, are 
 right angled at and P; the hypotenuse AB = BF, and 
 the side AO = BP; hence, those triangles are equal, 
 (Cor, Th. 39, B. I), and \_OAB=[_PBF. The angle OAB 
 is the inclination of the two planes, ASB, ASO; the angle 
 PBF is that of the two planes, BTF, BTF; conse- 
 quently, those two inclinations are equal to each other. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Scholium 1. — The angles which form the solid angles at S and T, 
 may be of such relative magnitudes, that the perpendiculars, BO and 
 EP, may not fall within the bases, ASC and DTF; but they will 
 always either fall on the bases, or on the planes of the bases produced, 
 and will have the same relative situation to A, S, and C, as P has 
 to D, T, and F. In case that and P fall on the planes of the bases 
 produced, the angles BCO and EFP, would be obtuse angles ; but the 
 demonstration of the problem would not be varied in the least. 
 
 Scholium 2. — If the plane angles bounding one of the triedral 
 angles be equal to those of the other, each to each, and also be simi 
 larly arranged about the triedral angles, these solid angles will be ab- 
 solutely equal. For it was shewn, in the course of the above demon- 
 stration, that the quadrilaterals, SAOC and TDPF, were equal; and 
 on being applied, the point falls on the point P; and since the trian- 
 gles A OB and DPE are equal, the perpendiculars OB and PE ar« 
 
 
 ilsc equal. Now, because the plane angles are like arranged about 
 the triedral angles, these perpendiculars lie in the same direction ; 
 hence the point B will fall on the point \E, and the solid angles 
 will exactly coincide. 
 
 Scholium 3. — When the planes of the equal angles are not like dis- 
 posed about the triedral angles, it would not be possible to make these 
 triedral angles coincide ; and still it would be true that the planes of 
 the equal angles are equally inclined to each other. Hence, these 
 triedral angles have the plane and diedral angles of the one, equal to 
 the plane and diedral angles of the other, each to each, without having 
 of themselves that absolute equality which admits of superposition. 
 Magnitudes which are thus equal in all their component parts, but 
 will not coincide, when applied the one to the other, are said to be 
 symmetrically equal. Thus, two triedral angles, bounded by plane 
 fcngbs equal each to each, but not like placed, are symmetrical triedral 
 
 
 BOOK VII, 
 
 SOLID GEOMETRY. 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. A Polyedron is a solid, or volume, bounded on all 
 sides by planes. The bounding planes are called the 
 faces of the polyedron, and then intersections are its 
 edges, 
 
 2. A Prism is a polyedron, having two of its faces, 
 called bases, equal polygons, whose planes and homolo- 
 gous sides are parallel. The other, or lateral faces, are 
 parallelograms, and constitute the convex surface of the 
 prism. 
 
 The bases of a prism are distinguished by the terms, 
 upper and lower; and the altitude of the prism is the per 
 pendicular distance between its bases. 
 
 Prisms are denominated triangular, quadrangular, pent 
 angular, etc., according as their bases are triangles, quad- 
 rilaterals, pentagons, etc. 
 
 3. A Right Prism is one in which the planes of the 
 lateral faces are perpendicular to the planes of the bases. 
 
 4. A Parallelopipedon is a prism 
 whose bases are parallelograms. 
 
 5. A Rectangular Parallelopipedon 
 is a right parallelopipedon, with 
 rectangular bases. 
 
 
 173 
 
 6. A Cube or Hexaedron is a rectangu- 
 lar parallelopipedon, whose faces are all 
 equal squares. 
 
 7. A Diagonal of a Polyedron is a straight 
 line joining the vertices of two solid 
 angles not adjacent. 
 
 8. Similar Polyedrons are those which 
 
 are bounded by the same number of similar polygons 
 like placed, and whose homologous solid angles are 
 equal. 
 
 Similar parts, whether faces, edges, diagonals, or 
 angles, similarly placed in similar polyedrons, are termed 
 homologous. 
 
 9. A Pyramid is a polyedron, having 
 for one of its faces, called the base, any 
 polygon whatever, and for its other faces 
 triangles having a common vertex, the 
 sides opposite which, in the several trian- 
 gles, being the sides of the base of the 
 pyramid. 
 
 10. The Vertex of a pyramid is the 
 common vertex of the triangular faces. 
 
 U. The Altitude of a pyramid is the perpendicular 
 distance from its vertex to the plane of its base. 
 
 12. A Right Pyramid is one whose base is a regular 
 polygon, and whose vertex is in the perpendicular to the 
 base at its center. This perpendicular is called the axis 
 of the pyramid. 
 
 13. The Slant Height of a right pyramid is the perpen- 
 dicular distance from the vertex to one of the sides of 
 the base. 
 
 14. The Frustum of a Pyramid is a portion of the pyr- 
 amid included between its base and a section made by a 
 plane parallel to the base. 
 
 Pyramids, lik* prisms, are named from the forms of 
 their bases. 
 15* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 15. A Cylinder is a body, having for 
 its ends, or bases, two equal circles, 
 the planes of which are perpendicular 
 to the line joining their centers ; the 
 remainder of its surface may be con- 
 ceived as formed by the motion of a 
 line, which constantly touches the cir- 
 cumferences of the bases, while it 
 remains parallel to the line which 
 joins their centers. 
 
 We may otherwise define the cylinder as a body gen- 
 erated by the revolution of a rectangle about one of its 
 sides as an immovable axis. 
 
 The sides of the rectangle perpendicular to the axis 
 generate the bases of the cylinder; and the side opposite 
 the axis generates its convex surface. The line joining 
 the centers of the bases of the cylinder is its axis, and is 
 also its altitude. 
 
 If, within the base of a cylinder, any polygon be in- 
 scribed, and on it, as a base, a right prism be con- 
 structed, having for its altitude that of the cylinder, such 
 prism is said to be inscribed in the cylinder, and the cylin- 
 der is said to circumscribe the prism. 
 
 Thus, in the last figure, ABODEc is an inscribed 
 prism, and it is plain that all its lateral edges are con- 
 tained in the convex surface of the cylinder. d 
 
 If, about the base of a cylinder, any 
 polygon be circumscribed, and on it, 
 as a base, a right prism be con- 
 structed, having for its altitude that 
 of the cylinder, such prism is said to 
 be circumscribed about the cylinder, and 
 the cylinder is said to be inscribed in 
 the prism. 
 
 Thus, ABCLEFc is a circum- 
 scribed prism; and it is plain that 
 
 
 175 
 
 the lino, mn, which joins the points of 
 tangency of the sides, EF and ef, with 
 the circumferences of the bases of the 
 cylinder, is common to the convex sur- 
 faces of the cylinder and prism. 
 
 16. A Cone is a body bounded by a 
 circle and the surface generated by the 
 motion of a straight line, which con- 
 stantly passes through a point in the 
 perpendicular to the plane of the circle 
 at its center, and the different points in 
 its circumference. 
 
 The cone may be otherwise' defined as a body gene 
 rated by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about 
 one of its sides as an immovable axis. The other side 
 of the triangle will generate the base of the cone, while 
 the hypotenuse generates the convex surface. 
 
 The side about which the generating triangle revolves 
 is the axis of the cone, and is at the same time its altitude. 
 
 If, within the base of the cone, any 
 polygon be inscribed, and on it, as a 
 base, a pyramid be constructed, having 
 for its vertex that of the cone, such 
 pyramid is said to be inscribed in the 
 cone, and the cone is said to circumscribe 
 the pyramid. 
 
 Thus, in the accompanying figure, 
 V — ABODE, is an inscribed pyramid, 
 and it is plain that all its lateral edges 
 are contained in the convex surface of 
 the cone. 
 
 If, about the base of a cone, any poly- 
 gon be circumscribed, and on it, as a 
 base, a pyramid be constructed, having 
 for its vertex that of the cone, such pyramid is said to be 
 circumscribed about the cone, and the cone is said to be 
 inscribed in the pyramid. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 17. The Frnstnm of a Cone is the portion of the cone that 
 is included between its base and a section made by a plane 
 parallel to the base. 
 
 18. Similar Cylinders, and also Similar Cones, are such as 
 have their axes proportional to the radii of their bases. 
 
 19. A Sphere is a body bounded by one uniformly-curved 
 surface, all the points of which are at the same distance 
 from a certain point within, called the center. 
 
 We may otherwise define the sphere as a body gene- 
 rated by the revolution of a semicircle about its diameter 
 as an immovable axis. 
 
 20. A Spherical Sector is that 
 portion of a sphere which is in- 
 cluded between the surfaces of 
 two cones having a common 
 axis, and their vertices at the 
 center of the sphere. Or, it is 
 that portion of the sphere which 
 is generated by a sector of the 
 generating semicircle. 
 
 21. The Radius of a Sphere is 
 a straight line drawn from the 
 
 center to any point in the surface ; and the diameter is 
 a straight line drawn through the center, and limited on 
 both sides by the surface. 
 
 All the diameters of a sphere are equal, each being 
 twice the radius. 
 
 22. A Tangent Plane to a sphere is one which has a 
 single point in the surface of the sphere, all the others 
 being without it. 
 
 23. A Secant Plane to a sphere is one which has more 
 than one point in the surface of the sphere, and lies 
 partly within and partly without it. 
 
 Assuming, what will presently be proved, that the in- 
 tersection of a sphere by a plane is a circle, 
 
 24. A Small Circle of a sphere is one whose plane does 
 not pass through its center; and 
 
 
 177 
 
 25. A Great Circle of a sphere is one whose plane passes 
 through the center of the sphere. 
 
 26. A Zone of a sphere is the portion of its surface in- 
 cluded between the circumferences of any two of its paral- 
 lel circles, called the bases of the zone. "When the plane 
 of one of these circles becomes tangent to the sphere, the 
 zone has a single base. 
 
 27. A Spherical Segment is a portion of the volume of a 
 sphere included between any two of its parallel circles, 
 called the bases of the segment. 
 
 The altitude of a zone, or of a segment, of a sphere, 
 is the perpendicular distance between the planes of its 
 bases. \ 
 
 28. The area of a surface is measured by the product 
 of its length and breadth, and these dimensions are always 
 conceived to be exactly at right angles to each other. 
 
 29. In a similar manner, solids are measured by the 
 product of their length, breadth, and height, when all their 
 dimensions are at right angles to each other. 
 
 The product of the length and breadth ©f a solid, is 
 the measure of the surface of its base. 
 
 Let P, in the annexed fig- 
 ure, represent the measuring 
 unit, and AF the rectangular 
 solid to be measured. 
 
 A side of P is one unit in 
 length, one in breadth, and 
 one in height; one inch, one 
 foot, one yard, or any other unit that may be taken. 
 
 Then, 
 
 lxlxl 
 
 1, the unit cube. 
 
 Now, if the base of the solid, AC, is, as here repr< • 
 sented, 5 units in length and 2 in breadth, it is obvious 
 that (5x2 = 10), 10 units, each equal to P, can be placed 
 on the base of AC, and no more; and as each of these 
 onits will occupy a unit of altitude, therefore, 2 units of 
 
 M 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 altitude will contain 20 solid units, 3 units of altitude, 
 30 solid units, and so on ; or, in general terms, the num- 
 ber of square units in the base multiplied by the linear units 
 in perpendicular altitude, will give the solid units in any rect- 
 angular solid. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 If the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of one prism 
 be equal to the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of 
 another, each to each, and similarly disposed, the prisms will 
 be equal. 
 
 Suppose A and a to be the vertices of two solid angles, 
 bounded by equal and similarly placed faces; then will 
 the prisms, ABODE— -i^and abcde — n, be equal. 
 
 For, if we place the base, 
 abcde, upon its equal, the base 
 ABODE, they will coincide; 
 and since the solid angles, 
 whose vertices are A and a, are 
 equal, the lines ab, ae, and ap, 
 respectively coincide with AB, 
 AE, and AP ; but the faces, al and ao, of the one prism, 
 are equal, each to each, to the faces, AL and AO, of the 
 other; therefore pi and po coincide with PL and PO, 
 and the upper bases of the prisms also coincide : hence, 
 not only the bases, but all the lateral faces of the two 
 prisms coincide, and the prisms are equal. 
 
 Oor. If the two prisms are right, and have equal bases 
 and altitudes, they are equal. For, in this case, the rect- 
 angular faces, al and ao, of the one, are respectively 
 equal to the rectangular faces, AL and AO, of the other; 
 and hence the three faces bounding a triedral angle in 
 the one, are equal and like placed, to the faces bounding 
 a triedral angle in the othei 
 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 The opposite faces of any parattelopipedon axe equal, and 
 their planes are parallel. 
 
 Let ABOD — E be any parallelopipedon ; then will its 
 opposite faces be equal, and their planes will be parallel. 
 
 The bases ABOD and FEGH are 
 equal, and their planes are parallel, 
 by definitions 2 and 4 of this Book ; 
 it remains tor us, therefore, only to 
 show that any two of the opposite 
 lateral faces are equal and parallel. 
 
 Since all the faces of the parallelopipedon are parallel- 
 ograms, AB is equal and parallel to DC, and AH is also 
 equal and parallel to DF; hence the angles HAB and 
 FDO are equal, and their planes are parallel, (Th. 17, B. 
 VI), and the two parallelograms, HABGr and FDCE, 
 having two adjacent sides and the included angle of the 
 one equal to the two adjacent sides and included angle 
 of the other, are equal. 
 
 Oor. 1 Hence, of the six faces of the parallelopipedon, 
 any two lying opposite may be taken as the bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. The four diagonals of a parallelopipedon mutu- 
 ally bisect each other. For, if we draw A and HE, we 
 shall form the parallelogram A OEH, of which the diago- 
 nals are AE and HO, and these diagonals are at the same 
 time diagonals of the parallelopipedon; but the diagonals 
 of a parallelogram mutually bisect each other. Now, if 
 the diagonal FB be drawn, it and HO will bisect each 
 other, since they are diagonals 'of the parallelogram 
 FHBO. In like manner we can show that if DGr be 
 drawn, it will be bisected by AE. Hence, the four diag- 
 onals have a common point within the parallelopipedon. 
 
 Scholium. — It is seen at once that the six faces of a parallelopipe- 
 don intersect each other in twelve edges, four of which are equal to 
 HA, four to AB, and four to AD. Now, we may conceive the parallel- 
 opipedon to be bounded by the planes determined by the three lines 
 
 
 GEOMETR 
 
 AH, AB, and AD, and the three planes passed through the extremi* 
 ties, H, B, and JD, of these lines, parallel to the first three planes. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 The convex surface of a right prism is measured by the 
 perimeter of its base multiplied by its altitude. 
 
 Let ABODE — iVbe a right prism, of 
 which AP is the altitude ; then will its 
 convex surface he measured by 
 
 {AB + BO + OB + DE + EA)xAP. 
 For, its convex surface is made up of the 
 rectangles AL, BM, ON, etc., and each 
 rectangle is measured by the product of 
 its base by its altitude ; but the altitude 
 of each rectangle is equal to AP, the alti- 
 tude of the prism ; hence the convex sur- 
 face of the prism is measured by the pro- 
 duct of the sum of the bases of the rectangles, or the 
 perimeter of the base of the prism, by the common alti- 
 tude, AP. 
 
 Oor. Kight prisms will have equivalent convex surfaces, 
 when the products of the perimeters of their bases by 
 their altitudes are respectively equal ; and, generally, their 
 convex surfaces will be to each other as the products of 
 the perimeters of their bases by their altitudes. Hence, 
 if the altitudes are equal, their convex surfaces will be as 
 the perimeters of their bases ; and if the perimeters of 
 their bases are equal, the^r convex surfaces will be as 
 their altitudes. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 The two sections of a prism made by parallel planes between 
 its bases are equal polygons. 
 
 Let the prism ABODE — N be cut between its bases 
 by two parallel planes, making the sections QBS, etc.. 
 
 
 181 
 
 and TVX, etc. ; then will these sections 
 be equal polygons. 
 
 For, since the secant planes are paral- 
 lel, their intersections, QR and TV, by 
 the plane of the face JEAPO are parallel, 
 (Th. 9, B. VI) ; and being included be- 
 tween the parallel lines, AP and EO, they 
 are also equal. In the same manner we 
 may prove that BS is equal and parallel 
 to VX, and so on for the intersections of 
 the secant planes by the other faces of 
 the prism. Hence, these polygonal sections have the 
 sides of the one equal to the sides of the other, each to 
 each. The angles QBS and TVX are equal, because 
 their sides are parallel and lie in the same direction ; and 
 in like manner we prove [__ RSY = [_ VXZ, and so on 
 for the other corresponding angles of the polygons. 
 Therefore, these polygons are both mutually equilateral 
 and mutually equiangular, and consequently are equal. 
 
 Cor. A section of a prism made by a plane parallel to 
 the base of the prism, is a polygon equal to the base. 
 
 THEOKEM V. 
 
 Two parallelopipedons, the one rectangular and the other 
 oblique, will be equal in volume when, having the same base 
 and altitude, two opposite lateral faces of the one are m the 
 'planes of the corresponding lateral faces of the other. 
 
 Designating the parallelo- 
 pipedons by their opposite 
 diagonal letters, let AG be 
 the rectangular, and AL the 
 obnque, parallelopipedon, hav- 
 ing the same base, A C, and 
 the same altitude, namely, 
 the perpendicular distance be- 
 16 
 
 
 tween the parallel pranes, AC and EL. Also let the fa^e, 
 AK, be in the plane of the face, AF, and the face, BL, m 
 the plane of the face, BG. We are now to prove that the 
 oblique parallelopipedon is equivalent to tne rectangular 
 parallelopipedon. 
 
 As the faces, AF and AK, are in the same plane, and 
 the parallelopipedons have the same altitude, EFK is a 
 straight line, and EF— IK, because each is equal to AB. 
 If from the whole line, FK, we take FF, and then from 
 the same line we take IK= FF, we shall have the re- 
 mainders, FI and FK, equal ; and since AF and BF are 
 parallel, \_AFI = [_BFK ; hence the A's, AFI and 
 BFK, are equal. Since HE and MI are both parallel to 
 DA, they are parallel to each other, and FIMH is a par- 
 allelogram ; for like reasons, FKLG is a parallelogram, 
 and these parallelograms are equal, because two adjacent 
 sides and the included angle of the one are equal to two 
 adjacent sides and the included angle of the other. The 
 parallelograms, BE and CF, being the opposite faces of 
 the parallelopipedon, AG-, are equal. Hence, the three 
 plane faces bounding the triedral angle, E, of the triaii* 
 gular prism, EAI — E, are equal, each to each, and like 
 placed, to the three plane faces bounding the triedral angle 
 F, of the triangular prism, FBK — G, and these prisms 
 are therefore equal, (Th. 1). Now, if from the whole 
 solid, EABK — H, we take the prism, EAI — H, there 
 will remain the parallelopipedon, AL; and, if from the 
 srme solid, we take the prism, FBK—G, there will remain 
 the rectangular parallelopipedon, AG. Therefore, the 
 oblique and the rectangular parallelopipedons are equiva- 
 lent. 
 
 Cor. The volume of the rectangular parallelopipedon, 
 AG, is measured by the base, ABCB, multiplied by the 
 altitude, AF, (Def. 29) ; consequently, the oblique paral- 
 lelopipedon is measured by the product of the same base 
 by the same altitude. 
 
 
 183 
 
 Scholium.- -If neither of the parallelopipedons is rectangular, but 
 they still have the same base and the same altitude, and two opposite 
 lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the corresponding lateral 
 faces of the other, by precisely the same reasoning we could prove the 
 parallelopipedons equivalent. Hence, in general, any two parallelo- 
 pipedons will be equal in volume when, having the same base and aUtiPude, 
 two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the correspond- 
 ing lateral faces of the other, 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Two parallelopipedons having equal bases and equal alti- 
 tudes^ are equivalent. 
 
 Let A G- and AL be two paral- 
 lelopipedons, having a common 
 lower base, and their upper bases 
 in the same plane, HF. Then 
 will these parallelopipedons be 
 equivalent. 
 
 Since their upper bases are in 
 the same plane, and the lines IM and KL are par- 
 allel, and also EF and HG, these lines will intersect, 
 when produced, and form the parallelogram NOPQ, 
 which will be equal to the common lower base of 
 the two parallelopipedons. Now, if a third parallelo- 
 pipedon be constructed, having BD for its lower base, 
 and OQ for its upper base, it will be equivalent to the par- 
 allelopipedon AG, and also to the parallelopipedon AL, 
 (Th. 5, Scholium) ; hence, the two given parallelopipe- 
 dons, being each equivalent to the third parallelopipe- 
 don, are equivalent to each other. 
 
 Hence, two parallelopipedons having equal bases, etc. 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 The volume of any parallelopipedon is measured by the 
 product of its base and altitude, or the product of its three 
 dimensions. 
 
 
 Let ABCD—Gr be any parallelopipedon ; tl en will its 
 volume be expressed by the product ^_h 
 
 of tbe area of its base and altitude. hj 
 
 If the parallelopipedon is oblique, l/ 
 we may construct on its base a right 
 parallelopipedon, by erecting perpen- 
 diculars at the points A, B, 0, and D, 
 and making them each equal to the 
 altitude of the given parallelopipedon ; 
 and the right parallelopipedon, thus 
 constructed, will be equivalent to the given parallelopip- 
 edon, (Th. 6). Eow, if the base, ABOD, is a rectangle, 
 the new parallelopipedon will be rectangular, and meas- 
 ured by the product of its base and altitude, (Def. 29). 
 But if the base is not rectangular, let fall the perpen- 
 diculars, Be and Ad, on CD and CD produced, and take 
 the rectangle ABcd for the base of a rectangular paral- 
 lelopipedon, having for its altitude that of the given 
 parallelopipedon. "We may now regard the rectangular 
 face, ABFE, as the common base of the two parallelo- 
 pipedons, Ag and AG-', and, as they have a common 
 base, and equal altitude, they are equivalent. Thus we 
 have reduced the oblique parallelopipedon, first to an 
 equivalent right parallelopipedon on the same base, and 
 then the right to an equivalent rectangular parallelopip- 
 edon on an equivalent base, all having the same alti- 
 tude. But the rectangular parallelopipedon, Ag, is 
 measured by product of its base, ABcd, and its altitude; 
 hence, the given and equivalent oblique parallelopipedon 
 is measured by the product of its equivalent base and 
 equal altitude. 
 
 Hence, the volume of any parallelopipedon, etc. 
 
 Cor. Since a parallelopipedon is measured by the pro- 
 duct of its base by its altitude, it follows that parallelo 
 pipedons of equivalent bases, and equal altitude?, are equiva 
 lent, or equal in volume. 
 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 Parallelopipedons on the same, or equivalent hoses, are to 
 each other as their altitudes ; and parallelopipedons having 
 equal altitudes, are to each other as their bases. 
 
 Let P and p represent two parallelopipedons, whose 
 bases are denoted by B and b, and altitudes by A and a, 
 respectively. 
 
 Now, P = B x A, and p = b x a, (Th. 7). 
 
 But magnitudes are proportional to their numerical 
 measures ; that is, 
 
 P : p :: B x A : b X a. 
 
 If the bases of the parallelopipedons are equivalent, 
 we have B — b; and if the altitudes are equal, we have 
 A = a. Introducing these suppositions, in succession, 
 in the above proportion, we get 
 
 P : p :: A : a, 
 and P : p : : B : b. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelopipedons on the same, etc, 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 Similar parallelopipedons are to each other as the cubes of 
 their like dimensions. 
 
 Let P and p represent any two similar parallelopipe- 
 dons, the altitude of the first being denoted by h, and 
 the length and breadth of its base by I and n, respect- 
 ively; and let h', V, and n r , in order, denote the correeh 
 ponding dimensions of the second. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 
 P : p :: n 8 : n" :: I* : V* :: h n : h'\ 
 We have 
 
 P = Inh, and p - Vn'K* (Th. 7) ; 
 and by dividing the first of these equations by the 
 second, member by member, we get 
 16* 
 
 
 P _ Inh 
 J~~ I'n'h'' 
 which, reduced to a proportion, gives 
 P : p :: Inh : Vn'Jt. 
 But, by reason of the similarity of the patallelopipo 
 dons, we have the proportions 
 
 I if : ; n : n' 
 h : h 1 : : n : n' ; 
 we have also the identical proportion, 
 
 n : n' : : n : n' . 
 By the multiplication of these proportions, term by 
 term, we get, (Th. 11, B. II), 
 
 Inh : l'n f h f : : n* : n n . 
 That is, P : p : : n* : ri\ 
 
 By treating in the same manner the three proportions, 
 I : V : : h : h' 
 n : n r : : h : h r 
 h : h' : : h : h f , 
 we should obtain the proportion 
 
 P : p :: h* : h"; 
 and, by a like process, the three proportions, 
 h : h' : : I : V 
 n : n' : : I : V 
 I : V :: I : I', 
 will give us the proportion 
 
 P : p :: I* : V\ 
 Hence the theorem ; similar parallelopipedons are to each 
 other, etc. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The two triangular prisms into which any parallelopipedon 
 is divided, by a plane passing through its opposite diagonal 
 edges, are equivalent. 
 
 Let ABCD — F be a parallelopipedon, and through 
 the diagonal edges, BF and DH, pass the plane BH. divi- 
 ding the parallelopipedon into the two triangular prisms. 
 
 
 187 
 
 ABB-E and BCB—G ; then we are to prove that these 
 prisms an equivalent. Letus divide 
 the diagonal, BB, in which the se- 
 cant plane intersects the base of the 
 parallelopipedon, into three equal 
 parts, a and c being the points of 
 division. In the base, AB CD, con- 
 st ruct the complementary paral- 
 lelograms, aC and a A, and in the 
 parallelogram, badD, construct the 
 complementary parallelograms, 
 cd and cb, and conceive these, to- 
 gether with the parallelograms, 
 Ba, ac, cB, to be the bases of 
 smaller parallelopipedons, having 
 their lateral faces parallel to the 
 
 lateral faces of, and their altitude equal to the altitude of, 
 the given parallelopipedon, A Gr. 
 
 Now it is evident that the triangular prism, BCD — Gr, 
 is composed of the parallelopipedons on the bases, a 
 and cd, and the triangular prisms, on the side of the 
 secant plane with this prism, into which this plane divides 
 the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cB. The 
 triangular prism, ABB — E, is also composed of the par- 
 allelopipedons on the bases, Aa and be, together with the 
 triangular prisms on the side of the secant plane with 
 this prism, into which this plane divides the parallelopip- 
 edons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD. 
 
 But the parallelograms, a and a A, being complement- 
 ary, are equivalent, (Th. 31, B. I) ; and for the same 
 reason the parallelograms, cd and cb, are equivalent ; and 
 since parallelopipedons on equivalent bases and of equal 
 altitudes, are equivalent, (Cor., Th. 7), we have the sum 
 of parallelopipedons on bases a and cd, equivalent to 
 the sum of parallelopipedons on the bases, aA and cb. 
 Hence, the triangular prisms, ABB — E and BOB — Gr, 
 
 
 differ in volume only by the difference which may exist 
 between the sums of the triangular prisms on the two 
 Bides of the secant plane into which this plane divides 
 the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cd. 
 
 Now, if the number of equal parts into which the diag- 
 onal is divided, be indefinitely multiplied, it still holds 
 true that the triangular prisms, ABB — B and BOB — 6r, 
 differ in volume only by the difference between the sums 
 of the triangular prisms on the two sides of the secaLt 
 plane into which this plane divides the parallelopipedons 
 constructed on the bases whose diagonals are the equal 
 portions of the diagonal, BB. But in this case the sum 
 of these parallelopipedons themselves becomes an indefi- 
 nitely small part of the whole parallelopipedon, A Cr, and 
 the difference between the parts of an indefinitely small 
 quantity must itself be indefinitely small, or less than 
 any assignable quantity. Therefore, the triangular 
 prisms, ABB — B and BOB — Gr, differ in volume by less 
 than any assignable volume, and are consequently equiv- 
 alent. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the two triangular prisms into which, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Any triangular prism, as ABB — B, is one half 
 the parallelopipedon having the same triedral angle, A, 
 and the same edges, AB, AB, and AB. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since the volume of a parallelopipedon is meas- 
 ured by the product of its base and altitude, and the tri- 
 angular prisms into which it is divided by the diagonal 
 plane, have bases equivalent to one half the base of the 
 parallelopipedon, and the same altitude, it follows that, 
 the volume of a triangular prism is measured by the product 
 of its base and altitude. 
 
 The above demonstration is less direct, but is thought 
 to be more simple, than that generally found in authors, 
 and which is here given aa a 
 
 
 189 
 
 Second Demonstration 
 
 Let ABCD — F be a parallelo- 
 pipedon, divided by the diagonal 
 plane, BH, passing through the 
 edges, BF and BR; then we are 
 to prove that the triangular 
 prisms, ABB—E and BQD—G, 
 thus formed, are equivalent. 
 
 Through the points B and F, 
 pass planes perpendicular to the 
 edge, BF, and produce the late- 
 ral faces of the parallelopipedon 
 to intersect the plane through B ; 
 then the sections Bcda and Fghe 
 are equal parallelograms. For, since the cutting planea 
 are both perpendicular to BF, they are parallel, (Th. 10, 
 B. VI) ; and because the opposite faces of a parallelo- 
 pipedon are in parallel planes, (Th. 2), and the intersec- 
 tions of two parallel planes by a third plane are parallel, 
 (Th. 9, B. VI), the sections, Bcda and Fghe, are equal 
 parallelograms, and may be taken as the bases of the 
 right parallelopipedon, Bcda — h. But the diagonal plane 
 divides the right parallelopipedon into the two equal tri- 
 angular prisms, aBd — e and Bed — g, (Th. 1). We will 
 now compare the right prism with the oblique triangular 
 prism on the same side of the diagonal plane. 
 
 The volume ABD — e is common to the two prisms, 
 ABD — F xnd aBd — e ; and the volume eFh — F, which, 
 added to this common part, forms the oblique triangular 
 prism, is equal to the volume aBd — A, which, added to 
 the common part, forms the right triangular prism. For, 
 since ABFF and aBFe are parallelograms, AF = ae, and 
 taking away the common part Ae, we have aA—eF; and 
 since BFHD and BFhd are parallelograms, we have DE 
 = dh ; and from these equals taking away the common 
 part. Dh, we have dD = hE. Now, if the volume eFh — H 
 
 
 be applied to the volume aBd — B, the base eFh falling 
 on the equal base aBd, the edges eE and hH will fall 
 upon aA and dB respectively, because they are perpen- 
 dicular to the base aBd, (Cor. 2, Th. 3, B. VI), and the 
 point E will fall upon the point A, and the point H upon 
 the point B ; hence the volume eFh — H exactly coincides 
 with the volume aBd — B, and the oblique triangular 
 prisrr. ABB — E is equivalent to the right triangular 
 prism aBd — e. 
 
 In the same manner, it may be proved that the oblique 
 triangular prism, BQBOr, is equivalent to the right tri- 
 angular prism, Bcdg. The oblique triangular prism on 
 either side of the diagonal plane is, therefore, equivalent 
 to the corresponding right triangular prism ; and, as the 
 two right triangular prisms are equal, the oblique trian- 
 gular prisms are equivalent. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the two triangular prisms, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 The volume of any prism whatever is measured by the prod* 
 net of the area of its base and altitude. 
 
 For, by passing planes through the homologous diag- 
 onals of the upper and lower bases of the prism, it will 
 be divided into a number of triangular prisms, each of 
 which is measured by the product of the area of its base 
 and altitude. Now, as these triangular prisms all have, 
 for their common altitude, the altitude of the given 
 prism, when we add the measures of the triangular 
 prisms, to get that of the whole prism, we shall have, 
 for this measure, the common altitude multiplied by the 
 sum of the areas of the bases of the triangular prisms : 
 that is, the product of the area of the polygonal base 
 and the altitude of the prism. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of any prism, etc. 
 
 Cor. If A denote the area of the base, and H the alti» 
 
 
 hide of a prism, its volume will be expressed by A X 11. 
 Calling this volume V, we have 
 
 Denoting by A', W, and V, in order, the area of the 
 base, altitude, and volume of another prism, we have 
 
 V = A 1 x H f . 
 
 Dividing the first of these equations by the second, 
 u ember by member, we have 
 
 YL A x H 
 
 V ' A' x R' y 
 which gives the proportion, 
 
 V : V : : A x H : A 1 x H'. 
 If the bases are equivalent, this proportion becomes 
 
 V : V : : H : H' ; 
 anl if the altitudes are equal, it reduces to 
 
 V : V : : A : A'. 
 Hence, prisms of equivalent bases are to each other as 
 their altitudes; and prisms of equal altitudes are to each other 
 as their bases. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 A plane passed through a pyramid parallel to its base, 
 divides its edges and altitude proportionally, and makes a 
 section, which is a polygon similar to the base. 
 
 Let ABODE — V be any pyramid, whose base is in the 
 plane, MN, and vertex in the parallel plane, mn ; and let 
 a plane be passed through the pyramid, parallel to its 
 base, cutting its edges at the points, a b, c } d, e, and the 
 altitude, EF, at the point I. By joining the points, a, J, 
 c, etc., we have the polygon formed by the intersection 
 of the plane and the sides of the pyramid. Eow, we are 
 to prove that the edges, VA, VB, etc., and the altitude, 
 FE, are divided proportionally at the points, a, b, etc., 
 and I; and that the polygon, a, b, c, d, e, is similar to the 
 base of the pyramid. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 bince the cutting plane is parallel to the base of the 
 pyramid, ab is parallel to AB, (Th. 9, B. VI) ; for the 
 same reason, bo is parallel to BO, cd to OB, etc. Now, 
 in the triangle VAB, because ab is parallel to the base 
 AB, we have, (Th. 17, B. II), the proportion, 
 
 VA : Va : : VB : Vb. 
 
 In like manner, it may be shown that 
 
 VB : Vb : : VO : Vc, 
 
 and so on for the other lateral edges of the pyramid. F 
 being the point in which the perpendicular from F pierces 
 tbe plane mn, and I the point in which the parallel secant 
 plane cuts the perpendicular, if we join the points F and 
 V, and also the points I and e by straight lines, we have 
 in the triangle FFV, the line le parallel to the base FV; 
 hence the proportion 
 
 VF : Ve :: FF : Fl 
 
 Therefore, the plane passed through the pyramid par- 
 allel to its base, divides the altitude into parts which have 
 
 
 to each other the same ratio as the parts into which it 
 divides the edges. 
 
 Again, since ab is parallel to AB, and be to BO, the 
 angle abc is equal to the angle ABC, (Th. 17, B. VI.) ; in 
 the same manner we may show that each angle in the 
 polygon, abode, is equal to the corresponding angle in the 
 polygon, ABODE-, therefore these polygons are mutually 
 equiangular. But, because the triangles VBA and Vba 
 are similar, their homologous sides give the proportion 
 
 Vb : VB :: ah : AB; 
 and because the triangles Vbc and VBO are similar, we 
 also have the proportion 
 
 Vb : VB :: be : BO. 
 
 Since the first couplets in these two proportions are the 
 same, the second couplets are proportional, and give 
 ab : AB : : be : BO. 
 
 By a like process, we can prove that 
 be : BO :: ed : OD, 
 
 and that cd : CD :: de : DE, 
 
 and so on, for the other homologous sides of the two 
 polygons. 
 
 Hence, the two polygons are not only mutually equi- 
 angular, but the sides about the equal angles taken in the 
 same order are proportional, and the polygons are there- 
 fore similar, (Def. 16, B. II). 
 
 Hence the theorem; a plane passed through a pyramid, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor, 1. Since the areas of similar polygons are to each 
 other as the squares of their homologous sides, (Th. 22, 
 B. H), we have 
 
 area abode : area ABODE i ab* i AB*. 
 
 But, ab : AB :: Va : VA :: Fl : FE; 
 
 hence, ab* : AB 2 :: jf : FE*: 
 
 therefore, area abode : area ABODE : Fl* : FE*. 
 17 N 
 
 
 That is, the area of a section parallel to the base of a 
 pyramid, is to the area of the base, as the square of the 
 perpendicular distance from the vertex of the pyramid to 
 the section, is to the square of the altitude of the pyramid. 
 
 Cor. 2. Let V— ABODE and X—RST be two pyra- 
 mids, having their bases in the plane MN, and their ver- 
 tices in the parallel plane mn ; and suppose a plane to be 
 passed through the two pyramids parallel to the common 
 plane of their bases, making in the one the section abode, 
 and in the other the section rsL 
 
 Kow,area ABODE: area abode : :AB 2 : ab\ (Th.22,B.II), 
 
 and " EST: " rst ::~M 2 :r~s~\ 
 
 But, AB : ab : : VB : Vb, 
 
 and BS : rs : : XR : Xr. 
 
 Because the plane which makes the sections is parallel 
 to the planes MN and mn, we have, (Th. 11, B. YI), 
 VB : Vb :: XR : Xr; 
 therefore, (Cor. 2, Th. 6, B. II), AB :ab::RS: rs. 
 By squaring, AB 2 : ab 2 : RS 2 : rs 2 ; 
 hence, area ABODE : area abode : : area RST : area* rst. 
 
 That is, if two pyramids having equal altitudes, and their 
 bases in the same plane, be cut by a plane parallel to the com* 
 mon plane of their bases, the areas of the sections will be 
 proportional to the areas of the bases ; and if the bases are 
 equivalent, the sections will also be equivalent. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If two triangular pyramids have equivalent bases and 
 equal altitudes, they are equal in volume. 
 
 Let V— ABO and v—abc be two triangular pyramids, 
 having the equivalent bases, ABO and abc, and let the 
 altitude of each be equal to OX; then will these two 
 pyramids be equivalent. 
 
 
 195 
 
 -i i 
 
 t/ 
 
 
 AFT"'? 
 
 1 // y 
 
 1/ -i'H 
 
 
 m 
 
 // /A /I 
 
 F 
 
 ~^f 
 
 ^B 
 
 Place tlie bases of the pyramids on the same plane, 
 with their vertices in the same direction, and divide the 
 altitude into any number of equal parts. Through the 
 points of division pass planes^ parallel to the plane of the 
 bases ; the corresponding sections made in the pyramids 
 by these planes are equivalent, (Th. 12, Cor. 2) ; that is, 
 the triangle DJEF is equivalent to the triangle def, the 
 triangle Or HI to the triangle glii, etc. 
 
 JSTow, let triangular prisms be constructed on the tri- 
 angles ABO, DEF, etc., of the pyramid V— ABO, these 
 prisms having their lateral edges parallel to the edge, 
 VO, of the pyramid, and the equal parts of the altitude, 
 OX, for their altitudes. Portions of these prisms will be 
 exterior to the pyramid V — ABO, and the sum of their 
 volumes will exceed the volume of the pyramid. 
 
 On the bases clef, ghi, etc., in the other pyramid, con- 
 struct interior prisms, as represented in the figure, 
 their lateral edges being parallel to vc, and their alti- 
 tudes also the equal parts of the altitude, OX. Portions 
 of the pyramid, v — dbc, will be exterior to these prisms, 
 
 
 and the volume of the pyramid will exceed the sum of 
 the volumes of the prisms. 
 
 Since the sum of the exterior prisms, constructed in 
 connection with the pyramid V — ABO, is greater than 
 the pyramid, and the sum of the interior prisms, con- 
 structed in connection with the pyramid v — abc, is less 
 than this pyramid, it follows that the difference of these 
 eums is greater than the difference of the pyramids them- 
 selves. But the second exterior prism, or that on the 
 base DEF, is equivalent to the first interior prism, or 
 that on the base def, and the third exterior prism is 
 equivalent to the second interior prism, (Th. 10, Cor. 2), 
 and so on. That is, beginning with the second prism from 
 the base of the pyramid, V — ABO, and taking these 
 prisms in order towards the vertex of the pyramid, and 
 comparing them with the prisms in the pyramid, v — abc, 
 beginning with the lowest, and taking them in order 
 toward the vertex of this pyramid, we find that to each 
 exterior prism of the pyramid, V — ABO, exclusive of 
 the first or lowest, there is a corresponding equivalent 
 interior prism in the pyramid, v — abc. 
 
 Hence the prism, ABODFF, is the difference between 
 the sum of the prisms constructed in connection with 
 the pyramid, V— ABO, and the sum of the interior 
 prisms constructed in the pyramid, v — abc. But the, first 
 sum being a volume greater than the pyramid, V— ABO, 
 and the second sum a volume less than the pyramid, 
 v — abc, it follows that the volumes of the pyramids differ 
 by less than the prism, ABOBEF. 
 
 Now, however great the number of equal parts into 
 which the altitude, OX, be divided, and the correspond- 
 ing number of prisms constructed in connection with 
 each pyramid, it would still be true that the difference 
 between the volumes of the pyramids would be less than 
 the volume of the lowest prism of the pyramid V— ABO; 
 Dutwhenwe make the number of equal parts into which 
 
 
 the altitude is divided indefinitely great, the vok me ot 
 this prism becomes indefinitely small : that is, the differ- 
 ence between the volumes of the pyramids is less thau 
 an indefinitely small volume ; or, in other words, there 
 is no assignable difference between the two pyramids, 
 and they are, therefore, equivalent. 
 
 Ilence the theorem ; if two triangular pyramids, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 Any triangular pyramid is one third of the triangul xr 
 prism having the same base and equal altitude. 
 
 Let F — ABO be a triangular pyramid, and througa F 
 pass a plane parallel to the plane of the base, ABO. Iu 
 this plane, through F, construct the 
 triangle, FDE, having its sides, FD, E 
 
 DE, and EF, parallel and equal to BO, /^T ~~7\ 
 
 OA, and AB, respectively. The tri- / 0>\ / 
 
 angle, FDE, may be taken as the / /h\ 
 upper base of a triangular prism of 'I 'V 
 
 which the lower base is ABO. "\. ~\ / 
 
 Now, this triangular prism is com- b 
 
 posed of the given triangular pyramid, 
 F — ABO, and of the quadrangular p/ramid, F — A ODE. 
 This last pyramid may be divided by a plane through the 
 three points, 0, F, and F, into tha two triangular pyra- 
 mids, F—DEO and F—AOE. But the pyramid, J 7 — 
 DEO, may be regarded as h^ing the triangle, EFD, 
 equal to the triangle, ABO, for its base, and the point, 0, 
 for its vertex. The two pyramids, F — ABO and — DEF, 
 have equal bases and equal altitudes ; they are therefore 
 equivalent, (Th. 13). Again, the two pyramids, F — DEO 
 and F — AOE } have a common vertex, and equivalent bases 
 in the same plane, and they are also equivalent. There- 
 fore, the triangular prism, ABODEF, is composed of 
 
 n* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 three *tpiv«dent triangular pyramids, one of which is the 
 given triangular pyramid, F — ABC. 
 
 Hetice the theorem ; any triangular pyramid is one third 
 of the triangular prism, etc. 
 
 Cor. The volume of the triangular prism heing meas- 
 ured hy the product of its hase and altitude, the volume of 
 a triangular pyramid is measured by one third of the product 
 of its base and altitude. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 The volume of any pyramid whatever is measured by one 
 third of the product of its base and altitude. 
 
 Let V — ABCDE be any pyramid ; then will its volume 
 be measured by one third of the product of its base and 
 altitude. 
 
 In the base of the pyramid, draw the 
 diagonals, AD and A C, and through 
 its vertex and these diagonals, pass 
 planes, thus dividing the pyramid into 
 a number of triangular pyramids 
 having the common vertex F", and the 
 altitude of the given pyramid for their 
 common altitude. 
 
 Now, each of these triangular pyra- 
 mids is measured by one third of 
 the product of its base and altitude, 
 (Cor., Th. 14), and their sum, which 
 constitutes the polygonal pyramid, is 
 therefore measured by one third of 
 the product of the sum of the trian- 
 gular bases and the common altitude ; but the sum of the 
 triangular bases constitutes the polygonal base, ABCDE. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of any pyramid what- 
 ever, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Denote, by B, ff, and V, respectively, the base, 
 altitude, and volume of one pyramid, and by B' f IF, and 
 
 
 P, the base, altitude, and volume of another ; then we 
 Bhall have 
 
 and V = i'B f x W. 
 
 Dividing the first of these equations by the second, 
 member by member, we have 
 
 V _ B x E 
 
 V B f x E' 9 
 which, in the form of a proportion, gives 
 
 V : V : : B X E : B' x E>. 
 
 From this proportion we deduce the following conse- 
 quences : 
 
 1st. Pyramids are to each other as the products of their 
 bases and altitudes. 
 
 2d. Pyramids having equivalent bases are to each other a* 
 their altitudes. 
 
 3d. Pyramids having equal altitudes are to each other as 
 their bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since a prism is measured by the product of 
 its base and altitude, and a pyramid by one third of the 
 product of its base and altitude, we conclude that any 
 pyramid is one third of a prism having an equivalent base and 
 equal altitude 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 The volume of the frustum of a pyramid is equivalent to 
 the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, each of which has 
 an altitude equal to that of the frustum, and whose bases are, 
 respectively, the lower base of the, frustum, the upper base of 
 the frustum, and a mean proportional between these bases. 
 
 Let V— ABODE and X—RST be two pyramids, the 
 one polygonal and the other triangular, having equiva- 
 lent bases and equal altitudes ; and let their bases be 
 placed on the plane MN, their vertices falling on the 
 parallel plane ran. Pass through the pyramids a plane 
 
200 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 parallel to the common plane of their bases, cutting o .it 
 the sections abode and rst ; these sections are equivalent, 
 (Th. 12, Cor. 2), and the pyramids, V— abode and X—rst, 
 are equivalent, (Th. 13). Now, since the pyramids, 
 V— ABODE and X—BST, are equivalent, if from the 
 first we take the pyramid, V — abode, and from the second, 
 the pyramid, X — rst, the remainders, or the frusta, 
 ABODE— a and BST—r, will be equivalent. 
 
 If, then, we prove the theorem in the case of the frus- 
 tum of a triangular pyramid, it will be proved for the 
 frustum of any pyramid whatever. 
 
 Let ABO — D be the frustum of a 
 triangular pyramid. Through the 
 points D, B, and 0, pass a plane, 
 and through the points D, O, and 
 E, pass another, thus dividing the 
 frustum into three triangular pyra- 
 mids, viz., D—ABO, O—DEF, and 
 D—BEO. 
 
 Now, the first of these has, for its 
 
 
 base, the lower base of the frustum, and for its altitude 
 the altitude of the frustum, since its vertex is in the 
 upper base ; the second has, for its base, the upper base 
 of the frustum, and for its altitude the altitude of the 
 frustum, since its vertex is in the lower base. Hence, 
 these are two of the three pyramids required by the 
 enunciation of the theorem ; and we have now only to 
 prove that the third is equivalent to one having, for its 
 basa, a mean proportional between the bases of the frus- 
 tum, and an altitude equal to that of the frustum. 
 
 In the face ABED, draw HB parallel to BE, and 
 draw HE and HO. The two pyramids, D — BEO and 
 H—BEO, are equivalent, since they have a common 
 base and equal altitudes, their vertices being in the line 
 BH, which is parallel to the plane of their common 
 base, (Th. 7, B. VI). "We may, therefore, substitute the 
 pyramid, H—BEO, for the pyramid, D—BEC. But the 
 triangle, BOH, may be taken as the base, and E as the 
 vertex of this new pyramid ; hence, it has the required 
 altitude, and we must now prove that it has the required 
 base. 
 
 The triangles, ABO and HBO, have a common vertex, 
 and their bases in the same line ; hence, (Th. 16, B. II), 
 
 A ABO : A HBO n AB : HB :: AB : BE. (1) 
 
 In the triangles, BEE and HBO, \_E^\_B, and 
 BE=HB; hence, if BEE be applied to HBO, L E fall- 
 ing on L B, an( i tne s id e BE on HB, the point B will 
 fall on H, and the triangles, in this position, will have a 
 common vertex, H, and their bases in the same line ; 
 hence, 
 
 A HBO : A BEE : : BO : EF. (2) 
 
 But, because the triangles, ABO and BEE, are similar, 
 
 we nave 
 
 AB . BE ii BO i EF. (3) 
 
 From proportions (1), (2), and (3), we have, (Th. 6, 
 
 b n), 
 
 
 A ABO : A HBO : : A HBO : A DEF; 
 that is, the base, HBO, is a mean proportional between 
 the lower and upper bases of the frustum. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of the frustum of a pyra- 
 mid, etc, 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 The convex surface of any right 'pyramid is measured by 
 the perimeter of its base, multiplied by one half its slant height. 
 
 Let S—ABOBEF be a right pyramid, s 
 
 of which SH is the slant height ; then will k 
 
 its convex surface have, for its measure, /M 
 
 ±SH(AB + BO+OB + BE+EF+FA). Mm 
 
 Since the base is a regular polygon, and /e/LjJa\ 
 the perpendicular, drawn to its plane from ^1/ I \ \\ 
 S, passes through its center, the edges, \ / i / 
 SA, SB, SO, etc., are equal, (Th. 4, B. YI), ahb 
 and the triangles SAB, SBC, etc., are equal, and isosceles, 
 each having an altitude equal to SH. 
 
 Now, AB x \SH measures the area of the triangle, 
 SAB ; and BO X %SH measures the area of the triangle, 
 SBO; and so on, for the other triangular faces of the 
 pyramid. By the addition of these different measures, 
 we get 
 
 %SH(AB + BO + OB + BE + EF + FA), 
 as the measure of the total convex surface of the pyramid. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of any right 
 pyramid, etc, 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 The convex surface of the frustum of any right pyramid is 
 measured by the sum of the perimeters of the two bases, mul- 
 tiplied by one half the slant height of the frustum. 
 
 Let ABOBEF — d be the frustum of a right pyramid; 
 then will its convex surface be measured by 
 
 $Ilh(AB-+ BC4-CD+DE-\ EF+FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa), 
 
book vir 
 
 203 
 
 For, the upper base, abcdef, of the 
 frustum is a section of a pyramid 
 by a plane parallel to the lower 
 base, (Def. 14), and is, therefore, 
 similar to the lower base, (Th. 12). 
 But the lower base is a regular 
 polygon, (Def. 12); hence, the up- 
 per base is also a regular polygon, 
 of the same name; and as ab and 
 AB are intersections of a face of 
 the pyramid by two parallel planes, A H B 
 
 they are parallel. For the same reason, be is parallel to 
 BO, cd to OB, etc., and the lateral faces of the frustum 
 are all equal trapezoids, each having an altitude equal 
 to Hh, the slant height of the frustum. 
 
 The trapezoid ABba has, for its measure, \Hh(AB+ab), 
 (Th. 34, Book I) ; the trapezoid BOcb has, for its meas- 
 ure, \Hh{BO + be), and so on, for the other lateral faces 
 of the frustum. 
 
 Adding all these measures, we find, for their sum, 
 which is the whole convex surface of the frustum, 
 
 IHh {AB+ B C+ CD+DE+EF+ FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of the frustum. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The volumes of similar triangular prisms are to each other 
 as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges. 
 
 Let ABO— F ana 
 
 abc— /be two similar 
 triangular prisms ; 
 then will their vol- 
 umes be to each 
 other as the cubes, 
 whose edges are the 
 homologous edges 
 
 
 AB and a b, or as the cubes, whose edges are the homol- 
 ogous edges BE and be, etc. Since the prisms are similar, 
 the solid angles, whose vertices are B and b, are equal ; 
 and the smaller prism, when so applied to the larger that 
 these solid angles coincide, will take, within the larger, 
 the position represented by the dotted lines. In this 
 position of the prisms, draw EH perpendicular to the 
 plane of the base ABO, and join the foot of the perpen- 
 dicular to the point B, and in the triangle BEIT draw, 
 through e, the line eh, parallel to EH', then will EH 
 represent the altitude of the larger prism, and eh that of 
 the smaller. 
 
 Now, as the bases ABO and aBc, are homologous faces, 
 they are similar, and we have, (Th. 20, Book II), 
 
 A ABO : A aBc : : AB* CoE* ( 1 ) 
 
 But the A's BEH and Beh are equiangular, and there 
 fore similar, and their homologous sides give the propor- 
 tion 
 
 BE : Be :: EH : eh (2) 
 
 and from the homologous sides of the similar faces, 
 ABED and aBed, we also have 
 
 BE : Be :: AB : aB (3) 
 
 Proportions (2) and (3 ), having an antecedent and con 
 sequent the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. II), 
 
 EH : eh w AB \ aB (4) 
 
 By the multiplication of proportions (1) and (•*), term 
 Dy term, we get 
 
 A ABO X EH : A aBc X eu : : AB* : aB* 
 
 But A ABO X EH measures the volume of the larger 
 prism, and A aBc x eh measures the volume of the 
 smaller. 
 
 Hence the theorem; the volumes of similar triangular 
 prisms^ etc. 
 
 
 Cor. 1. The volumes of two similar prisms having any 
 bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on 
 their homologous edges. 
 
 For, if planes be passed through any one of the late<-al 
 edges, and the several diagonal edges, of one of these 
 prisms, this prism will be divided into a number of smaller 
 triangular prisms. Taking the homologous edge of the 
 other prism, and passing planes through it and the seve- 
 ral diagonal edges, this prism will also be divided into 
 the same number of smaller triangular prisms, similar to 
 those of the first, each to each, and similarly placed. 
 
 ]STow, the similar smaller prisms, being triangular, are 
 to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges ; 
 and being like parts of the larger prisms, it follows that 
 the larger prisms are to each other as the cubes of the 
 homologous edges of any two similar smaller prisms. But 
 the homologous edges of the similar smaller prisms are 
 to each other as the homologous edges of the given 
 prisms ; hence we conclude that the given prisms are to 
 each other as the cubes of their homologous edges. 
 
 Cor. 2. The volumes of two similar pyramids having any 
 bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on 
 their homologous edges. 
 
 For, since the pyramids are similar, their bases are 
 similar polygons ; and upon them, as bases, two similar 
 prisms may be constructed, having for their altitudes, the 
 altitudes of their respective pyramids, and their lateral 
 edges parallel to any two homologous lateral edges of the 
 pyramids. 
 
 Now, these similar prisms are to each other as the cubes 
 of their homologous edges, which may be taken as the 
 homologous sides of their bases, or as their lateral edges, 
 which were taken equal and parallel to any two arbitrarily 
 assumed homologous lateral edges of the two pyramids ; 
 hence the pyramids which are thirds of their respective 
 prisms, are to each other as the cubes constructed on any 
 two homologous edges. 
 
 18 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Cor. 3. The volumes of any two similar polyedrons arz U 
 each other as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges. 
 
 "For, by passing planes through, the vertices of the 
 homologous solid angles of such polyedrons, they may 
 both be divided into the same number of triangular 
 pyramids, those of the one similar to those of the other, 
 each to each, and similarly placed. 
 
 Now, any two of these similar triangular pyramids are 
 to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges ; 
 and being like parts of their respective polyedrons, it 
 follows that the polyedrons are to each other as the cubes 
 of the homologous edges of any two of the similar tri- 
 angular pyramids into which they may be divided. But 
 the homologous edges of the similar triangular pyramids 
 are to each other as the homologous edges of the poly- 
 edrons ; hence the polyedrons are to each other as the 
 cubes of their homologous edges. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured 
 by the product of the slant height and one half the sum of 
 the circumferences of the bases of the frustum. 
 
 Let ABCD — abed be the frustum of 
 
 a cone ; then will its convex surface be 
 
 , , . (circ. 00 + circ. oc) 
 measured by Aa x i — '-, 
 
 in which the expression, circ. 00, de- 
 notes the circumference of the circle 
 of which 00 is the radius. Inscribe in 
 the lower base of the frustum, a regu- 
 lar polygon having any number of 
 sides, and in the upper base a similar 
 polygon, having its sides parallel to 
 those of the polygon in the lower base. 
 
 These polygons 
 
 
 may be taken as the bases of the Irustum of a right 
 pyramid inscribed in the frustum of the cone. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the in- 
 scribed polygons, the convex surface of the frustum of 
 the pyramid is measured by its slant height multiplied by 
 one half the sum of the perimeters of its two bases, 
 (Th. 18) ; but when we reach the limit, by making the 
 number of sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the 
 slant height, perimeters of the bases, and convex surfaco 
 of the frustum of the pyramid become, severally, the 
 slant height, circumferences of the bases, and convex sur- 
 face of the frustum of the cone. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of the frustum, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. If we make oc = OC, and, consequently, circ. 
 oc = circ. OC, the frustum of the cone becomes, a cylin- 
 der, and the half sum of the circumferences of the bases 
 becomes the circumference of either base of the cylinder, 
 and the slant height of the frustum, the altitude of the 
 cylinder. Hence, the convex surface of a cylinder is meas- 
 ured by the circumference of the base multiplied by the alti- 
 tude of the cylinder. 
 
 Cor. 2. If we make oc = 0, the frustum of the cone 
 becomes a cone. Hence, the convex surface of a cone is 
 measured by the circumference of the base multiplied by one 
 half the slant height of the cone. 
 
 Cor. 3. If through E, the middle point of Co, the line 
 Ff be drawn parallel to Oo, and Em perpendicular to 
 Oo, the line oc being produced, to meet Ff at/, we have, 
 because the A's EFC and Efc are equal, 
 
 Em = O0 + M . 
 
 2S 
 
 if we multiply both members of this equation by 2*, 
 we have 
 
 
 that is, circ. Em is equal to one half the sum of the cir 
 cumferences of the two hases of the frustum. Hence, the 
 convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured by the. 
 circumference of the section made by a plane half way between 
 the two bases, and parallel to them, multiplied by the slant 
 height of the frustum. 
 
 Cor. 4. If the trapezoid, OCeo, he revolved ahout Oo 
 as an axis, the inclined side, Cc, will generate the con- 
 vex surface of the frustum of a cone, of which the slant 
 height is Cc, and the circumferences of the hases are circ. 
 OC and circ. oc. Hence, if a trapezoid, one of whose sides 
 is perpendicular to the two parallel sides, be revolved about 
 the perpendicular side as an axis, it will generate the frustum 
 of a cone, the inclined side opposite the axis generating tho 
 convex surface, and the parallel sides the bases of the frustum. 
 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 The volume of a cone is measured by the area of its base 
 multiplied by one third of its altitude. 
 
 Let V— ABC, etc., he a cone; then 
 will its volume he measured hy area 
 ABC, etc., multiplied hy iVO. 
 
 Inscribe, in the base of the cone, any 
 regular polygon, as ABCDEF, which 
 may he taken as the base of a right pyra- 
 mid, of which V is the vertex. The 
 volume of this inscribed pyramid will 
 have, for its measure, (Th. 15), 
 
 polygon ABCDEF x iVO. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the pol f- 
 gon inscribed in the base of the cone, it will still ho d 
 true that the pyramid of which it is the base, and who-e 
 vertex is V, will be measured by the area of the poly- 
 gon, multiplied by one third of VO; but when we 
 reach the limit, by making the number of sides indefi- 
 
 
 uitely great, the polygon becomes the ^cle in which it 
 is inscribed, and the pyramid become +he cone. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of a cone, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. If R denote the radius of the base of a cone, 
 and ff its altitude, or axis, its volume will be expressed 
 
 by 
 
 iff x *i2 2 ; 
 
 hence, if V and V designate the volume ~> of two cones, 
 of which R and R' are the radii of the bases, and H and 
 ff' the altitudes, we have 
 
 V: V :: J#x *R 2 : \H' x «R' 7 ;: Bx«& : ff' X «R'\ 
 
 From this proportion we conclude, 
 
 First. That cones having equal altitudes are to each other 
 as their bases. 
 
 Second. That cones having equal bases are to each other 
 as their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 2. Retaining the notation above, we have 
 
 YL El ^1 m 
 
 V " H x R*' l J 
 and, if the two cones are similar, 
 
 ff : ff ! :: R : i2'; 
 ff 1 R' , ff" R'* 
 
 or > ~ff = R'> hence >ir = -&' 
 
 By substituting for the factors, in the second member 
 of eq. ( 1 ), their values successively, and resolving into a 
 proportion, we get 
 
 V : V :: R* : R"; 
 and V : V :: ff 3 : H". 
 
 Hence, similar cones are to each other as the cubes of the 
 radii of their bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. A cone is equivalent to a pyramid having an equiv> 
 alent base and an equal altitude. 
 18* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 'The volume of the frustum of a cone is equivalent to the 
 sum of the volumes of three cones, having for their common 
 altitude the altitude of the frustum, and for their several 
 bases, the bases of the frustum and a mean proportional be- 
 tween them. 
 
 Let ABQD — abed be the frustum of a 
 cone ; then will its volume be equiva- 
 lent to the sum of the volumes, having 
 Oo for their common altitude, and for 
 their bases, the circles of which, OO, oc, 
 and a mean proportional between OO 
 and oc, are the respective radii. 
 
 Inscribe in the lower base of the frus- 
 tum any regular polygon, and in the 
 upper base a similar polygon, having 
 its sides parallel to those of the first. These polygons 
 may be taken as the bases of the frustum of a right pyra- 
 mid inscribed in the frustum of the cone. 
 
 The volume of the frustum of the pyramid is equiva- 
 lent to the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, having 
 for their common altitude the altitude of the frustum, 
 and for their several bases the bases of the frustum, and 
 a mean proportional between them, (Th. 16). 
 
 Eow, however great the number of sides of the poly- 
 gons inscribed in the bases of the frustum of the cone, 
 this measure for the volume of the frustum of the pyr* 
 mid, of which they are the bases, still holds true ; biu 
 when we reach the limit, by making the number of the 
 sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the polygons be- 
 come the circles, the frustum of the pyramid becomes 
 the frustum of the cone, and the three partial pyramids, 
 whose sum is equivalent to the frustum of the pyramid, 
 become three partial cones, whose sum is equivalent to 
 the frustum of the cone. 
 
 
 211 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of the frustum of a cone, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Let R denote the radius of the lower base, R f 
 that of the upper base, and IT the altitude of the frustum 
 of a cone; then will its volume be measured, (Th. 21), by 
 
 IE x *i2 2 + iH x «R n + iffx *R x R', 
 since *R x R' expresses the area of a circle which is a 
 mean proportional between the two circles, whose radii 
 arc R andi2'. 
 
 Now, if the bases of the frustum become equal, or 
 7? — R ', the frustum becomes a cylinder, and each of the 
 last two terms in the above expression for the volume of 
 the frustum of a cone will be equal to the first ; hence, 
 the volume of a cylinder, of which iZ"is the altitude, and 
 It the radius of the base, is measured by H X *R 2 . 
 
 Therefore, the volume of a cylinder is measured by the 
 area of its base multiplied by its altitude. 
 
 Cor. 2. By a process in all respects similar to that pur- 
 sued in the case of cones, it may be shown that similar 
 cylinders are to each other as the cubes of the radii of their 
 bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. A cylinder is equivalent to a prism having an 
 equivalent base and an equal altitude. 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 If a plane be passed through a sphere, the section will be a 
 circle. 
 
 Let be the center of a sphere 
 through which a plane is passed, 
 making the section AmBn ; then 
 will this section be a circle. 
 
 From let fall the perpendic- 
 ular Oo upon the secant plane, 
 and draw the radii OA, OB, and 
 Om, to different points in the 
 intersection of the plane with 
 the surface of the sphere. Now, 
 
 
 the oblique lines OA, OB, Om, are all equal, being ladii 
 of the sphere; they therefore meet the plane at equal dis 
 tances from the foot of the perpendicular Oo, (Cor., Th. 4, 
 B.VI); hence oA, oB, om, etc., are equal: that is, all the 
 points in the intersection of the plane with the surface of 
 the sphere are equally distant from the point 0. This 
 intersection is therefore the circumference of a circle of 
 which o is the center. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if a plane be passed thrcugh a 
 sphere, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Since AB, the diameter of the section, is a chord 
 of the sphere, it is less than the diameter of the sphere ; 
 except when the plane of the section passes through the 
 center of the sphere, and then its diameter becomes the 
 diameter of the sphere. Hence, 
 
 1. All great circles of a sphere are equal. 
 
 2. Of two small circles of a sphere, that is the greater 
 whose plane is the less distant from the center of the sphere. 
 
 3. All the small circles of a sphere whose planes are at the 
 same distance from the center, are equal. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since the planes of all great circles of a sphere 
 pass through its center, the intersection of two great 
 circles will be both a diameter of the sphere and a com- 
 mon diameter of the two circles. Hence, two great circles 
 of a sphere bisect each other. 
 
 Cor. 3. A great circle divides the volume of a sphere, and 
 also its surface, equally. 
 
 For, the two parts into which a sphere is divided by 
 any of its great circles, on being applied the one to the 
 other, will exactly coincide, otherwise all the points in 
 their convex surfaces would not be equally distant from 
 the center. 
 
 Cor. 4. The radius of the sphere which is perpendicular 
 to the plane of a small circle, passes through the center of th* 
 circ le. 
 
 
 Cor. 5. A plane passing through the extremity of a radius 
 of a sphere, and perpendicular to it, is tangent to the sphere. 
 
 For, if the plane intersect the sphere, the section is a 
 circle, and all the lines drawn from the center of the 
 sphere to points in the circumference are radii of the 
 sphere, and are therefore equal to the radius which is per- 
 pendicular to the plane, which is impossible, (Cor. 1, Th. 
 3, B. VI). Hence the plane does not intersect the sphere, 
 and has no point in its surface except the extremity of 
 the perpendicular radius. The plane is therefore tangent 
 to the sphere by Def 22. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two 
 opposite angles of a regular polygon of an even number of 
 sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, the perimeter of either 
 semi-polygon thus formed will generate a surface whose measure 
 is the axis multiplied by the circumference of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Let ABODEF be a semi-polygon cut 
 off from a regular polygon of an even 
 number of sides by drawing the line AF 
 through the center 0, and the vertices A 
 and F, of two opposite angles of the poly- 
 gon ; then will the surface generated by 
 the perimeter of this semi-polygon re- 
 volving about AF as an axis, be meas- 
 ured by AF X circumference of the in- 
 scribed circle. 
 
 From m, the middle point, and the extremities B and 
 C of the side B 0, draw mn, BK, and OL, perpendicular to 
 AF; join also m and 0, and draw BIT perpendicular to 
 QL. The surface of the frustum of the cone generated 
 by the trapezoid BKLO, has for its measure circ. mn X 
 BO, (Cor. 3, Th. 20). Since mO is perpendicular to BO, 
 and mn to BIT, the two A's, BOH and mnO, are similar, 
 and their homologous sides give the proportion 
 
 
 mn : mO :: BE (= KL) : BO 
 
 and as circumferences are to each other as their radii, we 
 have 
 
 circ. mn : circ. mO :: KL : BO 
 
 Hence, circ. mn x BQ = circ. mO X KL. 
 
 But mO is the radius of the circle inscribed in tne 
 polygon. Hence, the surface generated by BQ during the 
 revolution of the semi-polygon, is measured by the cir- 
 cumference of the inscribed circle multiplied by KL, the 
 part of the axis included between the two perpendicu- 
 lars let fall upon it from the extremities B and 0. The 
 surface generated by any other side of the semi-polygon 
 will be measured, in like manner, by the circumference of 
 the inscribed circle multiplied by the corresponding part 
 of the axis. 
 
 By adding the measures of the surfaces generated by 
 the several sides of the semi-polygon, we get 
 
 Circ. mO x (AK + KL + LN+ JSTM+ MF) 
 
 for the measure of the whole surface. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the line drawn through the cm 
 Mr, etc. 
 
 Cor. It is evident that the surface generated by any 
 portion, as CD and DK, of the perimeter, is measured by 
 circ. mO x LM. 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 The surface of a sphere is measured by the circumference 
 of one of its great circles multiplied by its diameter. 
 
 Let a sphere be generated by the revolution of the 
 Bemi-circle, AKF, about its diameter, AF; then will the 
 surface of the sphere be measured by 
 Circ. AOxAF. 
 
 Inscribe in the semi-circle any regular semi-polygon, 
 and let it be revolved, with the semi-circle, about the axii 
 
 
 AF; the surface generated by its perim- 
 eter will be measured by 
 
 Circ. mO x AF, (Th. 24), 
 
 and this measure will hold true, how- 
 ever great the number of sides of the in- Hj 
 scribed semi-polygon. But as the num- 
 ber of these sides is increased, the 
 radius mO, of the inscribed semi-circle, 
 increases and approaches equality with 
 the radius, AO; and when we reach the limit, by 
 making the number of sides indefinitely great, the radii 
 and semi-circles become equal, and the surface generated 
 by the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon becomes 
 the surface of the sphere. Therefore, the surface of the 
 sphere has, for its measure, 
 
 Circ. A x AF. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the surface of a sphere is meas- 
 ured, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. A zone of a sphere is measured by the circumfer- 
 ence of a great circle of the sphere multiplied by the altitude 
 of the zone. 
 
 For, the surface generated by any portion, as CD and 
 DE, of the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon has, 
 for its measure, circ. mO X LM, (Cor. Th. 24) ; and as 
 the number of the sides of the semi-polygon increases, 
 LM remains the same, the radius mO alone changing, 
 and becoming, when we reach the limit, equal to AO: 
 hence, the surface of the zone is expressed by 
 
 Circ. Ad X LM, 
 whether the zone have two bases, or but one. 
 
 Cor. 2. Let H and H r denote the altitudes of two 
 zones of spheres, whose radii are R and R ' ; then these 
 zones will be expressed by 2<>rR x H and 2*R ' x R r ; 
 and if tht surfaces of the zones be denoted by Z and Z' f 
 we have 
 
 
 Z : Z 1 : 2«RxH : 2«R' x H f i: Rx E : R' x H'> 
 
 •Hence, 1. Zones in different spheres are to each other at 
 their altitudes multiplied by the radii of the spheres. 
 
 2. Zones of equal altitudes are to each other as the radii 
 of the spheres, 
 
 3. Zones in the same, or equal spheres, are to each other as 
 their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. Let R denote the radius of a sphere; then will 
 its diameter be expressed by 222, and the circumference 
 of a great circle by 2irR; hence its surface will be ex 
 pressed by 
 
 2«R x 2R = 4iri2 2 . 
 
 That is, the surface of a sphere is equivalent to the area of 
 four of its great circles. 
 
 Cor. 4. The surfaces of spheres are to each other as the 
 squares of their radii. 
 
 THEOREM XXVI. 
 
 Tf a triangle be revolved about either of its sides as an axis, 
 the volume generated will be measured by one third of the prod- 
 uct of the axis and the area of a circle, having for its radius 
 the perpendicular let fall from the vertex of the opposite 
 angle on the axis, or on the axis produced. 
 
 First. Let the triangle ABC, 
 in which the perpendicular from 
 C falls on the opposite side, AB, 
 be revolved about AB as an axis ; 
 then will *Vol. A ABChuve, for 
 its measure, \AB x *CD . 
 
 The two A's into which A ABC is divided by the 
 perpendicular DC, are right-angled, and during the rev- 
 olution they will generate two cones, having for their 
 
 * Vol. A ABC, cone A ADC, are abbreviations for volume gener- 
 ated by A ABC, cone generated by A ADC; and surfaces of revolu- 
 sien generated by lines will hereafter be denoted by like abbreviations. 
 
 
 common base the circle, of which D is the radius, and 
 for their axes the parts DA and DB, into which AB is 
 divided. 
 
 Now, *Cone a ADO is measured by \AD x *DO\ 
 (Th. 21), and cone A BDO, by %BD x «DO % \ but these 
 two cones compose Yol. A ABO; and by adding their 
 measures, we have, for that of Yol. A ABO, 
 
 IAD x *D0 2 + iBD x *~D(7 2 = J AB x <^DO\ 
 Second. Let the trian- 9 
 
 gle FFGr, in which the 
 perpendicular from G- 
 falls on the opposite side 
 FF produced, be revolved 
 about FF as an axis ; 
 
 then will Yol. A FFG E F_ "h 
 
 have, for its measure, %EF x *GfH\ CrH being the per- 
 pendicular on FF produced. For, in this case it is appa- 
 rent, that Yol. A FFGr is the difference between the 
 cone A FHCr and the cone a FHCr. The first cone has, 
 for its measure, \FH x *GH\ and the second, for its 
 measure, %FH x wGrJI 2 ; hence, by subtraction, we have 
 
 Vol. A FFG = IEH X hGH 2 — iFH X 7t~GH 2 = IEF X 7t~GH 2 . 
 Hence the theorem ; if a triangle be revolved about either 
 of its sides, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — If we take either of the above expressions for the meas- 
 ure of the volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about one 
 of its sides, for example the last, and factor it otherwise, we have 
 
 \EF X *GH* = EFX $GHxU*2GH= FFx $GHX — 3 
 
 Now, EF X %GH expresses the area of the triangle EFG; and 
 
 2x X GH 
 
 , one third of the circumference described by the point Q 
 
 o 
 
 during the revolution. 
 
 The expression, \AB X rtDC 2 , maybe factored and interpreted in the 
 
 * See note on the preceding page. 
 19 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 same manner. Hence, we conclude that the volume generated by th* 
 revolution of a triangle about either of its sides, is measured by the area 
 of the triangle multiplied by one third of the circumference described in 
 the revolution by the vertex of the angle opposite the axis. 
 
 THEOREM XXVII. 
 
 The volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about 
 any line lying in its plane, and passing through the vertex of 
 one of its angles, is measured by the area of the triangle mul- 
 tiplied by two thirds of the circumference described, in the 
 revolution, by the middle 'point of the side opposite the vertex 
 through which the axis passes. 
 
 Let the triangle ABCbe 
 revolved about the line 
 AG, drawn through the 
 vertex A, and lying in the 
 plane of the triangle, and 
 let HE be the perpendicu- 
 lar let fall from H, the 
 middle point of BO, upon 
 the axis AG- ; then will Vol. a ABO have, for its meas 
 ure, A ABO x § circ. HE. 
 
 From the extremities of BO, let fall the perpendicu- 
 lars BE and OB, on the axis; and from A draw AST per 
 pendicular to BO, or BO produced, and produce OB, 
 until it meets the axis in G-. 
 
 Now, it is evident that Yol. A ABO is the difference 
 between Yol. A AGO and Yol. A AGB. But Yol. 
 A AGO is expressed by a AGO x J circ. (7i>;and Yol. 
 A AGB, by A AG B x J circ. BE, (Scholium, Th. 26). 
 Hence, 
 
 Vol. A ABC = ^ AGO X I circ. CD — A AGB X i circ. BF. 
 
 Substituting for areas of A's, and for circumferences, 
 their measures, we have 
 
 
 Vol. A A£C= GO X IAK X ?^2— GB x UK X ^^ 
 
 o o 
 
 = GCx \AKx 2 J^R—{GC—BC) X UKX ^^ 
 
 o • 
 
 ~GCXIAKX^^— GCXIARX^^+BCXUK*^ 1 ^ 
 o 8 8 
 
 = GO X \AK X ^(CD — BF) + BC X $AR X — „— . 
 
 o o 
 
 But i?iV being drawn parallel to J.#, we have 
 GN = CD — BF; 
 hence, substituting this value for CD — BF, in the first 
 term of the second member of the last equation, we have 
 
 o o 
 
 = GCx CNx ±AK x 2 ^ + BC x %AK x ?^^, 
 
 by changing the order of factors in the first term of the 
 second member. The homologous sides of the similar 
 triangles, GOD and BCN, give the proportion 
 
 GO : CD : : BO : ON 
 
 whence, GO x ON = CD x BO 
 
 Substituting this value for GO X CJSF, in the last equa- 
 tion above, and arranging the factors as before, it becomes 
 
 Vol. A ABC= BO x lAKx ^^ + BC x \AK x ^F 
 - BO x UK x g^V BF >. 
 
 a 
 
 But CD + BF= 2HF; hence 
 Vol, A ABC=--BCx \AKx —~=BCx ±AKx f .2*. J7#j 
 
 o 
 
 and since 
 
 BO x \AK= A ABC, and § x 2«.HE - § circ. ##, 
 
 this measure conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 It only remains for us to consider the case in which 
 the axis is parallel to the base BC of the triangle The 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 precedi :g demonstration will not now apply, because it 
 supposes BO, or B produced, to intersect the axis. 
 
 Let the axis AE, be parallel to the 
 base BO, of the A ABO. From B 
 and let fall on the axis the perpen- 
 diculars BE and OB. 
 
 Now it is plain that 
 
 Vol. A ABO= cylinder rectangle BODE -f 
 cone a ADO — cone A AEB. 
 
 Substituting in second member, for cylinder and cones, 
 their measures, we have 
 
 Vol. AABO= BE x *£Z) 2 + IAD x ^OD 2 — \AE x «BE* 
 =$DEx *7JD 2 +iDEx «OD 2 +§ADx*OD*—iAEx *BE\ 
 
 But BE = OD, and ^DE + %AD = \AE. Reducing by 
 these relations, we have 
 
 Vol. A ABO= %DE x «OD 3 = %DE x \OD x 4*.OD 
 = DEx lODx %.<L«.0D = B0x \QD x \Z«.OD. 
 
 And, since BO x \OD expresses the area of the tri- 
 angle ABO, and §.2^.(77), two thirds of the circumfer- 
 ence described by any point of the base, this expression 
 also conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume generated by the revela- 
 tion, etc. 
 
 Oor. If the generating 
 triangle becomes isosceles, 
 the perpendicular from A 
 meets the base at its middle 
 point. In this case, if we 
 resume the expression 
 
 BOx \AK x 4 -^. 
 
 it becomes 
 
 BO x \AK x KE x i*. 
 
 
 But, since AKis perpendicular to BC, and KE to BN, 
 the a's AKE and CBN are similar, and their honiolo* 
 gous sides give the proportion 
 
 BO : BJST :: AK : KE 
 
 whence, BCx KE = BJSTx AK 
 
 Changing the order of factors in the last expression on 
 the preceding page, and replacing BOxKE by its value, 
 it becomes 
 
 lAKx AKxBNx ±* = AK 2 xMxf* 
 
 Hence, 
 
 Vol. A ABO= |* x AK 7 x BN.= $« x AK 2 x DF 
 
 That is, the volume generated by the revolution of an isos - 
 celes triangle about any line drawn through its vertex and lying 
 in the plane of the triangle, is measured by \n times the square 
 of the perpendicular of the triangle multiplied by the part of the 
 axis included between the two perpendiculars let fall upon it 
 from the extremities of the base of the triangle. 
 
 Scholium. — If we resume the equation 
 
 Vol. A ABC = BC X \AK X ^^ 
 
 o 
 
 and change the order of the factors in the second member, it may be 
 put under the form 
 
 Vol. A ^BC = BC X 2*.HE X \AK. 
 
 But during the revolution of the triangle, the side BC generates the 
 surface of the frustum of a cone, which surface has for its measure 
 
 BC X 2*.HE (Th. 20, Cor. 3). 
 
 Hence, the above equation may be thus interpreted: The volumt 
 generated by the revolution of a triangle about any line lying in its plans 
 and passing through the vertex of one of its angles, is measured by the 
 surface generated, during the revolution, by the side opposite the vertex 
 through which the axis passes multiplied by one third of the perpen- 
 dicular drawn from the vertex to that side. 
 
 19* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XXVIII. 
 
 If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two op* 
 posite angles of a regular polygon, of an even number of 
 sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, either semi-polygon 
 thus formed will, during this revolution, generate a volume 
 which has, for its measure, the surface generated by the 
 perimeter of the semi-polygon multiplied by one third of its 
 apothem. 
 
 Let ABODE be a regular semi-poly- 
 gon, cut off from a regular polygon 
 of an even number of sides, by draw- 
 ing a line through the center, 0, and 
 the vertices, A and E, of two opposite 
 angles of the polygon ; then will the 
 volume generated by the revolution 
 of this semi-polygon about AE, as an 
 axis, be measured by (Sur. AB -f sur. 
 BO + sur. CD -f sur. DE) x }Om, Om 
 being the apothem of the polygon. 
 
 For, if from the center of 0, the lines OB, 00, OD, be 
 drawn to the vertices of the several angles of the semi- 
 polygon, it will be divided into equal isosceles triangles, 
 the perpendicular of each being the apothem of the 
 polygon. 
 
 Now, the volume generated by A AOB has, for its 
 measure, 
 
 Sur. AB x iOm, 
 Sur. BO X iOm, 
 Sur. OD x \Om, 
 
 that by A BOO, 
 " A OOD, 
 " A DOE, 
 
 Sur. DE x iOm, (Scholium, Th. 27). 
 
 By the addition of the measures of these partial vob 
 nines, we find, for that of the whole volume, 
 
 Vol. semi-polygon ABODE = sur. perimeter ABODE X iOm, 
 
 and were the number of the sides of the semi -polygon 
 
 
 increased or diminished, the reasoning would be in no 
 wise changed. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the line drawn through the cen- 
 ter, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — The volume generated by any portion of the semi-poly- 
 gon, as that composed of the two isosceles /±'a BOC, COD, is meas 
 
 ured by 
 
 Sur. perimeter BCD X 10m. 
 
 THEOREM XXIX. 
 
 The volume of a sphere is measured by its surface multi- 
 flied by one third of its radius. 
 
 Let a sphere be generated by the 
 revolution of the semicircle AOE, 
 about its diameter, AE, as an axis; 
 then will the volume of the sphere be 
 measured by 
 
 sur. semi-circ. OA x \OA. 
 
 For, inscribe in the semi-circle any 
 regular semi - polygon, as ABODE, 
 and let it, together with the semi-cir- 
 cle, revolve about the axis AE. The 
 semi-polygon will generate a volume which has, for i ts 
 measure, 
 
 Sur. perimeter ABODE x JOw, (Th. 28), 
 in which Om is the apothem of the polygon. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the in- 
 scribed regular semi-polygon, this measure for the volume 
 generated by it, will hold true ; but when we reach the 
 limit, by making the number of sides indefinitely great, 
 the perimeter and apothem become, respectively, the 
 semi-circumference and its radius, and the volume gen 
 erated by the semi-polygon becomes that generated by 
 the semi-circle, that is, the sphere. Therefore, 
 
 Vol. sphere = sur. semi-circ. OA x %OA. 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 Scholium 1. — If we take any portion of the inscribed senii-pulygon, 
 as BO C, the volume generated by it is measured by sur. BC X %Om y 
 (Scholium, Th. 27) ; and when we pass to the limit, this volume be- 
 comes a sector, and sur. BC a zone of the sphere, which zone is the 
 base of the sector. Hence, the volume of a spherical sector is measured 
 by the zone which forms its base multiplied by one third of the radiux 
 of the sphere. 
 
 Scholium 2. — Let R denote the radius of a sphere ; then will its 
 diameter be represented by 2R. Now, since the surface of a sphere is 
 equivalent to the area of four of its great circles, and the area of a 
 great circle is expressed by 7tR 2 , we have 
 
 Vol. sphere = 4*R* X IR = \rtRK 
 
 And since R 3 = l(2R ) 3 , we also have 
 
 Vol. sphere = £*i2 3 = i*(2i?)». 
 
 Hence, the volume of a sphere is measured by four thirds of it times the 
 cube of the radius, or by one sixth of tt times the cube of the diameter. 
 
 THEOREM XXX. 
 
 The surface of a sphere is equivalent to two thirds of the 
 surface, bases included, and the volume of a sphere to two 
 thirds of the volume, of the circumscribing cylinder. 
 
 Let AMD be a semi-circle, and 
 ABQD a rectangle formed by B: 
 drawing tangents through the 
 middle point and extremities of 
 the semi-circumference, and let Mr- 
 the semi-circle and rectangle be 
 revolved together about AD as 
 an axis. The rectangle will thus c 
 generate a cylinder circumscribed 
 about the sphere generated by the semi-circle. 
 
 First. The diameter of the base, and the altitude of 
 the cylinder, are each equal to the diameter of the 
 sphere ; hence the convex surface of the cylinder, being 
 measured by the circumference of its base multiplied by 
 its altitude, (Cor. 1, Th. 20), has the same measure aa 
 the surface of the sphere, (Th. 25). But the surface of 
 the sphere is equivalent to four great circles, (Cor. 3j 
 
 /^^ A "^\ 
 
 T^z 
 
 H 
 
 ^- 
 
 -%i 
 
 
 J?N 
 
 ^^^_ D _^s 
 
 
 Th. 25). Hence, the convex surface of the cylinder is 
 equivalent to four great circles ; and adding to these the 
 bases of the cylinder, also great circles, we have the 
 whole surface of the cylinder equivalent to six great 
 circles. Therefore, the surface of the sphere is four 
 sixths = two thirds of the surface of the cylinder, in- 
 cluding its bases. 
 
 Second. The volume of the cylinder, being measured 
 by the area of the base multiplied by the altitude, (Cor. 
 1, Th. 22), is, in this case, measured by the area of a 
 great circle multiplied by its diameter = four great cir- 
 eles multiplied by one half the radius of the sphere. 
 
 But the volume of the sphere is measured by four 
 great circles multiplied by one third of the radius, (Scho- 
 lium 2, Th. 29). Therefore, 
 
 Vol. sphere : Vol. cylinder : : J : J : : 2 : 3 ; 
 
 whence, Vol. sphere = § Vol. cylinder. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the surface of a sphere is equiva- 
 lent, etc. 
 
 Cor. The volume of a sphere is to the volume of the cir~ 
 cumscribed cylinder, as the surface of the sphere is to the sur- 
 face of the cylinder. 
 
 Scholium. — Any polyedron circumscribing a sphere, may be regarded 
 as composed of as many pyramids as the polyedron has faces, the cen- 
 ter of the sphere being the common vertex of these pyramids, and the 
 several faces of the polyedron their bases. The altitude of each pyra- 
 mid will be a radius of the sphere ; hence the volume of any one pyra- 
 mid will be measured by the area of the face of the polyedron which 
 forms its base, multiplied by one third of the radius of the sphere. 
 Therefore, the aggregate of these pyramids, or the whole polyedron, 
 will be measured by the surface of the polyedron multiplied by one 
 third of the radius of the sphere. 
 
 But the volume of the sphere is also measured by the surface of the 
 sphere multiplied by one third of its radius. Hence, 
 
 Sur. polyedron : Sur. sphere : : Vol. polyedron : Yol. sphere. 
 
 That is, the surface of any circumscribed yolycdron is to the surface 
 of the sphere^ as the volume of the polyedrori is to the volume of ihs 
 sphere. 
 
 
 THEOREM XXXI. 
 
 The volume generated by the revolution of the segment of a 
 circle about a diameter of the circle exterior to the segment, is 
 measured by one sixth of «r times the square of the chord of 
 the segment, multiplied by the part of the axis included be- 
 tween the perpendiculars let fall upon it from the extremities 
 of the chord, . 
 
 Let BOB be a segment of the circle, 
 whose center is 0, and AH a part of a 
 diameter exterior to the segment. Draw 
 the chord BB, and from its extremities 
 let fall the perpendiculars, BF, BE on 
 AH; also draw Om perpendicular to 
 BB. The spherical sector generated 
 by the revolution of the circular sector 
 BCBO about AH, is measured by zone BB x \B0, 
 (Scholium 1, Th. 29), = 2«.BO x EF X %BO - §*W x 
 EF; and the volume generated by the isosceles triangle 
 BOB is measured by 
 
 \^Om" x EF, (Cor. 1, Th. 27). 
 
 The difference between these two volumes is that gen- 
 erated by the circular segment BOB, which has, there- 
 fore, for its measure, 
 
 l«EF(BO* — ~Om) - %«EF x Bm^, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 But since Bm = \BB, Bm = \BB* \ hence, by sub- 
 Btituting, we have 
 Vol. segment BOB - \«EF x \BB* - \*~BB* x EF. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXXII. 
 
 The volume of a segment of a sphere has, for its measure, 
 the half sum of the bases of the segment multiplied by its alti- 
 tude, plus the volume of a sphere which has this altitude for 
 its diameter. 
 
 
 Let BOB be the arc of a circle, and 
 BF and BE perpendiculars let fall 
 from its extremities upon a diameter, c A 
 of which AH is a part; then, if the 
 area BCBEF be revolved about AH I 
 as an axis, a spherical segment will 
 be generated, for the volume of which 
 it is proposed to find a measure. 
 
 The circular segment will generate a volume meas- 
 ured by \«BB 2 x EF, (Th. 31) ; and the frustum of the 
 cone generated by the trapezoid BBEF will have, for 
 its measure, 
 
 i<r"5P 2 x EF+ i«BE* xEF+ i«BF xBEx EF, (Th. 22), 
 = §«EF(BF 2 +~BE 2 + BF x BE). 
 
 But the sum of these two volumes is the volume of 
 the spherical segment, which has, therefore, for its 
 measure, 
 
 i*EF {BB 2 + 2BF 2 + 2BE 2 + 2BF x BE) 
 From B let fall the perpendicular Bn on BE; then will 
 Bn = BE—nE=BE — BF; 
 
 hence, Bn = BE 2 — 2BE x BF + BF 2 
 
 2 "^—2 
 
 and since BB - Bn + Bn = EF + Bn % 
 
 we have BB 2 = EF 2 + BE 2 + BF 2 — 2BE x BF. 
 
 By substituting this value for BB 2 , in the above meas- 
 ure for the volume of the segment, we find 
 
 UEF(EF 2 + DE 2 + RF 2 ^2DExBF^2BF 2 -j-2DE 2 + 2BFxDE] 
 r- I «EF {EF 2 + WE 2 + ZBF 2 ) =faEF* + EF ( ^ DE ~^ —-- ). 
 
 Which last expression conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of a segment of a sphere, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. When the segment has but one base, BF becomes 
 eero, and EF becomes EA\ and the final expression 
 
 
 which we found for the volume of the segment reduces 
 to 
 
 $«£A> + EA x ' 
 
 2 
 
 Hence, A spherical segment having but one base, is equiva- 
 lent to a sphere whose diameter is the altitude of the segment, 
 plus one half of a cylinder having for base and altitude the 
 base and altitude of the segment. 
 
 Scholium. — "When the spherical segment has a single base, we may 
 
 put the expression, \hEA + EA X — — , under a form to indicate a 
 
 convenient practical rule for computing the volume of the segment. 
 
 Thus, since the triangle DEO is right-angled, and 0j£= OA — EA, 
 we have 
 
 DE 2 =TDO a — ~OE 2 = O? — Ol 2 + 20A X EA—~EA 2 
 
 = 20Ax EA—~EA\ 
 
 By substituting this value for DE 2 in the expression for the volume 
 of the segment, we find 
 
 UEA? + EAX?X(20AXEA — ~EA*) 
 
 2 
 
 Bsi*1Z f -f EA 2 X % [20A — EA) 
 
 2 
 
 = }rtEA 9 +U.ZEA i {20A — EA) 
 = \hEA\EA + Q.OA — 3 EA) 
 = lrtEA\6.0A — 2EA) 
 = l7tEA\%OA — EA) 
 
 Hence, the volume of a spherical segment, having a single base, is 
 measured by one third of n times the square of the altitude of the seg- 
 ment, multiplied by the difference between three times the radius of lfa& 
 sphere and this altitude. 
 
 RECAPITULATION 
 
 Of some of the principles demonstrated in this and the pre- 
 ceding Boohs. 
 
 Let R denote the radius, and D the diameter of any 
 circle or sphere, and H the altitude of a cone, or of a 
 segment of a sphere ; then, 
 
-i*r + *&*" + **"•> 
 
 BOOK VII. 229 
 
 Circuinforence of a circle == 2*JK. 
 Surface of a sphere = 4*J2 2 , or nD\ 
 
 Zone forming the base of a 1 _ ~ ^ „. 
 
 segment of a sphere, / 
 Volume or solidity of a sphere = {*B*, or £*!)•. 
 Volume of a spherical sector = %nR 2 x JZ". 
 Volume of a cone, of which ^ 
 
 Jit is the radius of the V = \*IP x H. 
 
 base ) 
 
 Volume of a spherical seg-' 
 
 ment, of which R' is the 
 
 radius of one base, and 
 
 R" the radius of the 
 
 other, and whose altitude 
 
 is#, 
 
 If the so ir ment has but one^ . „, , ^hR'* 
 
 ;,„ -, ,! = \*H* + H.—^ ; or, 
 
 base, R" = zero, and the > 2 
 
 volume of the segment, J = J*JP(3i2 — H). 
 
 PRACTICAL PROBLEMS. 
 
 1. The diameter of a sphere is 12 inches ; how many 
 cubic inches does it contain? Arts. 904.78 cu. in. 
 
 2. What is the solidity of the segment of a single base 
 that is cut from a sphere 12 inches in diameter, the altitude 
 of the segment being 3 inches? Arts. 141.372 cu. in. 
 
 3. The surface of a sphere is 68 square feet ; what is 
 its diameter ? Ans. D = 4.652 feet. 
 
 4. If from a sphere, whose surface is 68 square feet, a 
 segment be cut, having a depth of two feet and a single 
 base, what is the convex surface of the segment ? 
 
 Ans. 29.229+ sq. ft. 
 
 5. What is the solidity of the sphere mentioned in the 
 two {receding examples, and what is the solidity of the 
 segment, having a depth of two feet, and but one base ? 
 
 A ( Solidity of sphere, 52.71 cu. ft. 
 t " " segment, 20.85 " 
 20 
 
 
 6. In a sphere whose diameter is 20 feet, what is the 
 solidity of a segment, the bases of which are on the same 
 side of the center, the first at the distance of 3 feet from 
 it, and the second of 5 feet; and what is the solidity of 
 a second segment of the same sphere, whose bases are 
 also on the same side of the center, and at distances 
 from it, the first of 5 and the second of 7 feet ? 
 
 a ( Solidity of first segment, 525.7 cu. ft 
 US I " " second " 400.03 " 
 
 7. If the diameter of the single base of a spherical 
 segment be 16 inches, and the altitude of the segment 4 
 inches, what is its solidity ? * 
 
 Arts. 435.6352 cubic inches. 
 
 8. The diameter of one base of a spherical segment is 
 18 inches, and that of the other base 14 inches, these 
 bases being on opposite sides of the center of the sphere, 
 and the distance between them 9 inches ; what is the 
 volume of the segment, and the radius of the sphere ? 
 
 a ( Vol. seg., 2219.5 cubic inches. 
 \ Bad. of sphere, 9.4027 inches. 
 
 9. The radius of a sphere is 20, the distance from the 
 center to the greater base of a segment is 10, and the 
 distance from the same point to the lesser base is 16 ; 
 what is the volume of the segment, the bases being on 
 the same side of the center? Ans. 4297.7088. 
 
 10. If the diameter of one base of a spherical segment 
 be 20 miles, and the diameter of the other base 12 miles* 
 and the altitude of the segment 2 miles, what is its 
 solidity, and what is the diameter of the sphere ? 
 
 * First find the radius of the sphere. 
 
 Note. — The Key to this work contains full solutions to all the problems in 
 the Geometry and Trigonometry, and the necessary diagrams for illustration. 
 
 
 BOOK VIII. 
 
 PRACTICAL GEOMETRY. 
 
 APPLICATION OF ALGEBRA TO GEOMETRY, AND ALSO 
 PROPOSITIONS FOR ORIGINAL INVESTIGATION. 
 
 No definite rules can be given for the algebraic solu- 
 tion of geometrical problems. The student must, in a 
 a great measure, depend on his own natural tact, and 
 Lis power of making a skillful application of the geomet- 
 rical and analytical knowledge he has thus far obtained. 
 
 The known quantities of the problem should be repre- 
 sented by the first letters of the alphabet, and the un- 
 known by the final letters ; and the relations between 
 these quantities must be expressed by as many inde- 
 pendent equations as there are unknown quantities. To 
 obtain the equations of the problem, we draw a figure, 
 the parts of which represent the known and unknown 
 magnitudes, and very frequently it will be found neces- 
 sary to draw auxiliary lines, by means of which we can 
 deduce, from the conditions enunciated, others that can 
 be more conveniently expressed by equations. In many 
 cases the principal difficulty consists in finding, from the 
 relations directly given in the statement, those which 
 are ultimately expressed by the equations of the problem. 
 Having found these equations, they are treated by the 
 known rules of algebra, and the values of the required 
 magnitudes determined in terms of those given. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM I. 
 
 Given, the hypotenuse, and the sum of the other two sides 
 of a right-angled triangle, to determine the triangle. 
 
 Let ABO be the A. Put OB = y, AB 
 = x, AO= h, and OB + AB = s. Then, 
 by a given condition, we have 
 
 x + y = s; 
 and, x*+ y*= h\ (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 lleducing these two equations, and we have 
 
 x = \s =b i^W^7; y mm \s =fc Jv^tf — * 2 . 
 
 If A = 5 and * = 7, a; = 4 or 3, and y = 3 or 4. 
 
 Remark. — In place of putting x to represent one side, and y the 
 other, we might put [x -f- y) to represent the greater side, and (x — y) 
 the less side ; then, 
 
 h 2 
 x* + y* = -, and 2x = s, etc. 
 
 PROBLEM II. 
 
 (riven, the base and perpendicular of a triangle, to find the 
 side of its inscribed square. 
 
 Let ABO be the A. Put 
 AB mm b, the base, OB — p, 
 the perpendicular. 
 
 Draw EF parallel to AB, 
 and suppose it equal to EG, 
 a side of the required square ; and put EF = x. 
 
 Then, by similar A's, we have 
 
 01 : EF : : OB : AB. 
 
 That is, 
 Hence, 
 
 p — x 
 
 P 
 
 b. 
 
 bp — bx = px ; or, x m t f . 
 r - b + p 
 
 That is, the side of the inscribed square is equal to the 
 product of the base and altitude, divided by their sum. 
 
 
 233 
 
 PROBLEM III. 
 
 In a triangle, having given the sides about the vertical 
 angle, and the line hisecting that angle and terminating in 
 the base, to find the base. 
 
 Let ABO be the a, and let a cir- 
 cle be circumscribed about it. Di- 
 vide the arc AEB into two equal 
 partu at the point E, and draw EO. 
 This line bisects the vertical angle, 
 (Cor., Th. 9, B. HI). Draw BE. 
 
 Put AD = x, DB = y, AQ = a, 
 OB = b, OD = c, and BE = w. The two A's, ADO and 
 EBO, are equiangular; from which we have 
 
 w + o : b : : a : c ; or, cw + <? 2 = ab ; ( 1 ) 
 
 But, as EO and J.1? are two chords that intersect each 
 other in a circle, we have 
 
 cw = xy, (Th. IT, B. III). 
 Therefore, xy + c* = ab. ( 2 ) 
 
 But, as (7D bisects the vertical augle, v; e have 
 
 a : b :: x : y, (Th. 24, B. II). 
 
 Or, 
 
 Hence, 
 
 And, 
 
 Now, as x and # are determined, the base is deter- 
 mined. 
 
 Remark. — Ot serve that equation (2) is Theorem 20, Book III 
 20* 
 
 
 x = 
 + <?' = 
 
 ' b' 
 
BOOK VIII 
 
 (3) 
 or, y = 
 
 
 
 a 
 
 -\A- 
 
 jfib 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 
 X- 
 
 m W»- 
 
 a 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM IV. 
 
 To determine a triangle, from the base, the line bisecting 
 the vertical angle, and the diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 Describe the circle on the given 
 diameter, AB, and divide it into two 
 parts, in the point D, so that AD x 
 DB shall be equal to the square of 
 one half the given base, (Th. 17, B. III). 
 
 Through D draw EDG, at right 
 angles to AB, and EG will be the given base of the 
 triangle. 
 
 Put AB — n, DB = m, AB = d, DG = b. 
 
 Then, 
 
 n -f m = d, and 
 
 nm 
 
 and these two equations will determine n and m ; there- 
 fore, we shall consider n and m as known. 
 
 Now, suppose EEG to be the required A; and draw 
 RIB and HA. The two A's, ABE, DBI, are equian- 
 gular ; and, therefore, we have 
 
 AB : EB : : IB : DB. 
 
 But EI is a given line, that we will represent by c ; 
 and if we put IB — w, we shall have EB = c + w; then 
 the above proportion becomes, 
 
 d : c + w : : w : m. 
 
 Now, w can be determined by a quadratic equation ; 
 and, therefore, IB is a known line. 
 
 In the right-angled A DBI, the hypotenuse IB, and 
 the base DB, are known ; therefore, DI is known, (Th. 
 39, B. I) ; and if DI is known, EI and IG are known. 
 
 Lastly, let EH= x, EG = y, and put EI= p, and IG 
 -?• 
 
 Then, by Theorem 20, Book III, pq + <?' = org ( 1 ) 
 
 But, x : g :: p : q (Th. 24, B. II) 
 
 
 235 
 
 Or, 
 
 x=*l 
 
 (2) 
 
 Now, from equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) we can determine x 
 andy, the sides of the A ; and thus the determination has 
 been attained, carefully and easily, step by step. 
 
 PROBLEM V. 
 
 Three equal circles touch each other externally, and thus 
 inclose one acre of ground; what is the diameter in rods of 
 each of these circles f 
 
 Draw three equal circles to touch each other exter- 
 nally, and join the three centers, thus forming a triangle. 
 The lines joining the centers will pass 
 through the points of contact, (Th. 7, 
 B.IH). 
 
 Let R represent the radius of these 
 equal circles; then it is obvious that 
 each side of this A is equal to 2R. 
 The triangle is therefore equilateral, 
 and it incloses the given area, and three equal sectors. 
 
 As the angle of each sector is one third of two right 
 angles, the three sectors are, together, equal to a semi- 
 circle ; but the area of a semi-circle, whose radius is R, is 
 
 AT J? 2 
 
 expressed by — ; and the area of the whole triangle 
 
 irR 2 
 
 must be — - -f 160 ; but the area of the A is also equal to 
 
 R multiplied by the perpendicular altitude, which is 
 fiv/3. 
 
 Therefore, 
 Or, 
 
 jRV3 = ^ + 160. 
 
 22»(2%/3 — *) = 320. 
 320 
 
 320 
 
 - 992.248. 
 
 2 v/3 — 3.1415926 0.3225 
 Hence, R = 31.48 + rods, for the required result 
 
 
 Problem VI. — In a right-angled triangle, having given 
 the base and the sum of the perpendicular and hypotennse, 
 to find these two sides, 
 
 Prob. VII. — Given, the base and altitude of a triangle, to 
 divide it into three equal parts, by lines parallel to the base. 
 
 Prob. VIII. — In any equilateral A, given the length of 
 the three perpendiculars drawn from any point within, to the 
 three sides, to determine the sides* 
 
 Prob. IX. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 base, ( 3 ), and the difference between the hypotenuse and per- 
 pendicular, ( 1 ), to find both these two sides. 
 
 Prob. X. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 hypotenuse, (5), and the difference between the base and 
 perpendicular, ( 1 ), to determine both these two sides. 
 
 Prob. XI. — Having given the area of a rectangle inscribed 
 in a given triangle, to determine, the sides of the rectangle. 
 
 Prob. XII. — In a triangle, having given the ratio of the 
 two sides, together with both the segments of the base, made 
 by a perpendicular from the vertical angle, to determine the 
 sides of the triangle. 
 
 Prob. XIH. — In a triangle, having given the base, the 
 sum of the other two sides, and the length of a line drawn 
 from the vertical angle to the middle of the base, to find the 
 sides of the triangle. 
 
 Prob. XTV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the lengths of two lines drawn from the acute angles to 
 *he middle of the opposite sides. 
 
 Prob. XV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the perimeter, and the radius of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XVI. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the ratio of the two sides. 
 
 Prob. XVII. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the hypotenuse, and the side of the inscribed square. 
 
 
 Prob. XV III. — To determine the radii of three equal cir- 
 cles inscribed in a given circle, and tangent to each other, and 
 also to the circumference of the given circle. 
 
 Prob. XIX. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 perimeter, or sum of all the sides, and the perpendicular let 
 fall from the right angle on the hypotenuse, to determine the 
 triangle ; that is, its sides. 
 
 Prob. XX. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the hypotenuse, and the difference of two lines drawn 
 from the two acute angles to the center of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXI. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the difference of the two other 
 fades. 
 
 Prob. XXII. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the rectangle, or product of the 
 two sides. 
 
 Prob. XXIII. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 lengths of three lines drawn from the three angles to the mid- 
 dle of the opposite sides. 
 
 Prob. XXTV. — In a triangle, having given all the three 
 Bides, to find the radius of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the side of the inscribed square, and the radius of the 
 inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXVI. — To determine a triangle, and the radius 
 of the inscribed circle, having given the lengths of three lines 
 drawn from the three angles to the center of that circle. 
 
 Prob. XXVTI. — To determine a right -angled triangle, 
 having given the hypotenuse, and the radius of the inscribed 
 tircle. 
 
 Prob. XXVJLLL. — The lengths of two parallel chords on the 
 tame side of the center being given, and their distance apart, 
 to determine the radius of the circle. 
 
 Prob, XXIX. — The lengths of two chords in the same 
 
 
 circle being given, and also the difference of their distance 
 from the center, to find the radius of the circle. 
 
 Prob. XXX. — The radius of a circle being given, and also 
 the rectangle of the segments of a chord, to determine the dis- 
 tance of the point at which the chord is divided, from the 
 center. 
 
 Prob. XXXI. — If each of the two equal sides of an isos- 
 celes triangle be represented by a, and the base by 2b, what 
 will be the value of the radius of the inscribed circle ? 
 
 A j, b^a* — b* 
 
 Ans. R = - — . 
 
 a + b 
 
 Prob. XXXII. — From a point without a circle whose 
 diameter is d, a line equal to d is drawn, terminating in the 
 concave arc, and this line is bisected at the first point in which 
 it meets the circumference. What is the distance of the point 
 without from the center of the circle ? 
 
 It is not deemed necessary to multiply problems in the 
 application of algebra to geometry. The preceding will 
 be a sufficient exercise to give the student a clear con- 
 ception of the nature of such problems, and will serve as 
 a guide for the solution of others that may be proposed 
 to him, or that may be invented by his own ingenuity. 
 
 MISCELLANEOUS PROPOSITIONS. 
 
 We shall conclude this book, and the subject of Geom- 
 etry, by offering the following propositions, — some the- 
 orems, others problems, and some a combination of both, 
 — not only for the purpose of impressing, by application, 
 the geometrical principles which have now been estab- 
 lished, but for the not less important purpose of culti- 
 vating the power of independent investigation. 
 
 After one or two propositions in which the beginner 
 will be assisted in the analysis and construction, we shall 
 leave him to his own resources, with the caution that a 
 
 
 239 
 
 patient consideration of all the conditions in each case, 
 and not mere trial operation, is the only process by which 
 he can hope to reach the desired result. 
 
 1. From two given points, to draw two equal straight 
 lines, which shall meet in the same point in a given 
 straight line. 
 
 Let A and B be the given points, 
 and CD the given straight line. Pro- 
 duce the perpendicular to the straight 
 line AB at its middle point, until it 
 meets CD in G. It is then easily 
 proved that G is the point in CD in 
 which the equal lines from A and 
 B must meet. That is, that AG 
 = BG. 
 
 If the points A and B were on 
 opposite sides of CD, the directions 
 for the construction would be the 
 same, and we should have this fig- 
 ure; but the reasoning by which 
 we prove AG = BG would be un- 
 changed. 
 
 2. From two given points on the same side of a given 
 straight line, to draw two straight lines which shall meet 
 in the given line, and make equal angles with it. 
 
 Let CD be the given line, and 
 A and B the given points. 
 
 From B draw BE perpendicular 
 to CD, and produce the perpen- 
 dicular to F, making EF equal to 
 BE) then draw AF, and from the 
 point G, in which it intersects 
 CD, draw GB. Now, [__BGE=> 
 \_EGF =\_AGC. Hence, the 
 angles B GD and A G C are equal, 
 and the lines AG and BG meet 
 
 in a common point in the line CD, and made equal angles witk 
 that line. 
 
 
 3. If, from a point without a circle, two straight lines 
 be drawn to the concave part of the circumference, making 
 equal angles with the line joining the same point and the 
 center, the parts of these lines which are intercepted within 
 the circle, are equal. 
 
 4. If a circle be described on the radius of another circle, 
 any straight line drawn from the point where they meet, 
 to the outer circumference, is bisected by the interior one. 
 
 5. From two given points on the same side of a line 
 given in position, to draw two straight lines which shall 
 contain a given angle, and be terminated in that line. 
 
 6. If, from any point without a circle, lines be drawn 
 touching the circle, the angle contained by the tangents is 
 double the angle contained by the line joining the points 
 of contact and the diameter drawn through one of them. 
 
 7. If, from any two points in the circumference of a 
 circle, there be drawn two straight lines to a point in a 
 tangent to that circle, they will make the greatest angle 
 when drawn to the point of contact. 
 
 8. From a given point within a giv^n circle, to draw a 
 straight line which shall make, with the circumference, 
 an angle, less than any angle made by any other line 
 drawn from that point. 
 
 9. If two circles cut each other, the greatest line that 
 can be drawn through either point of intersection, is that 
 which is parallel to the line joining their centers. 
 
 10. If, from any point within an equilateral triangle, 
 perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, their sum is equal 
 to a perpendicular drawn from any of the angles to the 
 opposite side. 
 
 11. If the points of bisection of the sides of a given tri- 
 angle be joined, the triangle so formed will be one fourth 
 of the given triangle. 
 
 12. The difference of the angles at the base of any tri- 
 angle, is double the angle contained by a line drawn from 
 the vertex perpendicular to the base, and another bisect- 
 ing the angle at the vertex. 
 
 
 13. If, from the three angles of a triangle, lines be 
 *rawn to the points of bisection of the opposite sides, 
 tfiese lines intersect each other in the same point. 
 
 14. The three straight lines which bisect the three 
 ! angles of a triangle, meet in the same point. 
 
 15. The two triangles, formed by drawing straight 
 lines from any point within a parallelogram to the ex- 
 tremities of two opposite sides, are, together, one half the 
 parallelogram. 
 
 16. The figure formed by joining the points of bisection 
 of the sides of a trapezium, is a parallelogram. 
 
 17. If squares be described on three sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, and the extremities of the adjacent sides 
 be joined, the triangles so formed are equivalent to the 
 given triangle, and to each other. 
 
 18. If squares be described on the hypotenuse and sides 
 of a right-angled triangle, and the extremities of the sides 
 of the former, and the adjacent sides of the others, be 
 joined, the sum of the squares of the lines joining them 
 will be equal to five times the square of the hypotenuse. 
 
 19. The vertical angle of an oblique-angled triangle 
 inscribed in a circle, is greater or less than a right angle, 
 by the angle contained between the base and the diam- 
 eter drawn from the extremity of .the base. 
 
 20. If the base of any triangle be bisected by the diam- 
 eter of its circumscribing circle, and, from the extremity 
 of that diameter, a perpendicular be let fall upon the 
 longer side, it will divide that side into segments, one of 
 which will be. equal to one half the sum, and the other to 
 one half the difference, of the sides. 
 
 21. A straight line drawn from the vertex of an equi- 
 lateral triangle inscribed in a circle, to any point in the 
 opposite circumference, is equal to the sum of the two lines 
 which are drawn from the extremities of the base to the 
 same point. 
 
 22. The straight line bisecting any angle of a triangle 
 
 21 Q 
 
 
 inscribed in a given circle, cuts the circumference in a 
 point which is equi-distant from the extremities of the 
 side opposite to the bisected angle, and from the center 
 of a circle inscribed in the triangle. 
 
 23. If, from the center of a circle, a line be drawn to 
 any point in the chord of an arc, the square of that line, 
 together with the rectangle contained by the segments 
 of the chord, will be equal to the square described on the 
 radius. 
 
 24. If two points be taken in the diameter of a circle, 
 equidistant from the center, the sum of the squares of the 
 two lines drawn from these points to any point in the cir- 
 cumference, will be always the same. 
 
 25. If, on the diameter of a semicircle, two equal circles 
 be described, and in the space included by the three cir- 
 cumferences, a circle be inscribed, its diameter will be % 
 the diameter of either of the equal circles. 
 
 26. If a perpendicular be drawn from the vertical angle 
 of any triangle to the base, the difference of the squares 
 of the sides is equal to the difference of the squares of 
 the segments of the base. 
 
 27. The square described on the side of an equilateral 
 triangle, is equal to three times the square of the radius 
 of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 28. The sum of the sides of an isosceles triangle is less 
 than the sum of the sides of any other triangie on the same 
 base and between the same parallels. 
 
 29. In any triangle, given one angle, a side adjacent to 
 the given angle, and the difference of the other two sides, 
 to construct the triangle. 
 
 30. In any triangle, given the base, the sum of the 
 other two sides, and the angle opposite the base, to con- 
 struct the triangle. 
 
 31. In any triangle, given the base, the angle opposite 
 io the base, and the difference of the other two sides, to 
 instruct the triangle. 
 
 
 BOOK IX. 
 
 SPHERICAL GEOMETRY. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. Spherical Geometry has for its object the investiga- 
 tion of the properties, and of the relations to each other, 
 of the portions of the surface of a sphere which are 
 bounded by the arcs of its great circles. 
 
 2. A Spherical Polygon is a portion of the surface of a 
 sphere bounded by three or more arcs of great circles, called 
 the sides of the polygon. 
 
 3. The Angles of a spherical polygon are the angles 
 formed by the bounding arcs, and are the same as the 
 angles formed by the planes of these arcs. 
 
 4. A Spherical Triangle is a spherical polygon having 
 but three sides, each of which is less than a semi-circum- 
 ference. 
 
 5. A Lime is a portion of the surface of a sphere in- 
 cluded between two great semi-circumferences having a 
 common diameter. 
 
 6. A Spherical Wedge, or TTngula, is a portion of the 
 Bolid sphere included between two great semi-circles having 
 a common diameter 
 
 
 7. A Spherical Pyramid is a portion of a sphere bounded 
 by the faces of a solid angle having its vertex at the 
 center, and the spherical polygon which these faces inter- 
 cept on the surface. This spherical polygon is called the 
 base of the pyramid. 
 
 8. The Axis of a great circle of a sphere is that diameter 
 of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the 
 circle. This diameter is also the axis of all small circles 
 parallel to the great circle. 
 
 9. A Pole of a circle of a sphere is a point on the sur- 
 face of the sphere equally distant from every point in the 
 circumference of the circle. 
 
 10. Supplemental, or Polar Triangles, are two triangles on 
 a sphere, so related that the vertices of the angles of 
 either triangle are the poles of the sides of the other. 
 
 PKOPOSITION I. 
 
 Any two sides of a spherical triangle are together greater 
 than the third side. 
 
 Let AB, AC, and BC, be the three 
 sides of the triangle, and D the center 
 of the sphere. 
 
 The angles of the planes that form 
 the solid angle at D, are measured by 
 the arcs AB, AG, snidBC. But any 
 two of these angles are together greater 
 than the third angle, (Th. 18, B. VI). Therefore, any two 
 sides of the triangle are, together, greater than * ue third side. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 PROPOSITION II. 
 
 The sum of the three sides of any spherical triangle is less 
 than the circumference of a great circle. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle ; the two sides, AB 
 and AC, produced, will meet at the point which is diame- 
 trically opposite to A f and the arcs, ABB and ACB are 
 
 
 245 
 
 together equal to a great circle. But, 
 by the last proposition, BC is less 
 than the two arcs, BD and DC There- 
 fore, AB + BO + AC, is less than 
 ABD + ACD; that is, less than a 
 great circle. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 PROPOSITION III. 
 
 The extremities of the axis of a great circle of a sphere 
 are the poles of the great circle, and these points are also 
 the poles of all small circles parallel to the great circle. 
 
 Let be the center of 
 the sphere, and BD the 
 axis of the great circle, 
 Cm Am" ; then will B and 
 D, the extremities of the 
 axis, be the poles of the 
 circle, and also the poles 
 of any parallel small cir- 
 cle, as FnE. 
 
 For, since BD is per- 
 pendicular to the plane 
 of the circle, Cm Am", it 
 
 is perpendicular to the lines OA, 0m', Om", etc., passing 
 through its foot in the plane, (Def. 2, B. VI); hence, all 
 the arcs, Bm, Bm', etc., are quadrants, as are also the 
 arcs Dm, Dm', etc. The points B and D are, therefore, 
 each equally distant from all the points in the circumfer- 
 ence, Cm Am" ; hence, (Def. 9), they are its poles. 
 
 Again, since the radius, OB, is perpendicular to the 
 plane of the circle, Cm Am", it is also perpendicular to 
 the plane of the parallel small circle, FnE, and passes 
 through its center, 0'. Now, the chords of the arcs, BF, 
 Bn, BE, etc., being obiique lines, meeting the plane of 
 the small circle a 4 - oqual distances from the foot of the 
 
 
 
 o" -- 
 
 \e 
 
 
 / IS 
 
 — * — Z^- 
 
 
 
 hi 
 
 m» 
 
 
 [.-""'-""/ 
 
 / 
 
BOOK IX 
 
 \ iJtr 
 
 
 
 
 
 \j)f 
 
 
 
 
 perpendicular, BO', are all equal, (Th. 4, B. VI); hence, 
 the arcs themselves are equal, and B is one pole of the 
 circle, FnE. In like manner we prove the arcs, BF, Dn, 
 BE, etc., equal, and therefore D is the other pole of the 
 same circle. 
 
 Hence the proposition, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. A point on the surface of a sphere at the distance 
 of a quadrant from two points in the arc of a great circle, not 
 at the extremities of a diameter, is a pole of that arc. 
 
 For, if the arcs, Bm, Bm r , are each quadrants, the angles, 
 BOm and BOm f , are each right angles; and hence, BO 
 is perpendicular to the plane of the lines, Om and 0m f , 
 which is the plane of the arc, mm'; B is therefore the 
 pole of this arc. 
 
 Cor. 2. The angle included between the arc of a great circle 
 and the arc of another great circle, connecting any of its points 
 with the pole, is a right angle. 
 
 For, since the radius, BO, is perpendicular to the plane 
 of the circle, Cm Am", every plane passed through this 
 radius is perpendicular to the plane of the circle ; hence, 
 the plane of the arc Bm is perpendicular to that of the 
 arc (7m; and the angle of the arcs is that of their planes. 
 
 PKOPOSITION IV. 
 
 The angle formed by two arcs of great circles which inter- 
 sect each other, is equal to the angle included between the tan- 
 gents to these arcs at their point of intersection, and is meas- 
 ured by that arc of a great circle whose pole is the vertex of 
 the angle, and which is limited by the sides of the angle or 
 the sides produced. 
 
 Let AM and AN be two arcs intersecting at the 
 point A, and let AE and AF be the tangents to these 
 arcs at this point. Take AC and AD, each quadrants, 
 and draw the arc CD, of which A is the pole, and OQ 
 and OB are the radii. 
 
 
 247 
 
 Now, since the planes of the arcs intersect in the radius 
 OA, and AE is a tangent to one arc, and AF a tangent 
 to the other, at the common point 'A, A 
 these tangents form with each other an 
 angle which is the measure of the angle 
 of the planes of the arcs ; but the angle 
 of the planes of the arcs is taken as the 
 angle included by the arcs, (Def. 3). 
 
 Again, because the arcs, AQ and AD, 
 are each quadrants, the angles, A 00, 
 AOD, are right angles ; hence the radii, 
 OC and OD, which lie, one in one face, 
 and the other in the other face, of the 
 diedral angle formed by the planes of the arcs, are 
 perpendicular to the common intersection of these faces 
 at the same point. The angle, OOD, is therefore the 
 angle of the planes, and consequently the angle of the 
 arcs ; but the angle OOD is measured by the arc OD. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 Oor. 1. Since the angles included between the arcs of 
 great circles on a sphere, are measured by other arcs of 
 great circles of the same sphere, we may compare such 
 angles with each other, and construct angles equal to 
 other angles, by processes which do not differ in principle 
 from those by which plane angles are compared and con- 
 structed. 
 
 Oor. 2. Two arcs of great circles will form, by their in- 
 tersection, four angles, the opposite or vertical ones of 
 which will be equal, as in the case of the angles formed 
 by the intersection of straight lines, (Th. 4, B. I). 
 
 PROPOSITION V. 
 
 The surface of a hemisphere may be divided into three right- 
 angled and four quadrantal triangles, and one of these right- 
 angled triangles will be so related to the other two, that two 
 of its sides and one of its angles will be complemental to the 
 
 
 Bides of one of them, and two of its sides supplemental to two 
 of the side.s of the other. 
 
 Let ABO be a right-angled spherical triangle, right 
 angled at B. 
 
 Produce the sides, AB and AC, and 
 they will meet at A', the opposite 
 point on the sphere. Produce BO, 
 both ways, 90° from the point B, to 
 P and P', which are, therefore, poles 
 to the arc AB, (Prop. 3). Through 
 A, P, and the center of the sphere, 
 pass a plane, cutting the sphere into 
 two equal parts, forming a great circle on the sphere, 
 which great circle will be represented by the circle 
 PAP' A' in the figure. At right angles to this plane, 
 pass another plane, cutting the sphere into two equal 
 parts ; this great circle is represented in the figure by the 
 straight line, POP'. A and A' are the poles to the great 
 circle, POP' ; and P and P f are the poles to the great 
 circle, ABA f . 
 
 !N"ow, OPB is a spherical triangle, right-angled at B, 
 and its sides OP and OB are complemental respectively 
 to the sides BO and A of the A ABO, and its side PD 
 is complemental to the arc DO, which measures the 
 [_BAO of the same triangle. Again, the A A' BO is right- 
 angled at B, and its sides A'O, A'B, are supplemental 
 respectively to the sides AO, AB, of the A ABO. There- 
 fore, the three right-angled A's, ABO, OPB, and A'BO, 
 have the required relations. In the A AOP, the side AP 
 is a quadrant, and for this reason the A is called a quad- 
 ran tal triangle. So also, are the A's A' OP, AOP', and 
 P'OA', quadrantal triangles. Hence the proposition. 
 
 Scholium. — In every triangle there are six elements, three sides and 
 three angles, called the parts of the triangle. 
 
 Now, if ail the parts of the triangle ABC are known, the parts of 
 each of the A' s > PCD and A'BC, are as completely known. And 
 when the parts of the A PCD are known, the parts of the A ' 8 A C2 
 
book ix. 249 
 
 and A'CP are also known ; for, the side PD measures each of the | 's 
 
 P^lCand PA'C, and the angle CPD, added* to the right angle A' PD t 
 
 gives the | A' PC, and the | CPA is supplemental to this. Hence, 
 
 the solution of the A ABC is a solution of the two right-angled and 
 four quadrantal A's? which together with it make up the surface of 
 the hemisphere. 
 
 PROPOSITION VI. 
 
 If there be three arcs of great circles whose poles are the 
 angular points of a spherical triangle, such arcs, if produced, 
 will form another triangle, whose sides will be supplemental 
 to the angles of the first triangle, and the sides of the first 
 triangle will be supplemental to the angles of the second. 
 
 Let the arcs of the three great cir- 
 cles be GH, PQ, KL, whose poles are 
 respectively A, B, and 0. Produce the 
 three arcs until they meet in D, E, and 
 F. We are now to prove that E is the 
 pole of the arc AO; D the pole of the 
 arc BO; F the pole to the arc AB. 
 Also, that the side EF, is supplemental 
 to the angle A; EB to the angle 0; 
 and BF to the angle B; and also, that the side A is 
 supplemental to the angle E, etc. 
 
 A pole is 90° from any point in the circumference of 
 Us great circle ; and, therefore, as A is the pole of the 
 arc Gff, the point A is 90° from the point E. As is 
 the pole of the arc LK, is 90° from any point in 
 that arc ; therefore, is 90° from the point E ; and 
 E being fcO° from both A and 0, it is the pole of the arc 
 AC. In the same manner, we may prove that B is the 
 pole of BO, and F the pole of AB. 
 
 Because A is the pole of the arc Git, the arc GH 
 measures the angle A, (Prop. 4); for a similar reason, 
 PQ measures the angle B, and LK measures the angle 0, 
 Because E is the pole of the arc AO, EH = 90° 
 Or, EG +GH= 90° 
 
 For a like reason, FH + GH = 90° 
 
 
 Adding these two equations, and observing that QJf 
 = A, and afterward transposing one A, we have, 
 EG + GIT + FIT = 180° — A. 
 
 Or, UF=1S0°— A } 
 
 In like manner, jF2> = 180° — B \ («) 
 
 And, BE = 180° — J 
 
 But the arc (180° — A), is a supplemental arc to A, by 
 the definition of arcs; therefore, the three sides of the 
 triangle BEF, are supplements of the angles A, B y C, of 
 the triangle ABO. 
 
 Again, as E is the pole of the arc A C, the whole angle 
 E is measured by the whole arc LH. 
 
 But, AC + CE = 90° 
 
 Also, AQ + AL = 90° 
 
 By addition, AQ+AC+QH + AL = 180° 
 By transposition, ^(7+ (7^+^^ = 180° —J. O 
 That is, £#, or E= 180°— ^L<7 } 
 
250 GEOMETRY. 
 
 And, i)=180° — J5(7 J 
 
 That is, the sides of the first triangle are supplemental 
 to the angles of the second triangle. 
 
 PROPOSITION Til. 
 
 The sum of the three angles of any spherical triangle, is 
 greater than two right angles, and less than six right angles. 
 
 Add equations («), of the last proposition. The first 
 member of the equation so formed will be the sum of 
 the three sides of a spherical triangle, which sum we 
 may designate by S. The second member will be 6 right 
 angles (there being 2 right angles in each 180°) less the 
 three angles A, B, and O. 
 
 That is, S = 6 right angles — (A + B + C) 
 
 By Prop. 2, the sum S is less than 4 right angles; 
 
 
 therefore, to it add s, a sufficient quantity to make 4 
 right angles. Then, 
 
 4 right angles = 6 right angles — (A + B -f C) -f * 
 
 Drop or cancel 4 right angles from both members, and 
 transpose (A + B + O). 
 
 Then, A + B + = 2 right angles + a. 
 
 That is, the three angles of a spherical triangle make 
 a greater sum than two right angles by the indefinite 
 quantity *, which quantity is called the spherical excess, 
 and is greater or less according to the size of the triangle. 
 
 Again, the sum of the angles is less than 6 right angles. 
 There are but three angles in any triangle, and each one of 
 them must be less than 180°, or 2 right angles. For, an 
 angle is the inclination of two lines or two planes ; and 
 when two planes incline by 180°, the planes are parallel, 
 or are in one and the same plane ; therefore, as neither 
 angle can be equal to 2 right angles, the three can never 
 be equal to 6 right angles. 
 
 PROPOSITION VIII. 
 
 On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles which 
 are mutually equilateral are also mutually equiangular ; and, 
 conversely, triangles which are mutually equiangular are also 
 mutually equilateral, equal sides lying opposite equal angles. 
 
 First— -Let ABO and DEF, in 
 which AB = BE, AO= DF, and 
 BO = EF, be two triangles on 
 the sphere whose center is 0; 
 then will the [_ A, opposite the 
 side BO, in the first triangle, be 
 equal the [_D, opposite the equal 
 side EF, in the second; also 
 L# = l E, andl_<?=t F. 
 
 
 For, drawing the radii to the vertices of the angles of 
 these triangles, we may conceive to he the common 
 vertex of two triedral angles, one of which is hounded 
 by the plane angles A OB, BOO, and A 00, and the other 
 by the plane angles DOE, EOF, and J)OF. But the 
 plane angles bounding the one of these triedral angles, 
 are. equal to the plane angles bounding the other, each 
 to each, since they are measured by the equal sides of the 
 two triangles. The planes of the equal arcs in the two 
 triangles are therefore equally inclined to each other, 
 (Th. 20, B. VI) ; but the angles included between the 
 planes of the arcs are equal to the angles formed by the 
 arcs, (Def. -3). 
 
 Hence the [_ A, opposite the side BO, in the A ABU, 
 is equal to the [_ -A opposite the equal side EF, in the 
 other triangle ; and for a similar reason, the [__B= l_E, 
 and the l_0=l_F. 
 
 Second. — If, in the triangles ABO and DEF, being on 
 the same sphere whose center is 0, the [_A = [_D, the 
 \_B = [_E, and the L<7« L^ 7 ; tnen will the side AB, 
 opposite the [__ 0, in the first, be equal to the side BE, 
 opposite the equal [__F, in the second; and also the side 
 A equal to the side BF, and the side BO equal to the 
 side EF. 
 
 For, conceive two triangles, denoted by A'B'O f and 
 D'E'F', supplemental to ABO and BEF, to be formed; 
 then will these supplemental triangles be mutually equi- 
 lateral, for their sides are measured by 180° less the 
 o] posite and equal angles of the triangles ABO and 
 DEF, (Prop. 6) ; and being mutually equilateral, they 
 are, as proved above, mutually equiangular. But the 
 triangles ABO and DEF are supplemental to the tri- 
 angles A'B'O' and D'E'F 1 '; and their sides are therefore 
 measured severally by 180° less the opposite and equal 
 angles of the triangles A'B'O' and D'E'2", (Prop. 6), 
 
 
 Hence the triangles ABO and DEF, which are mutually 
 equiangular, are also mutually equilateral. 
 
 Scholium. — With the three arcs of great circles, AB, AC, and BC t 
 either of the two triangles, ABC, DEF, may be formed ; but it is evi- 
 dent that these two triangles cannot be made to coincide, though they 
 are both mutually equilateral and mutually equiangular. Spherical 
 triangles on the same sphere, or on equal spheres, in which the sides 
 and angles of the one are equal to the sides and angles of the other, 
 each to each, but are not themselves capable of superposition, are 
 called symmetrical triangles. 
 
 PROPOSITION IX. 
 
 On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles having 
 two sides of the one equal to two sides of the other, each to 
 each, and the included angles equal, have their remainmg 
 sides and angles equal. 
 
 Let ABO and DEF be two 
 
 triangles, in which AB — DE, 
 AO = DF, and the angle A = 
 the angle D ; then will the side 
 BO be equal to the side FE, 
 the L B = the [__E, and |_ G 
 
 For, if DE lies on the same 
 side of DjFthat AB does of AO, the two triangles, ABC 
 and DEF, may be applied the one to the other, and they 
 may be proved to coincide, as in the case of plane tri- 
 angles. But, if DE does not lie on the same side of DF 
 that AB does of AO, we may construct the triangle which 
 is symmetrical with DEF; and this symmetrical triangle, 
 when applied to the triangle ABO, will exactly coincide 
 with it. But the triangle DEF, and the triangle sym- 
 metrical with it, are not only mutually equilateral, but 
 also are mutually equiangular, the equal angles lying 
 opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8) ; and as the one or the 
 other will coincide with the triangle ABO, it follows that 
 
 
 the triangles, ABO and DBF, are either absolutely or 
 symmetrically equal. 
 
 Oor. On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles 
 having two angles of the one equal to two angles of the other, 
 each to each, and the included sides equal, have their remain- 
 ing sides and angles equal. 
 
 For, if \__A = L A L-# - L-^i and side ^ B - side 
 DE, the triangle DBF, or the triangle symmetrical with 
 it, will exactly coincide with A ABO, when applied to it 
 as in the case of plane triangles ; hence, the sides and 
 angles of the one will be equal to the sides and angles 
 of the other, each to each. 
 
 PKOPOSITION X. 
 
 In an isosceles spherical triangle, the angles opposite the 
 equal sides are equal. 
 
 A 
 
 Let ABO be an isosceles spherical tri- 
 angle, in which AB and A are the equal 
 sides ; then will [__ B = [__(?. 
 
 For, connect the vertex A with D, the / 
 
 middle point of the base, by the arc of a / 
 great circle, thus forming the two mutu- *f—~- 
 ally equilateral triangles, ABB and ADO. 
 They are mutually equilateral, because AD is common, 
 BD = DO by construction, and AB=AO by supposition; 
 hence they are mutually equiangular, the equal angles 
 being opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8). The angles B 
 and 0, being opposite the common side AD, are there- 
 fore equal. * 
 
 Oor. The arc of a great circle which joins the vertex 
 of an isosceles spherical triangle with the middle point of 
 the base, is perpendicular to the base, and bisects the ver- 
 tical angle of the triangle ; and, conversely, the arc of a 
 
 
 255 
 
 great circle which bisects the vertical angle of an isosceles 
 spherical triangle, is perpendicular to, and bisects the 
 base. 
 
 PROPOSITION XI. 
 
 If two angles of a spherical triangle are equal, the opposite 
 sides are also equal, and the triangle is isosceles. 
 ' In the spherical triangle, ABO, let the [_B — [_0; then 
 will the sides, AB and A 0, opposite these equal angles, 
 be equal. 
 
 For, let P be the pole of the base, BO, 
 and draw the arcs of great circles, PB, 
 PO; these arcs will be quadrants, and at 
 right angles to BO, (Cor. 2, Prop. 3). 
 Also, produce OA and BA to meet PB 
 and PO, in the points E and F. Wow, 
 the angles, PBF and POE, are equal, 
 because the first is equal to 90° less the 
 [__ABO, and the second is equal to 90° 
 less the equal \__AOB; hence, the A's, 
 PBFan&POE, are equal in all their parts, 
 since they have the [_P common, the [_PBF = \__POE, 
 and the side PB equal to the side PO, (Cor., Prop. 9). 
 PE is therefore equal to PF, and [_PEO= \__PFB. 
 1 Taking the equals PF and PE, from the equals PO 
 and PB, we have the remainders, FO and EB, equal ; 
 and, from 180°, taking the [_'s PFB and PEO, we have 
 the remaining [__'s, AFO and AEB, equal. Hence, the 
 A's, AFO and AEB, have two angles of the one equal to 
 two angles of the other, each to each, and the included 
 sides equal; the remaining sides and angles are therefore 
 equal, (Cor., Prop. 9). Therefore, A is equal to BA, 
 and the A ABO is isosceles. 
 
 Cor. An equiangular spherical triangle is also equilat- 
 eral, and the converse. 
 
 
 Behare. — In this demonstration, the pole of the base, BC, is sup- 
 posed to fall without the triangle, ABC. The same figure may be used 
 for the case in which the pole falls within the triangle ; the modifi- 
 cation the demonstration then requires is so slight and obvious, that 
 it would be superfluous to suggest it. 
 
 PROPOSITION XII. 
 
 The greater of two sides of a spherical triangle is opposite 
 the greater angle ; and, conversely, the greater of two angles 
 of a spherical triangle is opposite the greater side. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle, in which the angle A 
 is greater than the angle B ; then is the side BO greater 
 than the side A C. 
 
 Through A draw the arc of a 
 great circle, AD, making, with AB, 
 the angle BAI) equal to the angle 
 ABB. The triangle, BAB, is isos- 
 celes, and DA = DB, (Prop. 11). 
 
 In the a ACD, CD+AD>AC, 
 (Prop. 1.); or, substituting for AD its equal DB, we have, 
 CD + DB> AC. 
 
 If in the above inequality we now substitute CB for 
 CD-\-DB, it becomes CB > CA. 
 
 Conversely ; if the side CB be greater than the side CA, 
 then is the \_A > th« [__i?. For, if the [_A is not greater 
 than the [_B, it is either equal to it, or less than it. The 
 [__A is not equal to the [_B ; for if it were, the triangle 
 would be isosceles, and CB would be equal to CA, which 
 is contrary to the hypothesis. The [_A is not less than 
 the [_B; for if it were, the side CB would be less than the 
 side CA, by the first part of the proposition, which is also 
 contrary to the hypothesis ; hence, the [_A must be greater 
 than the L^- 
 
 
 PROPOSITION XIII. 
 Two symmetrical spherical triangles are equal in area 
 
 Let ABO and BEF be two A's on the same sphere, 
 having the sides and angles of the one equal to the sides 
 and angles of the other, each to 
 each, the triangles themselves 
 not admitting of superposition. 
 It is to be proved that these 
 A's have equal areas. 
 
 Let P be the pole of a small 
 circle passing through the three 
 points, ABO, and connect P 
 with each of the points, A, B, 
 
 and 0, by arcs of great circles. Next, through E draw 
 the arc of a great circle, EP', making the angle DEP' 
 equal to the angle ABP. Take EP' = BP, and draw 
 the arcs of great circles, P'B, P'F. 
 
 The A's, ABP and BEP', are equal in all their parts, 
 because AB=BE, BP=EP', and the \__ABP=[_BEP', 
 (Prop. 9). Taking from the \__ABO the \__ABP, and 
 from the \__DEF the \_BEP' , we have the remaining 
 angles, PBO and P'EF, equal; and therefore the A's, 
 BOP and EFP 1 , are also equal in all their parts. 
 
 Now, since the a's, ABP and DEP', are isosceles, they 
 will coincide when applied, as will also the A's, BOP 
 and EFP 1 , for the same reason. The polygonal areas, 
 ABQP and BEFP 1 , are therefore equivalent. If from 
 the first we take the isosceles triangle, PAO, and from the 
 second the equal isosceles triangle, P'BF, the remainders, 
 or the triangle* ABO and BEF, will be equivalent. 
 
 Remark. — It is assumed in this demonstration that the pole P falls 
 without the triangle. Were it to fall within, instead of without, no 
 other change in the above process would be required than to add the 
 isosceles triangles, PAC, P / DF, to the polygonal areas, to get the 
 areas of the triangles, ABC, DEF. 
 
 
 Cor. Two spherical triangles on the same sphere, or on 
 equal spheres, will be equivalent — 1st, when they are 
 mutually equilateral; — 2d, when they are mutually equi- 
 angular ; — 3d, when two sides of the one are equal to 
 two sideb of the other, each to each, and the included 
 angles are equal ; — 4th, when two angles of the one are 
 equal to two angles of the other, each to each, and the 
 included aides are equal. 
 
 PKOPOSITION XIV. 
 
 If two arcs of great circles intersect each otlier on the sur- 
 face of a hemisphere, the sum of either two of the opposite tri- 
 angles thus formed will he equivalent to a lune whose angle is 
 the corresponding angle formed by the arcs. 
 
 Let the great circle, AEBC, be the base of a hemi- 
 sphere, on the surface of which the great semi-circumfer- 
 ences, BBA and CBE, inter- 
 sect each other at B ; then will 
 the sum of the opposite tri- 
 angles, BBC and BAB, be 
 equivalent to the lune whose 
 angle is BBC; and the sum 
 of the opposite triangles, 
 CBA and BBJE, will be equiv- 
 alent to the lune whose angle 
 is CBA. 
 
 Produce the arcs, BB A and 
 CBE, until they intersect on the opposite hemisphere at H\ 
 then, since CBE and BEE are both semi-circumferences 
 of a great circle, they are equal*. Taking from each the 
 common part BE, we have CB = HE. In the same way 
 we prove BB = HA, and AE = BC. The two triangles, 
 BBC and HAE, are therefore mutually equilateral, and 
 hence they are equivalent, (Prop. 13). But the two tri- 
 angles, BAE and ABE f together, make up the lune 
 
 
 259 
 
 BEHAB\ hence the sum of the a's, BBO and ABE, is 
 equivalent to the same lune. 
 
 By the same course of reasoning, we prove that the 
 sum of the opposite A's, BAQ and BBE, is equivalent 
 to the lune BOHAB, whose angle is ABO. 
 
 PROPOSITION XV. 
 
 The surface of a lune is to the whole surface of the sphere, 
 as the angle of the lune is to four right angles ; or, as the arc 
 which measures that angle is to the circumference of a great 
 circle. 
 
 I^ztABFCA be a lune on the 
 surface of a sphere, and BCE 
 an arc of a great circle, whose 
 poles are A and F, the vertices 
 of the angles of the lune. The 
 arc, BO, will then measure the 
 angles of the lune. Take any 
 arc, as BB, that will be con- 
 tained an exact number of times 
 in BO, and in the whole circum- 
 ference, BOEB, and, beginning at B, divide the arc and 
 the circumference into parts equal to BB, and join the 
 points of division and the poles, by arcs of great circles. 
 We shall thus divide the whole surface of the sphere 
 into a number of equal lunes. Now, if the arc BO con- 
 tains the arc BB m times, and the whole circumference 
 contains this arc n times, the surface of the lune will 
 oontain m of these partial lunes, and the surface of the 
 sphere will contain n of the same ; and we shall have, 
 Surf, lune : surf, sphere : : m : n. 
 
 But, m : n :: BO : circumference great circle ; 
 hence, surf, lune : surf sphere : : BO : cir. great circle; 
 or, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: [_BOO : 4 right angles. 
 
 
 This demonstration assumes that BD is a common 
 measure of the arc, BC, and the whole circumference. It 
 may happen that no finite common measure can be 
 found ; but our reasoning would remain the same, even 
 though this common measure were to become indefinitely 
 small. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 Cor. 1. Any two lunes on the same sphere, or on equal 
 spheres, are to each other as their respective angles. 
 
 Scholium. — Spherical triangles, formed by joining the pole of an 
 arc of a great circle with the extremities of this arc by the arcs of 
 great circles, are isosceles, and contain two right angles. For this 
 reason they are called bi-rectangular. If the base is also a quadrant, 
 the vertex of either angle becomes the pole of the opposite side, and 
 each angle is measured by its opposite side. The three angles are then 
 right angles, and the triangle is for this reason called tri-rectangular. 
 It is evident that the surface of a sphere contains eight of its tri- 
 rectangular triangles. 
 
 Cor. 2. Taking the right angle as the unit of angles, 
 and denoting the angle of a lune by A, and the surface 
 of a tri-rectangular triangle by T, we have, 
 surf, of lune : 8^ :: A : 4; 
 
 whence, surf, of lune = 2 A X T. 
 
 Cor. 3. A spherical ungula bears the same relation to 
 the entire sphere, that the lune, which is the base of the 
 ungula, bears to the surface of the sphere ; and hence, 
 any two spherical ungulas in the same sphere, or in 
 equal spheres, are to each other as the angles of their re- 
 spective lunes. 
 
 PKOPOSITION XVI. 
 
 The area cf a spherical triangle is measured by the excess 
 of the sum of its angles over two right angles, multiplied by 
 the tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle, and DJEFLK the cir- 
 cumference of the base of the hemisphere on which this 
 triangle is situated. 
 
 
 Produce the sides of the tri- 
 angle until they meet this cir- 
 cumference in the points, D, U, 
 F, L, K, and P, thus forming 
 the sets of opposite triangles, 
 DAE, AKL ; BEF, BPK; CFL, 
 CDP. 
 
 Now, the triangles of each of 
 these sets are together equal to 
 a lune, whose angle is the cor- 
 responding angle of the triangle, (Prop. 14) ; hence we 
 have, 
 
 ADAE + AAKL = 2 A x T % (Prop. 15, Cor. 2). 
 ABEF + ABPK = 2B x T. 
 A CFL + A CDP = 2(7 x T. 
 
 If the first members of these equations be added, it is 
 evident that their sum will exceed the surface of the 
 hemisphere by twice the triangle ABC; hence, adding 
 these equations member to member, and substituting for 
 the first member of the result its value, 4T + 2 A ABC, 
 we have 
 
 4I 7 + 2aABC = 2A.T + 2B.T+ 2CT 
 
 or, 2T+ AABC=> A.T + B.T + C.T 
 
 whence, A ABC = A.T + B.T + C.T—2T. 
 
 That is, AABC - (A + B + C— 2) T. 
 
 But A + B + C — 2 is the excess of the sum of the 
 angles of the triangle over two right angles, and T de- 
 notes the area of a tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Hence the proposition ; the area, etc. 
 
 
 PROPOSITION XVII. 
 
 77ie area of any spherical polygon is measured by the excess 
 of the sum of all its angles over two right angles, taken as 
 many times, less two, as the polygon has sides, multiplied by 
 the tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Let AB CDE be a spherical poly- ^-—"7 
 
 gon; then will its area be meas- b^"^ / 
 
 ured by the excess of the sum of /\ / 
 
 / \ / 
 
 the angles, A, B, 0, D, and E, over / 
 
 two right angles taken a number / \ 
 
 of times which is two less than J -~J*Je 
 
 the number of sides, multiplied by \ / 
 
 T, the tri-rectangular triangle. \. / 
 
 Through the vertex of any of the p 
 
 angles, as E, and the vertices of 
 
 the opposite angles, pass arcs of great circles, thus divi- 
 ding the polygon into as many triangles, less two, as the 
 polygon has sides. The sum of the angles of the several 
 triangles will be equal to the sum of the angles of the 
 polygon. 
 
 Now, the area of each triangle is measured by the 
 excess of the sum of its angles over two right angles, 
 multiplied by the tri-rectangular triangle. Hence the 
 sum of the areas of all the triangles, or the area of the 
 polygon, is measured by the excess of the sum of all the 
 angles of the triangles over two right angles, taken as 
 many times as there are triangles, multiplied by the tri- 
 rectangular triangle. But there are as many triangles as 
 the polygon has sides, less two. 
 
 Hence the proposition ; the area of any spherical voly- 
 gon, etc. 
 
 Cor. If S denote the sum of the angles of any spherical 
 polygon, n the number of sides, and T the tri-rectan- 
 gular triangle, the right angle being the unit of angles ; 
 the area of the polygon will be expressed by 
 
 [£_ 2 (n — 2)] x T= (#— 2n + 4) T. 
 
RETURN TO the circulation desk of any 
 University of California Library 
 or to the 
 NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
 Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
 University of California 
 Richmond, CA 94804-4698 
 
 ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 
 
 • 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
 (510)642-6753 
 
 • 1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
 books to NRLF 
 
 • Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
 days prior to due date. 
 
 DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 
 
 SENT ON ILL 
 
 FEB 2 2001 
 
 U. C. BERKELEY 
 
 2,000(11/95) 
 
SHE 
 
 MS 
 
Cjje !|,mraran: (Sftucaitonal Sm.es. 
 
 Standard French Course. 
 
 By Louis Fasquelle, LL. D., late Professor of Modern Languages in the University 
 
 of Michigan 
 The plan of this popular Series embraces a combination of two rival systems: the 
 Oral, adopted by Ollendorff, Robertson, Manesca, and others, with the old Classical 
 or Grammatical System. One of its principal features is a constant comparison of the 
 construction of the French and English Languages. The Reading Books ar selected 
 from the best French Authors, carefully edited, with copious Notes and References and 
 neatly executed. The "Course" has been republished in England, and is in successful 
 use in the Schools of that country. 
 
 Standard German Series. 
 
 By W. H. Woodbury, A. M. 
 This Series is founded on similar principles with Fasquelle's French Series, and is 
 highly commended and largely used by the best teachers of the language in the country. 
 Ja?" It comprises a Full Course in the study of the language. 
 
 STANDARD SERIES OF 
 
 Progressive Spanish Readers. 
 
 By Prof. L. F. Mantilla. 
 
 These Readers are specially intended for Schools in the "West India Islands, Mexico 
 and the Spanish South American States, but will answer every purpose for the acquire- 
 ment of the Spanish language by anyone who desires to make it a study. 
 
 %W Full descriptive Circulars, with titles and prices, of the above series will be 
 forwarded by mail on application. 
 
 Taylor's Greek Grammar. 
 
 AN ELEMENTARY GRAMMAR OF THE GREEK LANGUAGE, with 
 Exercises and Vocabularies. By Samuel H. Taylor, LL. D. Based on the 25th 
 edition of Kuhner's Grammar. 400 pages. Price $1.60. 
 
 KENDRICK'S GREEK INTRODUCTION. By Asahel C. Kendrick, D. D., 
 Professor of Greek in the Rochester University. 172 pages. 80 cents. 
 
 SPENCER'S GREEK PRAXIS. By J. A. Spencer, S. T. D., Professor of Greek 
 in the College of the City of New York. A new and excellent work, with Notes 
 and a Vocabulary. 1 vol. cloth. $1.00. 
 
 TIROCINIUM; or, First Lessons in Latin. By D. Bendan, Ph. D. 154 
 pages. 60 cents. 
 
 ARS ORATORIA : Selections from Cicero and Quintiltan on Oratory. 
 With Notes. By Martin Kellogg, Professor of Latin and Greek in the University 
 of California. 1 vol. handsomely bound in cloth. 157 pages. Price $1.25. 
 
 %*THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blaheman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHERS, 
 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New York. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
CItt %mttktm 6i&tatfonal &itm. 
 
 Arithmetical Examples, 
 
 MENTAL AND WRITTEN. With numerous Tables of Money, Weights, 
 Measures, &c, designed for Review and Test Exercises. By D. W. Fish, A. M. 
 i2mo. cloth, 282 pages. Price $1.00. By mail on receipt of the price. 
 
 This work occupies the place in Robinson's Series formerly held by M The Arith- 
 metical or Test Examples ;" but it is a much fuller work. It contains a large and 
 promiscuous collection of practical examples, both Mental and Written, involving all the 
 principles and ordinary applications of Common Arithmetic, to be used both as a class- 
 book and as a book 0/ reference by the teacher. 
 
 The design is to furnish a large number of well-prepared Intellectual and Written 
 Questions and Problems, without analysis, rule, process, or answer, for thorough drill 
 and review, and that may be used in connection with any other book, or series of books, 
 on the subject, or with great profit put into the hands of advanced and graduating 
 classes, after finishing some systematic treatise on Practical Arithmetic, instead of taking 
 an extended work on Higher Arithmetic. 
 
 There is a general classification of the examples, the work being divided into six 
 chapters. The first chapter presents a full statement of the Standards and Tables of 
 Weights and Measures, other Tables, Notes, &c. ; the second involves the applications of 
 the Simple Rules of Arithmetic, and of Properties of Numbers ; the third includes 
 Common and Decimal Fractions ; the fourth, Compound and Denominate Numbers ; the 
 fifth, Percentage, in all its varied applications ; the sixth comprehends all other subjects 
 belonging to this science. Each succeeding chapter combining the principles and pro- 
 cesses of the preceding ones, as well as of the new subjects added. 
 
 Two editions are printed, one for the use of Teachers, with answers ; the other, without 
 answers, for the use of Classes. 
 
 From Ohio Educational Journal, E. E. White ( 'author of 'White 's Arithmetics ), Editor : 
 " This little book is written and published as a part of Robinson's Mathematical 
 Series, but of course it may be used in connection with any other series or any text-book 
 on the subject of arithmetic. The book is gotten up handsomely and, accompanying some 
 good text-book on arithmetic, would unquestionably do good service. The problems 
 are classified as to subjects, rendering the book usable in classes of all grades." 
 
 ***THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 educational publishebs, 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New Vork. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
Clre ^merixatt (Ktmcatfonal Serbs, 
 
 Loomis's Music for the Common Schools. 
 
 FIRST STEPS IN MUSIC. A Graded Course of Instruction in Music for Common 
 
 Schools. By Geo. 3 Loomis. To be completed in Four Books. 
 
 t Number One. Price 15 cents. 
 v R J Number Two. Price is cents. 
 
 j Number Three. Price 35 cents, 
 v Number Four. Price 60 cents. 
 
 This series presents a simple, graded course of instruction in Music adapted to the 
 primary classes in our Schools— the very place where the study of Music should begin 
 Children should not only be taught to sing, but they should be taught at an early age 
 to read Music : and it is the design of these books to aid in accomplishing this result. 
 They present the simple rudiments of the subject in a progressive series of easy exercises, 
 accompanied with such instruction as will make the way clear to teachers of very slim 
 musical qualifications. The steps are so gradual in their progressiveness that the teacher 
 can easily keep ahead of the class, and lead them along 
 
 TESTIMONIALS. 
 
 From Hon. Henry Kiddle, Supt. Schools, New York City. 
 
 "First Steps in Music, by Prof. George B. Loomis, seems tome admirably adapted 
 
 for elementary instruction in that art. The method is based on correct principles of 
 
 teaching, and the lessons, dictated by a long practical experience of Prof. Loomis, are 
 
 such as to enable teachers generally to apply them with facility and success." 
 
 From G. A. Chase, Prin. Louisville, Ky. y Female High School. 
 " I have tried Mr. Loomis 1 Plan with the little pupils in the school of a friend of mine. 
 It is astonishing how delightedly and rapidly they learn the elements of vocal music. 1 
 never saw anything equal to the First Steps as an aid to primary instruction." 
 
 From S. M. Capron, Prin. Hartford, Ct., High School. 
 " I knew of no other attempt {' Loomis 1 First Steps') so successful to bring the elemen- 
 tary principles of the science down to the comprehension of children." 
 
 %*THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full 'of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 educational publishers, 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New York. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
 
 ELEMENTS 
 
 OF 
 
 GEOMETRY, 
 
 PLANE AND SPHERICAL; 
 
 WITH 
 
 NUMEROUS PRACTICAL PROBLEMS, 
 
 BY 
 
 HORATIO N. ROBINSON, LL.D., 
 
 AUTHOR OP A FULL COURSE^OF MATHEMATICS. 
 REWRITTEN BY 
 
 I. F. QUINBY, A.M., LL.D., 
 
 PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, UNIVER8rTY OF EOCHE8TER ; 
 AUTHOR OF DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL CALCULUS. 
 
 IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO. 
 NEW YORK: CHICAGO: • 
 
 SERIES OF MATHEMATICS. 
 
 The most Complete, most Practical, and most Scientific Series of 
 Mathematical Text-Books ever issued in this country. 
 
ptOBusrsoisrs 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Table HooJe, ....... 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Primary Arithmetic, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Intellectual Arithmetic, .... 
 
 Robinson's Rudiments of Written Arithmetic, - 
 Robinson's Progressive Practical Arithmetic, - 
 Robinson's Key to Practical Arithmetic, ------ 
 
 Robinson's Progressive Higher Arithmetic, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's Key to Higher Arithmetic, .---.- 
 Robinson's Arithmetical Examples, ------- 
 
 Robinson's New Elementary Algebra, 
 
 Robinson's Key to Elementary Algebra, 
 
 Robinson's "University Algebra, -------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to University Algebra, ------ 
 
 Robinson's New University Algebra, ------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to New University Algebra, - - - - - 
 
 Robinson's New Geometry and Trigonometry, 
 
 Robinson's New Geometry only, -------- 
 
 Robinson's New Trigonometry only, 
 
 Robinson's Surveying and Navigation, ------ 
 
 Robinson's Analytical Geometry and Conic Sections, - - - 
 Robinson's Differential and Integral Calculus, - 
 Kiddle's New Elementary Astronomy, ---.-. 
 Robinson's University Astronomy, ..-.--- 
 Robinson's Mathematical Operations, ------- 
 
 Robinson's Key to Geometry and Trigonometry, Conic Sections, 
 and Analytical Geometry, --------- 
 
 ), according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by 
 DANIEL W. FISH, A.M., 
 in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern 
 District of New York. 
 
 PEEFAOE, 
 
 In the preparation of this work, the author's previous 
 treatise, Elements of Geometry, has formed the ground- 
 work of construction. But in adapting the work to the 
 present advanced state of Mathematical education in our 
 best Institutions, it was found necessary so to alter the 
 plan, and the arrangement of subjects, as to make this 
 essentially a new work. The demonstrations of proposi- 
 tions have undergone radical changes, many new proposi- 
 tions have been introduced, and the number of Practical 
 Problems greatly increased, so that the work is now believed 
 to be as full and complete as could be desired in an elemen- 
 tary treatise. 
 
 In view of the fact that the Seventh Book is so much 
 larger than the others, it may be asked why it is not divided 
 into two. We answer, that classifications and divisions 
 are based upon differences, and that the differences seized 
 upon for this purpose must be determined by the nature of 
 the properties and relations we wish to investigate. There 
 is such a close resemblance between the geometrical prop- 
 erties of the polyedrons and the round bodies, and the 
 demonstrations relating to the former require such slight 
 modifications to become applicable to the latter, that there 
 seems no sufficient reason for separating into two Books 
 that part of Geometry which treats of them. 
 
 M5498G7 
 
 
 Practical rules with applications will be found throughout 
 the work, and in addition to these, there is a full collection 
 of carefully selected Practical Problems. These are given 
 to exercise the powers and test the proficiency of the pupil, 
 and when he has mastered the most or all of them, it is 
 not likely that he will rest satisfied with present acquisi- 
 tion, but, conscious of augmented strength and certain of 
 reward, he will enter new fields of investigation. 
 
 The author has been aided, in the preparation of the 
 present work, by I. F. Quinby, A.M., of the University of 
 Eochester, N. Y., late Professor of Mathematics in the 
 United States Military Academy at West Point. The 
 thorough scholarship and long and successful experience 
 of this gentleman in the class-room, eminently qualify him 
 for such a task; and to him the public are indebted for* 
 much that is valuable, both in the matter and arrangement 
 of this treatise. 
 
 October, 1860. 
 
 
 PLANE GEOMETRY. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 Geometrical Magnitudes ... ... ....... . .. . Page 9 
 
 Plane Angles 10 
 
 Plane Figures of Three Sides w*.-~.U^ 12 
 
 Plane Figures of Four Sides. .....-^. ...... ....... 13 
 
 The Circle ......... ..... ... 14 
 
 Units of Measure .................. 15 
 
 Explanation of Terms. 16 
 
 Postulates.. —...-...-r. .. . 16 
 
 Axioms -. .. 17 
 
 Abbreviations 17 
 
 BOOK I. 
 Of Straight Lines, Angles, and Polygons... ....... -^.. ... . 19 
 
 BOOK II. 
 Proportion, and its Application to Geometrical Investigations. ... 59 
 
 BOOK III. 
 Of the Circle, and the Investigation of Theorems dependent on its 
 
 Properties 88 
 
 1* M 
 
 
 BOOK IV. 
 
 Problems in the Construction of Figures in Plane Geometry.. ... Ill 
 
 BOOK V. 
 
 On the Proportionalities and Measurement of Polygons and Circles. 130 
 Practical Problems 142 
 
 BOOK VI. 
 
 On the Intersections of Planes, the Kelative Positions of Planes, 
 
 and of Planes and Lines 152 
 
 BOOK VII. 
 
 Solid Geometry t 172 
 
 Practical Problems 229 
 
 BOOK VIII. 
 
 Practical Geometry. — Application of Algebra to Geometry, and 
 
 also Propositions for Original Investigation 231 
 
 Miscellaneous Propositions in Plane Geometry 238 
 
 BOOK IX. 
 
 Spherical Geometry 243 
 
 Definitions 243 
 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. Geometry is the science which treats of position, and 
 of the forms, measurements, mutual relations, and pro- 
 perties of limited portions of space. 
 
 Space extends without limit in all directions, and contains all 
 bodies. 
 
 2. A Point is mere position, and has no magnitude. 
 
 3. Extension is a term employed to denote that pro- 
 perty of bodies by virtue of which they occupy definite 
 portions of space. The dimensions of extension are 
 length, breadth, and thickness. 
 
 4. A Line is that which has extension in length only. 
 The extremities of a line are points. 
 
 5. A Right or Straight Line is one all of whose parts 
 lie in the same direction. 
 
 6. A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how- 
 ever small, do not lie in the same direction. 
 
 7. A Broken or Crooked Line is 
 composed of several straight lines, 
 joined one to another successively, 
 and extending in different directions. 
 
 When the word line is used, a straight line is to be understood, 
 unless otherwise expressed. 
 
 8. A Surface or Superficies is that which has extension 
 in length and breadth only. 
 
 9. A Plane Surface, or a Plane, is a surface such that 
 
 (9) 
 
 
 if any two of its points be joined by a straight line, every' 
 point of this line will lie in the surface. 
 
 10. A Curved Surface is one which is neither a plane, 
 nor composed of plane surfaces. 
 
 11. A Plane Angle, or simply an Angle, 
 is the difference in the direction of two 
 lines proceeding from the same point. 
 
 The other angles treated of in geometry will be named and defined 
 in their proper connections. 
 
 12. A Volume, Solid, or Body, is that which has exten- 
 sion in length, breadth, and thickness. 
 
 These terms are used in a sense purely abstract, to denote mere 
 space — whether occupied by matter or not, being a question with 
 which geometry is not concerned. 
 
 Lines, Surfaces, Angles, and Volumes constitute the 
 different kinds of quantity called geometrical magnitudes. 
 
 13. Parallel Lines are lines which have 
 
 the same direction. 
 
 Hence parallel lines can never meet, however far they may be 
 produced ; for two lines taking the same direction cannot approach 
 or recede from each other. 
 
 Two parallel lines cannot be drawn from the same point; for it 
 parallel, they must coincide and form one line. 
 
 PLANE ANGLES. 
 
 To make an angle apparent, the two 
 lines must meet in a point, as AB and 
 A 0, which meet in the point A , 
 
 Angles are measured by degrees. 
 
 14. A Degree is one of the three hundred and sixty 
 equal parts of the space about a point in a plane. 
 
 If, in the above figure, we suppose A C to coincide with AB, 
 there will be but one line, and no angle ; but if AB retain its posi 
 tion, and A G begin to revolve about the point A, an angle will be 
 formed, and its magnitude will be expressed by that number of the 
 
 
 c 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 11 
 
 860 equal spaces about the point A, which is contained between 
 AB and A G. 
 
 Angles are distinguished in respect to magnitude by 
 the terms Right, Acute, and Obtuse Angles. J 
 
 15. A Right Angle is that formed by one 
 line meeting another, so as to make equal 
 angles with that other. 
 
 The lines forming a right angle are perpendicular 
 to *ach other. 
 
 16. An Acute Angle is less than a right 
 angle. 
 
 17. An Obtuse Angle is greater than 
 a right angle. 
 
 Obtuse and acute angles are also called 
 oblique angles; and lines which are neither parallel nor perpen- 
 dicular to each other are called oblique lines. 
 
 18. The Vertex or Apex of an angle is the point in which 
 the including lines meet. 
 
 19. An angle is commonly designated by a letter at its 
 vertex; but when two or more angles have their vertices 
 at the same point, they cannot be 
 thus distinguished. 
 
 For example, when the three lines 
 AB y A C, and AD meet in the common 
 point Aj we designate either of the an- 
 gles formed, by three letters, placing 
 that at the vertex between those at the 
 opposite extremities of the including 
 lines. Thus, we say, the angle BAG, 
 etc. B 
 
 20. Complements. — Two angles are said to be comple 
 ments of each other, when their sum is equal to one right 
 angle. 
 
 21. Supplements. — Two angles are said to be supple- 
 ments of each other, when their sum is equal to two n^ht 
 angles. 
 
 r 
 
 
 PLANE FIGURES. 
 
 22. A Plane Figure, in geometry, is a portion of a 
 plane bounded by straight or curved lines, or by both 
 combined. 
 
 23. A Polygon is a plane figure bounded by straight 
 Hues, called the sides of the polygon. 
 
 The least number of sides that can bound a polygon is 
 three, and by the figure thus bounded all other polygons 
 are analyzed. 
 
 FIGURES OF THREE SIDES. 
 
 24. A Triangle is a polygon having three sides and 
 three angles. 
 
 Tri is a Latin prefix signifying three ; hence a Triangle is lite < 
 /ally a figure containing three angled. Triangles are denominated 
 from the relations both of their sides and angles. 
 
 25. A Scalene Triangle is one in 
 which no two sides are equal. 
 
 26. An Isosceles Triangle is one in 
 which two of the sides are equal. 
 
 27. An Equilateral Triangle is one in 
 arhich the three sides are equal. 
 
 28. A Right -Angled Triangle is one 
 which has one of the angles a right 
 angle. 
 
 29. An Obtrse-Angled Triangle is one 
 1 aving an obtuse angle. 
 
 
 30. An Acute- Angled Triangle is one 
 in which each angle is acute. 
 
 31. An Equiangular Triangle is one 
 having its three angles jqual. 
 
 Equiangular triangles are dso equilateral, and vice versa. 
 FIGURES OF FOUR SIDES. 
 
 32. A Quadrilateral is a polygon having four sides and 
 four angles. 
 
 33. A Parallelogram is a quadrilateral 7 
 
 which has its opposite sides parallel. / / 
 
 Parallelograms are denominated from the rela- _• 
 
 tions both of their sides and angles. 
 
 34. A Rectangle is a parallelogram hav- 
 ing its angles right angles. 
 
 35. A Square is an equilateral rectangle. 
 
 36. A Rhomboid is an oblique-angled parallelogram. 
 
 37. A Rhombus is an equilateral rhom- 
 boid. 
 
 38. A Trapezium is a quadrilateral having 
 10 two sides parallel. 
 
 39. A Trapezoid is a quadrilateral in f 
 hich two opposite s* J 
 i le other two oblique. 
 
 v/hich two opposite sides are parallel, and / 
 
 40. Polygous bounded by a greater number of sides 
 2 
 
 
 than four are denominated only by the number of sides. 
 A polygon of five sides is called a Pentagon • of six, a 
 Hexagon ; of seven, a Heptagon / of eight, an Octagon ; 
 of nine, a JVonagon, etc. 
 
 4L Diagonals of a polygon are lines 
 joining the vertices of angles not ad- 
 jacent. 
 
 42. The Perimeter of a polygon is its boundary consid 
 ered as a whole. 
 
 43. The Base of a polygon is the side upon which the 
 polygon is supposed to stand. 
 
 44. The Altitude of a polygon is the perpendicular 
 distance between the base and a side or angle opposite 
 the base. 
 
 45. Equal Magnitudes are those which are not only 
 equal in all their parts, but which also, when applied the 
 one to the other, will coincide throughout their whole 
 extent. 
 
 46. Equivalent Magnitudes are those which, though they 
 do not admit of coincidence when applied the one to the 
 other, still have common measures, and are therefore 
 numerically equal. 
 
 47. Similar Figures have equal angles, and the same 
 number of sides. 
 
 Polygons may be similar without being equal ; that is, the angles 
 and the number of sides may be equal, and the length of the sides 
 and the size of the figures unequal. 
 
 X THE CIRCLE. 
 
 48. A Circle is a plane figure bound- 
 ed by one uniformly curved line, all of 
 the points in which are at the same 
 distance from a certain point within, 
 called the Center, 
 
 49. The Circumference of a circle is 
 the curved line that bounds it. 
 
 \ 
 
 
 50. The Diameter of a circle is a line passing througn 
 its center, and terminating at both ends in the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 51. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from 
 its center to any point in the circumference. It is one 
 half of the diameter. All the diameters of a circle are 
 equal, as are also all the radii. 
 
 52. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 53. An angle having its vertex at the center of a 
 circle is measured by the arc intercepted by its sides. 
 Thus, the arc AB measures the angle A OB ; and in gen- 
 eral, to compare different angles, we have but to compare 
 the arcs, included by their sides, of the equal circles 
 having their centers at the vertices of the angles. 
 
 UNITS OF MEASURE. 
 
 54. The Numerical Expression of a Magnitude is a number 
 expressing how many times it contains a magnitude of the 
 Bame kind, and of known value, assumed as a unit. 
 For lines, the measuring unit is any straight line of fixed 
 value, as an inch, a foot, a rod, etc. ; and for surfaces, the 
 measuring unit is a square whose side may be any linear 
 unit, as an inch, a foot, a mile, etc. The linear unit 
 being arbitrary, the surface unit is equally so ; and its 
 selection is determined by considerations of convenience 
 and propriety. 
 
 For example, the parallelogram A BBC is mea- c D 
 
 sured by the number of linear units in CD, mul- 
 tiplied by the number of linear units in AC ox 
 BD; the product is the square units in ABDC. 
 For, conceive CD to be composed of any number A B 
 
 of equal parts — say five — and each part some unit of linear measure, 
 and AC composed of three such units; from each point of divi- 
 sion on CD draw lines parallel to A C, and from each point of divi- 
 sion on A C draw lines parallel to CD or AB ; then it is as obvious 
 
 
 as an axiom that the parallelogram will contain 5 X 3 = 15 square 
 units. Hence, to find the areas of right-angled parallelograms, mul- 
 tiply the base by the altitude. 
 
 EXPLANATION OF TERMS. 
 
 55. An Axiom is a self-evident truth, not only too sim- 
 ple to require, but too simple to admit of, demonstration. 
 
 56. A Proposition is something which is either pro- 
 posed to be done, or to be demonstrated, and is either a 
 problem or a theorem. 
 
 57. A Problem is something proposed to be done. 
 
 58. A Theorem is something proposed to be demon- 
 strated. 
 
 59. A Hypothesis is a supposition made with a view to 
 draw from it some consequence which establishes the 
 truth or falsehood of a proposition, or solves a problem. 
 
 60. A Lemma is something which is premised, or demon- 
 strated, in order to render what follows more easy. 
 
 61. A Corollary is a consequent truth derived imme- 
 diately from some preceding truth or demonstration. 
 
 62. A Scholium is a remark or observation made upon 
 something going before it. 
 
 63. A Postulate is a problem, the solution of which is 
 self-evident. 
 
 POSTULATES. 
 
 Let it be granted — 
 
 I. That a straight line can be drawn from any one poirt 
 to any other point ; 
 
 IL. That a straight line can be produced to any distance, 
 or terminated at any point ; 
 
 III. That the circumference of a circle can be de- 
 Bcrjbed about any center, at any distance from that center. 
 
 
 AXIOMS. 
 
 1. Things which are equal to the same thing are equal U 
 each other. 
 
 2. Wlien equals are added to equals the wholes are equal, 
 
 3. When equals are taken from equals the remainders are 
 equal. 
 
 4. When equals are added to unequals the wholes are 
 unequal. 
 
 5. Wlien equals are taken from unequals the remainders 
 are unequal. 
 
 6. Things which are double of the same thing, or equal 
 things, are equal to each other. 
 
 7. Things which are halves of the same thing, or of equal 
 things, are equal to each other. 
 
 8. The whole is greater than any of its parts. 
 
 9. Every whole is equal to all its parts taken together. 
 
 10. Things which coincide, or fill the same space, are 
 identical, or mutually equal in all their parts. 
 
 11. All right angles are equal to one another. 
 
 12. A straight line is the shortest distance between two 
 points. 
 
 18. Two straight lines cannot inclose a space. 
 
 ABBREVIATIONS. 
 
 The common algebraic signs are used in this work, 
 and demonstrations are sometimes made through the 
 medium of equations ; and it is so necessary that the 
 student in geometry should understand some of the more 
 simple operations of algebra, that we assume that he is 
 acquainted with the use of the signs. As the terms 
 circle, angle, triangle, hypothesis, axiom, theorem, cor- 
 ollary, and definition, are constantly occurring in a course 
 of geometiy, we shall abbreviate them as shown in the 
 following list : 
 
 
 By Th. 1, any two supplementary angles, as ABD^ 
 ABO, are together equal to two right angles. And since 
 the angular space about the point B is neither increased 
 nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that 
 point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABU, JEBH, 
 HBQ, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD, 
 HBO. Hence the theorem ; from any point in a line, the 
 sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of 
 the line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be 
 formed on the other side of the line, OB, is also equal to 
 two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be 
 formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are 
 together equal to four right angles. 
 
 Oor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum- 
 ference of a circle, being the sum of the 
 measures of all the angles that can be 
 made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the 
 measure of four right angles; conse- 
 quently, a semicircumference. is the mea- 
 sure of two right angles ; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the 
 measure of one right angle. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 X 
 
 If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles, which together are equal 
 tc two right angles the 'two straight lines are one and the. 
 tame line. 
 
 Let the line AB meet the 
 lines BD and BE at the com- 
 mon point B, making the sum 
 of tne two angles ABB, ABB, 
 equal to two right angles; We j£ 
 are to prove that DB and BE* 
 
 are one straight line 
 
 j^' 
 
 
 If I)B and BE are not in the same line, produce DB 
 to 0, thus forming one line, BBC 
 
 Now by Th. 1, ABB + ABO must be equal to two 
 right angles. But by hypothesis, ABB 4- ABE is equal 
 to two right angles. 
 
 * Therefore, ABB + ABO is equal to ABB -f ABE, 
 (Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com- 
 mon angle ABB, and the angle ABO will be equal to 
 ABE, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with 
 BO, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and 
 they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if one line meets two other lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles which together are equal 
 to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line. 
 
 THEOKEM IV. 
 
 If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 If AB and OB intersect each 
 other at E, we are to demonstrate 
 that the angle AEO is equal to 
 the vertical angle BEB ; and the 
 angle AEB, to the vertical angle 
 OEB. 
 
 As AB is one line met by BE, another line, the two 
 angles AEB and BEB, on the same side of AB, are equal 
 to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because OB is a right 
 line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEO and AEB 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Therefore, AEB + BEB = AEO + AEB. (Ax. 1.) 
 
 If from these equals we take away the common angle 
 AEB, the remaining angle BEB must be equal to the 
 remaining angle AEO, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we can 
 prove that AEB is equal to OEB. Hence the theo**en. ; 
 if the two lines intersect each other, the vertic %l angle* mu it 
 be equal. 
 
 
 By Th. 1, any two supplementary angles, as ABD^ 
 ABC, are together equal to two right angles. And since 
 the angular space about the point B is neither increased 
 nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that 
 point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABU, EBH, 
 HBO, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD, 
 HBQ. Hence the theorem ; from any point in a line, the 
 sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of 
 the line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be 
 formed on the other side of the line, CD, is also equal to 
 two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be 
 formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are 
 together equal to four right angles. 
 
 Cor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum- 
 ference of a circle, being the sum of the 
 measures of all the angles that can be 
 made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the 
 measure of four right angles; conse- 
 quently, a semicircumference, is the mea- 
 sure of two right angles ; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the 
 measure of one right angle. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 t 
 
 If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles, which together are equal 
 tc two right angles the 'two straight lines are one and the 
 tame line. 
 
 Let the line AB meet the 
 lines BD and BE at the com- A 
 
 mon point B, making the sum 
 of tne two angles ABB, ABE, 
 equal to two right angles ; We 
 are to prove that DB and BlM 
 are one straight line. 
 
 
 If 1)B and BE are not in the same line, produce BB 
 to 0, thus forming one line, BBC. 
 
 Now by Th. 1, ABB -f ABO must be equal to two 
 right angles. But by hypothesis, ABB + ABB is equal 
 to two right angles. 
 
 * Therefore, ABB + ABO is equal to ABB + ABB, 
 (Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com- 
 mon angle ABB, and the angle ABO will be equal to 
 ABB, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with 
 BO, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and 
 they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if one line meets two other lines at a 
 common point, forming two angles which together are equal 
 to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 If AB and OB intersect each 
 other at E, we are to demonstrate 
 that the angle AEO is equal to 
 the vertical angle BEB ; and the 
 angle AEB, to the vertical angle 
 OEB. 
 
 As AB is one line met by BE, another line, the two 
 angles AEB and BEB, on the same side of AB, are equal 
 to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because OB is a right 
 line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEO and AEB 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Therefore, AEB + BEB = AEO + AEB. (Ax. 1.) 
 
 If from these equals we take away the common angle 
 AEB, the remaining angle BEB must be equal to the 
 remaining angle AEO, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we can 
 prove that AEB is equal to OEB. Hence the thecen. ; 
 if the two lines intersect each other, the vertic il angle* km it 
 be equal. 
 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 
 By Def. 11, the angle DEB is the difference in the 
 direction of the lines ED and EB ; and the angle AEQ 
 is the difference in the direction of the lines EC and EA. 
 
 But ED is opposite in direction to EC; and EB is 
 opposite in direction to EA. 
 
 Hence, the difference in the direction of ED and EB 
 is the same as that of EC and EA> as is obvious by in- 
 spection. 
 
 Therefore, the angle DEB is equal to its opposite AEC 
 
 In like manner, we may prove AED = CEB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two lines intersect each other, ths 
 vertical angles must be equal. 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 If a straight line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of 
 the two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting 
 line is equal to two right angles. 
 
 [Note. — By interior angles, we mean angles which lie between the 
 parallels ; the exterior angles are those not between the parallels.] 
 
 Let the line EF intersect the 
 parallels AB and CD \ then 
 we are to demonstrate that 
 the angles BGE + GHD = 
 
 2K.L 
 
 Because GB and ED are C /H d 
 
 parallel, they are equally in- <£ 
 
 clined to the line EF, or have 
 
 the same difference of direction from that line. There- 
 fore, |_ FGB = [__ GHD. To each of these equals add 
 the \_BGH, and we have FGB +BGH=GITD+BGB:. 
 But by Th. 1, the first member of this equation is equal 
 to two right angles ; and the second member is the sum 
 of the two angles between the parallels. Hence the theo- 
 rem ; if a line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of the two 
 interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line must 
 be equal to two right angle*. 
 
 
 Sctt&Ln* — As AB and CD are parallel lines, and EF is a line 
 intersecting them, AB and EF must make angles equal to those made 
 by CD and EF. That is, the angles about the point G must be equal 
 to the corresponding angles about the point H. 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 If a line intersects two parallel lines, the alternate interior 
 angles are equal. 
 
 Let AB and CD be paral- 
 lels, intersected by EF at E 
 and G. Then we are to prove 
 
 that the angle A GE is equal 
 
 to the alternate angle GED, 
 
 and QEG = EGB. c ~7W " D 
 
 By Th. 5, [_BGE + \__ / 
 
 GED = two right angles. Al- 
 so, by Th. 1, \_AGE + [_BGE = two right angles. 
 From these equals take away the common angle BGE, 
 and L GHD will be left, equal to \_AGE, (Ax. 3). In 
 like manner, we can prove that the angle QEG is equal 
 to the angle EGB. Hence the theorem ; if a line intersects 
 two parallel lines, the alternate interior angles are equal. 
 
 Cor. 1. Since [__ A GE = [__ FGB, 
 
 and \_AGE=[__GED; 
 
 Therefore, L FGB - |_ &HD (Ax. 1). 
 
 Also, L A &F + L A GH = 2 R - L> (Th. 1), 
 
 and L OEG + [_AGE = 2 K. L, (Th. 5); 
 
 Therefore 
 
 \_AGF + l_AGE= [_CEG + L_AGE,(Ax.l); 
 
 and L A GF = L OEG, (Ax. 3). 
 
 That is, the exterior angle is equal to the interior opposiU 
 angle on the same side of the intersecting line. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since \_AGE = [_FGB, 
 
 and l_AGE=\_CEE; 
 
 Therefore, [__FGB = |_ OEE. 
 
 In the same manner it may be shown that 
 [__AGF = \_EED. 
 
 Hence, the alternate exterior angles are equal. 
 
 v * 
 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If a line intersects two other lines, making the sum of the 
 two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line 
 equal to two right angles, the two straight lines are parallel. 
 
 Let the line EF intersect 
 the lines AB and OB, making 
 the two angles BQR + GHB A 
 = to two right angles ; then 
 we are to demonstrate that 
 AB and OB are parallel. C /H "~ d 
 
 As EF is a right line and E ' 
 
 BGr meets it, the two angles 
 
 FCrB and BGH are together equal to two right angles, 
 (Th. 1). But by hypothesis, the angles, BGHnnd GHB, 
 are together equal to two right angles. From these two 
 equals take away the common angle BGrH, and the re- 
 maining angles FGB and GHD must be equal, (Ax. 3). 
 Now, because GB and HD make equal angles with the 
 same line EF, they must extend in the same direction ; and 
 lines having the same direction are parallel, (Def. 13). 
 Hence the theorem ; if a line intersects two other lines, making 
 the sum of the two interior angles on the same side of the in- 
 tersecting line equal to two right angles, the two lines must b« 
 'parallel. 
 
 Cor. 1. If a line intersects two other lines, making the 
 alternate interior angles equal, the two lines intersected 
 must be parallel. 
 
 Suppose the \_ AGH = |__ & HI) - Adding L H& B 
 to each, we have 
 
 [_AGH + [_HGB = L_ GHB + [__HGB. 
 but the first member of this equation, that is, [_AGfH-+ 
 |__ HGB, is equal to two right angles ; hence the second 
 member is also equal to the same ; and by the theorem, 
 the lines AB and OB are parallel. 
 
 Cor. 2. If a line intersects two other lines, making the 
 
 
 opposite exterior and interior angles equal, the two lines 
 
 intersected must be parallel. 
 Suppose the [_ FGB = [_ GRD. Adding the [__ HGB 
 
 to each, we have 
 
 [_FGB + \_EGB = L &HD + ##£. 
 
 But the first member of this equation is equal to two 
 
 right angles ; hence the second member is also equal to 
 
 two right angles ; and by the theorem, the lines AB and 
 
 OB are parallel. 
 
 Oor. 3. If a line intersects two other lines, making tbo 
 
 alternate exterior angles equal, the lines must be parallel: 
 Suppose [_BGF=[_ORF, and [_AGF = [_DRF, 
 ByTh.4, [_BGF^[__AGR,2ind[_ORF = [_DRG 
 And since [_BGF = [_ORF, [__AGR=[_DRG . 
 That is, the alternate interior angles are equal; an* J 
 
 hence (by Cor. 1) the two lines are parallel. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If two angles have their sides parallel, the two angles will 
 be either equal or supplementary. 
 
 Let A be parallel to BD, and AH 
 parallel to BF or to BG. Then we are 
 to pror^ that the angle DBx is equal 
 to the angle OAR, and that the angle 
 DBG is supplementary to the angle A. 
 The angle OAR is formed by the differ- 
 ence in the direction of A and A R; and 
 the angle DBF is formed by the differ- 
 ence in the direction of BB and BF. 
 But A and A R have the same direc- 
 tions as BB and BF, because they are respectively paral- 
 lel. Therefore, by Def. 11, L CAR= \__BBF. But the 
 line BG has the same, direction as BF, and the angle 
 DBG is supplementary to DBF. Hence the theorem; 
 angles whose sides are parallel are either equal or supple* 
 inentary. 
 3 
 
 X 
 
 \ 
 
 
 v, • THEOREM IX. 
 
 The opposite angles of any parallelogram we equal. 
 
 Let AEBG be a parallel- 
 ogram. Then we are to \ 
 
 prove that the angle GBE 6 \] 
 
 is equal to its opposite angle 
 A. 
 
 Produce EB to D, and GB 
 to F; then, since BD is par- 
 allel to AG, and BF to AE, the angle DBF is equal co 
 the angle A, (Th. 8). 
 
 But the angles GBE and DBF, being vertical, are 
 equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, the opposite angles GBE and 
 A, of the parallelogram AEBG, are equal. 
 
 In like manner, we can prove the angle E equal to 
 the angle G. Hence the theorem ; the opposite angles of 
 any parallelogram are equal. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The sum of the angles of any parallelogram i» equal to 
 four right angles. 
 
 Let ABQD be a parallelo- 
 gram. We are to prove that 
 the sum of the angles A, B, 
 and D, is equal to four right 
 angles, or to 360°. 
 
 Because AD and BO are parallel lines, and AB inter- 
 sects them, the two interior angles A and B are together 
 equal to two right angles, (Th. 5). And because CD in- 
 tersects the same parallels, the two interior angles O and 
 D are also together equal to two right angles. By addi- 
 tion, we have the sum of the four interior angles of the 
 parallelogram ABCD, equal to four right angles. Hence 
 the theorem ; the sum of the angles of any parallelogram is 
 taual tc four right angles. 
 
 is. x 
 
 
 BOOK I. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 27 
 
 V 
 
 The sum of the three angles of any triangle is equal to two 
 right angles. 
 
 Let A B be a triangle, 
 and through its vertex 
 draw a line parallel to the 
 base AB, and produce 
 the sides A C and BO. 
 Then the angles A and 
 a, being exterior and in- 
 terior opposite angles on 
 the same side of the line AC, are equal to each other. 
 For the same reason, [_ E = L b. The angles C and c, 
 being vertical angles, are also equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, 
 the angles A, B, C are equal to the angles a, b, c respect- 
 ively. But the angles around the point C, on the upper 
 side of the parallel CD, are equal to two right angles, 
 (by Th. 2). Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three 
 angles, etc. 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 Let AEBG- be a parallelogram 
 
 Draw the diagonal GE ; thus di- 
 viding the parallelogram into two 
 triangles, and the opposite angles 
 G and E each into two angles. 
 
 Because GB and AE are parallel, the alternate interior 
 angles BGE and GEA are equal, (Th. 6). Designate 
 each of these by b. 
 
 In like manner, because EB and AG are parallel, the 
 alternate interior angles, BEG and EGA, are equal. 
 Designate each of these by a. 
 
 Now we are to prove that the three angles B, b, and a, 
 and also that the three angles A, a, and b, are equal to 
 two right angles. 
 
 
 Because A and B are opposite angles of a parallelo- 
 gram, they are equal, (Th. 9), and [_A -f [_B = 2 [__A. 
 
 And all the interior angles of the parallelogram are 
 equal to four right angles, (Th. 10). 
 
 Therefore, 2 A + 2a -f- 2b = 4 right angles. 
 
 Dividing by 2, and J. + a + & = 2 " 
 
 That is, all the angles of the triangle AGrE are together 
 equal to two right angles 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three angles, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Any triangle, as AGE, may be conceived to be part of 
 a parallelogram. For, let A GE be drawn independently of the paral- 
 lelogram ; then draw EB from the point E parallel to A G, and through 
 the point G draw GB parallel to AE, and a parallelogram will be 
 formed embracing the triangle ; and thus the sum of the three angles 
 of any triangle is proved equal to two right angles. 
 
 This truth is so fundamental, important, and practical, 
 as to require special attention ; we therefore give a 
 
 Third Demonstration. 
 
 Let ABQ be a triangle. Then 
 we are to show that the angles A, 
 Q, and ABQ, are together equal 
 *o two right angles. 
 
 Let AB be produced to D, and 
 from B draw BE parallel to A 0. 
 
 Then, EBB and CAB being exterior and interior op- 
 posite angles on the same side of the line AB, are equal, 
 (Th. 6, Cor.1). Also, QBE and AQB, being alternate 
 angles, are equal, (Th. 6). 
 
 By addition, observing that [__ QBE, added to \__EBB, 
 must make |__ QBD, we have 
 
 l_CBB = l_A + \_Q. (1.) 
 
 To each of these equals add the angle QBA, and we 
 shall have 
 
 L QBA + L OBB =L^ + L_tf+L OB A. 
 
 But (by Th. 1), the sum of the first two is equal to two 
 
 
 rigltt angles; therefore, the three angles, A, C, and CBA f 
 are together equal to two right angles. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the sum of the three angles, etc. 
 
 y THEOREM XII. 
 
 If any side of a triangle is produced, the exterior angle i* 
 equal to the sum of the two interior opposite angles. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle. Pro- 
 duce AB to B; and we are to 
 prove that the angle CBB is equal 
 to the sum of the two angles A 
 and C. 
 
 We establish this theorem by a 
 course of reasoning in all respects the same as that hy 
 which we obtained Eq. (1.), third demonstration, (Th. 11). 
 
 Cor. 1. Since the exterior angle of any triangle is equal 
 to the sum of the two interior opposite angles, therefore 
 it is greater than either one of them. 
 
 Cor. 2. If two angles in one triangle be equal to two 
 angles in another triangle, the third angles will also be 
 equal, each to each, (Ax. 3); that is, the two triangles 
 will be mutually equiangular. 
 
 Cor. 3. If one angle in a triangle be equal to one angle 
 in another, the sum of the remaining angles in the one 
 will also be equal to the sum of the remaining angles in 
 the other, (Ax. 3). 
 
 Cor. 4. If one angle of a triangle be a right' angle, the 
 sum of the other two will be equal to a right angle, 
 and each of them singly will be acute, or less than a right -. 
 angle. 
 
 Cor. 5. The two smaller angles of every triangle are 
 acute, or each is less than a right angle. 
 
 Cor. 6. All the angles of a triangle may be acute, but 
 no triangl 3 can have more than one right or one obtuse 
 angle. 
 
 
 V THEOREM XIII. 
 
 In any polygon, the sum of all the interior angles is equal 
 to twice as many riglit angles, less four, as the figure has 
 
 Let ABODE be any polygon ; 
 we are to prove that the sum of 
 all its interior angles, A+B + O 
 + D+E, is equal to twice as 
 many right angles, less four, as 
 the figure has sides. 
 
 From any point, p, within the 
 figure, draw lines pA, pB, pG, etc., to all the angles, 
 thus dividing the polygon into as many triangles as it 
 has sides. Now, the sum of the three angles of each of 
 these triangles is equal to two right angles, (Th. 11) j and 
 the sum of the angles of all the triangles must be equal 
 to twice as many right angles as the figure has sides. But 
 the sum of these angles contains the sum of four right 
 angles about the point p ; taking these away, and the 
 remainder is the sum of the interior angles of the figure. 
 Therefore, the sum must be equal to twice as many right 
 angles, less four, as the figure has sides. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; in any polygon, etc. 
 
 From this Theorem is derived the rule for finding the 
 sum of the interior angles of any right-lined figure : 
 
 Subtract 2 from the number of sides, and multiply the re- 
 mainder by 2 ; the product will be the number of right angles. 
 
 Thus, if the number of sides be represented by S, the 
 number of right angles will be represented by (2#— 4). 
 
 The Theorem is not varied in case n 
 
 of a re-entrant angle, as repre- ^/"^ 
 
 sen ted at d, in the figure ABCdEF. -^^^^ L 
 
 Draw lines from the angle d to \ "/( 7 E 
 
 the several opposite angles, making \ / \ / 
 
 as many triangles as the figure has \/ \y 
 
 sides, less two, and the sum of the A F 
 
 three angles of each triangle equals two right angles. 
 
 X 
 
 BOOK I. 31 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 If the sides of one angle be respectively perpendicular 
 to the sides of a second angle, these two angles will be either 
 equal or supplementary. 
 
 Let BAD be the first angle, and 
 from any point within it, as C, draw / 
 
 CB and CD, at right angles, the 3 T^>C 
 first to AB } and the second to AD, I \ ^""-Jl 
 
 and produce CD in the direction / j 
 
 CD, thus forming at C the supple- A B 
 
 entary angles BCE, BCD ; then 
 will the angle BCD be equal to the angle A, and therefore 
 BCD, which is the supplement of BCD, will also be the 
 supplement of the angle A. 
 
 For since ABCD is a quadrilateral, the sum of the four 
 interior angles is four right angles (Prop. 13), and because 
 the angles ABC and ADC are each right angles, the sum 
 of the angles BAD, BCD is two right angles. But the 
 sum of the adjacent angles BCD, BCD is also two right 
 angles. Hence, if in these last two sums we omit the com- 
 mon angle BCD, we have remaining the angle BCD, equal 
 to the angle BAD, and consequently the angle BCD which 
 is the supplement of the first of these equal angles is also 
 the supplement of the other. 
 
 Hence the Theorem. 
 
 ScnoLiUM. — If the vertex of the second angle be without the first angle, 
 we would draw through any assumed point within the first angle parallels to 
 the sides of the second ; the above demonstration will then apply to the first 
 angle, and the angle formed by the parallels. 
 
 THEOREM XT. ,X 
 
 From any point ivithout a straight line, but one perpen- 
 dicular can be drawn to that line. 
 
 From the point A let us suppose 
 it possible that two perpendiculars, 
 A B and A C, can be drawn. Now, be- 
 cause AB is a supposed perpendicu- 
 lar, the angle ABC is a right angle ; — 
 and because AC is a supposed per- 
 
 B C 
 
 
 pendicular, the angle ACB is also a right angle ; and if 
 two angles of the triangle ABC are together equal to two 
 right angles, the third angle, BAG, must be infinitely 
 small, or zero ; that is, the two perpendiculars being drawn 
 through the common point A, and including no angle, 
 must necessarily coincide, and form one and the same per- 
 pendicular. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; from any point without a straight 
 line, etc. 
 
 Cor. At a given point in a straight line but one per- 
 pendicular can be erected to that line ; for, if there could 
 be two perpendiculars, we should have unequal righ 
 angles, which is impossible. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 Two triangles which have two sides and the included angle 
 in the one, equal to two sides and the included angle in the 
 other, each to each, are equal in all respects. 
 
 In the two A's, ABC and BEF, 
 on the supposition that AB = BE, 
 AC=BF, and [_A = \__B, we 
 are to prove that BC must = EF, 
 the [__B = [__E, and the [_C = 
 
 LJJ 
 
 Conceive the A ABC cut out of the paper, taken up, 
 and placed on the A BEF in such a manner that the 
 point A shall fall on the point B, and the line AB on 
 the line BE; then the point B will fall on the point E, 
 because the lines are equal. Now, as the [__A = [__B, 
 the line A C must take the same direction as BF, and fall 
 on BF; and as AC = BF, the point C will fall on F, B 
 being on E and C on F, BC must be exactly on EF, 
 (otherwise, two straight lines would enclose a space, Ax. 
 13), and BC= EF, and the two magnitudes exactly fill 
 the same space. Therefore, BC = EF, [_B = [__E, 
 _C ~ [_F, and the two A's are equal, (Ax. 10). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; two triangles which have two sides, evo. 
 
 
 33 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two triangles have a side and two adjacent angles in 
 the one, equal to a side and two adjacent angles in the other, 
 each to each, the two triangles are equal in all respects. 
 
 In two A's, as ABC and 
 T)EF, on the supposition 
 th&tBC = EF, \_B=\_E, 
 and [_C — [_F, we are to 
 prove that AB = BE, AC 
 = DF, andL^. = L^>- 
 
 Conceive the A ABC taken up and placed on the A 
 DBF, so that the side BC shall exactly coincide with its 
 equal side EF; now, because the angle B is equal to the 
 angle E, the line BA will take the direction of ED, and 
 will fall exactly upon : t ; and because the angle C is equal 
 to the angle F, the line CA will take the direction of 
 FD, and fall exactly upon it ; and the two lines BA and 
 CA, exactly coinciding with the two lines EB and FD, 
 the point A will fall on B, and the two magnitudes will 
 exactly fill the same space ; therefore, by Ax. 10, they are 
 equal, and AB » DE, AC=DF, and the [_A = \__D. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; when two triangles have a side and 
 two adjacent angles in the one, equal to, etc. 
 
 /\ THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If two sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite to 
 these sides are also equal. 
 
 Let ABC be a triangle; and on 
 the supposition that AC = BC, we 
 are to prove that the l_A=the [_B. 
 
 Conceive the angle C divided into 
 two equal angles by the line CD; 
 then we have two A's, ADC and 
 BDC, which have the two sides, AC 
 and CD of the one, equal to the two 
 
 sides, CB and CD of the other ; and 
 
 o 
 
 
 the invaded angle AOB, of the one, equa. to the in- 
 cluded angle BOB of the other: therefore, (Th. 16), AB 
 = BB, and the angle A, opposite to OB of the one tri- 
 angle, is equal to the angle B, opposite to OB of the 
 other triangle ; that is, |_ A = |__ B. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two sides of a triangle are equal, 
 the angles, etc. 
 
 Cor, 1. Conversely : if two angles of a triangle are equal, 
 the sides opposite to them are equal, and the triangle is 
 isosceles. 
 
 For, if A is not equal to BO, suppose BO to be the 
 greater, and make BE— AE; then will A ABB be isos- 
 celes, and [_EAB = l_EBA ; hence [_EAB = [_ CAB, 
 or a part is equal to the whole, which is absurd ; therefore, 
 OB cannot be greater than AO, that is, neither of the 
 sides AO, BO, can be greater than the other, and conse- 
 quently they are equal. 
 
 Cor. 2. As the two triangles, A CB and BOB, are in all 
 respects equal, the line which bisects the angle included 
 between the equal sides of an isosceles A also bisects the 
 base, and is perpendicular to the base. 
 
 Scholium 1. — If in the perpendicular DC, any other point than C 
 be taken, and lines be drawn to the extremities A and B, such lines 
 will be equal, as is evident from Th. 16 ; hence, we may announce 
 this truth: Any point in a perpendicular drawn from the middle of a 
 line, is at equal distances from the two extremities of the line. 
 
 ScnoLiuM 2. — Since two points determine the position of a line, it 
 follows, that a line which joins two points each equally distant from the 
 extremities of a given line, is perpendicular to this line at its middle 
 point, 
 
 < K 
 
 r^ THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The greater side of every trianjle has the greater angle 
 opposite to it. 
 
 Let ABC be a A ; and on the supposition that A C is 
 greater than AB, we are to prove that the angle ABCi* 
 
 
 greater than the [_ 0. From AC, the 
 greater of the two sides, take AB, equal ^ 
 
 to the less side AB, and draw BB, thus /\ 
 
 making two triangles of the original tri- / \ 
 
 angle. As AB = AB, the [__ABB = / \ 
 
 theL^^A (Th.18). B \r~\ 
 
 But the |__ ABB is the exterior angle ^\\ 
 
 of the A BBC, and is therefore greater c 
 
 than C, (Th. 12, Cor. 1); that is, the 
 L ABD is greater than the [_ C. Much more, then, is 
 the angle ABC greater than the angle C. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the greater side of every triangle, etc. 
 
 Cor, Conversely: the greater angle of any triangle has 
 the greater side opposite to it. 
 
 In the triangle ABC, let the angle B be greater than 
 the angle A ; then is the side AC greater than the side 
 BC 
 
 For, if BC — A C, the angle A must be equal to the 
 angle B, (Th. 18), which is contrary to the hypothesis ; 
 and if BC^>AC, the angle A must be greater than the 
 angle B, by what is above proved, which is also contrary 
 to the hypothesis ; hence BC can be neither equal to, nor 
 greater, than AC; it is therefore less than AC. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The difference between any two sides of a triangle is less 
 than thi third side. 
 
 Let ABC he a A, in which A C is greater 
 than AB ; then we are to prove that A C 
 —AB is less than BC. 
 
 On AC, the greater of the two sides, 
 lay off AB equal to AB. 
 
 Now, as a straight line is the shortest 
 distance between two points, we have 
 
 AB + BOAC. (1) 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 x 
 
 From these unequals suotract the equals AB = AB, 
 and we have BO>AO— AB. (Ax. 5). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the difference between any two Met 
 of a triangle, etc. -^ 
 
 \ 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 ff two triangles have the three sides of the one equal to 
 the three sides of the other, each to each, the two triangles are 
 equxl, and the equal angles are opposite the equal sides. 
 
 In two triangles, as ABO and ABB, on the supposition 
 that the side AB of the one = the side AB of the other, 
 AO=AB, and BO=BJ), we are to demonstrate that 
 [_AOB = \__ABB, L BAO = 
 l_BAB, and [_ABO= [_ABD. 
 
 Conceive the two triangles to 
 t>e joined together by their long- 
 est equal sides, and draw the 
 line OB. 
 
 Then, in the triangle AOD, 
 because AO is equal to AB, 
 
 the angle AOD is equal to the angle ABO, (Th. 18). In 
 like manner, in the triangle BOB, because BO is equal 
 to BB, the angle BOB is equal to the angle BBO. Now, 
 the angle AOB being equal to the angle ABO, and the 
 angle BOB to the angle BBO, [_AOB + [_BOB = L. 
 ABO + [_BBO, (Ax. 2) ; that is, the whole angled OB ia 
 equal to the whole angle ABB. 
 
 Since the two sides A and OB are equal to the two sides 
 AB and BB, each to each, and their included angles A OB, 
 ABB, are also equal, the two triangles ABO, ABB, are 
 equal, (Th. 16), and have their other angles equal ; that 
 is, [_BAO= \_BAB, and [_ABO= [__ABB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two triangles have the three siie* 
 of the one, etc. 
 
 
 87 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 If two triangles have two sides of the one equal to tw* 
 tides of the other, each to each, and the included angles ui> 
 equal, the third sides will be unequal, and the greater third 
 side will belong to the triangle which has the greater included 
 angle. 
 
 In the two A's, ABO and 
 ACB, let AB and AC of the 
 one A be equal to AB and A 
 of the other A, and the angle 
 BAC greater than the angle 
 BAG; we are to prove that 
 the side BO is greater than the 
 side OB. 
 
 Conceive the two a's joined together by their shorter 
 equal sides, and draw the line BB. Now, as AB = AB, 
 ABB is an isosceles A. From the vertex A, draw a line 
 bisecting the angle BAB. This line must be perpendic- 
 ular to the base BB, (Th. 18, Cor. 2). Since the \_BAO 
 is greater than the \_BAO, this line must meet BO, and 
 will not meet OB. From the point E, where the per- 
 pendicular meets BO, draw BB. 
 
 Now BB - BB, (Th. 18, Scholium 1). 
 
 Add BO to each ; then BO = BE + EC. 
 
 But BE + EO is greater than BO. 
 
 Therefore BOy BO. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if two triangles have two sides of 
 one equal to two sides of the other, etc. 
 
 Cor. Any point out of the perpendicular drawn from 
 the middle point of a line, is unequally distant from the 
 extremities of the line. 
 
 -f 
 
 y 
 
 
 THEOREM XXIII, 
 
 A perpendicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from 
 any point to a straight line ; and if other lines be drawn from 
 the same point to the same straight line, that which meets it 
 farthest from the perpendicular will be longest ; and lines 
 at equal distances from the perpendicular, on opposite 
 sides, are equal. 
 
 Let A be any point without the 
 line BE ; let AB be the perpen- 
 dicular; and AC, AB, and AE 
 oblique lines: then, if BO is less 
 than BB, and BO— BE, we are to 
 show, 
 
 1st. That AB is less than A C 
 2d. That A is less than AB. 3d. That AC= AE. 
 
 1st. In the triangle ABO, as AB is perpendicular to 
 BC, the angle ABC is a right angle; and, therefore (by 
 Theorem 12, Cor. 4) ; the angle BCA is less than a right 
 angle ; and, as the greater side is always opposite the 
 greater angle, AB is less than AC; and AC may be 
 any line not identical with AB ; therefore a perpen- 
 dicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from A 
 to the line DE. 
 
 2d. As the two angles, A OB and A CD, are together 
 equal to two right angles, (Th. 1), and A OB is less than 
 a right angle, AOB must be greater than a right angle ; 
 consequently, the [__ B is less than a right angle ; and, in 
 the A AOB, AB is greater than AC, or A is less than 
 AB, (Th. 19 Cor). 
 
 3d. In the A's ABC and ABE, AB is common, CB=> 
 BE, and the angles at B are right angles; therefore, AC — 
 AE, (Th. 16). 
 
 Hence the theorem; a perpendicular is the shortest line 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. Conversely : if two equal oblique lines be drawn 
 
 
 from the same point to a given straight line, they will 
 meet the line at equal distances from the foot of the per- 
 pendicular drawn from that point to the given line. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 The opposite sides, and also the opposite angles of any par- 
 allelogram, are equal. 
 
 Let ABOD be a parallelogram. 
 Then we are to show that AB = 1)0, 
 AD = BO, [__A - L °> and [_ADC 
 « \__ABO. 
 
 Draw a diagonal, as BD; now, be- 
 cause AB and DC are parallel, the al- 
 ternate angles ABB and BBC are equal, (Th. 6). Foi 
 the same reason, as AB and BO are parallel, the angles 
 ABB and BBO are equal. !Now, in the two triangles 
 ABB and BOB, the side BD is common, 
 
 the \_ABB = [_DBO (1) 
 
 tmd[_BDO = \_ABD (2) 
 
 Therefore, the angle A = the angle C, and the two tri- 
 angles are equal in all respects, (Th. 17); that is, the 
 sides opposite the equal angles are equal ; or, AB — DO, 
 and AD = BO. By adding equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ? we have 
 the angle ADO= the angle ABO, (Ax. 2). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the opposite sides, and the opposite 
 angles, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. As the sum of all the angles of a parallelogram 
 is equal to four right angles, and the angle A is always 
 equal to the opposite angle O; therefore, if A is a right 
 angle, is also a right angle, and the figure is a rect- 
 angle. 
 
 Oor. 2. As the angle ABO, added to the angle A, gives 
 the same sum as the angles of the /\ADB; therefore, 
 the two adjacent angles of a parallelogram are together 
 equal to two right angles. 
 
 -f 
 
 X 
 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 If the opposite sides of a quadrilateral are equal, they are 
 also parallel, and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Let A BCD be any quadrilateral; 
 on the supposition that AD = BC, and 
 AB =* DC. we are to prove that AD is 
 parallel to BC, and AB parallel to DC 
 
 Draw the diagonal BD; we now 
 have two triangles, ABD and BOB, 
 which have the side BD common, AD of the one =. BO 
 of the other, and AB of the one = CD of the other ; 
 therefore the two A's are equal, (Th. 21), and the 
 angles opposite the equal sides are equal ; that is, the 
 angle ADB = the angle CBD ; but these are alternate 
 angles; hence, AD is parallel to BC, (Th. 7, Cor. 1); 
 and because the angle ABD = the angle BDC, AB is 
 parallel to CD, and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the opposite sides of a quadri- 
 lateral, etc. 
 
 Cor. This theorem, and also Th. 24, proves that the 
 two A's which make up the parallelogram are equal; 
 and the same would be true if we drew the diagonal 
 from A to C; therefore, the diagonal of any parallelogram 
 bisects the parallelogram. 
 
 THEOREM XXVI. 
 
 The lines which join the corresponding extremities of two 
 equal and parallel straight lines, are themselves equal and 
 parallel; and the figure thus formed is a parallelogram. 
 
 On the supposition that AB is 
 equal and parallel to DC, we are to 
 prove that AD is equal and parallel 
 to BC; and that the figure is a par- 
 allelogram. 
 
 Draw the diagonal BD ; now, since 
 
 
 AB and DO are parallel, and BB joins them, the alter- 
 nate angles ABB and BBO are equal ; and since the 
 side AB = the side BO, and the side BB i« common to 
 the two A's ABB and OBB, therefore the two triangles 
 are eqnal, (Th. 16) ; that is, AB —BO, the angle A = 0, 
 and the \__ABB = the [_BBO; also AB is parallel to 
 BO; and the figure is a parallelogram. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the lines which join the corresponding 
 extremities, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXVII. 
 
 Parallelograms on the same base, and between the same 
 parallels, are equivalent, or equal in respect to area or sur- 
 face. 
 
 Let ABEO and ABBF be two 
 parallelograms on the same base 
 AB, and between the same paral- 
 lels AB and OB ; we are to prove 
 that these two parallelograms are 
 equal. 
 
 Now, OB and FB are equal, be- 
 cause they are each equal to AB, (Th. 24) ; and, if from 
 the whole line OB we take, in succession, OB and FB, 
 there will remain EB = OF, (Ax. 3) ; but BB = A 0, and 
 AF= BB, (Th. 24); hence we have two A's, OAF and 
 EBB, which have the three sides of the one equal to the 
 three sides of the other, each to each ; therefore, the tv r o 
 A's are equal, (Th. 21). If, from the whole figure 
 A BBO, we take away the A OAF, the parallelogram 
 ABBF will remain ; and if from the whole figure we take 
 away the other A EBB, the parallelogram ABEO will 
 remain. Therefore, (Ax. 3), the parallelogram ABBF = 
 the parallelogram ABEO. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms on the same base, etc. 
 4* 
 
 
 THEOREM XXVIII. 
 
 Triangles on the same base and between the same parallel* 
 are equivalent. 
 
 Let the two A's ABE and ABF 
 have the same base AB, and be be- 
 tween the same parallels AB and 
 EF', then we are to prove that they 
 are equal in surface. 
 
 From B draw the line BB, par- 
 allel to AF; and from A draw the line AC, parallel to 
 BE ; and produce EF, if necessary, to C and D ; now the 
 parallelogram ABBF = the parallelogram ABEC, (Th. 
 27). But the A ABE is one half the parallelogram 
 ABEC, and the A ABF is one half the parallelogram 
 ABDF; and halves of equals are equal, (Ax. T); there-, 
 fore the A ABE - the A ABF. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; triangles on the same base, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXIX. 
 
 Parallelograms on equal bases, and between the same par 
 allels, are equal in area. 
 
 Let ABCB and EFaH, be two 
 parallelograms on equal bases, AB 
 and EF, and between the same 
 parallels, AF and BG ; then Ve are 
 to prove that they are equal in area. 
 
 AB = EF=HG; but lines which join equal and 
 parallel lines, are themselves equal and parallel, (Th. 26) ; 
 therefore, if AH said BGr be drawn, the figure ABGrlTis 
 a parallelogram == to the parallelogram ABCB, (Th. 27) ; 
 and if we turn the whole figure over, the two parallelo- 
 grams, G-HEF and GRAB, will stand on the same base, 
 GH, and between the same parallels ; therefore, GHEF 
 - GHAB, and consequently ABCB = EFGff, (Ax. 1). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms on equal bases, (tc. 
 
 DC H G 
 
 
 Cor. Triangles on equal bases, and between the same 
 parallels, are equal in area. For, draw BB and E Gr\ the 
 A ABB is one half of the parallelogram AC, and the 
 A EFGr is one half of the equivalent parallelogram FE; 
 therefore, the A ABB - the A EFG, (Ax. 7). 
 
 THEOREM XXX. 
 
 If a triangle and a parallelogram are upon the same or equal 
 bases, and between the same parallels, the triangle is equiva- 
 lent to one half the parallelogram. 
 
 Let ABC be a A, and ABBE a 
 parallelogram, on the same base AB, 
 and between the same parallels ; then 
 we are to prove that the A ABC is 
 equivalent to one half of the parallel- 
 ogram ABBE. 
 
 Draw EB the diagonal of the parallelogram ; now, 
 because the two A's ABC and ABE are on the same 
 base, and between the same parallels, they are equiva- 
 lent, (Th. 28) ; but the A ABE is one half the parallel- 
 ogram ABBE, (Th. 25, Cor.) ; therefore the A ABC is 
 equivalent to one half of the same parallelogram, (Ax. 7). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a triangle and a parallelogram, 
 etc 
 
 THEOREM XXXI. 
 
 The complementary parallelograms described about any 
 point in the diagonal of any parallelogram, are equivalent to 
 each other. 
 
 Let A C be a parallelogram, and 
 BB its diagonal ; take any point, 
 as E, in the diagonal, and through 
 this point draw lines parallel to the 
 sides of the parallelogram, thus 
 forming four parallelograms. 
 
 We are now to prove that the complementary paral- 
 lelograms, AE and EC, are equivalent. 
 
 
 By (Th. 25, Cor.) we learn that the A ABB = A BBC. 
 Also by the same Cor., A a = A b, and Ac = A<i; there- 
 fore by addition 
 
 Aa-fAc = A5 + Ac?. 
 
 Now, from the whole A ABB take A a + A e, and 
 from the whole A BBC take the equal sum, A b + A d, 
 and the remaining parallelograms AE and EC are equiv~ 
 alent, (Ax. 3). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the complementary parallelogram^ 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXII. 
 
 The perimeter of a rectangle is less than that of any rhom- 
 hoid standing on the same base, and included between the same 
 parallels. 
 
 Let ABCB be a rect- 
 angle, and ABEF a rhom- 
 boid having the same base, 
 and their opposite sides 
 in the same line parallel 
 to the base. 
 
 We are now to prove that the perimeter ABCB A is less 
 than ABEFA. 
 
 Because AB is a perpendicular from A to the line BE t 
 and AF an oblique line, AB is less than AF, (Th. 23). 
 For the same reason BC is less ^than BE; hence AT) + 
 BC<AF+ BE. Adding the sum, AB + BC, to the first 
 member of this inequality, and its equal AB 4- FE to 
 the second member, we have AB + BC + CD + BA, or 
 the perimeter of the rectangle, less than AB -f BE -f 
 EF -f FA, or the perimeter of the rhomboid. Hen ?e 
 the theorem; the perimeter of a rectangle, etc. 
 
 
 45 
 
 Thus far, areas have "been considered only relatively 
 and in the abstract. We will now explain how we may 
 pass to the absolute measures, or, more properly, to the 
 numerical expressions for areas. 
 
 THEOREM XXXIII. 
 
 The area of any plane triangle is measured by the pro* 
 duct of its base by one half its altitude ; or by one half of 
 the product of its base by its altitude. 
 
 Let ABO represent any triangle, AB 
 its base, and AD, at right angles to AB, 
 its altitude ; now we are to show that the 
 area of A BO is equal to the product of 
 AB by one half of AB ; or one half of 
 AB by AB ; or one half of the product of AB by AB. 
 
 On AB construct the rectangle ABED; and the area 
 of this rectangle is measured by AB into AB (Def. 
 54) ; but the area of the A ABO is equivalent to one 
 half this rectangle, (Th. 30). Therefore, the area of the 
 A is measured by } AB x AB, or one half the product 
 of its base by its altitude. Hence the theorem ; the area 
 of any plane triangle, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXIV. 
 
 The area of a trapezoid is measured by one half the mm 
 of its parallel sides multiplied by the perpendicular distance 
 between them. 
 
 Let ABBQ represent any trape- 
 zoid; draw the diagonal BO, divid- 
 ing it into two triangles, ABO 'and 
 BOB: OB is the base of one tri- 
 angle, and AB may be considered 
 as the base of the other ; and EF is the common altitude 
 of the two triangles. 
 
 Now, by Th. 33, the area of the triangle BOB =-\OB 
 v EF; and the area of the A ABO= \AB X EF; but 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 L K I 
 
 II 
 
 by addition, the area of the two A's, or of the trape* 
 zoid, is equal to i (AB+ CD)xEF. Hence the theorem; 
 the area of a trapezoid, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XXXV. 
 
 If one of two lines is divided into any number of parts, the 
 rectangle contained by the two lines is equal to the sum of the 
 several rectangles contained by the undivided line and the seve- 
 ral parts of the divided line. 
 
 Let AB and AD be two lines, 
 and suppose AB divided into any 
 number of parts at the points E, 
 F, Gr, etc. ; then the whole rect- 
 angle contained by the two lines 
 is AH, which is measured by AB 
 into AD. But the rectangle AL is measured by AB 
 into AD ; the rectangle EK is measured by EF into EL, 
 which is equal to EF into AD; and so of all the other 
 partial rectangles ; and the truth of the proposition is as 
 obvious as that a whole is equal to the sum of all its 
 parts. Hence the theorem ; if one of two lines is divided, 
 etc. ^/f ^ Uc , 
 
 v. One*. 
 
 X THEOREM XXXVI. 
 
 G B 
 
 X 
 
 C B 
 
 If a straight line is divided into any two parts, the square 
 described on the whole line is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares described on the two parts plus twice the rectangle con- 
 tained by the parts. 
 
 Let AB be any line divided into 
 any two parts at the point 0; now we 
 are to prove that the square on AB 
 is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares on A and OB plus twice the 
 rectangle contained by AC and CB. 
 
 On AB describe the square AD. 
 Through the point draw QM, par- 
 
 M D 
 
 
 allel to BD ; take BE = BO, and through E draw EKN, 
 parallel to AB. We now have OH, the square on OB, by 
 direct construction. 
 
 As AB = BD, and OB - £.0", by subtraction, AB — 
 OB = BD — BE; or A0= ED. But NK=AO, being 
 opposite sides of a parallelogram ; and for the same rea- 
 son, KM = I7D. Therefore, (Ax. 1), NK = KM, and the 
 figure NM is a square on NK, equal to a square on .AG 7 . 
 But the whole square on AB is composed of the two 
 squares OE, NM, and the two complements or rectangles 
 AK and KB ; and since each of these latter is AC in 
 length, and BO in width, each has for its measure AC into 
 (7i?; therefore the whole square on AB is equivalent to 
 AC 2 + BC 2 + 2A0x OB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a straight line is divided into any 
 two parts, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus : 
 
 Let w represent any whole right line divided into any 
 two parts a and b ; then we shall have the equation 
 
 w = a + b 
 By squaring, w 2 = a 2 -f b 2 -f 2ab. 
 
 Oor. If a = b, then w 2 = 4a 2 ; that is, the square de- 
 scribed on any line is four times the square described on 
 one half of it. 
 
 THEOREM XXXVII. 
 
 The square described on the difference of two lines is equiv- 
 alent to the sum of the squares described on the two lines di- 
 minished by twice the rectangle contained by the lines. 
 
 Let AB represent the greater of two lines, OB the 
 Jess line, and A their difference. 
 
 We are now to prove that the square described on A C 
 is equivalent to the sum of the squares on AB and BC 
 diminished by twice the rectangle contained by AB 
 and BO. 
 
 Conceive the square AF to be described on AB, and 
 
 
 48 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the square BL on CB ; on AC describe H F 
 
 the square ACGM, and produce MG 
 
 to K. M 
 
 As GC=AC, and CL ^ CB, by 
 addition, (GC + CL), or GL, is equal 
 to AC + CB, or J.jB. Therefore, the 
 rectangle GE is AB in length, and 
 Oi? in width, and is measured by AB 
 
 y.BC. 
 
 Also AH= AB, and AM = J. (7; by subtraction, Jfff 
 
 = <7i?; and as MK = AB, the rectangle HK is J.i? in 
 length, and CB in width, and is measured by AB x BC; 
 and the two rectangles GE and .ffif are together equiva- 
 lent to 2AB x BC. 
 
 Now, the squares on AB and BC make the whole figure 
 AHFELC; and from this whole figure, or these two 
 squares, take away the two rectangles HK and G E, and 
 the square on A C only will remain; that is, 
 AC 2 = AB* + B~C* — 2AB x BC 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the differ 
 ence of two lines, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus : 
 
 Let a represent the greater of two lines, b the less, and 
 d their difference ; then we must have this equation : 
 d = a — b 
 By squaring, d 2 = a 2 + b 2 — 2ab. 
 
 a a 2 
 
 Cor. If d = b, then d = -~, and d 2 = -r ; that is, the 
 
 equare described on one half of any line is equivalent 
 to one fourth of the square described on the whole line. 
 
 THEOREM XXXVIII. 
 
 The difference of the squares described on any two lines is 
 equivalent to the rectangle contained by the sum and difference 
 of the lines. 
 
 Let A B be the greater of two lines, and A C the less, 
 and on these lines describe the squares AB, AM; then, the 
 
 
 difference of the squares on AB and A is the two rect- 
 angles EF and FO. We are now to 
 show that the measure of these reck 
 angles may be expressed by (AB + AC) 
 x(AB—AO). 
 
 i The length of the rectangle EF is ED, 
 or its equal AB; and the length of the 
 rectangle FO is MO, or its equal AO; 
 therefore, the length of the two together (if we con 
 ceive them put between the same parallel lines) will be 
 AB-\- AO; and the common width is OB, which is equal 
 to AB—AO; therefore, AB 2 — A0 2 = (AB+AO) x (AB 
 —AO). 
 
 Hence the theorem; the difference of the squares de- 
 scribed on any two lines, etc. 
 
 This theorem may be proved algebraically: thus, 
 
 Let a represent one line, and b another ; 
 
 Then a -f b is their sum, and a — b their difference ; 
 
 and (a + b) X (a — b) = a 2 — b\ 
 
 THEOREM XXXIX. 
 
 The square described on the hypotenuse of any right-angled 
 triangle is equivalent to the sum of the squares described on 
 the other two sides. 
 
 Let ABO represent any righkangled triangle, the right 
 angle at B; we are to prove that the square on A is 
 equivalent to the sum of two squares; one on AB, the 
 other on BO. 
 
 On the three sides of the triangle describe the three 
 squares, AB, AL and BM. Through the point B, draw 
 BNE perpendicular to AO, and produce it to meet tho 
 line Grim K; also produce AF to meet CrI in S, and 
 ML to meet GI produced in K. 
 
 Remark. — That the lines, GI and ML, produced, meet at the point 
 BT, may be readily shown. As the proof of this fact is not necessary for 
 tht- demonstration, it is left as an exercise for the learner. 
 5 D 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The angle BAG is a right angle, and the angle NAH 
 is also a right angle ; if 
 from these equals we 
 subtract the common 
 angle BAH, the re- 
 maining angle, BAO, 
 must be equal to the re- 
 maining angle &AH. 
 The angle G- is a right 
 angle, equal to the 
 angle ABC; and AB 
 = AGr; therefore, the 
 two A's ABO and 
 AGrH are equal, and 
 AH=AQ. But^<7 = 
 AF; therefore, AH= 
 AF. Now, the two 
 
 parallelograms, AE and AHKB are equivalent, because 
 they are upon equal bases, and between the same paral- 
 lels, Zffand UK, (Th. 29). 
 
 But the square AI, and the parallelogram AHKB, are 
 equivalent, because they are on the same base, AB, and 
 between the same parallels, AB and GrK; therefore, the 
 square AI, and the parallelogram AF, being each equiv- 
 alent to the same parallelogram AHKB, are equivalent 
 to each other, (Ax. 1). In the same manner we may 
 prove that the square BM is equivalent to the rectangle 
 ND ; therefore, by addition, the two squares, AI and 
 BM, are equivalent to the two parallelograms, AF and 
 ND, or to the square AD. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the hypoU 
 nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc. 
 
 Cor. If two right-angled triangles have the hypotenuse, and 
 a side of the one equal to the hypotenuse and a side of the 
 other, each to each, the two triangles are equal. 
 
 
 Let ABO ard AGS be the two A's, in which we sap- 
 pose AC = AH, and BC = GH; then will AG = AB 
 
 For, we have AC 2 = AB 2 + ff(7 2 , 
 
 or, by transposing, AC 2 — BO 2 = ~A&, 
 
 and AE 2 = ~AG 2 +G1I 2 , 
 
 or, by transposing, A H 2 — GH 2 = AG 2 . 
 
 But by the hypothesis AC 2 —~BQ 2 = AS* — (JS* ; 
 
 hence, AB 2 = J. G 2 , or, ^ J5 = A G. 
 
 Scholium. — The two sides, AB and BC, may vary, while A C remain* 
 constant. AB may be equal to BC\ then the point JVwill be in th* 
 middle of A C. When AB is very near the length of A C, and BC very 
 email, then the point N falls very near to C. Now as AE and ND are 
 right-angled parallelograms, their areas are measured by the product 
 of their bases by their altitudes ; and it is evident that, as they have the 
 same altitude, these areas will vary directly as their bases AN and 
 NC; hence the squares on AB and BC, which are equivalent to those 
 rectangles, vary as the lines AN and NC. 
 
 The following outline of the demonstration of this pro- 
 position is presented as a useful disciplinary exercise for 
 the student. 
 
 We employ the same figure, in which no change is 
 made except to draw through the line OP, parallel to BK. 
 
 The first step is to prove the equality of the triangles 
 AGE and ABO, whence AH = AC. But AO = AF; 
 therefore AH= AF. 
 
 The parallelograms AFEJSF and AEKB are equiva 
 
 lent. Also, the parallelogram AHKB = the square ABIG, 
 
 (Th. 27), and the parallelogram KBCP= NEDC= square 
 
 BOML. Now, by adding the equals 
 
 AFEN= ABIG 
 
 JSTEBO = BOML 
 
 we obtain AFDO = ABIG + BOML. 
 
 That is, the square on AO is equivalent to the sum of 
 the squares on AB and BO. 
 
 The great practical importance of this theorem, in the 
 extent and variety of its applications, and the frequency 
 of its use in establishing subsequent propositions, ren- 
 ders it necessary that the student should master it com- 
 pletely. To secure this end, we present a 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Second Demonstration 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle 
 right-angled at B. On the 
 hypotenuse AO, describe the 
 square A OEB. From B and 
 E let fall the perpendiculars 
 Bb and Ed, on J.1? and AB 
 produced. Draw Bn and Ca, 
 making right angles with 
 Ed. 
 
 We give an outline only 
 of the demonstration, requiring the pupil to make it 
 complete. 
 
 First Part. — Prove the four triangles ABO, AbB, BnE, 
 and EaO, equal to each other. 
 
 The proof is as follows: The A's ABO and BnE are 
 equal, because the angles of the one are equal to the 
 angles of the other, each to each, and the hypotenuse 
 AO of the one, is equal to the hypotenuse BE of the 
 other. In like manner, it may be shown that the a's 
 AbB and EaO are equal. 
 
 Now, the sum of the three angles about A, is equal to 
 the sum of the three angles of the A ABO; and if, from 
 the first sum, we take \__BAO + [__ OAB, and from the 
 second we take L^ + L GAB == [_BAO+ [_ OAB, the 
 remaining angles are equal ; that is, [__ BAb is equal to 
 \__AOB ; hence the A's ABO and BbA have their angles 
 equal, each to each; and since A (7= BA, the A's are 
 themselves equal, and the four triangles ABO, AbB, 
 DnE, and EaO, are equal to each other. 
 
 Second. — Prove that the square bBnd is equal to a 
 iquare on AB. The square BdaO is obviously on BO. 
 
 Third. — The area of the whole figure is equal to the 
 square on AO, and the area of two of the four equal 
 right-angled triangles. 
 
 Also, the area of the whole figure is equal to two other 
 
 
 Bquares, bDnd and daOB, and two of the tour equal tri- 
 angles, DnE and EaO, 
 
 Omitting or subtracting the areas of two of the four 
 right-angled a's from each of the two expressions for 
 the area of the whole figure, there will remain the square 
 on AO, equal to the sum of the two squares, Dndb and 
 daCB. 
 
 That is, AB* + BO* = AC*. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the square described on the hypote- 
 nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Hence, to find the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle, 
 extract the square root of the sum of the squares of the two sides about 
 the right angle, 
 
 THEOREM XL. 
 
 In any obtuse-angled triangle, the square on the side oppo- 
 site the obtuse angle is greater than the sum of the squares 
 on the other two sides, by twice the rectangle contained by 
 either side about the obtuse angle, and the part of this side 
 produced to meet the perpendicular drawn to it from the 
 vertex of the opposite angle. 
 
 Let ABO be any triangle in which 
 the angle at B is obtuse. Produce 
 either side about the obtuse angle, 
 as OB, and from A draw AD perpen- 
 dicular to OB, meeting it produced 
 atD. 
 
 It is obvious that OD m OB -f BD, 
 By Th. 36 we have, CD* = CB* + 20B x BD + JU)', 
 Adding AD to each member of this equation, we have 
 
 AD* + CD*=CB*t BD* + AD 1 + 20B x BD. 
 But, (Th. 39), the first member of the last equation is 
 equal to AO % , and 
 
 BD* -f AD* - AB % , 
 
 5* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Therefore, this equation becomes 
 
 ~AO % = CB 2 + AB* + 20B x BD. 
 
 That is, the square on A is equivalent to the sum of 
 the squares on OB and AB, increased by twice the rect- 
 angle contained by CB and BD. 
 
 Hence the theorem; in any obtuse- angled triangle, the 
 square on the side opposite the obtuse angle, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — Conceive AB to turn about the point A, its intersection 
 with CD gradually approaching D. The last equation above will be 
 true, however near this intersection is to D, and when it falls upon D 
 the triangle becomes right-angled. 
 
 In this case the line BD reduces to zero, and the equation becomes 
 AC 2 = CB 2 + AB* y in which CB and AB are now the base and per- 
 pendicular of a right-angled triangle. This agrees with Theorem 39, 
 as it should, since we used the property of the right-angled triangle 
 established in Theorem 39 to demonstrate this proposition ; and in the* 
 equation which expresses a property of the obtuse-angled triangle, we 
 have introduced a supposition which changes it into one which is 
 right-angle 1. 
 
 THEOREM XLI. 
 
 In any triangle, the square on a side opposite an acute angle 
 is less than the sum of the squares on the other two sides, by 
 twice the rectangle contained by either of these sides, and the 
 distance from the vertex of the acute angle to the foot of the 
 perpendicular let fall on this side, or side produced, from the 
 vertex of its opposite angle. 
 
 Let ABO, either 
 figure, represent 
 any triangle ; an 
 acute angle, OB 
 the base, and AB 
 the perpendicular, 
 which falls either 
 without or on the base. Now we are to prove that 
 
 AB*=OB 2 -\- AO 2 — 20Bx OB. 
 
 
 55 
 
 From the firs t figure we get BD=CD—CB ( 1 ) 
 and from the second BD=CB—CD ( 2 ) 
 
 Either one of these equations will give, (Th. 37), 
 
 BD 2 = CD 2 + CB 2 —2CD x OB. 
 
 Adding AD 2 to each member and reducing, we obtaiu, 
 (Th. 39), AB 2 - AC 2 + CB 2 — 2CBx CD, whi«h proves 
 the proposition. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XLII. 
 
 If in any triangle a line be drawn from any angle to the 
 middle of the opposite side, twice the square of this line, 
 together with twice the square of one half the side bisected, will 
 be equivalent to the sum of the squares of the other two sides 
 
 Let AB be a triangle, and 
 M the middle point of its 
 base. 
 
 Then we are to prove that 
 2 AM 2 + 2 CM 2 = AC 2 +AB*. 
 
 Draw AD perpendicular to 
 the base, and make AD = p, 
 AC=b, AB = c, CB=2a, 
 
 AM mm m, and MD — x; then CM = a, CD = a+x, DB 
 = a — x, 
 
 Now by, (Th. 39), we have the two following equations : 
 
 ^ + (a — aO» = c» (1) 
 
 f + (a + xf = b* (2) 
 
 By addition, 2p % + 2x 2 + 2a 2 = #• + <?. But p* + z» - m\ 
 Therefore, 2m* + 2a 7 = b* + <?\ 
 
 This equation is the algebraic enunciation of tho 
 theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XLIII. 
 
 The two diagonals of any parallelogram bisect each other ; 
 and the sum of their squares is equivalent to the sum of the 
 squares of the four sides of the parallelogram, 
 
 ~LetABQB be any parallelogram, 
 and A and BB its diagonals. 
 
 We are now to prove, 
 
 1st. That AM - EQ, and BE - 
 EB. 
 
 2d. That AC 2 + BD 2 = ~AB 2 + ~BQ* 4- CD 2 +~AD\ 
 
 1. The two triangles ABE and QBE are equal, be- 
 cause AB — QD, the angle ABE = the alternate angle 
 QBE, and the vertical angles at E are equal ; therefore, 
 AE, the side opposite the angle ABE, is equal to QE, 
 the side opposite the equal angle QBE; also EB, the 
 remaining side of the one A, is equal to EB, the remain- 
 ing side of the other triangle. 
 
 2. As AQB is a triangle whose base, A Q, is bisected 
 in E, we have, by (Th. 42), 
 
 2AE 2 + 2EB 2 = AB 2 + DC 2 ( l ) 
 
 And as AQB is a triangle whose base, ^4 C\ is bisected 
 in i£, we have 
 
 2AE 2 + 2EB 2 ==~AB 2 + BQ 2 (2) 
 By adding equations (1) and (2), and observing that 
 EB* m EB 2 , we have 
 4AE 2 + 4EB 2 - AD 2 + 2><7* + "AS 2 +7RP 
 But, four times the square of the half of a line is equiv- 
 alent to the square of the whole line, (Th. 36, Corollary) ; 
 therefore ±AW = AQ\ and 4EB 2 = BB 2 ; and by sub- 
 stituting these values, we have 
 
 AQ 2 + BB 2 =~AB 2 +~BQ % +~BQ 2 + ~AB 2 , 
 which equation conforms to the enunciation of tfc* 
 theorem. 
 
 
 
 K H 
 
 L 
 
 
 BOOK I. 57 
 
 THEOREM XLIV. 
 
 If a line be "bisected and produced, the rectangle contained 
 by the whole line and the part produced, together with the 
 square of one half the bisected line, will be equivalent to the 
 square on a line made up of tlie part produced and one half the 
 bisected line. 
 
 Let AB be any line, bi- 
 sected in and produced 
 to D. On OB describe 
 the square OF, and on 
 BB describe the square 
 BE. 
 
 The sides of the square 
 BE being produced, the G~~ m" 
 
 square GrL will be form- 
 ed. Also, complete the construction of the rectangle 
 ABEK. 
 
 Then we are to prove that the rectangle, AE, and the 
 aquare, GrL, are together equivalent to the square, 
 CBFa. 
 
 The two complementary rectangles, CL and LF, are 
 equal, (Th. 31). But OL=AH, the line AB being bisected 
 at 0; therefore AL is equal to the sum of the two com- 
 plementary rectangles of the square OF. To AL add 
 the square BE, and the whole rectangle, AE, will be 
 equal to the two rectangles CE and EM. To each of 
 these equals add EM, or the square on HL or its equal 
 OB, and we have rectangle AE -f square EM = OB 2 ; 
 but rectangle AE = AB x BB, and square EM = CB 2 * 
 Hence the theorem, etc. 
 
 Scholium, — If we represent AB by 2a, and BD by x, then AD — 
 2a -f x, and AD X BD = 2ax + x*. But CB 1 = a' ; adding this 
 equation to the preceding, member to member, we get AD X BD -f- 
 CB 2 = a* -f- 2ax -f x 3 = a + x\ But CD — a + s; hence this equa- 
 tion is equivalent to the equation AL X DB -f- CE? = CD , which is 
 the algebraic proof of the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XLV. 
 
 If a straight line be divided into two equal parts, and also 
 into two unequal parts, the rectangle contained by the two un- 
 equal parts together with the square of the line between the 
 points of division, will be equivalent to the square on one half 
 the line. 
 
 Let AB be a line bisected in 0, and divided into two 
 unequal parts in B, 
 
 We are to prove 
 
 that AB x BB + . p c 
 
 Cff^AQ\ov~CB\ B A 
 
 We see by inspection that AB = AC + CB, and BB 
 m, AC— OB; therefore by (Th. 38), we have 
 ABx BB = AC 2 —~CB\ 
 
 By adding UB 2 to each of these equals, we obtain 
 AB x BB + ~CD* =~AC % 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 BOOK II 
 
 PROPORTION. 
 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS. 
 
 The word Proportion, in its common meaning, de- 
 notes that general relation or symmetry existing between 
 the different parts of an object which renders it agree- 
 able to our taste, and conformable to our ideas of beauty 
 or utility ; but in a mathematical sense. 
 
 1. Proportion is the numerical relation which one quan- 
 tity bears to another of the same kind. 
 
 As the magnitudes compared must be of the same kind, 
 proportion in geometry can be only that of a line to a 
 line, a surface to a surface, an angle to an angle, or a volume 
 to a volume. 
 
 2. Ratio is a term by which the number which meas- 
 ures the proportion between two magnitudes is desig- 
 nated, and is the quotient obtained by dividing the one 
 
 by the other. Thus, the ratio of A to B is --, or A : B, 
 
 in which A is called the antecedent, and B the consequent. 
 If, therefore, the magnitude A be assumed as the unit or 
 standard, this quotient is the numerical value of B ex- 
 pressed in terms of this unit. 
 
 It is to be remarked that this principle lies at the found- 
 ation of the method of representing quantities by num- 
 bers. For example, when we say that a body weighs 
 twenty-five pounds, it is implied that the weight of this 
 body has been compared, directly or indirectly, with that 
 of the standard, one pound. And so of geometrica 
 
 
 magnitudes ; when a line, a surface, or a volume is said 
 to be fifteen linear, superficial, or cubical feet, it is un- 
 derstood that it has been referred to its particular unit, 
 and found to contain it fifteen times ; that is, fifteen is 
 the ratio of the unit to the magnitude. 
 
 "When two magnitudes are referred to the same unit, 
 the ratio of the numbers expressing them will be the 
 ratio of the magnitudes themselves. 
 
 Thus, if A and B have a common unit, a, which is 
 contained in A, m times, and in B, n times, then A =• ma 
 
 j t> , B na n 
 
 and B = na. and -r = — = — . 
 A ma m 
 
 To illustrate, let the 
 
 line A contain the line . A 
 
 a six times, and let the , 
 
 line B contain the same a 
 
 line a five times : then 
 
 i i i j j j 
 
 A= 6a and B—5a, which B 
 
 . B ba 5 
 glVe 2 = 6-a = 6- 
 
 3. A Proportion is a formal statement of the equality 
 of two ratios. 
 
 Thus, if we have the four magnitudes A, B, and D, 
 
 fmch that -r = ^, this relation is expressed by the pro- 
 portion A: B :: C: D, or A : B = : D, the first of 
 which is read, A is to B as O is to D ; and the second, 
 the ratio of A to B is equal to that of to D. 
 
 4. The Terms of a proportion are the magnitudes, or 
 caore properly the representatives of the magnitudes 
 compared. 
 
 5. The Extremes of a proport on are its first and fourth 
 terms. 
 
 6. The Means of a proportion are its second and third 
 terms. 
 
 7. A Conplet consists of the two terms of a ratio. The 
 
 
 first and second terms of a proportion are called the 
 first couplet, and the third and fourth terms are called 
 the second couplet. 
 
 8. The Antecedents of a proportion are its first and 
 third terms. 
 
 9. The Consequents of a proportion are its second and 
 fourth terms. 
 
 In expressing the equality of ratios in the form of a 
 proportion, we may make the denominators the ante- 
 cedents, and the numerators the consequents, or the 
 reverse, without affecting the relation "between the magni- 
 tudes. It is, however, a matter of some little importance 
 to the "beginner to adopt a uniform rule for writing the 
 terms of the ratios in the proportion ; and we shall always, 
 unless otherwise stated, make the denominators of the 
 ratios the antecedents, and the numerators the conse- 
 quents.* 
 
 10. Equimultiples of magnitudes are the products arising 
 from multiplying the magnitudes by the same number. 
 Thus, the products, Am and Bm, are equimultiples of 
 A and B. 
 
 U. A Mean Proportional between two magnitudes is a 
 magnitude which will form with the two a proportion, 
 when it is made a consequent in the first ratio, and an 
 antecedent in the second. Thus, if we have three mag- 
 nitudes A, B y and 0, such that A : B : : B : (7, B is a 
 mean proportional between A and 0. 
 
 12. Two magnitudes are reciprocally, or inversely pro- 
 portional when, in undergoing changes in value, one is 
 multiplied and the other is divided by the same number. 
 
 Thus, if A and B be two magnitudes, so related that when 
 
 j> 
 A becomes mA, B becomes — , A and B are said to be 
 
 m 
 
 inversely proportional. 
 
 * For discussion of the two methods of expressing Ratio, see Uni 
 vorsity Algebra. 
 6 
 
 
 13. A Proportion is taken inversely when the ante- 
 cedents are made the consequents and the consequents 
 the antecedents. 
 
 14. A Proportion is taken alternately, or by alternation, 
 when the antecedents are made one couplet and the con- 
 sequents the other. 
 
 15. Mutually Equiangular Polygons have the same num- 
 ber of angles, those of the one equal to those of the 
 ethers, each to each, and the angles like placed. 
 
 16. Similar Polygons are such as are mutually equi- 
 angular, and have the sides about the equal angles, taken 
 in the same order, proportional. 
 
 17. Homologous Angles in similar polygons are those 
 which are equal and like placed ; and 
 
 18. The Homologous Sides are those which are like dis- 
 posed about the homologous angles. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 If the first and second of four magnitudes are equal, and 
 also the third and fourth, the four magnitudes may form a 
 proportion. 
 
 Let A, B, 0, and B represent four magnitudes, such 
 that A — B and C—B; we are to prove that A : B : : 
 C : B. 
 
 Now, by hypothesis, A is equal to B, and their ratio is 
 therefore 1 ; and since, by hypothesis, is equal to B, 
 their ratio is also 1. 
 
 Hence, the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to B ; 
 and, (by Def. 3), 
 
 A : B : : : D. 
 
 Therefore, four magnitudes which are equal, two and 
 two, constitute a proportion. 
 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the product of 
 the extremes is equal to the product of the means. 
 
 Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D form the pro- 
 portion A : B : : : D ; we are to prove that A x D 
 = Bx C. 
 
 The ratio of A to B is expressed hy -j = r. 
 The ratio of to B is expressed hy ^ = r. 
 
 Hence, (Ax. 1), ^ - ~. 
 
 Multiplying each of these equals hy A x C, we have 
 B x C=Ax D. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are in propor- 
 Hon, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Conversely; If we ha/ve the product of two mag- 
 nitudes equal to the product of two other magnitudes, they 
 will constitute a proportion of which either two may be 
 made the extremes and the other two the means. 
 
 Let the magnitudes B x C = A x D. Dividing both 
 members of the equation by A x C, we obtain 
 B _B 
 A~ C 
 
 Hence the proportion A : B : : (7:2). 
 
 Cor. 2. If we divide both members of the equation 
 Ax B = B x C by A, 
 
 we have D = — - A — . 
 A 
 
 That is, to find the fourth term of a proportion, mul- 
 tiply the second and third terms together and divide the pro- 
 duct by the first term. This is the Rule of Three of 
 Arithmetic- 
 
 
 This equation shows that any one of the foui terms 
 can be found by a like process, provided the other three 
 are given. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 If three magnitudes are continued proportionals, the product 
 of the extremes is equal to the square of the mean. 
 
 Let A, B, and represent the three magnitudes : 
 
 Then A : B : : B : C, (by Def. 11). 
 
 But, (by Th. 2), the product of the extremes is equal 
 to the product of the means ; that is, A x (7= B*. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if three magnitudes, etc, 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 Equimultiples of any two magnitudes have the same ratio 
 as the magnitudes themselves ; and the magnitudes and their 
 equimultiples may therefore form a proportion. 
 
 Let A and B represent two magnitudes, and mA and 
 mB their equimultiples. 
 
 Then we are to prove that A : B : : mA • *nB, 
 
 The ratio of A to B is ~, and of mA Us mB is 
 
 mB B '. ,. 
 
 — T = -r, the same ratio. 
 mA A 7 
 
 Hence the theorem; equimultiples of any twc &4y*i 
 
 tudes, etc, 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, they will be propor~ 
 tional when taken inversely. 
 
 If A : B : : mA : mB, then B : A : : mB : mA ; 
 
 For in either case, the product of the extremes equals 
 that of the means; or the ratio of the couplets is the 
 same. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four quantities are propor- 
 tional, etc. 
 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Magnitudes which are proportional to the same propor 
 tionals, are proportional to each other. 
 If A : B = P : Q 1 Then we are to prove that 
 and a : b = P : Q) A : B = a : b. 
 
 From the 1st proportion, — = ~ ; 
 
 A. Jr 
 
 From the 2d " - = -^; 
 
 a P 
 
 7? h 
 
 Therefore, by (Ax. 1), -j = -, or A : B = a : b. 
 
 jA. a 
 
 Hence the theorem ; magnitudes which are proportional 
 to the same proportionals, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. This principle may be extended through any 
 number of proportionals. 
 
 Cor. 2. If the ratio of an antecedent and consequent of one 
 proportion is equal to the ratio of an antecedent and conse- 
 quent of another proportion, the remaining terms of the two 
 proportions are proportional. 
 
 For, if A : B : : C : D 
 
 and M : N : : P : Q 
 
 in which A= W then C=P> 
 
 hence : D : : P : Q. 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If any number of magnitudes are proportional, any one of 
 the antecedents will be to its consequent as the sum of all the 
 antecedents is to the sum of all the consequents. 
 
 Let A, B, C, B, E, etc., represent the several magni 
 tudes whi 3h give the proportions 
 
 6* 
 
 A : B 
 
 :: : D 
 
 A : B 
 
 :: E : F 
 
 A : B 
 
 : : a : H, 
 
 
 E 
 
 etc., etc 
 
 
 To which we may annex the identical proportion, 
 
 A : B : : A : B. 
 Now, (by Th. 2), these proportions give the following 
 equations, 
 
 A x D - B x 
 A x F = B x E 
 A x H= B x a 
 A x B = B x A, etc. etc. 
 From which, by addition, there results the equation, 
 A(B + D + F + H, etc.) = B(A+ C+F+ #, etc.) 
 But the sums B + D + F, etc., and A -f C + U, etc., 
 may be separately regarded as single magnitudes ; there- 
 fore, (Th. 2, Cor. 1), 
 
 A : B :: A+C+F+ G, etc. : .B + D -f #+ J7", etc. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any number of magnitudes are pro- 
 portional, etc. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the first will be 
 to the sum of the first and second as the third is to the sum of 
 the third and fourth. 
 
 By hypothesis, A : B :: C : D; then we are to prove 
 that A : A + B :: : C + D. 
 
 By the given proportion, — = — . 
 Adding unity to both members, and reducing them to 
 the form of a fraction, we have — - — = — ^ — . Chang- 
 ing this equation into its equivalent proportion al form, 
 we have 
 
 A : A 4- B : : : C + B. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes constitute a pro* 
 portion, etc. 
 
 T> 
 
 Cor. If we subtract each member of the equation -j = 
 
 
 D 
 
 p from unity, and reduce as before, we shall have 
 
 A : A — B :: : C — D. 
 Hence also ; if four magnitudes constitute a proportion, 
 the first is to the difference between the first and second, as the 
 third is to the difference between the third and fourth. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, the sum of the first and 
 second is to their difference as the sum of the third and fourth 
 is to their difference. 
 
 Let A, B, 0, and D be the four magnitudes which give 
 the proportion 
 
 A : B :: C : D; 
 
 we are then to prove that they will also give the propor- 
 tion 
 
 A + B : A—B :: C + D : Q — D. 
 By Th. 8 we have A : A + B - : (7+2). 
 Aisoby Corollary, sameTh., A : A — B = C : C—D. 
 Xow, if we change the order of the means in these pro- 
 portions, which may be done, since the products of ex- 
 tremes and means remain the same, we shall have 
 A : C = A + B : C+ B. 
 A : C = A — B : C—B. 
 Hence, (Th. 6), we have 
 
 A + B : 0+ D - A — B : C—D. 
 Or, A + B : A — B - + D : Q—D. 
 Ilence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are proportional, 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, like powers or like 
 roots of the same magnitudes are also proportional. 
 
 If the four magnitudes, A, B, C, and D, give the pro- 
 portion 
 
 
 A : B : : : D, 
 
 we are to prove that 
 
 A n : B n :: C n : B n . 
 
 The hypothesis gives the equation — = — . Eaising 
 
 A G 
 
 both members of this equation to the nth power, we have 
 
 B n D n 
 
 -^ = -^, which, expressed in its equivalent proportional 
 
 form, gives 
 
 A n : B n :: C n : B n . 
 
 If n is a whole number, the terms of the given propor- 
 tion are each raised to a power ; but if n is a fraction 
 having unity for its numerator, and a whole number for its 
 denominator, like roots of each are taken. 
 
 As the terms of the proportion may be first raised to 
 like powers, and then like roots of the resulting propor- 
 tion be taken, n may be any number whatever. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others, 
 the products which arise from multiplying the first four by the 
 second four, term by term, are also proportional. 
 
 Admitting that A : B 
 
 and X: Y 
 
 We are to show that AX : BY 
 
 : B, 
 Mi N, 
 
 QMiBK 
 
 From the first proportion, — = — ; 
 
 a. o 
 
 Y N 
 From the second, __ = -_. 
 
 X M 
 
 Multiply these equations, member by member, and 
 
 AX CM' 
 Or, AX i BY n CM: BN. 
 
 The same would be true in any number oi proportions. 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are, etc. 
 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 If four magnitude* are 'proportional, and also four others, 
 the quotients which arise from dividing the first four by the 
 swond four, term by term, are proportional. 
 By hypothesis, A : B : : : D, 
 and X : Y ::M: K 
 
 Multiply extremes and means, AD == OB, ( 1 ) 
 and XN=MY. (2) 
 
 Divide (1) hy (2), and ± x * ? JJ x * 
 
 Convert these four factors, which make two equal pro- 
 ducts, into a proportion, and we have 
 
 X : Y' : M l JV" 
 
 By comparing this with the given proportions, we find 
 it is composed of the quotients of the several terms of 
 the first proportion, divided by the corresponding terms 
 of the second. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are proportional, 
 etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If four magnitudes are proportional, we may multiply the 
 first couplet, the second couplet, the antecedents or the conse- 
 quents, or divide them by the same quantity, and the results 
 will be proportional in every case. 
 
 Let the four magnitudes A, B, 0, and D give the pro- 
 portion A: B :: 0: D. By multiplying the extremes 
 and means we have 
 
 A.D = B.O (1) 
 
 Multiply both members of this equation by any num- 
 ber, as a, and we have 
 
 aA.D = aB.O 
 
 By converting this equation into a proportion in four 
 different ways, we have as follows : 
 
 
 GEOMETRK 
 
 
 aA 
 
 : aB 
 
 :: 
 
 : B 
 
 A : 
 
 B :: 
 
 aO : 
 
 aB 
 
 aA 
 
 : B : 
 
 : aQ 
 
 : B 
 
 A : 
 
 aB : 
 
 : C: 
 
 aB. 
 
 Kesuming^the original equation, (1), and dividing both 
 members by a, we have 
 
 A.B _ B.Q 
 a a 
 
 This equation may also be converted into a proportion 
 in four different ways, with the following results : 
 
 ; 
 
 x> 
 
 : : 
 
 : 
 
 D 
 
 a 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 
 A : 
 
 B 
 
 • : 
 
 . 
 a 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 A . 
 
 B 
 
 . . 
 
 (7. 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 a 
 
 
 A : 
 
 B 
 a 
 
 : : 
 
 C : 
 
 B 
 
 a 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if four magnitudes are in proportion, 
 etc, 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 If three magnitudes are in proportion, the first is to the 
 third as the square of the first is to the square of the second. 
 
 Let A, B, and C, be three proportionals. 
 
 Then we are to prove that A : C— A 2 : B* 
 
 By(Th. 3) AC=B> 
 
 Multiply this equation by the numeral value of A, and 
 we have % A*C=A& 
 
 This equation gives the following proportion : 
 
 Ax C=A 2 :B\ 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Remark. — It is now proposed to make an application of the pre- 
 ceding abstract principles of proportion, in geometrical investigations 
 
 
 71 
 
 D 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 If two parallelograms are equal in area, the base and per- 
 pendicular of either may be made the extremes of a propor- 
 tion, of which the base and perpendicular of the other are the 
 means. 
 
 Let ABQD, 
 and HLNM, 
 be two paral- 
 lelograms hav- 
 ing equal areas, A 
 by hypothesis ; then we are to prove that 
 
 AB : LN : : MK : BF, 
 in which MK and BF are the 
 altitudes or perpendiculars of 
 the parallelograms. 
 
 This proportion is true, if 
 the product of the extremes 
 is equal. to the product of the means; 
 that is, if the equation 
 
 AB.BF = LN.MKis true. 
 But AB.BF is the measure of the rectangle ABFE, 
 by (Definition 54, B. I.), and this rectangle is equal in 
 area to the parallelogram ABOD, (B. I., Th. 27). 
 
 In the same manner, we may prove that LN.MK is 
 the measure of the parallelogram NLHM. But these 
 two parallelograms have equal areas by hypothesis. 
 
 Therefore, AB.BF = LN.MK is a true equation, and 
 Th. 2, Cor. 1), gives the proportion 
 
 AB : LN : : MK : BF. 
 Hence the theorem ; if two parallelograms are equal in 
 area, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 Parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each other as 
 their bases. 
 
 Since parallelograms having equal bases and equal 
 altitudes are equal in area, however much their angle* 
 
 
 may differ, we can suppose the two parallelograms under 
 consideration to be mutually equiangular, without in the 
 least impairing the generality of this theorem. There- 
 fore, let ABOB 
 and AEFB be two 
 parallelograms 
 having equal alti- 
 tudes, and let them 
 be placed with 
 their bases on the same line AE, and let the side, AB t 
 be common. First suppose their bases commensurable, 
 and that AE being divided into nine equal parts, AB 
 contains five of those parts. 
 
 If, through the points of division, lines be drawn paral- 
 lel to AB, it is obvious that the whole figure, or the 
 parallelogram, AEFB, will be divided into nine equal 
 parts, and that the parallelogram, ABOB, will be com- 
 posed of five of those parts. 
 
 Therefore, ABCB : AEFB : : AB : AE : : *5 : 9. 
 
 Whatever be the whole numbers having to each other 
 the ratio of the lines AB and AE, the reasoning would 
 remain the same, and the proportion is established when 
 the bases are commensurable. But if the bases are not 
 to each other in the ratio of any two whole numbers, it 
 remains still to be shown that 
 
 AEFB : ABOB :: AE : AB (1) 
 
 If this propor- 
 tion is not true, 
 there must be a 
 line greater or less 
 than AB, to which 
 
 AE will have the A B L 
 
 same ratio that AEFB has to ABOB. 
 
 Suppose the fourth proportional greater than AB, as 
 AK, then, 
 
 AEFB : ABOB :: AE : AK (2). 
 
 
 If we now divide the line AE into equal parts, each 
 less than the line BK, one point of division, at least, will 
 fall between B and K. Let L be such point, and draw 
 LM parallel to BO. 
 
 This construction makes AE and AL commensura- 
 ble; and by what has been already demonstrated, we 
 
 have 
 
 AEFD : ALMD :: AE : AL. (3) 
 
 Inverting the means in proportions ( 2 ) and ( 3 ), they 
 
 become 
 
 AEFD : AE :: ABQD : AK; 
 
 and AEFD : AE : : ALMD : AL. 
 
 Hence, (Th. 6), 
 
 ABOD : AK : : ALMD : AL. 
 By inverting the means in this last proportion, we have 
 
 ABOD : ALMD : : AK : AL. 
 
 But AK is, by hypothesis, greater than AL; hence, if 
 this proportion is true, ABOD must be greater than 
 ALMD; but on the contrary it is less. We therefore 
 conclude that the supposition, that the fourth propor- 
 tional, AK, is greater than AB, from which alone this 
 absurd proportion results, is itself absurd. 
 
 In a similar manner it can be proved absurd to sup- 
 pose the fourth proportional less than AB. 
 
 Therefore the fourth term of the proportion ( 1 ) can be 
 neither less nor greater than AB ; it is then AB itself, 
 and parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each 
 other as their bases, whether these bases are commensur- 
 able or not. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelograms having equal alti- 
 tudes, etc. 
 
 Oor. 1. Since a triangle is one half of a parallelogram 
 having the same base as the triangle and an equal alti- 
 tude, and as the halves of magnitudes have the same 
 ratio as their wholes ; therefore, 
 7 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Triangles having the same or equal altitudes are to each 
 other as their bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. Any triangle has the same area as a right- 
 angled triangle having the same hase and an equal alti- 
 tude ; and as either side about the right angle of aright- 
 angled triangle may be taken as the base, it follows that 
 
 Two triangles having the same or equal bases are to each 
 other as their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. Since either side of a parallelogram may be 
 taken as its base, it follows from this theorem that 
 
 Parallelograms having equal bases are to each other as their 
 altitudes. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 If lines are drawn cutting the sides, or the sides 'produced, of 
 a triangle proportionally, such secant lines are parallel to the 
 base of the triangle ; and conversely, lines drawn parallel 
 to the base of a triangle cut the sides, or the sides produced, 
 proportionally. 
 
 Let ABC be any triangle, and 
 draw the line BE dividing the sides 
 AB and AC into parts wmich give 
 the proportion 
 
 AB : BB : : AE : EC. 
 We are to prove that BE is parallel 
 to BC. 
 
 If BE is not a parallel through 
 the point B to the line BC, suppose 
 Bm to be that parallel ; and draw the 
 lines BC and Bm. 
 
 Now, the two triangles ABm and 
 mBC, have the same altitude, since 
 they have a common vertex, B, and their bases in the 
 same line, AC; hence, they are to each other as their 
 bases, Am and mC, (Th. 16, Cor. 1). 
 
 
 That is, A ADm : A mDQ : : Am : mO, 
 Also, A AmD : £ J>mB :: AD : DB. 
 
 But, since Dm is supposed parallel to BO, the triangles 
 DBm and DCm have equal areas, because they are on 
 the same base and between the same parallels, (Th. 28, 
 B.I). 
 
 Therefore the terms of the first couplets in the two 
 preceding proportions are equal each to each, and conse- 
 quently the terms of the second couplets are proportional, 
 (Theorem 6). 
 
 That is, AD : DB : : Am : mO 
 
 But AD : DB :: AE : EQ by hypothesis. 
 
 Hence we again have two proportions having the first 
 couplets, the same in both, and we therefore have 
 
 AE : EC : : Am : mO 
 
 By alternation this becomes 
 
 AE : Am :: EC : mO 
 
 That is, AE is to Am, a greater magnitude is to a less, 
 as EQ is to mO, a less to a greater, which is absurd. 
 Had we supposed the point m to fall between E and 0, 
 our conclusion would have been equally absurd ; hence 
 the suppositions which have led to these absurd results 
 are themselves absurd, and the line drawn through the 
 point D parallel to BO must intersect AO in the point 
 E. Therefore the parallel and the line DE are one and 
 the same line. 
 
 Conversely : JfDE be drawn parallel to the base of the 
 triangle, then will 
 
 AD i DB :: AE i EQ 
 For as before, 
 
 A ADE : a EDO : : AE : EQ 
 and A DEB : A ADE x; DB i AD 
 
 Multiplying the corresponding terms of these propor- 
 
 
 tions, and omitting the common factor, a ADE, in the 
 first couplet, we have 
 
 A DEB : A EDO : : AE x DB : EC x AD. 
 
 But the a's DEB and EDO have equal areas, (Th. 28, 
 B. I) ; hence AE x DB = EC x AD, which in the form 
 of a proportion is 
 
 AE : EC : : AD : DB 
 
 or, AD : DB : : AE : EC 
 
 and therefore the line parallel to the base of the triangle, 
 divides the sides proportionally. 
 
 It is evident that the reasoning would remain the same, 
 had we conceived ADE to be the triangle and the sides 
 to be produced to the points B and 0. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if lines are drawn cutting the 
 sides, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Because DE is parallel to BO, and intersects 
 the sides AB and A 0, the angles ADE and ABO are 
 equal. For the same reason the angles AED and AOB 
 are equal, and the A's ADE and ABO are equiangular. 
 
 Let us now take up the triangle ADE, and place it on 
 ABO; the angle ADE falling on |__ B, the side AD on 
 the side AB, and the side DE on the side BO 
 
 Now, since the angle A is common, and the angles 
 AED and A OB are equal, the side AE of the A ADE, 
 in its new position, will be parallel to the side AO of the 
 A ABO. 
 
 The last proportion of this Th. gives (Th. 8 and Th. 5), 
 AD : AE w AB : AC 
 
 From the above construction we obtain, by a similar 
 course of reasoning, the proportion 
 
 AD : DE : : AB : BO 
 
 And in like manner it may be shown that 
 AE : ED :: AO : OB 
 
 That is, the sides about the equal angles of equiangular 
 triangles, taken in the same order, are proportional, and the 
 triangles are similar, (Def. 16). 
 
 
 77 
 
 Cor. 2. Two triangles having an angle in one equal to an 
 angle in the other, and the sides about these equal angles pro* 
 portional, are equiangular and similar. 
 
 For, if the smaller triangle be placed on the larger, 
 the equal angles of the triangles coinciding, then will 
 the sides opposite these angles be parallel, and the triau- 
 gles will therefore be equiangular and similar. 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If any triangle have its sides respectively proportional to 
 the like or homologous sides of another triangle, each to each, 
 then the two triangles will be equiangular and similar. 
 
 Let the triangle abc have its sides pro- 
 portional to the triangle ABO ; that is, ac 
 to A as cb to OB, and ac to AC as ab to 
 AB ; then we are to prove that 
 the a's, abc and ABO, are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 On the other side of the base, 
 AB, and from A, conceive the 
 angle BAB to be drawn = to the 
 |__ a ; and from the point B, 
 conceive the angle ABB to be 
 drawn = to the [_ b. Then the third [__ D must be =a 
 to the third [_ o, (B. I, Th. 12, Cor. 2) ; and the A ABB 
 will be equiangular to the A abc by construction. 
 
 Therefore, ac : ab = AB : AB 
 
 By hypothesis, ac : ab = A O : AB 
 
 Hence, AB : AB = A : A B, (Th. 6). 
 
 In this last proportion the consequents are equal; 
 therefore, the antecedents are equal : that is, 
 AB - AO 
 
 In the sa me manner we may prove that 
 BB = OB 
 
 
 But AB is common to the two triangles ; therefore, 
 the three iides of the A ABB are respectively equal to 
 the three sides of the A ABO, and the two a's are equal, 
 (B. I, Th. 21). 
 
 But the A's ABB, and abc, are equiangular by con- 
 struction; therefore, the A's, ABO, and abc, are also 
 equiangular and similar. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any triangle have its sides, etc, 
 
 Second Demonstration. 
 
 Let abc and ABO be two triangles 
 whose sides are respectively propor- 
 tional, then will the triangles be equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 That is, L« = LA L& = L 2> and 
 
 If the [_ c be in fact 
 equal to the [__ 0, the tri- 
 angle abc can be placed 
 on the triangle ABO, ca 
 taking the direction of 
 OA and cb of OB. The 
 line ab will then divide 
 the sides OA and OB proportionally, and will therefore 
 be parallel to AB, and the triangles will be equiangular 
 and similar, (Th. 17). 
 
 But if the [_c be not equal to the [_ 0, then place ae 
 on i(J as before, the point c falling on 0. Under the 
 present supposition cb will not fall on OB, but will take 
 another direction, OV, on one side or the other of OB 
 Make OV equal to cb and draw aV. 
 
 Now, the A abc is represented in magnitude and posi- 
 tion by the A a VO; and if, through the point a, the line 
 ab be drawn parallel to AB, we shall have 
 
 Oa : OA n ab : AB; 
 hut by (Hy.) Oa : OA : : aV : AB. 
 
 
 79 
 
 Hence, (Th. d), 
 
 ab : AB :: aV : XB; 
 which requires that ab = aV, but (Th. 22, B. 1) ab can 
 not be equal to aV; hence the last proportion is absurd, 
 and the supposition that the [__ c is not equal to the [__ (7, 
 which leads to this result, is also absurd. Therefore, 
 the [_c is equal to the [__ (7, and the triangles are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if any triangle have its sides, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 If four straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle con- 
 tained by the lines which constitute the extremes, is equivalent 
 to that contained by those which constitute the means of the 
 proportion. 
 
 Let A, B, C, D, represent the four A '~ 
 lines ; 
 
 then 
 
 T> 
 
 we are to show, geo- c , 
 metrically, that A x JD — B x Q. D j 
 
 Place A and B at right angles to each 
 other, and draw the hypotenuse. Also place 
 and D at right angles to each other, and 
 draw the hypotenuse. Then bring the two 
 triangles together, so that shall be at right 
 angles to B, as represented in the figure. 
 
 Now, these two A's have each a E. [_, 
 and the sides about the equal angles are pro- 
 portional ; that is, A : B : : C : D ; hence, 
 (Th. 17, Cor. 2), the two A's are equiangular, and the 
 acute angles which meet at the extremities of B and (7, 
 are together equal to one right angle, and the lines B 
 and G are so placed as to make another right angle; 
 therefore, also, the extremities of A, B, 0, and D, are in 
 one right line, (Th. 3, B. I), and that line is the diag- 
 
 l\ B 
 
 
 \ 
 
 BC 
 
 \ 
 
 C 
 
 
 \» 
 
BOOK II. 
 
 \ 
 
 
 onal of the parallelogram be. By Th. 31, B. I, the 
 complementary parallelograms about this diagonal are 
 equal ; but, one of these parallelograms is B in length, 
 and in width, and the other is D in length and A in 
 width; therefore, 
 
 B x C = A x B. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if four straight lines are in propor- 
 tion, etc. 
 
 Cor. When B = (7, then A X B = B\ and B is the 
 mean proportional between A and D. That is, if three 
 straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle contained 
 by the first and third lines is equivalent to the square 
 described on the second line. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 Similar triangles are to one another as the squares of their 
 
 homologous sides. 
 
 Let ABO and DBF be two 
 
 similar triangles, and LQ and 
 
 MF perpendiculars to the sides 
 
 A B and BE respectively. Then 
 
 we are to prove that 
 
 aABC:aBEF = AB*:BE\ 
 By the similarity of the tri- 
 angles, we have, 
 
 AB :BE = LC : MF 
 But, AB ; BE = AB : BE 
 Hence, AB 2 : JJW = AB x LQ : BE x MF. 
 But, (by Th. 30, B. I), AB x LQ is double the area 
 
 of the A ABC, and BE x MF is double the area of the 
 
 A BEF. 
 Therefore, A ABO: ABEFnAB x LQ :BExMF 
 And, (Th. 6), A ABC: A BEF= AW : BE\ 
 
 Hence the theorem ; similar triangles are to one another, 
 
 etc. 
 
 
 81 
 
 The following illustration will enable the learner fully 
 to comprehend this important theorem, and it will also 
 serve to impress it upon his memory. 
 
 Let abc and ABO represent two equiangular triangles. 
 Suppose the length of 
 the side ac to be two 
 units, and the length 
 of the corresponding 
 side A to be three 
 units. 
 
 Now, drawing lines 
 through the points of 
 
 division of the sides ac and A 0, parallel to the other sides 
 of the triangles, we see that the smaller triangle is com- 
 posed of four equal triangles, while the larger contains 
 nine such triangles. That is, 
 
 the sides of the triangles are as 2 : 3, 
 
 and their areas are as 4 : 9 = 2 2 : 3'. 
 
 THEOREM XXI 
 
 Similar polygons may be divided into the same number of 
 triangles; and to each triangle in one of the polygons there 
 will be a corresponding triangle in the other polygon, these 
 triangles being similar and similarly situated. 
 
 JjQtABCDUtmd. abcde 
 be two similar polygons. 
 Now it is obvious that we 
 can divide each polygon 
 into as many triangles as 
 the figure has sides, less 
 
 two; and as the polygons have the same number of sides, 
 the diagonals drawn from the vertices of the homologous 
 angles will divide them into the same number of tri- 
 angles. 
 
 
 Since the polygons are similar, the angles EAB and cab, 
 are equal, and 
 
 EA : AB : : ea : ab. 
 
 Hence the two triangles, EAB and eab, having an angle 
 in the one equal to an angle in the other, and the sides 
 about these angles proportional, are equiangular and 
 similar, and the angles ABE and abe are equal. 
 
 But the angles ABO and abc are equal, because the 
 polygons are similar. 
 
 Hence, [_ABO— [_ABE= \__abc — [__abe; 
 
 that is, [___EBO = [__ebc. 
 
 The triangles, EAB and eab, being similar, their ho- 
 mologous sides give the proportion, 
 
 AB : BE : : ab : be; ( 1 ) 
 and since the polygons are similar, the sides about the 
 equal angles B and b are proportional, and we have 
 AB : BO :: ab : be; 
 
 or, BO : AB :: be : ab. (2) 
 
 Multiplying proportions (1) and (2), term by term, and 
 omitting in the result the factor AB common to the terms 
 of the first couplet, and the factor ab common to the 
 terms of the second, we have 
 
 BO : BE n be i be. 
 Hence the A's EBO and ebe are equiangular and similar; 
 and thus we may compare all of the triangles of one 
 polygon with those like placed in the other. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; similar polygons may be divided^ etc 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 The perimeter 8 of similar polygons are to one another as 
 their homologous sides ; and their areas are to one another as 
 the squares of their homologous sides. 
 
 Let ABODE and abode be two similar polygons ; then 
 we are to prove that AB is to the sum of all the sides 
 
 
 of the polygon A BOB, as 
 ah \% to the sum of all 
 the sides of the polygon 
 abed. E 
 
 We have the identical 
 proportion 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : : 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah; 
 
 
 and since 
 
 the 
 
 polygons are 
 
 similar, we may write the 
 
 following : 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 1 BO : 
 
 he 
 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 : OB : 
 
 cd 
 
 
 
 
 AB : 
 
 ah : 
 
 : BE 
 
 : de 9 
 
 etc. etc. 
 
 Hence, (Th. 7), 
 AB : ah :: AB+BO+OD+DE, etc.: ab+bc+cd+de, etc. 
 
 Therefore, the perimeters of similar polygons are to 
 one another as their homologous sides. This is the first 
 part of the theorem. 
 
 Since the polygons are similar, the triangles EAB, eah, 
 are similar, and if the triangle EAB is a part expressed 
 
 by the traction -, of the polygon to which it belongs, 
 n 
 
 the triangle eah is a like part of the other polygon. 
 
 Therefore, EAB : eah : : ABOBEA : ahedea. 
 
 But, (Th. 20), EAB : eah : : AB 2 : ah\ 
 
 Therefore, (Th. 6), 
 
 ABOBEA : ahedea : : AB 2 : ah\ 
 
 Therefore, the similar polygons are to one another as 
 the squares on their homologous sides. This is the 
 second part of the theorem. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the perimeters of similar polygon* 
 are to one another, ete, 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 Two triangles which have an angle in the one equal tc an 
 angle in the other, are to each other as the rectangle of thu 
 aides about the equal angles. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Let ABC and def be two triangles having the angles 
 A and d equal. It is to 
 be proved that the areas 
 ABC and def are to each 
 other as AB.AC is to 
 de.df. 
 
 Conceive the triangle 
 def placed on the tri- 
 angle ABC, so that d 
 shall fall on A, and de on 
 AB ; then df will fall on 
 AC, because the L'si 
 and d are equal. On AB, lay off Ae, equal to de ; and 
 on AC, lay off Af, equal to df, and draw ef The tri- 
 angle Aef will then be equal to the triangle def Join 
 B and/. 
 
 Now, as triangles having the same altitude are to each 
 other as their bases, (Th. 16, Cor. 1), we have 
 
 Aef : ABf :: Ae : AB 
 also, ABf : ABC : : Af : AC 
 
 Multiplying these proportions together, term by term, 
 omitting from the result ABf, a factor common to the 
 terms of the first couplet, we have 
 
 Aef : ABC : : Ae . Af : AB . AC 
 
 But Aef is equal to def, Ae to de, and Af to df; therefoie, 
 
 def : ABC :: de . df : AB . AC 
 
 Hence the theorem ; two triangles which have an angle, ttc. 
 
 Scholium. — If we suppose that 
 
 AB : AC :: de : df 
 
 the two triangles will be similar ; and if we multiply the terms ot the 
 first couplet of this proportion by AC, and the terms of the second 
 ccmplet by df, we shall have 
 
 AB . AC : AC % : : de ^ : dj* 
 U, AB . AC : de . df :: AC 2 : df 
 
 
 Comparing this with the last proportion in this theorem, and we have, 
 (Th.6); _ _ 
 
 def: ABC xx df : AC 9 
 
 Remark. — This scholium is therefore another demonstration of 
 Theorem 20, and hence that theorem need not necessarily have been 
 made a distinct proposition. We require no stronger proof of the cer- 
 tainty of geometrical truth, than the fact that, however different the 
 processes by which we arrive at these truths, we are never led into 
 inconsistencies ; but whenever our conclusions can be compared, they 
 will harmonize with each other completely, provided our premises are 
 true and our reasoning logical. 
 
 It is hoped that the student will lose no opportunity to exercise 
 his powers, and test his skill and knowledge, in seeking original 
 demonstrations of theorems, and in deducing consequences and 
 conclusions from those already established. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If the vertical angle of a triangle be bisected, the bisecting 
 line will cut the base into segments proportional to the adja- 
 cent sides of the triangle. 
 
 Let ABO be any triangle, 
 and the vertical angle, 0, be bi- *s1 
 
 sected by tbe straight line CD. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 AB : BB = AC : OB. 
 
 Produce A O to E, making A — D r 
 
 OE = OB, and draw EB. The exterior angle A OB, of 
 the A CEB, is equal to the two angles E, and CBE; 
 but the angle E = QBE, because OB — OE, and the tri- 
 angle is isosceles; therefore the angle AOB, the half of 
 the angle A OB, i3 equal to the angle E, and BO and BE 
 are parallel, (Cor.2,Th. 7,B. I). 
 
 Now, as ABE is a triangle, and OB is parallel to BE, 
 we have AD : BB = AQ : OE or OB, (Th. 17). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the vertical angle of a triangle 
 be bisected, etc. 
 8 
 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 If from the right angle of a right-angled triangle, a per 
 pendicular is drawn to the hypotenuse ; 
 
 1. The perpendicular divides the triangle into two similar 
 triangles, each of which is similar to the whole triangle, 
 
 2. The perpendicular is a mean proportional between the 
 segments of the hypotenuse. 
 
 3. The segments of the hypotenuse are in proportion to the 
 squares on the adjacent sides of the triangle. 
 
 4. The sum of the squares on the two sides is equivalent to 
 the square on the hypotenuse. 
 
 Let BAG be a triangle, right an- 
 gled at A ; and draw AD perpendicu- 
 lar to BO. 
 
 1. The two A 's, ABO and ABB, B DC 
 have the common angle, B, and the right angle BAQ = 
 the right angle BDA ; therefore, the third |_ 's are equal, 
 and the two A's are similar by Th. 17, Cor. 1. In the 
 same manner we prove the A ADC similar to the A 
 ABC; and the two triangles, ABB, ABC, being similar 
 to the same A ABO, are similar to each other. 
 
 2. As similar triangles have the sides about the equal 
 angles proportional, (Def. 16), we have 
 
 BB : AD :: AD : OD; 
 
 or, the perpendicular is a mean proportional between the seg- 
 ments of the hypotenuse. 
 
 3. Again, BO j_BA :: BA : BD 
 hence, BA* - BO.BD (1) 
 also, BQjJJA : : OA : OD 
 hence, OA 2 = BOOD (2) 
 
 Dividing Eq. (1) by Eq. (2), member by member, wo 
 
 obtain 
 
 ~BA* , BD 
 
 ~OA 2 "" OD 
 
 
 which, in the form of a proportion, is 
 
 CA* :~BA* :: CD : BD; 
 
 that is, the segments of the hypotenuse are proportional to the 
 squares on the adjacent sides. 
 4. By the addition of (1) and (2), we have 
 
 BJl + CA* m BQ(BD + CD) =BC\ 
 
 that is, the sum of the squares on the sides about the right 
 angle is equivalent to the square on the hypotenuse. This ia 
 another demonstration of Theorem 39, B. I. 
 
 Hence the theorem , if from the right angle of a right* 
 angled triangle, etc. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 BOOK III. 
 
 OF THE CIRCLE, AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THEtt 
 REMS DEPENDENT ON ITS PROPERTIES. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. * A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how- 
 ever small, do not lie in the same direction. 
 
 2. A Circle is a plane figure bounded by one uniformly 
 curved line, all of the points of which are at the same 
 distance from a certain point within, called the center 
 
 3. The Circumference of a cir- 
 cle is the curved line that 
 bounds it. 
 
 4. The Diameter of a circle 
 is a line passing through the 
 center, and terminating at both 
 extremities in the circumfer- 
 ence. Thus, in the figure, is 
 the center of the circle, the 
 curved line ACrBD is the cir- 
 cumference, and AB is a diameter. 
 
 5. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from the 
 center to any point in the circumference. Thus, CD is 
 a radius of the circle. 
 
 6. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum- 
 ference. 
 
 * The first six of the above definitions have been before given among 
 the general definitions of Geometry, but it was deemed advisable to 
 reinsert them here. 
 
 
 7. A Chord of a circle is the line connecting the ex- 
 tremities of an arc. 
 
 8. A Segment of a circle is the portion of the circle on 
 either side of a chord. 
 
 Tims, in the last figure, EGrF is an arc, and EF is a 
 chord of the circle, and the spaces bounded by the chord 
 EF, and the two arcs EGrF and EDF, into which it 
 divides the circumference, are segments. 
 
 9. A Tangent to a circle is a line which, meeting the 
 circumference at any point, will not cut it on being 
 produced. The point in which the tangent meets the 
 circumference is called the point of tangency. 
 
 10. A Secant to a circle is a line which meets the cir- 
 cumference in two points, and lies a part within and a 
 part without the circumference. 
 
 11. A Sector of a circle is a portion of the circle included 
 between any two radii and their intercepted arc. 
 
 Thus, in the last figure, the line HL, which meets the 
 circumference at the point D, but does not cut it, is a 
 tangent, D being the point of tangency; and the line 
 MN, which meets the circumference at the points P and 
 Q, and lies a portion within and a portion without the 
 circle, is a secant. The area bounded by the arc BD, and 
 the two radii OB, CD, is a sector of the circle. 
 
 12. A Circumscribed Polygon is 
 one all of whose sides are tangent 
 to the circumference of the circle ; 
 and conversely, the circle is then 
 said to be inscribed in the polygon. 
 
 13. An Inscribed Polygon is one 
 the vertices of whose angles are 
 all found in the circumference 
 of the circle ; and conversely, the circle is then said to be 
 circumscribed about the polygon. 
 
 14. A Regular Polygon is one which is both equiangu- 
 lar and equilateral. 
 
 8* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The last three definitions are illustrated by the last 
 figure. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 Any radius perpendicular to a chord, bisects the chord, and 
 also the arc of the chord. 
 
 Let AB be a chord, the center of 
 the circle, and OE & radius perpen- 
 dicular to AB ; then we are to prove 
 that AB = BB, and AE = EB. 
 
 Since is the center of the circle, 
 AC— BO, CB is common to the two 
 A's A OB and BOB, and the angles 
 at B are right angles ; therefore the two A's ABO and 
 BBO are equal, and AB = BB, which proves the first 
 part of the theorem. 
 
 Now, as AB — BB, and BE is common to the two 
 spaces, ABE and BBE, and the angles at B are right 
 angles, if we conceive the sector OBE turned over and 
 placed on CAE, OE retaining its position, the point B 
 will fall on the point A, because AB = BB and AO = 
 BO; then the arc BE will fall on the arc AE; otherwise 
 there would be points in one or the other arc unequally 
 distant from the center, which is impossible ; therefore, 
 the arc AE — the arc EB, which proves the second part 
 of the theorem. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. The center of the circle, the middle point of 
 the chord AB, and of the subtended arc AEB, are 
 three points in the same straight line perpendicular to 
 the chord at its middle point. Now as but one perpen- 
 dicular can be drawn to a line from a given point in that 
 line, it follows : 
 
 1st. That the radius drawn to the middle point 3f 
 any arc bisects, and is perpendicular to, the chord of 
 the arc. 
 
 
 91 
 
 2d. That the perpendicular to the cl ord at its middle 
 point passes through the center of the circle and the 
 middle of the subtended arc. 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 Equal angles at the center of a circle are subtended by 
 equal chords. 
 
 Let the angle A CE = the angle 
 ECB; then the two isosceles triangles, 
 ACE, and ECB, are equal in all re- 
 spects, and AE = EB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords are 
 equally distant from the center. 
 
 Let AB and EF be equal chords, 
 and C the center of the circle. From 
 C, draw CG and CH, perpendicular 
 to the respective chords. These 
 perpendiculars will bisect the chords, 
 (Th. 1), and we shall have A G = EH. 
 "We are now to prove that CG = CH. 
 
 Since the A's ECH and AQG are right-angled, we 
 have, (Th. 39, B. I), 
 
 EH 2 +~WC 7 =-EC 2 
 
 and, AG 2 + GO 2 = 'AC 2 . 
 
 By subtracting these equations, member from mem- 
 ber, we find that 
 
 EH 2 — AG 2 + 7W 2 — ~GC 2 =~EC 2 — AC* (1) 
 But the chords are equal by hypothesis, hence their 
 halves, EH and AG, are equal; also EC = AC, being 
 radii of the circle. Wherefore, 
 
 
 EH 2 — AG 2 « 
 and, W — ~A0 2 - 0. 
 
 These values in Equation ( 1 ) reduce it to 
 
 HC? - GO 2 = 
 or, H0 2 =G0 2 
 
 and, #(7 - #(7. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 (7<?r. Under all circumstances we have 
 EH 2 + HQ 2 = Z# 2 + #tf 2 , 
 
 because the sum of the squares in either member of the 
 equation is equivalent to the square of the radius of the 
 circle. 
 
 Now, if we suppose HO greater than GO, then will 
 HQ 2 be greater than GO 2 . Let the difference of these 
 squares be represented by d. 
 
 Subtracting GO 2 from both members of the above 
 equation, we have 
 
 EH 2 +d=AG 2 
 
 whence, ~AG 2 > EH 2 , and A G > EH. 
 
 Therefore, AB, the double of AG, is greater than EF, 
 the double of EH; that is, of two chords in the same or 
 equal circles, the one nearer the center is the greater. 
 
 The equation, EH 2 + HO 2 = AG 2 -f ~G0 2 , being true, 
 whatever be the position of the chords, we may suppose 
 GO to have any value between and A 0, the radius of 
 the circle. 
 
 When GO becomes zero, the equation reduces to 
 EH 2 + ~H0 2 - AG* - B 2 ; 
 that is, under this supposition, AG coincides with A 0, 
 and AB becomes the diameter of the circle, the greatest 
 chord that can he drawn in it. 
 
 
 THEOREM IV 
 
 A line tangent to the circumference of a circle is at right 
 angles with the radius drawn to the point of contact. 
 
 Let A be a line tangent to the circle 
 at the point B, and draw the radius, EB, 
 and the lines, AE and OE. 
 
 Now, we are to prove that EB is per- 
 pendicular to AC. Because B is the 
 only point in the line A which meets 
 the circle, (Def. 9, B. Ill), any other line, 
 as AE or CE, must be greater than EB ; 
 therefore, EB is the shortest line that can be drawn from 
 the point E to the line A 0; and EB is the perpendicu- 
 lar to AC, (Th. 23, B. I). 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords subtend 
 or stand on equal portions of the circumference. 
 
 Conceive two equal circles, and two equal chords drawn 
 within them. Then, conceive one circle taken up and 
 placed upon the other, center upon center, in such a po- 
 sition that the two equal chords will fall on, and exactly 
 coincide with, each other; the circles must also coin- 
 ciie, because they are equal; and the two arcs of the two 
 circles on either side of the equal chords must also coin- 
 cide, or the circles could not coincide; and magnitudes 
 which coincide, or exactly fill the same space, are in all 
 respects equal, (Ax. 10). 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Through three given points, not in the same straight line, 
 one circumference can be made to pass, and but one. 
 
 Let A, B, and be three given 
 
 points, not in the same straight 
 
 line, and draw the lines AB and 
 
 BO. If a circumference is made 
 
 to pass through the two points A 
 
 and B, the line AB will be a chord 
 
 to such a circle ; and if a chord is 
 
 bisected by a line at right angles, 
 
 the bisecting line will pass through 
 
 the center of the circle, (Cor., Th. 1) ; therefore, if we 
 
 bisect the line AB, and draw DF, perpendicular to AB, 
 at the point of bisection, any circumference that can 
 pass through the points, A and B, must have its center 
 somewhere in the line DF. And if we draw FIG- at 
 right angles to BO at its middle point, any circumference 
 that can pass through the points B and must have its 
 center somewhere in the line EO. Now, if the two lines, 
 DF and EGr, meet in a common point, that point will be 
 a center, about which a circumference can be drawn to 
 pass through the three points, A, B, and 0, and DF and 
 EO will meet in every case, unless they are parallel ; but 
 they are not parallel, for if they were, it would follow 
 (Th. 5, B. I) that, since DF is intersected at right angles 
 by the line AB, it must also be intersected at right angles 
 by the line BO, having a direction different from that of 
 AB ; which is impossible, (Th. 7, B. I). 
 
 Therefore the two lines will meet ; and, with the point 
 H, at which they meet, as a center, and HB — HA = HQ 
 as a radius, one circumference, and but one, can be made 
 to pass through the three given points. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 If two rircles touch each other, either internally or exter- 
 nally, the two centers and the point of contact will be in one 
 right line. 
 
 Let two circles touch each 
 other internally, as represented 
 at A, and conceive AB to be a 
 tangent at the common point A. 
 Now, if a line, perpendicular to 
 AB, be drawn from the point 
 A, it must pass through the 
 center of each circle, (Th. 4) ; 
 
 and as but one perpendicular can be drawn to a line at a 
 given point in it, A, 0, and B, the point of contact and 
 the two centers must be in one and the same line. 
 
 Next, let two circles touch each other externally, and 
 from the point of contact conceive the common tangent, 
 AB, to be drawn. 
 
 Then a line, A 0, perpendicular to AB, will pass 
 through the center of one circle, (Th. 4), and a per- 
 pendicular, AB, from the same point, A, will pass 
 through the center of the other circle ; hence, BAG and 
 BAB are together equal to two right angles ; therefore 
 CAB is one continued straight line, (Th. 3, B. I). 
 
 Cor. "When two circles touch each other internally, the 
 distance between their centers is equal to the difference 
 of their radii ; and when they touch each other extern- 
 ally, the distance between their centers is equal to the 
 sum of their radii. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 An angle at the circumference of any circle is measured by 
 one half the arj on which it stands. 
 
 In this work it is taken as an axiom that any angle 
 whose vertex is at the center of a circle, is measured by 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the arc on which it stands ; and we now proceed to prove 
 that when the arcs are equal, the angle at the circumference 
 is equal to one half the angle at the center. 
 
 Let ACB be an angle at the center, 
 and D an angle at the circumference, 
 and at first suppose D in a line with 
 AC. We are now to prove that the 
 angle ACB is double the angle D. 
 
 The A DCB is an isosceles triangle, 
 because CD = CB ; and its exterior 
 angle, ACB, is equal to the two interior angles, D, and 
 CBD, (Th. 12, B. I), and since these two angles are equal 
 to each other, the angle ACB is double the angle at 
 D. But ACB is measured by the arc AB ; therefore the 
 angle D is measured by one half the arc AB. 
 
 Next, suppose D not in a line with 
 AC, but at any point in the circum- 
 ference, except on AB ; produce DC 
 to E. 
 
 Now, by the first part of this 
 theorem, 
 
 the angle ECB = 2EDB, 
 
 also, EC A = 2EDA, 
 
 by subtraction, ACB = 2 ADB. 
 
 But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore ADB 
 or the angle D, is measured by one half of the same arc 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 An angle in a semicircle is a right angle ; an angle in a 
 (segment greater than a semicircle is less than a right angle ; 
 and an angle in a segment less than a semicircle is greater 
 than a right angle. 
 
 If the angle ACB is in a semicircle, the opposite seg- 
 ment, ADB, on which it stands, is also a semicircle ; and 
 the angle ACB is measured by one half the arc ADB 
 
 
 b« 
 
 (Th. 8) ; that is, one half of 180°, or 90°, which is the 
 measure of a right angle. 
 
 If the angle A CB is in a segment 
 greater than a semicircle, then the 
 opposite segment is less than a semi- 
 circle, and the measure of the angle 
 is less than one half of 180°, or less 
 than a right angle. If the angle 
 ACB is in a segment less than a 
 semicircle, then the opposite segment, ABB, on whiefc 
 the angle stands, is greater than a semicircle, and its half 
 is greater than 90°; and, consequently, the angle is 
 greater than a right angle. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. Angles at the circumference, 
 and standing on the same arc of a 
 circle, are equal to one another ; for 
 all angles, as BAG, BBC, BBC, are 
 equal, because each is measured by 
 one half of the arc BC. Also, if the 
 angle BEC is equal to CEG-, then 
 the arcs Bd and CG- are equal, be- 
 cause their halves are the measures of equal angles. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The sum of two opposite angles of any quadrilateral in* 
 scribed in a circle, is equal to two right angles. 
 
 Let ACBD represent any quadri- 
 lateral inscribed in a circle. The 
 angle ACB has for its measure, one 
 half of the arc ABB, and the angle 
 ABB has for its measure, one half of 
 the arc ACB; therefore, by addition, 
 the sum of the two opposite angles at 
 C and B, are together measured by 
 one half of the whole circumference, or by 180 degrees, 
 «= two right angles. Hence the theorem 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 An angle formed by a tangent and a chord is measured ty 
 one half of the intercepted arc. 
 
 Let AB be a tangent, and AD a 
 chord, and A the point of contact ; 
 then we are to prove that the angle 
 BAD is measured by one half of the 
 arc AED. 
 
 From A draw the radius AC; and 
 from the center, C, draw CE per- 
 pendicular to AD. 
 
 The [_BAD + [__DAC = 90°, (Th. 4). 
 
 Also, [_C+l_DAC= 90°, (Cor. 4, Th. 12, B. 1), 
 
 Therefore, by subtraction, BAD — (7=0; 
 
 by transposition, the angle BAD = C. 
 
 But the angle C, at the center of the circle, is measured 
 by the arc AE, the half of AED ; therefore, the equal 
 angle, BAD, is also measured by the arc AE, the half 
 of AED. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 An angle formed by a tangent and a chord, is equal to an 
 angle in the opposite segment of the circle. 
 
 Let AB be a tangent, and AD a 
 chord, and from the point of contact, 
 A, draw any angles, as AOD, and 
 AED, in the segments. Then we are 
 to prove that [__ BAD = [__ A CD, and 
 L GAD = L AED- 
 
 By Th. 11, the angle BAD is meas- 
 ured by one half the arc AED ; and 
 as the angle A CD is measured by one half of the same 
 arc, (Th. 8), we have |_ BAD = [_ ACD. 
 
 
 Again, as AEBO is a quadrilateral, inscribed in a 
 circle, the sum of the opposite angles, 
 
 AOB + AEB - 2 right angles. (Th. 10). 
 
 Also, the sum of the angles 
 
 BAD + BAG = 2 right angles. (Th. 1, B. I). 
 
 By subtraction (and observing that BAB has just been 
 proved equal to AOB), we have, 
 
 AEB — BAG = 0. 
 Or, by transposition, AEB = BAG* 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 Arcs of the circumference of a circle intercepted by paral- 
 lel chords, or by a tangent and a parallel chord, are equal. 
 
 Let AB and OB be parallel chords, 
 and draw the diagonal, AB ; now, be- 
 cause AB and CB are parallel, the 
 angle BAB - the angle ABO (Th. 6, B. 
 I) ; but the angle BAB has for its meas- 
 ure, one half of the arc BB\ and the 
 angle ABO has for its measure, one half of the arc AO, 
 (Th. 8) ; and because the angles are equal, the arcs are 
 equal ; that is, the arc BB = the arc A 0. 
 
 Next, let EF be a tangent, parallel to a chord, OB, and 
 from the point of contact, G, draw GB. 
 
 Since EF and OB are parallel, the angle OBG = the 
 angle BGF. But the angle OBGr has for its measure, 
 one-half of the arc 00-, (Th. 8) ; and the angle BGF 
 has for its measure, one half of the arc GB, (Th. 11) ; 
 therefore, these measures of equals must be equal ; that 
 is, the arc CG=the arc GD. 
 
 Hence, the theorem. 
 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 When two chords intersect each other within a circle, the 
 angle thus formed is measured by one half the sum of the twa 
 intercepted arcs. 
 
 Let AB and CD intersect each 
 other within the circle, forming the 
 two angles, E and E f , with their 
 equal vertical angles. 
 
 Then, we are to prove that the 
 angle E is measured by one half the 
 sum of the arcs AC and BD; and 
 the angle E' is measured by one half the sum of the 
 arcs AD and CB. 
 
 First, draw AF parallel to CD, and FD will be equal 
 to AC, (Th. 13); then, by reason of the parallels, [__ BAF 
 = |__ E. But the angle BAF is measured by one half 
 of the arc BDF; that is, one half of the arc BD plus one 
 half of the arc AC. 
 
 Now, as the sum of the angles E and E f is equal to 
 two right angles, that sum is measured by one half the 
 whole circumference. 
 
 But the angle E, alone, as we have just proved, is 
 measured by one half the sum of the arcs BD and AC; 
 therefore, the other angle, E', is measured by one half 
 the sum of the other parts of the circumference, 
 AD + CB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 When two secants intersect, or meet each other without a 
 circle, the angle thus formed is measured by one half the dif 
 ference of the intercepted arcs. ^ 
 
 
 101 
 
 Let DE and BE be two secants 
 meeting at E ; and draw A F parallel to 
 CD. Then, by reason of the parallels, 
 the angle E, made by the intersection 
 of the two secants, is equal to the 
 angle BAF. But the angle BAF is 
 measured by one half the arc BF; 
 that is, by one half the difference be- 
 tween the arcs BD and A C. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 The angle formed by a secant and a tangent is measured 
 by one half the difference of the intercepted arcs. 
 
 Let BQ be a secant, and CD a tan- 
 gent, meeting at C. We are to prove 
 that the angle formed at C, is meas- 
 ured by one half the difference of the 
 arcs BD and DA. 
 
 From A, draw AE parallel to CD ; 
 then the arc AD = the arc DE; 
 BD --DE = BE; and the [__ BAE = 
 L O. But the angle BAE is measured 
 by one half the arc BE, (Th. 8,) that is, by one half 
 the difference between the arcs BD and AD; there- 
 fore, the equal angle, C, is measured by one half the 
 arc BE. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two chords intersect each other in a circle, the rect- 
 angle contained by the segments of the one, will be equivahrt 
 to the rectangle contained by the segments of the other. 
 9* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Let AB and CB be two chords inter- 
 Becting each other in E. Then we are 
 to prove that the rectangle AE x EB = 
 the rectangle CE X EB. 
 
 Draw the lines AB and. CB, forming 
 the two triangles AEB and CEB. The 
 angles B and B are equal, because they 
 are each measured by one half the arc, AG. Also the 
 angles A and C are equal, because each is measured by 
 one half the arc, BB ; and L AEB = |__ CEB, because 
 they are vertical angles ; hence, the triangles, AEB and 
 CEB, are equiangular and similar. But equiangular tri- 
 angles have their sides about the equal angles propor- 
 tional, (Cor. 1, Th. 17, B. II); therefore, AE and EB, 
 about the angle E, are proportional to CE and EB, about 
 the same or equal angle. 
 
 That is, AE : EB :: CE : EB; 
 
 Or, (Th. 19, B. II), AE x EB = CE x EB. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. When one chord is a diameter, and the other at right 
 angles to it, the rectangle contained by the segments of the 
 diameter is equal to the square of one half the other chord ; 
 or one half of the bisected chord is a mean proportional be- 
 tween the segments of the diameter. 
 
 For, ABxBB*=FBx BE. But, if 
 AB passes through the center, C, at 
 right angles to FE, then FB = BE 
 (Th. 1) ; and in the place of FB, write 
 its equal, BE, in the last equation, and 
 we have 
 
 ABxBB = EE\ 
 
 or, (Th. 3, B II), AB : BE : : BE : BB. 
 
 Put, BE = x, CB == y, and CE = B, the radius of the 
 circle. 
 
 
 103 
 
 Then AD ~ B - -y, and DB - B -f #. With this nota- 
 tion, 
 
 AD x DB = DE % 
 
 becomes, (B -y)(R + y) = x* 
 
 or, B % — y 2 = x* 
 
 or, B 2 = x*+y* 
 
 That is, f A« square of the hypotenuse of the right-angled 
 triangle, DCE, is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 
 two sic 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 If from a point without a cirde, a tangent line be drawn to 
 the circumference, and also any secant line terminating in tht- 
 concave arc, the square of the tangent will be equivalent to b*. 
 rectangle contained by the whole secant and its external sea 
 ment. 
 
 Let A be a point without the 
 circle DUG, and let AD be a 
 tangent and AE any secant line. 
 
 Then we are to prove that 
 AOxAE = AD\ 
 In the two triangles, ADE and 
 ADC, the angles ADO and AED 
 are equal, since each is meas- 
 ured by one half of the same 
 arc, DO; the angle A is com- 
 mon to the two triangles ; their 
 
 third angles are therefore equal, and the triangles are 
 equiangular and similar. 
 
 Their homologous sides give the proportion 
 AE : AD i :_AZ) : AC 
 
 whence, AE xAC = AD 2 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. If AE and AF are two secant lines drawn from 
 %\ e same point without the circumference, we shall have 
 
 
 AOx AF=AB* 
 and, ABxAF^AB* 
 
 hence, AOx AF = AB x AF, 
 
 which, in the form of a proportion, gives 
 AC : AF ::AB : AF. 
 That is, the secants are reciprocally proportional to their ex- 
 ternal segments. 
 
 Scholium. — By means of this theorem we can determine the diam- 
 eter of a circle, when we know the length of a tangent drawn from a 
 point without, and the external segment of the secant, which, drawn 
 from the same point, pasees through the center of the circle. 
 
 Let Am be a secant passing through the center, and 
 suppose the tangent AB to he 20, and the external seg- 
 ment, An, of the secant to be 2. Then, if D denote the 
 diameter, we shall have 
 
 im=2+i), 
 
 whence, Am x An = 2 (2 + B) = 4 -f 2B = (20) 2 = 400, 
 22) = 396, and B = 198. 
 
 Ifiw, the height of a mountain on the earth, and AB, 
 the distance of the visible sea horizon, be given, we may 
 determine the diameter of the earth. 
 
 For example ; the perpendicular height of a mountain 
 on the island of Teneriffe is about 3 miles, and its summit 
 can be seen from ships when they are known to be 154 
 or 155 miles distant ; what then is the diameter of the 
 earth ? 
 
104 GEOMETRY. 
 3 + 2), and Am x An = 9 + SB. AB = 154. 5 ; hence, 
 9 + 32) = (154. 5) 2 = 23870. 25, from which we find 2) = 
 7953.75, which differs but little from the true diameter* 
 of the earth. 
 
 One source of error, in this mode of computing the 
 diameter of the earth, is atmospheric refraction, the ex 
 planation of which does not belong here. 
 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 If a circle be described about a triangle, the rectangle con- 
 tained by two sides of the triangle is equivalent to the rectangle 
 contained by the perpendicular let fall on the third side, and 
 the diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle, AC and 
 OB, the side3, OB the perpendicular 
 let fall on the base AB, and OB the 
 diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 
 AO x OB= OEx OB. 
 
 The two A's, A OB and OEB, are 
 equiangular, because \__A=\__E, both 
 being measured by the half of the arc OB; also, ABO is 
 a right angle, and is equal to OBB, an angle in a semi- 
 circle, and therefore a right angle ; hence, the third angle, 
 AOB = [_BOE, (Th. 12, Cor. 2, B. I). Therefore, (Cor. 1, 
 Th. 17, B. II), 
 
 AO x OB :: OE : OB 
 
 and, AOxBO=OEx OB. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if a circle, etc. 
 
 Oor. The continued product of three sides of a triangle is 
 equal to twice the area of the triangle into the diameter of its 
 tircumscribing circle. 
 
 Multiplying both members of the last equation by A B, 
 we have, 
 
 AOx BOxAB=OEx {AB x OB). 
 
 But OB is the diameter of the circle, and (AB x OB) 
 «= twice the area of the triangle ; 
 
 Therefore, AOx OB x AB= diameter multiplied 
 by twice the area of the triangle. 
 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The square of a line bisecting any angle of a triangle, to* 
 gether with the rectangle of the segments into which it cuts the 
 opposite side, is equivalent to the rectangle of the two sides 
 including the bisected angle. 
 
 Let ABO be a triangle, and CD a 
 Line bisecting the angle C. Then 
 we are to prove that 
 
 CD* + (AD x DB) = ACx CB. 
 The two A's, ACE and CDB, are 
 equiangular, because the angles E 
 and B are equal, both being in the 
 same segment, and the [__ ACE = BCD, by hypothesis. 
 Therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. H), 
 
 AC : CE :: CD : CB. 
 But it is obvious that CE = CD -f DE, and by substi- 
 tuting this value of CE, in the proportion, we have, 
 AC i CD + DE :: CD : CB. 
 By multiplying extremes and means, 
 
 CD 2 + (DE x CD) = ACx CB. 
 But by (Th. 17), 
 
 DE x CD = ADx DB, 
 and substituting, we have, 
 
 HB* + (AD x DB) = ACx CB. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 The rectangle contained by the two diagonals of any quad- 
 rilateral inscribed in a circle, is equivalent to the sum of the 
 two rectangles contained by the opposite sides of the quadri- 
 lateral. 
 
 Let ABCD be a quadrilateral inscribed in. a circle; 
 then we are to prove that 
 
 ACx BD = (AB x DC) + (AD x BC). 
 
 From 0, draw CE, making the angle DOE equal to 
 
 
 the angle A OB ; and as the angle BAO is equal to th* 
 angle ODE, both being in the same seg- 
 ment, therefore, the two triangles, BEO 
 and ABO, are equiangular, and we have 
 (Th. IT, Cor. 1, B. II), 
 
 AB : AC :: BE : BO (1) 
 The two A's, ABO and BEO, are 
 equiangular; for the [_BAO= \_EBO, 
 both being in the same segment; and the L BOA — 
 \_EOB, for BOE = BOA; to each of these add the ai gle 
 EOA, smdL BOA = EOB; therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, 
 
 B.II), 
 
 AB : AO :: BE : BO (2). 
 
 By multiplying the extremes and means in proportions 
 (1) and (2), and adding the resulting equations, we have, 
 
 (AB x BO) + (AB x BO) = (BE + BE) x AO. 
 But, BE + BE = BB; therefore, 
 
 (AB x 2)(7) -f (AB x 5(7) = i(Jx BB, 
 
 Oor. When two adjacent sides of the quadrilateral are 
 equal, as AB and BO, then the resulting equation is, 
 
 (AB x BO) + (AB x AB) = AO x 5D; 
 
 or, -15 x (2)<7 -f AB) = AO x BB; 
 
 or, AB : AO : : BB : BO + AB. 
 
 That is, one of the two equal sides of the quadrilateral 
 is to the adjoining diagonal, as the transverse diagonal is to 
 the sum of the two unequal sides. 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 If two chords intersect each other at right angles in a cir- 
 cle, the sum of the squares of the four segments thus formed 
 is equivalent to the square of the diameter of the circle. 
 
 Let AB and OB be two chords, intersecting eacb 
 other at right angles. Draw BE parallel to EB, and 
 draw BE and AF. Now, we are to prove that 
 IE 1 +^F +~W % f EB 2 =~AF\ 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 As BF is parallel to ED, ABF is a 
 right angle, and therefore AF is a diam- 
 eter, (Th. 9). Also, because BF is 
 parallel to CD, OB = DF, (Th. 13). 
 
 Because CEB is a right angle, 
 
 CE 2 + EB 2 =CB 2 = DF\ 
 
 Because AED is a right angle, 
 
 • AE 2 +~ED 2 = AD\ 
 
 Adding these two equations, we have, 
 
 W 2 + EB 2 + AE 2 +~ED 2 = DF 2 + ~AD\ 
 
 But, as AF is a diameter, and ADF a right ang\e, 
 (Th. 9), _ _ 
 
 DT+AD 2 = AF 2 ; 
 
 therefore, CE 2 + EB 2 -f AE 2 + Ji) 2 = ZF 2 . 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Scholium. — If two chords intersect each other at right angles, in a 
 circle, and their opposite extremities be joined, the two chords thus 
 formed may make two sides of a right-angled triangle, of which tho 
 diameter of the circle is the hypotenuse. 
 
 For, AD is one of these chords, and CB is the other ; and we have 
 shown that CB = DF; and AD and DF are two sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, of which AF is the hypotenuse ; therefore, AD and 
 CB may be considered the two sides of .a right-angled triangle, and 
 AF its hypotenuse. 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 If two secants intersect each other at right angles, the sum 
 of their squares, increased by the sum of the squares of the 
 two segments without the circle, will be equivalent to the square 
 of the diameter of the circle. 
 
 Let AE and ED be two secants in- 
 tersecting at right angles at the point 
 E. From B, draw BF parallel to CD, 
 and draw AF and AD. Now we are to 
 prove that 
 
 f3M ED 2 -r EB 2 +~Wf T IF. 
 
 
 Because BF is parallel to CD, ABF is a light angle, 
 and consequently AF is a diameter, and BC = BF; and 
 because AF is a diameter, J.2>^ is a right angle. As 
 ABB is a right angle, 
 
 AF'+FD^AD' 
 
 Also, FB'+EC^BC^DF 2 
 
 Byadditio^XI^^SV^'+^^ZS'+SF^AF 1 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If perpendiculars be drawn bisecting the three sides of a 
 triangle, they will, when sufficiently produced, meet in a com- 
 mon point. 
 
 The three angular points of a triangle are not in the 
 same straight line; consequently one circumference, 
 and but one, may be made to pass through them. 
 
 Conceive a triangle to be thus circumscribed. The 
 sides of the triangle then become chords of the circum- 
 scribing circle. Now if these sides be bisected, and at the 
 points of bisection perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, 
 each of these perpendiculars will pass through the center 
 of the circle (Th. 1, Cor.) ; and the perpendiculars will 
 therefore meet in a common point. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 The sums of the opposite sides of a quadrilateral circum- 
 scribing a circle are equal. 
 
 Let ABOB be a quadrilateral circumscribed about a 
 circle, whose center is 0. Then we are to prove that 
 AB + BC=AB + BC. 
 From the center of the circle draw OF and OF to 
 the points of contact of the sides AB and BO. Then, 
 10 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 the two right-angled triangles, OEB and OFB, are equal, 
 because they have the hypotenuse 
 OB common, and the side OF = 
 OE; therefore, BE = BF, (Cor., 
 Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 In like manner we can prove 
 that 
 AE= AH, CF= Ca, nn&DG=DK 
 
 Now, taking the equation BE = 
 BF, and adding to its first mem- 
 ber CG-, and to its second the 
 equal line CF. we have, 
 
 BE+ CG = BF+ OF (1) 
 
 The equation AE=AH, by adding to its first member 
 DCr, and to the second the equal line, DH, gives 
 AE+DG=AH+DH (2) 
 
 By the addition of (1) and (2) ? we find that 
 
 BE + AE+CG + DG = BF + CF+AK+DIT. 
 
 That is, AB + CD = BC + AD. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 
 Ill 
 
 BOOK IV. 
 
 PROBLEMS 
 
 In this section, we have, in most instances, merely 
 shown the construction of the prohlem, and referred to 
 the theorem or theorems that the student may use, to 
 prove that the object is attained by the construction. 
 
 In obscure and difficult problems, however, we have 
 gone through the demonstration as though it were a 
 theorem. 
 
 PROBLEM I. 
 
 To bisect a given finite straight line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and from 
 its extremities, A and B, with any 
 radius greater than one half of AB, 
 (Postulate 3), describe arcs, cutting A — 
 each other in n and m. Draw the line 
 nm ; and 0, where it cuts AB, will be 
 the middle of the given line. 
 
 Proof, (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2). 
 
 PROBLEM II. 
 
 To bisect a given angle. 
 
 Let ABO be the given angle. With any 
 radius, and B as a center, describe the arc 
 AC. From A and 0, as centers, with a 
 radius greater than one half of AC, de- 
 scribe arcs, intersecting in n; join B and n; 
 the joining line will bisect the given angle. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 21, B. I). 
 
 X 
 
 X 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Proof, 
 
 X-tf 
 
 PROBLEM III. 
 
 From a given point in a given line, to draw a perpendicular 
 to that line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and 
 the given point. Take n and m, 
 at equal distances on opposite sides 
 of 0; and with the points m and 
 n, as centers, and any radius 
 greater than nO or mO, describe 
 arcs cutting each other in & Draw 
 SO, and it will be the perpendicular required. 
 (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2). 
 
 The following is another method, 
 which is preferable, when the given 
 point, 0, is at or near the end of the 
 line. 
 
 Take any point, 0, which is mani- 
 festly one side of the perpendicular, 
 as a center, and with 00 as a radius, describe a circum- 
 ference, cutting AB in m and 0. Draw mn through the 
 points m and 0, and meeting the arc again in n ; mn is 
 then a diameter to the circle. Draw On, and it will be 
 the perpendicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM IV. 
 
 From a given point without a line, to draw a 'perpendicular 
 to that line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line, and 
 the given point. From draw any 
 oblique line, as On. Find the mid- 
 dle point of On by Problem 1, and 
 with that point, as a center, describe 
 a semicircle, having On as a diam- 
 eter. From m, where this semi-cir- 
 cumference cuts AB, draw Om, and it will be the pcrpcn 
 dicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. III). 
 
 
 113 
 
 PROBLEM V. 
 
 At a given point in a line, to construct an angle equal to 
 a given angle. 
 
 Let A be the point given in the line 
 AB, and DOE the given angle. 
 
 With as a center, and any radius, 
 OE, draw the are ED. 
 
 With i as a center, and the radius 
 AF=OE, describe an indefinite arc; and 
 with J 7 as a center, and FCr as a radius, 
 equal to ED, describe an arc, cutting the 
 other arc in Q-, and draw A G\ QAF will be the angle 
 required. Proof, (Th. 2, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM VI. 
 
 From a given point, to draw a line parallel to a given line. 
 
 Let A be the given point, and BO the 
 given line. Draw A 0, making an angle, 
 AOB; and from the given point, A, in 
 the line A 0, draw the angle OAD m 
 AOB, by Problem 5. 
 
 Since AD and BO make the same angle with A 0, they 
 are, therefore, parallel, (B. I, Th. 7, Cor. 1). 
 
 PROBLEM VII. 
 To divide a given line into any number of equal parte. 
 
 Let AB represent the given 
 line, and let it be required to di- 
 vide it into any number of equal 
 parts, say £ve. Prom one end of 
 the line A, draw AD, indefinite 
 in both length and position. Take 
 any convenient distance in the di- 
 10* h 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 viders, as A a, and set it off on the line AD, thus making 
 the parts Aa, ab, be, etc., equal. Through the last point, 
 e, draw EB, and through the points a, b, c, and d, draw 
 parallels to eB, by Problem 6 ; these parallels will divide 
 the line a3 required. Proof, (Th. 17, Book II). 
 
 PROBLEM VIII. 
 To find a third proportional to two given lines. 
 
 Let AB and A be any two lines. 
 Place them at any angle, and draw 
 OB. On the greater line, AB, take 
 AD mm AC, and through D, draw 
 DE parallel to BO', AE is the third 
 proportional required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 17, B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM IX, 
 
 To find a fourth proportional to three given lines. 
 
 L^t AB, AC, AD, represent the 
 ihrca given lines. Place the first 
 two at any angle, as BAO, and draw 
 BO On AB place AD, and from 
 the point D, draw DE parallel to 
 BO, by Problem 6 ; AE will be the 
 fourth proportional required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 17, B. H). 
 
 PROBLEM X. 
 
 Tt find the middle, m mean proportional, between two given 
 lines 
 
 
 115 
 
 Place AB and BC in one right 
 jne, and on A C, as a diameter, de- 
 scribe a semicircle, (Postulate 3), 
 and from the point B, draw BD at 
 right angles to AC, (Problem 3); 
 BD is the mean proportional re- 
 quired. 
 
 Proof, (B. m, Th. 17, Cor.). 
 
 PROBLEM XI. 
 
 To find the center of a given circle. 
 Draw any two chords in the given cir- 
 cle, as AB and CD, and from the middle 
 points, m and n, draw perpendiculars to 
 AB and CD ; the point at which these 
 two perpendiculars intersect will be the 
 center of the circle. 
 
 Proof, (B. m, Th. 1, Cor.). 
 
 PROBLEM XII. 
 
 To draw a tangent to a given circle, from a given 
 either in or without the circumference of the circle* 
 
 When the given point is in the cir- 
 cumference, as A, draw the radius A C, 
 and from the point A, draw AB per- 
 pendicular to AC; AB is the tangent 
 required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 4, B. III). 
 
 When the given point is without 
 the circle, as A, draw AC to the 
 center of the circle ; on A C, as a 
 diameter, describe a semicircle ; and 
 from B, where the semi-ciruumfer- 
 ence cuts the given circumference, 
 draw AB, and it will be tangent to the circle. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 9, B. Ill), and, (Th. 4, B. III). 
 
 point, 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM XIII. 
 
 On a given line, to describe a segment of a circle, that shall 
 contain an angle equal to a given angle. 
 
 Let AB be the given 
 line, and the given 
 angle. At the ends of 
 the given line, form angles 
 DAB, DBA, each equal 
 to the given angle, C. 
 Then draw AH and BE 
 perpendiculars to AD and BD ; and with E as a center, 
 and EA, or EB, as a radius, describe a circle; then AFB 
 will be the segment required, as any angle F, made in 
 it, will be equal to the given angle, 0. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 11, B. Ill), and (Th. 8, B. III). 
 
 PROBLEM XIV. 
 
 From any given circle to cut a segment, that shall contain 
 a given angle. 
 
 Let be the given angle. Take 
 any point, as A, in the circumfer- 
 ence, and from that point draw the 
 tangent AB ; and from the point 
 A, in the line AB, construct the 
 angle BAD = 0, (Problem 5), and O 
 AED is the segment required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 11, B. HI), and (Th. 8, B. HI). 
 
 PROBLEM XV. 
 
 To construct an equilateral triangle on a given straight line. 
 
 Let AB be the given line; from 
 the extremities A and B, as centers, 
 with a radius equal to AB, describe arcs 
 cutting each other at 0. From 0, the 
 point of intersection, draw QA and CB; 
 ABO will be the triangle required. 
 
 The construction is a sufficient demonstration. Or, (Ax. 1\ 
 
 
 117 
 
 PROBLEM XVI. 
 
 To construct a triangle, having its three sides equal to three 
 jiven lines, any two of which shall be greater than the third. 
 
 Let AB, OB, and EF, represent the E p 
 
 three lines. Take any one of them, as c D 
 
 AB, to be one side of the triangle. From 
 B, as a center, with a radius equal to OB, 
 describe an arc ; and from A, as a center, 
 with a radius equal to EF, describe an- 
 other arc, cutting the former in n. Draw 
 An and Bn, and AnB will be the A re- 
 quired. Proof, (Ax. 1). 
 
 PROBLEM XVII. 
 
 To describe a square on a given line. 
 Let AB be the given line ; and from the 
 extremities, A and B, draw A and BB per- 9 
 pendicular to AB. (Problem 3.) 
 
 From A, as a center, with AB as radius, 
 strike an arc across the perpendicular at 0; i 
 and from draw OB parallel to AB ; AOBB 
 is the square required. Proof, (Th. 26, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XVIII. 
 
 To construct a rectangle, or a parallelogram, whose adia 
 .ent sides are equal to two given lines. 
 
 Let AB and A be the two given A c 
 
 lines. From the extremities of one A n 
 
 line, draw perpendiculars to that line, as in the last prob- 
 lem; and from these perpendiculars, cut off portions 
 equal to the other line ; and, by a parallel, complete the 
 figure. 
 
 
 When the figure is to be a parallelogram, with oblique 
 angles, describe the angles by Problem 5. Proof, (Th 
 26, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XIX. 
 
 To describe a rectangle that shall be equivalent to a given 
 square, and have a side equal to a given line. 
 
 Let AB be a side of the given square, c D 
 
 and CD one side of the required rect- A B 
 
 angle. E p 
 
 Find the third proportional, FF, to CD and AB, (Prob- 
 lem 8). Then we shall have 
 
 CD : AB : : AB : FF, 
 
 Construct a rectangle with the two given lines, CD 
 and FF, (Problem 18), and it will be equal to the given 
 square, (Th. 3, B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM XX. 
 
 To construct a square that shall be equivalent to the differ 
 ence of two given squares. 
 
 Let A represent a side of the greater of two given 
 squares, and B a side of the less square. 
 
 On A, as a diameter, describe a 
 semicircle, and from one extremity, 
 n, as a center, with a radius equal to 
 B, describe an arc. and, from the 
 point where it cuts the circumference, — - — 
 
 draw mp and np ; mp is the side of 
 a square, which, when constructed, 
 (Problem 17), will be equal to the difference of the two 
 given squares. Proof (Th. 9, B. Ill, and Th. 39, B. I.) 
 
 To construct a square equivalent to the sum of two 
 given squares, we have only to draw through any point 
 two lines at right angles, and lay off on one a distance 
 equal to the side of one of the squares, and on the other 
 
 
 119 
 
 a distance equal to the side of the other. The straight 
 line connecting the extremities of these lines will be the 
 side of the required square, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 PROBLEM XXI. 
 
 To divide a given line into two parts, which shall be in the 
 ratic of two other given lines. 
 
 M^ 
 
 NH 
 
 Let AB be the line A — ~<B 
 
 to be divided, and M 
 and N the lines hav- 
 ing the ratio of the 
 required parts of AB. 
 From the extremity 
 A draw AB, making 
 any angle with AB, 
 and take AC = M, 
 and OB = N. Join 
 the points B and B 
 by a straight line, 
 and through (7 draw 
 CG parallel to BB. 
 Then will the point G divide the line AB into pa„U 
 having the required ratio. (Proof, Th. 17, B. II). 
 
 Or, having drawn AB, lay off A = M, and through 
 B draw B V parallel to AB, making it equal to N, and 
 join and Vbj a line cutting AB in the point G. 
 
 Then the two triangles AOG and GrBV are equiangu- 
 lar and similar, and their homologous sides give tho 
 proportion, 
 
 AG : GB :: AC : BV :: M : if 
 
 The line AB is therefore divided, at the point G, into 
 parts which are in the ratio of the lines M and JV1 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 r> 
 
 PROBLEM XXII. 
 
 To divide a given line into any number of parts, having to 
 each other the ratios of other given lines* 
 
 Let AB be the given M»- 
 line to be divided, and Nl 
 M, It, P, etc., the lines 
 to which the parts of 
 AB are to be propor- 
 tional. 
 
 Through the point A 
 draw an indefinite line, making, with AB, any conve- 
 nient angle, and on this line lay off from A the lines M, 
 N, P, etc., successively. Join the extremity of the last 
 line to the point B by a straight line, parallel to which 
 draw other lines through the points of division of the 
 indefinite line, and they will divide the line AB at the 
 points 0, D, etc., into the required parts. (Proof, Th. 17, 
 B. II). 
 
 PROBLEM XXIII. 
 
 To construct a square that shall be to a given square, as a 
 line, M, to a line, N. 
 
 Place M and N in a line, and 
 on the sum describe a semicir- 
 cle. From the point where the 
 two lines meet, draw a perpen- 
 dicular to meet the circumfer- 
 ence in A. Draw Am and An, 
 and produce them indefinitely. On An or An produced, 
 take AG = to the side of the given square ; and from C, 
 draw CB parallel to mn ; AB is a side of the required 
 square. 
 
 For, 
 Also, 
 
 Am 
 
 An* 
 An 
 
 Am* 
 Therefore, ~A& :A0 2 ::M 
 
 AB 2 : AC\ (Th. 17, B. II). 
 M :JST, (Th.25,B.II). 
 JST, (Th. 6, B. II). 
 
 
 PROBLEM XXIV. 
 
 To cut a line into extreme and mean ratio ; that is, sj that 
 the whole line shall be to the greater part, as that greater part 
 is to the less. 
 
 Remark. — The geometrical solution of this problem is not imme- 
 diately apparent, but it is at once suggested by the form of the equa- 
 tion, which a simple algebraic analysis of its conditions leads to. 
 
 Represent the line to be divided by 2a, the greater 
 part by x, and consequently the other, or less part, by 
 2a — x. 
 
 Now, the given line and its two parts are required, to 
 satisfy the following proportion : 
 
 2a : x : : x : 2a — x 
 
 whence, x % = 4a 2 — 2ax 
 
 By transposition, x 2 -f 2ax = 4a 2 = (2a) 2 
 
 If we add a 2 to both members of this equation, we 
 shall have, 
 
 x 2 + 2ax + a 2 = (2a) 2 -f a 2 
 
 or, (x -fa) 2 = (2a) 2 -f a 2 
 
 This last equation indicates that the lines represented 
 by (x + a), 2a, and a, are the three sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, of which (x + a) is the hypotenuse, the 
 given line, 2a, one of the sides, and its half, a, the other. 
 
 Therefore, let AB represent the 
 given line, and from the extremity, B, 
 draw BO at right angles to AB, and 
 make it equal to one half of AB. 
 
 With C, as a center, and radius OB, 
 describe a circle. Draw A C and pro- 
 duce it to F. With A as a center 
 and AD as a radius, describe the arc 
 D.E; this arc will divide the line AB, 
 as required. 
 
 We are now to prove that 
 
 AB : AE :: AE : EB 
 11 
 
 
 By Th. 18, B. Ill, we have, 
 
 AF x AD = AB 2 
 
 or, AF : AB : : AB : AD 
 
 Then, (by Cor., Th. 8, Book II), we may have, 
 (AF— AB) : AB :: (AB — AD) : AD 
 Since OB = \AB = \DF\ therefore, AB = LI 
 Hence, AF — AB = AF — DF — AD = A#. 
 
 Therefore, AF : AB :: FB : AF 
 By taking the extremes for the means, we have, 
 AB i AF ii AF : FB. 
 
 PROBLEM XXV. 
 
 To describe an isosceles triangle, having its two equal angles 
 each double the third angle, and the equal sides of any given 
 length. 
 
 Let AB be one of the equal sides of 
 the required triangle ; and from the 
 point A, with the radius AB, describe 
 an arc, BD. 
 
 Divide the line AB into extreme acd 
 mean ratio by the last problem, and sup- 
 pose the point of division, and A the 
 greater segment. 
 
 From the point B, with AC, the greater segment, as a 
 radius, describe another arc, cutting the arc BD in D. 
 Draw BD, DO, and DA. The triangle ABD is the tri- 
 angle required. 
 
 As AC = BD, by construction ; and as AB is to A 
 as A C is to B C, by the division of AB ; therefore 
 AB : BD : : BD : BC 
 
 Now, as the terms of this proportion are the sides ot" 
 the two triangles about the common angle, B, it follows, 
 (Cor. 2, Th. 17, B. II), that the two triangles, ABD and 
 
 
 123 
 
 BBC, are equiangular; but the triangle ABB is isos- 
 celes; therefore, BBQ is isosceles also, and BB == BC\ 
 but BB = AC: hence, BC = AC, (Ax. 1), and the tri- 
 angle ACB is isosceles, and the [__ CBA = | -^L. But 
 
 the exterior angle, BCB = CBA -f A, (Th. 12, B. I), 
 Therefore, \__BCB, or its equal [__B = L CBA + [__A ; or 
 the angle B = 2[__A. Hence, the triangle ABB has each 
 of its angles, at the base, double of the third angle. 
 
 Scholium. — As the two angles, at the base of the triangle ABD, are 
 equal, and each is double the angle A, it follows that the sum of the 
 three angles is Jive times the angle A. But, as the three angles of every 
 triangle are always equal to two right angles, or 180°, the angle A 
 must be one fifth of two right angles, or 36° ; therefore, BD is a chord 
 of 36°, when AB is a radius to the circle ; and ten such chords would 
 extend exactly round the circle, or would form a decagon. 
 
 PROBLEM XXVI, 
 
 Within a given circle to inscribe a triangle, equiangular to 
 a given triangle. 
 
 Let ABC be the circle, and 
 abc the given triangle. From 
 any point, as A, draw EB tan- 
 gent to the given circle at A 9 
 (Problem 12). 
 
 From the point A, in the line 
 AB, lay off the angle BAC — 
 the angle b, (Problem 5), and the angle BAB — the angle 
 c, and draw BC. 
 
 The triangle ABC is inscribed in the circle; It 13 equi- 
 angular to the triangle abc, and hence it is the triangle 
 required. 
 
 Proof, (Th. 12, B. HI). 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM XXVII, 
 
 To inscribe a regular pentagon in a given circle. 
 
 1st. Describe an isosceles tri- 
 angle, abc, having each of the 
 equal angles, b and c, double the 
 third angle, a, by Problem 25. 
 
 2d. Inscribe the triangle, 
 ABO, in the given circle, equi- 
 angular to the triangle abc, by 
 Problem 26 ; then each of the angles, B and 0, is double 
 the angle A. 
 
 3d. Bisect the angles B and 0, by the lines BD and 
 OE, (Problem 2), and draw AE, EB, OB, BA; and the 
 figure AEBOB is the pentagon required. 
 
 By construction, the angles BAO, ABB, BBO, BOE, 
 EOA, are all equal ; therefore, (B. in, Th. 9, Cor.), the 
 arcs, BO, AB, BO, AE, and EB, are all equal; and if 
 the arcs are equal, the chords AE, EB, etc., are equal. 
 
 Scholium. — The arc subtended by one of the sides of a regular pen- 
 
 360° 
 tagon, being one fifth of the whole circumference, is equal to — — ==72°' 
 
 u 
 
 PROBLEM XXVIII. 
 
 To inscribe a regular hexagon in a circle. 
 
 D aw any diameter of the circle, as 
 AB. and from one extremity, B, draw 
 BB equal to BO, the radius of the 
 circle. The arc, BB, will be one sixth 
 part of the whole circumference, and 
 the chord BB will be a side of the regu- 
 lar polygon of six sides. 
 
 In the A OBB, as OB = OB, and BB= OB by con- 
 struction, the A is equilateral, and of course equiangular. 
 
 Since the sum of the three angles of every A is equal 
 to two right angles, or to 180 degrees, when the 
 
 
 three angles are equal to one another, each one of them 
 must be 60 degrees ; but 60 degrees is a sixth part of 
 360 degrees, the whole number of degrees in a circle ; 
 therefore, the arc whose chord is equal to the radius, is a 
 sixth part of the circumference ; and, if a polygon of six 
 equal sides be inscribed in a circle, each side will be 
 equal to the radius. 
 
 Scholium. — Hence, as BD is the chord of 60°, and equal to BC or 
 CD, we say generally, that the chord of 60° is equal to radius. 
 
 PROBLEM XXIX. 
 
 To find the side of a regular polygon of fifteen sides, which 
 may be inscribed in any given circle. 
 
 Let CB be the radius of the given 
 circle; divide it into extreme and 
 mean ratio, (Problem 24), and make 
 BD equal to CB, the greater part; 
 then BD will be a side of a regular 
 polygon of ten sides, (Scholium to 
 Problem 25). Draw BA = to CB, and 
 it will be a side of a polygon of six sides. Draw DA, 
 and that line must be the side of a polygon which cor- 
 responds to the arc of the circle expressed by \ less j\, 
 of the whole circumference ; or J — j^ = g % = T ^ ; that 
 is, one-fifteenth of the whole circumference ; or, DA is 
 a side of a regular polygon of 15 sides. But the 15th 
 part of 360° is 24° ; hence the side of a regular inscrioed 
 polygon of fifteen sides is the chord of an arc of 24°. 
 
 PROBLEM XXX. 
 
 In a given circle to inscribe a regular polygon of any num 
 her of sides, and then to circumscribe the circle by a similar 
 polygon. 
 
 11* 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 Let the circumference of the circle, whose cetter is C, 
 be divided into any number of equal arcs, as amb, bnc, 
 cod, etc. ; then will the polygon abode, etc., bounded by 
 the chords of these arcs, be regu- 
 lar and inscribed ; and the poly- 
 gon ABODE, etc., bounded by 
 the tangents to these arcs at their 
 middle points m, n, o, etc, be a 
 3imilar circumscribed polygon. 
 
 First. — The polygon abode, 
 etc., is equilateral, because its 
 sides are the chords of equal 
 
 arcs of the same circle, (Th. 5, B. Ill) ; and it is equi- 
 angular, because its angles are inscribed in equal segments 
 of the same circle, (Th. 8, B. III). Therefore the poly- 
 gon is regular, (Def. 14, B. Ill), and it is inscribed, since 
 the vertices of all its angles are in the circumference of 
 the circle, (Def. 13, B. III). 
 
 Second. — If we draw the radius to the point of tangency 
 of the side AB of the circumscribed polygon, this radius 
 is perpendicular to AB, (Th. 4, B. Ill), and also to the 
 chord ab, (B. Ill, Th. 1, Cor.) ; hence AB is parallel to a5, 
 and for the same reason BO is parallel to be ; therefore 
 the angle ABO is equal to the angle abc, (Th. 8, B. I). 
 In like manner we may prove the other angles of the 
 circumscribed polygon, each equal to the corresponding 
 angle of the inscribed polygon. These polygons are 
 therefore mutually equiangular. 
 
 Again, if we draw the radii Om and On, and the line 0B> 
 the two A's thus formed are right-angled, the one at n 
 and the other at n, the side OB is common and Om is 
 equal to On ; hence the difference of the squares descril^ed 
 on OB and Om is equivalent to the difference of the 
 squares described on OB and On. But the first difference 
 is equivalent to the square described on Bm, and the 
 second diffeience is equivalent to the square described 
 
 
 on Bn ; hence Brn is equal to Bn, and the two right- 
 angled triangles are equal, (Th. 21, B. I), the angle BOm 
 opposite the side Bm being equal to the angle BOn, op- 
 posite the equal side Bn. The line OB therefore passea 
 through the middle point of the arc mbn ; hut because m 
 and n are the middle points of the equal arcs amb and 
 bnc, the vertex of the angle abc is also at the middle 
 point of the arc mbn. Hence the line OB, drawn from 
 the center of the circle to the vertex of the angle ABC, 
 also passes through the vertex of the angle abc. By pre- 
 cisely the same process of reasoning, we may prove that 
 00 passes through the point e, OB through the point d, 
 etc. ; hence the lines joining the center with the vertices 
 of the angles of the circumscribed polygon, pass through 
 the vertices of the corresponding angles of the inscribed 
 polygon ; and conversely, the radii drawn to the vertices 
 of the angles of the inscribed polygon, when produced, 
 pass through the vertices of the corresponding angles 
 of the circumscribed polygon. 
 
 Now, since ab is parallel to AB, the similar A's abO 
 and ABO, give the proportion 
 
 Ob : OB :: ab : AB, 
 
 and the A'a,bcO and BOO, give the proportion 
 
 Ob : OB : : be : BO. 
 
 As these two proportions have an antecedent and con- 
 sequeut, the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. II), 
 
 ab : AB : : bo : BO. 
 
 In like manner we may prove that 
 
 be : BO : : cd : OB, etc., etc. 
 
 The two polygons are therefore not only equiangular, 
 but the sides about the equal angles, taken in the same 
 order, are proportional ; they are therefore similar, (Def 
 16. B. IT). 
 
 
 Cor. 1. To inscribe any regular polygon in a circle, we 
 have only to divide the circumference into as many equal 
 parts as the polygon is to have sides, and to draw the 
 chords of the arcs; hence, in a given circle, it is possible 
 to inscribe regular polygons of any number of sides 
 whatever. Having constructed any such polygon in a 
 given circle, it is evident, that by changing the radius of 
 the circle without changing the number of sides of the 
 polygon, it may be made to represent any regular poly- 
 gon of the same name, and it will still be inscribed in a 
 circle. As this reasoning is applicable to regular poly- 
 gons of whatever number of sides, it follows, that any 
 regular polygon may be circumscribed by the circumference 
 of a circle. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since ab, be, cd, etc., are equal chords of the 
 same circle, they are at the same distance from the 
 center, (Th. 3, B. Ill) ; hence, if with as a center, and 
 Ot, the distance of one of these chords from that point, 
 as a radius, a circumference be described, it will touch 
 all of these chords at their middle points. It follows, 
 therefore, that a circle may be inscribed within any regular 
 polygon. 
 
 Scholium. — The center, 0, of the circle, may be taken as the center 
 of both the inscribed and circumscribed polygons ; and the angle 
 A OB, included between lines drawn from the center to the extremities 
 of one of the sides A B, is called the angle at the center." The perpen- 
 dicular drawn from the center to one of the sides is called the Ajpothem 
 of the polygon. 
 
 Cor. 3. The angle at the center of any regular polygon 
 is equal to four right angles divided by the number of 
 sides of the polygon. Thus, if n be the number of sides 
 of the polygon, the angle at the center will be expressed 
 v 360° 
 n 
 
 Cor. 4. If the arcs subtended by the sides of any 
 regular inscribed polygon be bisected, and the chords 
 of these semi-arcs be drawn, we shall have a regular 
 
 
 inscribed polygon of double the number of sides. Thus, 
 from the square we may pass successively to regular 
 inscribed polygons of 8, 16, 32, etc., sides. To get the 
 corresponding circumscribed polygons, we have merely 
 to draw tangents at the middle points of the arcs sub- 
 tended by the sides of the inscribed polygons. 
 
 Cor, 5. It is plain that each inscribed polygon is but 
 a part of one having twice the number of sides, while 
 each circumscribed polygon is but a part of one having 
 o^p hqlf thp. number of sides 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 BOOK V. 
 
 ON THE PROPORTIONALITIES AND MEASUREMENT 
 OF POLYGONS AND CIRCLES. 
 
 PROPOSITION I. — THEOREM. 
 
 The area of any circle is equal to the product of its radius 
 by one half of its circumference. 
 
 Let CA be the radius of a circle, 
 and AB a very small portion of its 
 circumference; then AOB will be a 
 sector. We may conceive the whole 
 circle made up of a great number of 
 such sectors; and when each sector 
 is very small, the arcs AB, BB, etc., 
 each one taken separately, may be regarded as nght 
 lines ; and the sectors CAB, CBD, etc., will be triangles. 
 The triangle, AOB, is measured by the product of the 
 base, A 0, multiplied into one half the altitude, AB, (Th. 
 33, Book I) ; and the triangle BCD is measured by the pro- 
 duct of BC, or its equal, AC, into one half BB ; then the 
 area, or measure of the two triangles, or sectors, is the 
 product of A C, multiplied by one half of AB plus one 
 half of BB, and so on for all the sectors that compose 
 the circle ; therefore, the area of the circle is measured 
 by th g product of the radius into one half the circumference. 
 
 
 PROPOSITION II. — THEOREM. 
 
 Circumferences of circles are to one another as their radii, 
 and their areas are to one another as the squares of their 
 radii. 
 
 Let CA be the radius of a circle, 
 and Ca the radius of another circle. 
 Conceive the two circles <x> be so 
 placed upon each other so as to have 
 a common center. 
 
 Let AB be such a certain definite 
 portion of the circumference of the 
 larger circle, that m times AB will represent that cir- 
 cumference. 
 
 But whatever part AB is of the greater circumference, 
 the same part ab is of the smaller; for the two circles 
 have the same number of degrees, and are of course sus- 
 ceptible of division into the same number of sectors. 
 But by proportional triangles we have, 
 CA : Ca : : AB : ab 
 
 Multiply the last couplet by m, (Th. 4, B. II), and we 
 have 
 
 CA : Ca :: m.AB : m.ab. 
 
 That is, the radius of one circle is to the radius of another, 
 as the circumference of the one is to the circumference of the 
 other. 
 
 To prove the second part of the theorem, let C repre- 
 sent the area of the larger circle, and c that of the 
 smaller ; now, whatever part the sector CAB is of the 
 circle C, the sector Cab is the corresponding part of the 
 circle c. 
 
 That is, C : c 
 
 but, CAB : Cab 
 
 Therefore, C : c 
 
 CAB : Cab, 
 
 {CAf:(Ca) 2 , (Th.20,B.H). 
 
 (CAY : (Caf, (Th. 6, B. II). 
 
 That is, the area of one circle is to the area of another, as 
 
 
 the square of the radius of the one is to the square of the 
 radius of the other. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Cor. If : c :: (OAf : (Ca) 2 , 
 
 then, C : c ::4(£M) 2 : 4 ((7a) 2 . 
 
 But 4 (QAf is the square of the diameter of the larger 
 circle, and 4 (Oaf is the square of the diameter of the 
 smaller. Denoting these diameters respectively by B 
 and d, we have, 
 
 : c : : D 2 : d\ 
 
 That is, the areas of any two circles are to each other, a% 
 the squares of their diameters. 
 
 Scholium. — As the circumference of every circle, great or small, is 
 assumed to be the measure of 360 degrees, if we conceive the circum- 
 ference to be divided into 360 equal parts, and one such part repre- 
 sented by AB on one circle, or ab on the other, AB and ab will be very 
 near straight lines, and the length of such a line as ^LBwill be greater 
 or less, according to the radius of the circle ; but its absolute length 
 cannot be determined until we know the absolute relation between th« 
 diameter of a circle and its circumference. 
 
 PROPOSITION III. — THEOREM. 
 
 When the radius of a circle is unity, its area and semi- 
 circumference are numerically equal. 
 
 Let B represent the radius of any circle, and the Greek 
 letter, *, the half circumference of a circle whose radius 
 is unity. Since circumferences are to each other as their 
 radii, when the radius is B, the semi-circumference will 
 be expressed by *B. 
 
 Let m denote the area of the circle of which B is the 
 radius ; then, by Theorem 1, we shall have, for the area 
 of this circle, icB 2 = m y which, when B = 1, reduces to 
 «r = m. 
 
 This equation is to be interpreted as meaning that the 
 semi-circumference contains its unit, the radius, as many 
 
 
 times as the area of the circle contains its unit, the 
 square of the radius. 
 
 Remark. — The celebrated problem of squaring the circle has for its 
 object to find a line, the square on which will be equivalent to the area 
 of a circle of a given diameter ; or, in other words, it proposes to find 
 the ratio between the area of a circle and the square of its radius. 
 
 An approximate solution only of this problem has been as yet dis- 
 covered, but the approximation is so close that the exact solution ii 
 no longer a question of any practical importance. 
 
 PROPOSITION IV. — PROBLEM. 
 
 Given, the radius of a circle unity, to find the areas of 
 regular inscribed and circumscribed hexagons. 
 
 Conceive a circle described with the radius CA, and in 
 this circle inscribe a regular polygon of six sides (Prob. 
 28, B. IV), and each side will be 
 equal to the radius CA ; hence, 
 the whole perimeter of this poly- 
 gon must be six times the ra- 
 dius of the circle, or three times 
 the. diameter. The chord bd is Ft 
 
 bisected by CA. Produce Cb and Cd, and through the 
 point A, draw BD parallel to bd ; BD will then be a 3ide 
 of a regular polygon of six sides, circumscribed about 
 the circle, and we can compute the length of this line, 
 BD, as follows : The two triangles, Cbd and CBD, are 
 equiangular, by construction ; therefore, 
 
 Ca : bd : : CA : BD. 
 
 Now, let us assume CA = Cd = the radius of the 
 circle, equal unity; then bd = l, and the preceding pro- 
 portion becomes 
 
 Ca : 1 :: 1 : BD (1) 
 
 In the right-angled triangle Cad, we have, 
 
 (Cay + (ad)* = (C'dy, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 That is, (Ca) 2 + i = l, because Cd=l, and ad— \. 
 12 
 
 
 "Whence, Ca = J >/3. This value of Ca, substituted in 
 proportion ( 1 ), gives 
 
 |^3 : 1 : : 1 : BD; hence, BD= JL 
 
 But the area of the triangle Cbd is equal to bd(= 1,) 
 multiplied by J Ca = \ ^3 ; and the area of the triangle 
 CBD is equal to BD multiplied by \CA. 
 
 "Whence, area, Cbd = J v/3, 
 
134 GEOMETRY. 
 
 But the area of the inscribed polygon is six times that 
 of the triangle Cbd, and the area of the circumscribed 
 polygon is six times that of the triangle CBD. 
 
 Let the area of the inscribed polygon be represented 
 by p, and that of the circumscribed polygon by P. 
 
 Then^ = ?V3, andP ?« ^J - 2^3. 
 
 2 •a v/3 
 
 3 3 
 
 Whence^ : P : : ^3 : 2%/3 ::£:2::3:4::9 : 12 
 
 ^ = 2^3 = 2.59807621. P = 2^3 = 3.46410161. 
 
 Now, it is obvious that the area of the circle must be 
 included between the areas of these two polygons, and 
 not far from, but somewhat greater than, their half sum, 
 which is 3.03 -f ; and this may 'be regarded as the first 
 approximate value of the area of the circle to the radius 
 unity. 
 
 PROPOSITION Y. — PROBLEM. 
 
 (riven, the areas of two regular polygons of the same nvm 
 her of sides, the one inscribed in and the other circumscribed 
 about, the same circle, to find the areas of regular inscribed and 
 circumscribed polygons of double the number of sides. 
 
 Let j? represent the area of the given inscribed polygon, 
 and P that of the circumscribed polygon of the same 
 
 
 135 
 
 nunibei of sides. Also denote by p' the area of the 
 inscribed polygon of double the number of sides, and by 
 P' that of the corresponding circumscribed polygon. 
 Now, if the arc KAL be some exact part, as one-fourth, 
 one fifth, etc., of the circumference of the circle, of which 
 is the center and CA the radius, then will KL be the 
 side of a regular inscribed polygon, and the triangle 
 KCL will be the same part of the whole polygon that 
 the arc KAL is of the whole circumference, and the 
 triangle CDB will be a like part of the circumscribed 
 polygon. Draw QA to the point of tangency, and bisect 
 the angles ACB and ACD, by the lines CGr and CLJ, and 
 draw KA. 
 
 It is plain that the triangle 
 ACK is an exact part of the 
 inscribed polygon of double the 
 number of sides, and that the 
 A ECG- is a like part of the cir- 
 cumscribed polygon of double 
 the number of sides. Repre- 
 sent the area of the A LCKbj 
 a, and the area of the A BCD 
 by b, that of the A ACK by x, 
 
 and that of the A ECG- by y, and suppose the A's, KCL 
 and BBC, to be each the nth. part of their respective 
 polygons. 
 
 Then, na—p, nb = P, 2nx = p', 
 
 and, 2ny = P f ; 
 
 But, by (Th. 33, B. I), we have 
 
 CM. MK=a (1) 
 CA . AD =b (2) 
 QA . MK= 2x (3) 
 
 Multiplying equations (1) and (2), member by member, 
 we have 
 
 (CM . AD) x (CA . MK) =- ab (4 ) 
 
 
 From the similar A's OMK and CAD, we have 
 
 CM : MK :: CA : AD 
 whence CM . AD = CA . MK 
 
 But from equation ( 3 ) we see that each memher of 
 this last equation is equal to 2x; hence equation (4) 
 becomes 
 
 2x . 2x = <*5 
 
136 GEOMETRY. 
 we shall have 
 
 4t& 2 .z 2 = wa.w5 = p.P 
 
 or, taking the square root of both members, 
 
 2nx = s/p^P 
 
 That is, the area of the inscribed polygon of double the 
 number of sides is a mean proportional between the areas of 
 the given inscribed and circumscribed polygons p and P. 
 
 Again, since CE bisects the angle ACD, we have, by, 
 (Th. 24, B. II), 
 
 AE : ED 
 
 CA : CD 
 CM: CK 
 CM: CA 
 CM: CM+ CA. 
 
 hence, AE : AE +ED 
 
 Multiplying the first couplet of this proportion by CA, 
 and the second by MK, observing that AE -f ED = AD, 
 we shall have 
 
 AE.CA : AD.CA :: CM.MK : (CM + CA) MK. 
 
 But AE. CA measures the area of the A CEG-, whi 3h 
 we have called y, AD.CA = A CBD — b, CM.MK - 
 A CKL = a, and (CM 4- CA)MK= a CKL + 2 a CAK = 
 a -h 2x, as is seen from equations (1) and (3). Therefore, 
 the above proportion becomes 
 
 y : b :: a : a + 2x. 
 
 Multiplying the first couplet by 2n, and the second by 
 w, we shall have 
 
 
 2m/ : 2nb : : na : na -f 2wa: 
 That is, P' : 2P :: p : p + / 
 
 whence, P' = — -±- 
 
 and as the value of p r has been previously fourd equal to 
 *SPp, the value of P' is known from this last equation, 
 and the problem is completely solved. 
 
 PROPOSITION VI. — PROBLEM. 
 
 To determine the approximate numerical value of the area 
 of a circle, when the radius is unity. 
 
 "We have now found, (Prob. 4), the areas of regular 
 inscribed and circumscribed hexagons, when the radius 
 of the circle is taken as the unit ; and Prob. 5 gives us 
 formulae for computing from these the areas of regular 
 inscribed and circumscribed polygons of twelve sides, 
 and from these last we may pass to polygons of 
 twenty-four sides, and so on, without limit. Now, it is 
 evident that, as the number of sides of the inscribed 
 polygon is increased, the polygon itself will increase, 
 gradually approaching the circle, which it can never sur- 
 pass. And it is equally evident that, as the number of 
 sides of the circumscribed polygon is increased, the poly- 
 gon itself will decrease, gradually approaching the circle, 
 less than which it can never become. 
 
 The circle being included between any two corres- 
 ponding inscribed and circumscribed polygons, it will 
 differ from either less than they differ from each other ; 
 and the area of either polygon may then be taken as tne 
 area of the circle, from which it will differ by an amount 
 less than the difference between the polygons. 
 
 It is also plain that, as the areas of the polygons ap- 
 proach equality, their perimeters will approach coinci- 
 dence with each other, and with the circumference of 
 the circle. 
 12* 
 
 
 Assuming the areas already found for the inscribed 
 and circumscribed hexagons, and applying the formulae 
 of Prob. 5 to them and to the successive results ob. 
 tained, we may construct the following table : 
 
 NUMBER OB 
 
 1 SIDES. 
 
 n 
 
 INSCRIBED POLYGONS. 
 
 CIRCUMSCRIBED POLYGONS. 
 
 6 
 
 1^ 
 
 - 2.59807621 
 
 2^3= 
 
 =3.46410161 
 
 12 
 
 24 
 
 3 
 6 
 
 = 3.0000000 
 = 3.1058286 
 
 12 
 2+/3 
 
 -3.2153904 
 3.1596602 
 
 ^2+x/3 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 3.1326287 
 
 
 3.1460863 
 
 96 
 
 
 3.1393554 
 
 
 3.1427106 
 
 192 
 
 
 3.1410328 
 
 
 3.1418712 
 
 384 
 
 
 3.1414519 
 
 
 3.1416616 
 
 768 
 
 
 3.1415568 
 
 
 3.1416092 
 
 1536 
 
 
 3.1415829 
 
 
 3.1415963 
 
 3072 
 
 
 3.1415895 
 
 
 3.1415929 
 
 6144 
 
 
 3.1415912 
 
 
 3.1415927 
 
 Thus we have found, that when the radius of a circle is 
 1, the semi-circumference must be more than 3.1415912, 
 and less than 3.1415927; and this is as accurate as can 
 be determined with the small number of decimals here 
 used. To be more accurate we must have more decimal 
 places, and go through a very tedious mechanical opera- 
 tion; but this is not necessary, for the result is well 
 known, and is 3.1415926535897, plus other decimal places 
 to the 100th, without termination. This result was dis- 
 covered through the aid of an infinite series in the Dif- 
 ferential and Integral Calculus. 
 
 The number, 3.1416, is the one generally usod in prac- 
 tice, as it is much more convenient than a greater num- 
 ber of decimals, and it is sufficiently accurate for all 
 ordinary purposes. 
 
 In analytical expressions it has become a general cus- 
 tom with mathematicians to represent this number by 
 
 
 the Greek letter #, and, therefore, when any diameter of 
 a circle is represented by D, the circumference of the 
 same circle must be *D. If the radius of a circle is re- 
 presented by B, the circumference must be represented 
 by 2«B. 
 
 Scholium. — The side of a regular inscribed hexagon subtends an 
 arc of 60°, and the side of a regular polygon of twelve sides subtends 
 an arc of 30° ; and so on, the length of the arc subtended by the sides 
 of the polygons, varying inversely with the number of sides. 
 
 Angles are measured by the arcs of circles included between their 
 sides ; they may also be measured by the chords of these arcs, or rather 
 by the half chords called sines in Trigonometry. For this purpose, it 
 becomes necessary to know the length of the chord of every possible 
 arc of a circle. 
 
 PROPOSITION VII. — PROBLEM. 
 
 Given, the chord of any arc, to find the chord of one half 
 that arc, the radius of the circle being unity. 
 
 Let FE be the given chord, and draw 
 the radii QA and QE, the first perpen- 
 dicular to FE, and the second to its ex- 
 tremity, E. 
 
 Denote FE by 2c, and the chord of 
 the half arc AE by. a;. 
 
 Then, in the right-angled triangle, 
 DOE, we have ~ DQ 2 = QE 2 — DE 2 . Whence, since 
 QE = 1, D<7 = ^l — c\ 
 
BOOK V. 139 
 That is, AD = 1 — </T= 7; but AD 2 + DE 2 = AE\ 
 and AD* = 2 — 2^1 — c 2 — c\ Adding to the first 
 member of this last equation DE 2 , and to the second its 
 value c 2 , we have 
 
 AD 2 + DE 2 =2-2 Vl^ 7. 
 
 Whence, AE = x/ 2 — 2<Sl — c 2 , the value sought. 
 
 By applying this formula successively to any known 
 chord, we can find the chord of one half the arc, that of 
 half of the half, and so on, to the chords of the most 
 minute arcs. 
 
 
 Application, 
 
 The greatest chord in a circle is its diameter, which is 
 2 when the radius is 1; therefore, we may commence 
 by making 2c = 2, and c- = 1. 
 
 Then, AE = ^2-21/T^c 8 = v/ 2—2v' l^T - ^2 - 
 1.41421356, which is the chord of 90°. 
 
 ISTow make 2c = 1.41421356, and c -.70710678 - J^X 
 
 We shall then have, 
 
 chord of 45°= V2- V2= i/2- 1.41421356- ^.58578644- 
 .7653 + . 
 
 Again, placing 2<?=.7653-f-, and applying the formula, 
 we can obtain the chord of 22° 30', and from this the 
 chord of 11° 15', and so on, as far as we please. 
 
 We may take, for another starting point, the chord of 
 60°, which is known to be equal to the radius of the 
 circle,(Prob. 26, B. IV). If, as above, we make successive 
 applications of the formula, putting first 2c = 1, we shall 
 arrive at the results in the following 
 
 
 
 TABLE 
 
 • 
 
 
 Chord of 60°, 
 
 = J of a 
 
 circumference, 1.0000000000 
 
 k 
 
 « 30°, 
 
 _ l a 
 
 M 
 
 .5176380902 
 
 a 
 
 " 15°, 
 
 l (( 
 
 — 2* 
 
 a 
 
 .2610523842 
 
 u 
 
 " 7° 30', 
 
 1 u 
 
 — 35 
 
 a 
 
 .1308062583 
 
 U 
 
 " 3° 45', 
 
 1 « 
 
 — -S3 
 
 a 
 
 .0654381655 
 
 u 
 
 " 1° 52' 30", 
 
 1 (( 
 
 — T52 
 
 it 
 
 .0327234632 
 
 (( 
 
 « 56' 15", 
 
 -ih " 
 
 ti 
 
 * .0163622792 
 
 (I 
 
 " 28' 7" 30'", 
 
 1 (( 
 
 u 
 
 .0081812080 
 
 a 
 
 " 14' 3" 45"', 
 
 1 u 
 
 a 
 
 .0040906112 
 
 u 
 
 « V 1" 521"', 
 
 1 (( 
 
 = 37T72 
 
 a 
 
 .0020453068 
 
 etc. etc. 
 
 It is obvious that an arc so small as seven minutes of a 
 degree can differ but very little from its chord ; therefore, 
 if we take .002045307 to be the true value of the ,^3 of 
 !.he circumference, the whole circumference must be the 
 
 
 product of .002045307 by 3072, which is 6.283183104 - 
 circumference whose radius is unity. The half of this, 
 3.141592552, is the semi-circumference, the more exact 
 value of which, as stated, (Prop. 6), is 3.141592653. 
 
 The value of the half circumference being now deter- 
 mined, if that of any arc whatever be required, we have 
 merely to divide 3.141592, etc., by 10800, the number of 
 minutes in a semi-circumference, and multiply the quo- 
 tient by the number of minutes in the arc whose length 
 is required. 
 
 But this investigation has been carried far enough for 
 our present purposes. It will be resumed under the 
 subject of Trigonometry. 
 
 We insert the following beautiful theorem for the tri- 
 section of an arc, although not necessary for practical 
 application. Those not acquainted with cubic equations 
 may omit it. 
 
 PROPOSITION VIII. — THEOREM. 
 
 Given, the chord of any arc, to determine the chord of one 
 third of such arc. 
 
 Let AE be the given chord, and 
 conceive its arc divided into three 
 equal parts, as represented by AB, 
 BD, and BE. 
 
 Through the center draw BCCr, and 
 draw AB. The two A's, CAB and 
 ABF, are equiangular; for, the angle 
 FAB, being at the circumference, is 
 measured by one half the arc BE, which is equal to AB, 
 and the angle BOA, being at the center, is measured by 
 the arc AB ; therefore, the angle FAB = the angle BOA ; 
 but the angle OB A or FBA, is common to both tri- 
 angles ; therefore, the third angle, CAB, of the one tri- 
 angle, is equal to the third angle, AFB, of the other, 
 
 
 (Th. 12, B. I, Cor. 2), and the two triangles are equi- 
 angular and similar. 
 
 But the A ACB is isosceles; therefore, the A AFB is 
 alsc isosceles, and AB = A F, and we have the following 
 proportions : 
 
 CA : AB : : AB : BF. 
 
 Now, let AF= e, AB = x, AC= 1. Then AF= x> and 
 EF— c — x, and the proportion becomes, 
 
 1 : x : : x : BF, Hence, BF= x\ 
 
 Also, Fa = 2 — x\ 
 
 As AE and i?6r are two chords intersecting each other 
 at the point F, we have, 
 
 GFx FB = AFx FE, (Th. 17, B. HI). 
 
 That is, (2 — x 2 ) x* = x (c — x) ; 
 
 or, # 3 — 3a; = — <?. 
 
 If we suppose the arc AE to be 60 degrees, then c = 1, 
 and the equation becomes or 5 — 3x = — 1 ; a cubic equa- 
 tion, easily resolved by Horner's method, (Robinson's 
 New University Algebra, Art. 464), giving x = .347296 + 
 the chord of 20°. This again may be taken for the value 
 of c, and a second solution will give the chord of 6° 40', 
 and so on, trisecting successively as many times as we 
 please. 
 
 PRACTICAL PROBLEMS. 
 
 The theorems and problems with which we have been 
 thus far occupied, relate to plane figures; that is, to 
 figures all of whose parts are situated in the same plane. 
 It yet remains for us to investigate the intersections and 
 relative positions of planes ; the relations and positions 
 of lines with reference to planes in which they are not 
 contained ; and the measurements, relations, and proper- 
 ties of solids, or volumes. But before we proceed to this, 
 it is deemed advisable to give some practical problems 
 for the purpose of exercising the powers of the student, 
 
 
 and of fixing in his mind those general geometrical prin- 
 ciples with which we must now suppose him to be 
 acquainted. . 
 
 1. The base of an isosceles triangle is 6, and the oppv>- 
 site angle is 60° ; required the length of each of the other 
 two equal sides, and the number of degrees in each of 
 the other angles. 
 
 2. One angle of a right-angled triangle is 30° ; what 
 is the other angle ? Also, the least side is 12, what is 
 the hypotenuse ? 
 
 A J The hypotenuse is 24, the double of the least 
 ***' \ side. Why? 
 
 3. The perpendicular distance between two parallel 
 lines is 10 ; what angles must a line of 20 make with 
 these parallels to extend exactly from the one to the 
 other ? Arts. The angles must be 30° and 150°. 
 
 4. The perpendicular distance between two parallels 
 is 20 feet, and a line is drawn across them at an angle of 
 45° ; what is its length between the parallels ? 
 
 Ans. 20^2. 
 
 5. Two parallels are 8 feet asunder, and from a point 
 in one of the parallels two lines are drawn to meet the 
 other ; the length of one of these lines is 10 feet, and 
 that of the other 15 feet ; what is the distance between 
 the points at which they meet the other parallel ? 
 
 Ans. 6.69 ft., or 18.69 ft. (See Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 6. Two parallels are 12 feet asunder, and, from a point 
 on one of them, two lines, the one 20 feet and the other 
 18 feet in length, are drawn to the other parallel ; what 
 is the distance between the two lines on the other parallel, 
 and what is the area of the triangle so formed ? 
 
 c The distance on the other parallel is 29.416 
 Ans. < feet, or 2.584 feet; and the area of the tri 
 1 angle is 176.496, or 15.504 square feet. 
 
 7. The diameter of a circle is 12, and a chord of the 
 
 
 circle is 4; what is the length of the perpendicular 
 drawn from the center to this chord ? (See Th. 3, B. III). 
 
 Ans. 4^2. 
 
 8. Two parallel chords in a circle were measured and 
 found to be 8 feet each, and their distance asunder was 
 6 feet ; what was the radius of the circle ? 
 
 Ans. 5 feet. 
 
 9. Two chords on opposite sides of the center of a 
 cirsle are parallel, and one of them has a length of It) 
 and the other of 12 feet, the distance between them 
 being 14 feet. What is the diameter of the circle ? 
 
 Ans. 20 feet. 
 
 10. An isosceles triangle has its two equal sides, 15 
 each, and its base 10. What must be the altitude of a 
 right-angled triangle on the same base, and having an 
 equal area? 
 
 11. From the extremities of the base of any triangle, 
 draw lines bisecting the other sides ; these two lines in- 
 tersecting within the triangle, will form another triangle 
 on the same base. How will the area of this new tri- 
 angle compare with that of the whole triangle ? 
 
 Ans. Their areas will be as 3 to 1. 
 
 12. Two parallel chords on the same side of the center 
 of a circle, whose diameter is 32, are measured and found 
 to be, the one 20, and the other 8. How far are they 
 asunder? Ans. ^240"— ^156"= 3 +. 
 
 If we suppose the two chords to be on opposite sides of the 
 center, their distance apart will then be v'240 -j- v/156 = ] 5.49 -f- 
 12.49 = 27.98. 
 
 13. The longer of the two parallel sides of a trapezoid 
 is 12, the shorter 8, and their distance asunder 5. What 
 is the area of the trapezoid ? and if we produce the two 
 inclined sides until they meet, what will be the area of 
 the triangle so formed ? 
 
 Ans. Area of trapezoid, 50 ; area of triangle, 40 ; area 
 of triangle and trapezoid, 90. 
 
 
 145 
 
 14. The base of a triangle is 697, one of the sides is 
 534, and the other 813. If a line be drawn bisecting the 
 angle opposite the base, into what two parts will the 
 bisecting line divide the base ? (See Th. 24, B. II). 
 
 A ( The greater part will be 420.684 ; 
 m ' \ The less " " 276.316. 
 
 15. Draw three horizontal parallels, making the dis- 
 tance between the two upper parallels 7, and that be- 
 tween the middle and lower parallels 9 ; then place be- 
 tween the upper parallels a line equal to 10, and from 
 the point in which it meets the middle parallel draw to 
 the lower a line equal to 11, and join the point in which 
 this last line meets the lower parallel, with the point in 
 the upper parallel, from which the line 10 was drawn. 
 Required the length of this line, and the area of the 
 triangle formed by it and the two lines 10 and 11. 
 
 The adjoining figure 
 will illustrate. Let A be 
 the point on the upper 
 parallel from which the 
 line 10 is drawn. Then, 
 AF = 7, AB = 10, 
 FB = \/l00 — 19 = 
 
 •51. 
 
 BI1 = FD = 9, B C 
 = U,HC= </l21_81 
 = %/40. 
 
 Whence, DC = ^51 
 f ^40. 
 
 AC 2 - (V5l 4. </40) 8 -f (16) a ; AG = 20.89, Ans. 
 
 The area of the triangle, ABC, can be determined by first find- 
 ing the area of the trapezoid, ABHD, then the area of the trian- 
 gle, BHC, and from their sum subtracting the area of the triangle, 
 ADC. 
 
 16. Construct a triangle on a base of 400, one of the 
 angles at the base being 80°, and the other 70° ; and 
 13 k 
 
 
 146 GEOMETRY. 
 
 determine the third angle, and the area of the triangle 
 thus constructed. 
 
 r The third angle is 30°, and as nearly as our 
 scale of equal parts can determine for us, the 
 side opposite the angle 80° is 787, and that 
 opposite 70° is 740. 
 The exact solution of problems like the last, except in a few par- 
 ticular cases, requires a knowledge of certain lines depending on 
 the angles of the triangle. The properties and values of these lines 
 are investigated in trigonometry ; and as we are not yet supposed 
 to be acquainted with them, we must be content with the approxi- 
 mate solutions obtained by the constructions and measurements 
 made with the plane scale. 
 
 17. If we call the mean radius of the earth 1, the 
 mean distance of the moon will he 60 ; and as the mean 
 distance of the sun is 400 times the distance of the 
 moon, its distance will he 400 times 60. The sun and 
 moon appear to have the same diameter; supposing, 
 then, the real diameter of the moon to be 2160 miles, 
 what must he that of the sun ? 
 
 Let E be the center of the earth, M that of the moon, and S 
 that of the sun, and suppose ENP to be a line from the -center of 
 the earth, touching the moon and the sun. 
 
 Then, EM : MN : : ES : SP-, 
 
 but MNia the radius of the moon, and SP that of the sun. Mul- 
 tiplying the consequents by 2, the above proportion becomes 
 EM: 2MN :: ES : 2SP-, 
 
 or in numbers, 60 : 2160 :: 400 X 60 : 2SP; 
 whence, 2 JSP = sun's diameter = 864000 miles, Ans. 
 18. In Problem 15, suppose BO to be drawn on the 
 other side of BR, what, then, will be the value of A O, 
 and what the area of the triangle AQB1 
 Am <AC= 16,021; 
 
 1 A.rea of triangle, £(9t / 51 + 7V40). 
 
 
 19. A man standing 40 feet from a building which was 
 24 feet wide, observed that when he closed one eye, the 
 width of the building just eclipsed or hid from view 90 
 rods of fence which was parallel to the width of the 
 building; what was the distance from the eye of the 
 observer to the fence ? Ans. 2475 feet. 
 
 20. Taking the same data as in the last problem, ex- 
 cept that we will now suppose the direction of the fence 
 to be inclined at an angle of 45° to the side of the 
 building which we see ; what, in this case, must be the 
 distance between the eye of the observer and the remoter 
 point of the fence ? 
 
 Let EF be the width of the house, E the position of the eye, and 
 AB that of the fence. Draw BD perpendicular to EA produced ; 
 then, since the triangle ABE is right-angled and isosceles, we have 
 AE = EB } and 2AE* = AB 2 = (90) 2 ; BE = 63.64 rods, and the 
 similar triangles EFH and EEB give the proportion 
 EF : EF : : BE : EE = 1750.1 feet; 
 and from this we find 
 
 EB 2 mm EE 2 + BE 2 = (63.64 x 3 2 3 ) 2 -f (1750.1)* 
 Whence EB = 2040.94 -f Ans. 
 
 21. In a right-angled triangle, ABO, we have AB m 
 493, AC= 1425, and BC = 1338 ; it is required to divide 
 this triangle into parts by a line parallel to AB, whose 
 areas are to each other as 1 is to 3. How will the sides 
 AC and BO be divided by this line ? (See Th. 20, B. II). 
 
 Ans. Into equal parts. 
 
 22. In a right-angled triangle, ABO, right-angled at 
 B, the base AB is 320, and the angle A is 60° ; required 
 the remaining angle and the other sides. 
 
 A /The angle (7=30°; 
 n8 ' \ AC= 640; BO= 554.24. 
 
 
 23. A hunter, wishing to determine his distance from 
 a village in sight, took a point and from it laid off two 
 lines in the direction of two steeples, wnich he supposed 
 equally distant from him, and which he knew to be 100 
 rods asunder. At the distance of 50 feet on each line 
 from the common point, he measured the distance be- 
 tween the lines, and found it to be 5 feet 8 inches. How 
 far was he from the steeples ? 
 
 5 ft. 8 in. : 100 rods : : 50 ft. : distance. c 14,55y feet, 
 
 or, 68 : 100 x ^ x 12 : : 50 : distance. An8 ' 1 ° r n f arl ? 
 z 13 miles. 
 
 24. A person is in front of a building which he knowa 
 to be 160 feet long, and he finds that it covers 10 minutes 
 of a degree ; that is, he finds that the two lines drawn 
 from his eye to the extremities of the building include 
 an angle of 10 minutes. What is his distance from the 
 building? ^^ ( 55 ; 004 feet, or 
 
 ' ( more than 10 miles. 
 Remark. — The questions of distance, with which we are at present 
 occupied, depend for their solution on the properties of similar tri- 
 angles. In the preceding example we apparently have but one tri- 
 angle, but we have in fact two ; the second being formed by the dis- 
 tances unity on the lines drawn from the eye of the observer, and the 
 line which connects the extremities of these units of distance. This 
 last line may be regarded as the chord of the arc 10 minutes to the 
 radius unity. We have seen that the length of the arc 180° to the 
 radius 1, is 3.1415926 ; hence the chord of 1° or 60' is 0.017453, and 
 of 10 / it must be 0.0029089. Therefore, by similar triangles, we have 
 
 0.0029089 : 160 : : 1 : Ans. = ^~. 
 
 25. In the triangle, ABO, we have given the angles 
 A = 32°, and B = 84°. The side AB is produced, and 
 the exterior angle CBD thus formed, is bisected by the 
 line BE, and the angle A is also bisected by the line AE, 
 BE and AE meeting in the point E. "What is the angle 
 ft and what is the relation between the angles O and E ! 
 
 Ans. (7=64°; E=\ ft 
 
 
 26. Suppose a line to be drawn in any direction be- 
 tween two parallels. Bisect the two interior angles thus 
 formed on either side of the connecting line, and prove 
 that the bisecting lines meet each other at right angles, 
 and that they are the sides of a right-angled triangle of 
 which the line connecting the parallels is the hypotenuse. 
 
 27. If the two diagonals of a trapezoid be drawn, 
 show that two similar triangles will be formed, the 
 parallel sides of the trapezoid being homologous sides 
 of the triangles. "What will be the relative areas of 
 these triangles ? 
 
 {The triangles will be to each other 
 as the squares on the parallel sides 
 of the trapezoid. 
 
 28. If from the extremities of the base of any triangle, 
 lines be drawn to any point within the triangle, forming 
 with the base another triangle ; how will the vertical 
 angle in this last triangle compare with that in the 
 original triangle ? 
 
 r It will be as much greater than the angle 
 in the original triangle as the sum of 
 angles at the base of the new triangle is 
 less than the sum of those at the base 
 of the first. 
 
 29. The two parallel sides of a trapezoid are 12 and 
 20, respectively, and their perpendicular distance is 8. 
 If a line whose length is 14.5 be drawn between the in- 
 clined sides and parallel to the parallel sides, what is the 
 area of the trapezoid, and what the area of each part, 
 respectively, into which the trapezoid is divided ? 
 
 Area of the whole, 128 square units; 
 " smaller part, 33J " 
 
 I " larger " 94J " 
 
 Dividing line at the distance of 2J from 
 shortei parallel side. 
 •80. If we assume the diameter of the earth to be 
 13* 
 
 
 7956 miles, and the eye of an observer be 40 feet above 
 the level of the sea, how far distant will an object be, 
 that is just visible on the earth's surface. (Employ Th* 
 18, B. Ill, after reducing miles to feet.) 
 
 Ans. 40992 feet = 7 miles 4032 feet. 
 
 31. The diameter of a circle is 4 ; what is the area of 
 the inscribed equilateral triangle ? Ans. 3^3. 
 
 32. Three brothers, whose residences are at the ver- 
 tices of a triangular area, the sides of which are severally 
 10, 11, and 12 chains, wish to dig a well which shall be 
 at the same distance from the residence of each. Deter- 
 mine the point for the well, and its distance from their 
 residences. 
 
 Remark. — Construct a triangle, the sides of which are, respectively, 
 10, 11, and 12. The sides of this triangle will be the chords of a cir- 
 cle whose radius is the required distance. To find the center of this 
 circle, bisect either two of the sides of the triangle by perpendiculars, 
 and their intersection will be the center of the circle, and the location 
 of the well. 
 
 Ans. The well is distant 6.405 chains, nearly, from each 
 residence. 
 
 33. The base of an isosceles triangle is 12, and the 
 equal sides are 20 each. "What is the length of the per- 
 pendicular from the vertex to the base; and what the 
 area of the triangle ? 
 
 Ans. Perpendicular, 19.07; area, (19.07) x 6. 
 
 34. The hypotenuse of a 
 right-angled triangle is 45 
 inches, and the difference be- 
 tween the two sides is 8.45 
 inches. Construct the triangle. 
 
 Suppose the triangle drawn and 
 ^presented by ABC, DC being the 
 difference between the two sides. 
 
 Now, by inspection, we discover the 
 steps to be taken for the construc- 
 tion of the triangle As AD = AB, 
 
 
 the angle ADB, must be equal to the angle DBA, and each equal 
 to 45°. 
 
 Therefore, draw any line, AC, and from an assumed point in it 
 as D, draw BD, making the angle ADB = 45°. Take from a 
 scale of equal parts, 8.45 inches, and lay them off from D to C, and 
 with C as a center, and CB = 45 inches as a radius, describe an 
 arc cutting BD in B. Draw CB, and from B, draw BA at right 
 angles to A C) then is ABC the triangle sought. 
 
 Ans. AB =27.3; AC= 35.76, when carefully constructed. 
 
 35. Taking the same triangle as in the last problem, if 
 we draw a line bisecting the right angle, where will it 
 meet the hypotenuse? 
 
 Ans. 19.5 from B ; and 25.5 from Q. 
 
 36. The diameters of the hind and fore wheels of a 
 carriage, are 5 and 4 feet, respectively ; and their centers 
 are 6 feet asunder. At what distance from the fore wheels 
 will the line, passing through their centers, meet the 
 ground, which is supposed level ? Ans. 24 feet. 
 
 37. If the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is 35, 
 and the side of its inscribed square 12, what are its sides? 
 
 Ans. 28 and 21. 
 
 38. What are the sides of a right-angled triangle 
 having the least hypotenuse, in which if a square be in- 
 scribed, its side will be 12 ? 
 
 r The sides are equal to 24 each, and the 
 Ans. < least hypotenuse is double the diagonal 
 I of the square. 
 
 39. The radius 6f a circle is 25 ; what is the area cf a 
 sector of 50° ? 
 
 Remark. — First find the length of an arc of 50° in a circle Vncsa 
 
 radius is unity. Then 25 times that will be the length of an arc of 
 
 the same number of degrees in a circle of which the radius is 25. 
 
 , , -.o ,- • 3.14159265 
 Length of arc 1° radius unity = ^r — . 
 
 (i « goo u « _ 1.04/1J7 55 g 
 
 6 
 
 •Area of sector = L04719755 X 125 x f = 272 7077. Ans. 
 o 2 
 
 
 BOOK VI. 
 
 ON THE INTERSECTIONS OF PLANES, AND THE EEL. 
 ATIVE POSITIONS OF PLANES AND OF PLANES 
 AND LINES. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 A Plane has been already defined to be a surface, such 
 that the straight line which joins any two of its points 
 will lie entirely in that surface. (Def. 9, page 9.) 
 
 1. The Intersection or Common Section of two planes is 
 the line in which they meet. 
 
 2. A Perpendicular to a Plane is a line which makes 
 right angles with every line drawn in the plane through 
 the point in which the perpendicular meets it; and, con- 
 versely, the plane is perpendicular to the line. The 
 point in which the perpendicular meets the plane is 
 called the foot of the perpendicular. 
 
 3. A Diedral Angle is the separation or divergence of 
 two planes proceeding from a common line, and is meas- 
 ured by the angle included between two lines drawn 
 one in each plane, perpendicular to their common sec- 
 tion at the same point. 
 
 The common section of the two planes is called the 
 edge of the angle, and the planes are its faces, 
 
 4. Two Planes are perpendicular to each other, when their 
 diedral angle is a right angle. 
 
 5. A Straight Line is parallel to a plane, when it will 
 not meet the plane, however far produced. 
 
 
 6. Two Planes are parallel, when they will not intersect, 
 however far produced in all directions. 
 
 7. A Solid or Polyedral Angle is the separation or diver- 
 gence of three or more plane angles, proceeding from a 
 common point, the two sides of each of the plane angles 
 being the edges of diedral angles formed by these plane 
 angles. 
 
 The common point from which the plane angles pro- 
 ceed h called the vertex of the solid angle, and the inter- 
 sections of its bounding planes are called its edges, 
 
 8. A Triedral Angle is a solid angle formed by three 
 plane angles. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 Two straight lines which intersect each other, two parallel 
 straight lines, and three points not in the same straight line, 
 will severally determine the position of a plane. 
 
 Let AB and A be two lines 
 Intersecting each other at the 
 point A ; then will these lines 
 determine a plane. For, conceive 
 a plane to be passed through AB, 
 and turned about AB as an axis 
 until it contains the point in the line AC The plane, 
 in this position, contains the lines AB and AC, and will 
 contain them in no other. Again, let AB and BE be 
 two parallel straight lines, and take at pleasure two 
 points, A and B, in the one, and two points, D and E, 
 in the other, and draw AE and BD. The last lines, AB, AE, 
 or the lines AB, DB from what precedes, determine the posi- 
 tion of the parallels AB, BE. And again, if A, B, and 
 be three points not in the same straight line, and we draw 
 the lines AB and AC, it follows, from the first part of this 
 proposition, that these points fix the plane. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Cor. A straight line and a point out of ic determine 
 the position of a plane. 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 If two planes meet each other, their common points will be 
 found in, and form one straight line. 
 
 Let B and D he any two of the 
 points common to the two planes, 
 and join these points by the straight 
 line BB ; then will BB contain all 
 the points common to the two planes, 
 and he their intersection. For, suppose the planes have 
 a common point out of the line BB; then, (Cor. Th. 1), 
 since a straight line and a point out of it determine a 
 plane, there would be two planes determined by this one 
 line and single point out of it, which is absurd. Hence 
 the common section of two planes is a straight line. 
 
 Remark. — The truth of this proposition is implicitly assumed in the 
 definitions of this Book. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 If a straight line stand at right angles to each of two other 
 straight lines at their point of intersection, it will be at right 
 angles to the plane of those lines. 
 
 Let AB stand at right angles to i^Fand 
 CB, at their point of intersection A. Then 
 AB will be at right angles to any other 
 line drawn through A in the plane, pass- 
 ing through EF, OB, and, of course, at 
 right angles to the plane itself. (Def. 2.) 
 
 Through A, draw any line, A G, in the 
 plane EF, CB, and from any point G, draw GH parallel 
 to AB. Take HF = AH, and join F and G and produce 
 FG to B. Because HG is parallel to AB, we have 
 FH : HA : : FG : GB. 
 
 
 But, in this proportion, the first couplet is a ratic of 
 equality; therefore the last couplet is also a ratio of 
 equality, 
 
 That is, FG = GD, or the line FD is bisected in G. 
 
 Draw BD, BG, and BF. 
 
 "Now, in the triangle AFD, as the base FD is bisected 
 in G, we have, 
 
 AF 2 +~AD 2 - 2AG 2 + 2GF 2 (1) (Th. 42, B. I). 
 
 Also, as DF is the base of the a BDF, we have by the 
 same theorem, 
 
 "SF +~BD 2 = 2BG 2 + 2GF % (2) 
 
 By subtracting ( 1 ) from ( 2 ), and observing that BF 2 — 
 AF 2 = AB\ because BAF is a right angle ; and BD 2 — 
 AD 1 — AB 2 , because BAB is a right angle, we shall have, 
 
 AB + AB = 2BG 1 — 2AG 
 
 lhviding by 2, and transposing AG , and we have, 
 
 AB' + AG =BG . 
 
 This last equation shows that BAG is a right angle. 
 But AG is any line drawn through A, in the plane FF, 
 CD ; therefore AB is at right angles to any line in the 
 plane, and, of course, at right angles to the plane itself 
 
 Cor. 1. The perpendicular BA is shorter than any of 
 the oblique lines BF, BG, or BD, drawn from the point 
 B to the plane ; hence it is the shortest distance from a 
 point to a plane. 
 
 Cor. 2. But one perpendicular can be erected to a plane 
 from a given point in the plane ; for, if there could be 
 two, the plane of these perpendiculars would intersect 
 the given plane in some line, as AG, and both the per- 
 pendiculars would be at right angles to this intersection 
 at the same point, which is impossible. 
 
 Cor. 3. But one perpendicular can be let fall from a 
 given point out of a plane on the plane ; for, if there can 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 be two, let BCr and BA be such perpendiculars, then 
 would the triangle BAGf be right angled at both A and 
 <r, which is impossible. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 If from any 'point of a perpendicular to a plane, oblique 
 lines be drawn to different points in the plane, those oblique 
 lines which meet the plane at equal distances from the foot of 
 the perpendicular are equal; and those which meet the plane 
 at unequal distances from the foot of the perpendicular are 
 unequal, the greater distances corresponding to the longer 
 oblique lines, 
 
 Take any point B in 
 the perpendicular BA to 
 the plane ST, and draw 
 the oblique lines BO, 
 BD, and BE, the points 
 C, J), and E, being equally 
 distant from A, the foot 
 of the perpendicular. 
 Produce AE to F, and 
 draw BF; then will BC= BD — BE, and BF> BE. 
 
 For, the triangles BAG, BAB, and BAE are all right- 
 angled at J., the side BA is common, and AC= AD=AE 
 by construction, hence, (Th. 16, B. I), BC=BD = BE. 
 Moreover, since AF> AE, the oblique line BF> BE. 
 
 Cor. If any number of equal oblique lines be drawn 
 from the point B to the plane, they will all meet the 
 plane in the circumference of a circle having the foot of 
 the perpendicular for its center. It follows from this, 
 that, if three points be taken in a plane equally distant 
 from a point out of it, the center of the circle whose cir* 
 cumference passes through these points will be the foot of 
 *he ]aerx>endicular drawn from the point to the plane. 
 
 
 THEOREM V. 
 
 The line which joins any point of a perpendicular to a 
 plane, with the point in which a line in the plane is inter- 
 sected, at right angles, by a line through the foot of the per- 
 pendicular, will be at right angles to the line in the plane 
 
 Let AB be perpendic- 
 ular to the plane ST, and 
 AD a line through its foot 
 at right angles to EF, a line 
 in the plane. Connect D 
 with any point, as B, of the 
 perpendicular; and BD will 
 be perpendicular to EF. 
 
 Make DF '= DE, and join B to the points E and 
 F. Since DE = DF, and the angles at D are right 
 angles, the oblique lines, AE and AF, are equal ; and, 
 since AE= AF, we have, (Th. 4), BE=BF; therefore 
 the line BD has two points, B and D, each equally distant 
 from the extremities E and F of the line EF, and hence 
 BD is perpendicular to EF at its middle point D. 
 
 Cor. Since FD is perpendicular to the two lines AD 
 und BD at their intersection, it is perpendicular to their 
 plane ADB, (Th. 3). 
 
 ScnoLiuM. — The inclination of a line to a plane is measured by the 
 angle included between the given line and the line which joins the 
 point in which it meets the plane and the foot of the perpendicular 
 drawn from any point of the line to the plane ; thus, the angle BFA ia 
 the inclination of the line BF to the plane ST. 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 If either of two parallels is perpendicular to a plane, the 
 other is also perpendicular to the plane. 
 
 Let BA and ED be two parallels, of which one, BA, 
 is perpendicular to the plane ST; then will the other also 
 be. perpendicular to the same plane. 
 14 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 The two parallels de- 
 termine a plane which 
 intersects the given plane 
 in AD; through D draw 
 MN perpendicular to 
 AD; then, (Cor., Th. 5,) 
 will MN be perpendicu- 
 lar to the plane BAD, 
 and the angle MDE is 
 
 therefore a right angle ; but ED A is also a right angle, 
 since BA and ED are parallel, and BAD is a right angle 
 by hypothesis; hence, ED is perpendicular to the two 
 lines MD and AD in the plane ST; it is therefore perpen- 
 dicular to the plane, (Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. 1. The converse of this proposition is also true , 
 that is, if two straight lines are both perpendicular to the same 
 plane, the lines are parallel. 
 
 For, suppose BA and ED to be two perpendiculars ; if 
 not parallel, draw through D a parallel to BA, and this 
 last line will be perpendicular to the plane ; but ED is 
 a perpendicular by hypothesis, and we should have two 
 perpendiculars erected to the plane at the same point, 
 which is impossible, (Cor. 2, Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. 2. If two lines lying in the same plane are each 
 parallel to a third line not in the same plane, the two 
 lines are parallel. For, pass a plane perpendicular to 
 the third line, and it will be perpendicular to each of tlva 
 others ; hence they are parallel , 
 
 THEOREM VII, 
 
 A straight line is parallel to a plane, when it is parallel 
 to a line in the plane. 
 
 Suppose the line MX to be parallel to the line CD, in 
 the plane ST; then will Jf^be parallel to the plane ST 
 
 
 159 
 
 For, OB being in the plane 
 
 ST, and at the same time g 
 
 parallel to MN, it must be the 
 
 intersection of the pl°.ne of 
 
 these parallels with the plane 
 
 ST; hence, if MN meet the 
 
 plane ST, it must do so in the T 
 
 line OB, or OB produced; but MN and OB are parallel, 
 
 and cannot meet; therefore MN, nowever far produced, 
 
 can have no point in the plane ST, and hence, (Def. 5), it 
 
 is parallel to this plane. 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 If two lines are parallel, they will be equally inclined to 
 any given plane. 
 
 Let AB and OB be 
 two parallels, and ST 
 any plane met by them 
 in the points A and 
 0; then will the lines 
 AB and OB be equally 
 inclined to the plane 
 ST. 
 
 For, take any distance, AB, on one of these parallels, 
 and make OB = AB, and draw A and BB. From the 
 points B and B let fall the perpendiculars, BE and BF, 
 on the plane ; join their feet by the line BF, and draw 
 AB and OF. 
 
 Now, since AB is equal and parallel to OB, ABBOh 
 ft parallelogram, and BB is equal and parallel to A 0, 
 and BB is parallel to the plane ST, (Th. 7) ; and, since 
 BE and BF are both perpendicular to this plane, they 
 are parallel ; but BB and EF are in the plane of these 
 parallels; and as EF is in the plane ST, and BB is 
 parallel to this plane, these two lines must be parallel 
 and equal, and BBFE is also a parallelogram Now, 
 
 
 we have shown that BD is equal and parallel to AC, and 
 EF equal and parallel to BD; hence, (Cor. 2, Th. 6), 
 EFis equal and parallel to AC, and ACFE is a parallel- 
 ogram, and AE — CF. The triangles J.^J/ and CDF 
 have, then, the sides of the one equal to the sides of the 
 other, each to each, and their angles are consequently 
 equal; that is, the angle BAE is equal to the angle 
 DCF; but these angles measure the inclination of the 
 lines AB and CD to the plane ST, (Scholium, Th. 5). 
 
 Scholium. — The converse of this proposition is not generally true ; 
 that is, straight lines equally inclined to the same plane are not neces- 
 sarily parallel. 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 The intersections of two parallel planes by a third plane, 
 are parallel. 
 
 Let the planes QR and ST he intersected by the third 
 plane, AD : then will the intersections, AB and CD, be 
 parallel. 
 
 Since the lines AB and CD are in the same plane, if 
 they are not parallel, they will 
 meet if sufficiently produced; 
 but they cannot meet out of the 
 planes QR and ST, in which 
 they are respectively found; 
 therefore, any point common to 
 the lines, must be at the same 
 time common to the planes ; and 
 since the planes are parallel, 
 
 (hey have no common point, and the lines, therefore, do 
 not intersect ; hence they are parallel. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 If two planes are perpendicular to the same straight line, 
 they are parallel to each other. 
 
 Let QR and ST be two planes, perpendicular to the 
 line AB; then will these planes be parallel. 
 
 
 — \ 
 
 s 
 
 ] 
 
 1— 
 
 i" 
 
 
 
 
 
 n 
 
'- 
 
 \ 
 
 BOOK VI. 161 
 
 For, if not parallel, suppose M to be a point in their 
 line of intersection, and 
 from this point draw 
 lines to the extremities 
 of the perpendicular m" 
 AB, thus forming a tri- 
 angle, MAB. Now, 
 since the line AB is 
 perpendicular to both 
 
 planes, it is perpendicular to each of the lines MA and 
 MB, drawn through its feet in the planes, (Def. 2); 
 hence, the triangle has two right angles, which is impos- 
 sible ; the planes cannot therefore meet in any point as 
 M, and are consequently parallel. 
 
 Cor. Conversely : The straight line which is perpendicu- 
 lar to one of two parallel planes, is also perpendicular to the 
 other. For, if AB be perpendicular to the plane QB, 
 draw in the other plane, through the point in which the 
 perpendicular meets it, any line, as AC. The plane of 
 the lines AB and A C will intersect the plane QB in the 
 line BD ; and since the planes are parallel by hypothesis, 
 the lines AC and BD must be parallel, (Th. 9) ; but the 
 angle DBA is a right angle ; hence, BA C must be a right 
 angle, and the line BA is perpendicular to any line what; 
 ever drawn in the plane through the point A ; BA is 
 therefore perpendicular to the plane ST. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 If two straight lines be drawn in any direction through 
 parallel planes, the planes will cut the lines proportionally. 
 
 Conceive three planes to be parallel, as represented 
 in the figure, and take any points, A and B, in the first 
 and third planes, and draw AB, the line passing through 
 the second plane at E. 
 
 14* L 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Also, take any other two points, as 
 and D, in the first and third planes, 
 and draw OB, the line passing through 
 the second plane at F. 
 
 Join the two lines by the diagonal 
 
 AB, which passes through the second 
 plane at G. Draw BB, EG, GF, and 
 
 AC. We are now to prove that, 
 
 AE : EB : : OF : FB. 
 For the sake of brevity, put AG=X, and GD= Y. 
 As the planes are parallel, BD is parallel to EG ; from 
 the two triangles ABD and AEG, we have, (Th. 17, 
 B.II); 
 
 A E : EB : : X : Y. 
 
 Also, as the planes are parallel, GF is parallel to A 0, 
 and we have, 
 
 OF : FD : : X : Y. 
 
 By comparing the proportions, and applying Th. 6, 
 B. II, we have 
 
 AE : EB : : OF : FB. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 If a straight line is perpendicular to a plane, all planes 
 passing through that line will be perpendicular to the plane. 
 
 Let MNbe a plane, and AB a per- 
 pendicular to it. Let BO be any 
 other plane, passing through AB ; 
 this plane will be perpendicular to 
 MM 
 
 Let BB be the common intersec- 
 tion of the two planes, and from 
 the point B, draw in MN BE at right angles to DB. 
 
 Then, as AB is perpendicular to the plane MN, it is 
 perpendicular to every line in that plane, passing through 
 
 M 
 
 D ^ 
 
 
 163 
 
 B ; (Def. 2,) ; therefore, ABE is a right angle. But the 
 angle ABE, (Def. 3), measures the inclination of the two 
 planes ; therefore, the plane CB is perpendicular to the 
 plane MN; and thus we can show that any other plane, 
 passing through AB, will be perpendicular to MN. 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If two planes are perpendicular to each other, and a line 
 be drawn in one of them perpendicular to their common in- 
 tersection, it will be perpendicular to the other plane. 
 
 Let the two planes, QR and ST, be perpendicular to 
 each other, and draw in QR the line CD at right angles 
 to their common intersection, R V; then will this line be 
 perpendicular to the plane ST. 
 
 In the plane ST draw ED, perpen- 
 dicular to VR at the point D. 
 Then, since the planes QR and ST 
 are perpendicular to each other, the 
 angle ODE is a right angle, and 
 CD is perpendicular to the two 
 lines, ED and VR, passing through 
 
 its foot in the plane ST. CD is therefore perpendicular 
 to the plane ST, (Th. 3). 
 
 Cor. Conversely: if we erect a perpendicular to the 
 plane ST, at any point, D, of its intersection with the 
 plane QR, this perpendicular will lie in the plane QR. 
 For, if it be not in this plane, we can draw in the plane 
 the line CD, at right angles to VR', and, from what has 
 been shown above, CD is perpendicular to the^lane ST, 
 and we should thus have two perpendiculars erected to 
 the plane, ST, at the same point, which is impossible, 
 (Cor. 2, Th. 8V 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 The common intersection of two planes, 'both of which are 
 perpendicular to a third plane, will also be perpendicular to 
 the third plane. 
 
 Let MN be the common 
 intersection of the two 
 planes, QR and VX, both 
 of which are perpendicular 
 to the plane ST; then will 
 MZ^be perpendicular to the 
 plane ST For, if we erect 
 a perpendicular to the plane 
 ST, at the point M, it will 
 lie in both planes at the 
 
 same time, (Cor. Th. 13); and this perpendicular must 
 therefore be their intersection. Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 Parallel straight lines included between parallel planes, 
 are equal. 
 
 Let AB and 2) (7 be two parallel lines, 
 included by the two parallel planes, 
 QR and ST; then will AB = BO. 
 
 For, the plane AC, of the parallel 
 lines, intersects the planes, QR and ST, 
 in the parallel lines, AB and BO, 
 (Th. 9) ; hence ABGD is a parallelogram, and its oppo- 
 site sides, AB and BO, are equal. 
 
 Oot. It follows from this proposition, that parallel planes 
 are everywhere equally distant ; for, two perpendiculars 
 drawn at pleasure between the two planes are parallel 
 lines, (Cor. 1, Th. 6), and hence are equal ; but these per- 
 pendiculars measure the distance between the planes. 
 
 
 165 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 Two planes are parallel when two lines not parallel, lying 
 in the one, are respectively parallel to two lines lying in the 
 other. 
 
 Let QR and ST be 
 two planes, the first 
 containing the two 
 lines AB and CD 
 which intersect each 
 other at E, and the 
 second the two lines 
 LM and NO, respect- 
 ively parallel to AB 
 and CD-, then will 
 these planes be par- 
 allel. 
 
 For, if the two planes 
 are not parallel, they must intersect when sufficiently 
 produced; and their common section lying in both planes 
 at the same time, would be a line of the plane QR. Now, 
 the lines AB and CD intersect each other by hypothesis ; 
 hence one or both of them must meet the common sec- 
 tion of the two planes. Suppose AB to meet this com- 
 mon section ; then, since AB and LM are parallel, they 
 determine a plane, and AB cannot meet the plane ST in 
 a point out of the line LM; but AB and LM being par- 
 allel, have no common point. Hence, neither AB nor 
 CD can meet the common section of the two planes ; that 
 », they have no common section, and are therefore par- 
 allel. 
 
 Cor. Since two lines which intersect each other, deter- 
 mine a plane, it follows from this proposition, that the 
 plane of two intersecting lines is parallel to the plane of two 
 other intersecting lines respectively parallel to the first lines 
 
 
 GEOMETRS*. 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 When two intersecting lines are respectively parallel to two 
 other intersecting lines lying in a different plane, the angles 
 formed by the last two lines will be equal to those formed by 
 the first two, each to each, and the planes of the angles will be 
 parallel. 
 
 Let QB be the plane 
 of the two lines AB 
 and CD, which inter- 
 sect each other at the 
 point E, and ST the 
 plane of the two lines 
 LM and NO, respect- 
 ively parallel to AB 
 and QB ; then will the 
 [__BED = \_MPO, 
 and L EEC - L 
 MPN, etc., and the 
 planes QB and ST 
 will be parallel. 
 
 That the plane of one set of angles is parallel to that 
 of the other, follows from the Corollary to Theorem 16 ; 
 we have then only to show that the angles are equal, 
 each to each. 
 
 Take any points, B and B, on the lines AB and CD, 
 and draw BD. Lay off PM, equal to and in the same 
 direction with JEB, and PO, equal to and in the same 
 direction with BD, and draw MO. Now, since the planes 
 QR and ST are parallel, and BD is equal and parallel to 
 PO, BDOP is a parallelogram, and DO is equal and par 
 allel to EP. For the same reason, BM is equal and 
 parallel to EP; therefore, BDOM is a parallelogram, and 
 MO is equal and parallel to BD. Hence the A's, EBD 
 and PMO, have the sides of the one equal to the sidea 
 of the other, each to each; they are therefore equal, and 
 
 
 the I MPO — the [ BED. In the same manner it can 
 be proved that \_BEC = \_MPN, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. The plane of the parallels AB and LM is in- 
 tersected by the plane of the parallels CD and NO, in the 
 line EP. Now, EB and ED are the intersections of these 
 two planes with the plane QR, and PM and PO are the 
 intersections of the same planes with the parallel plane 
 ST. It has just been proved that the |__ BED = [_MPO. 
 Hence, if the diedral angle formed by two planes, be cut by 
 two parallel planes, the intersections of the faces of the diedral 
 angle with one of these planes will include an angle equal 
 to that included by the intersections of the faces with the other 
 plane. 
 
 Cor. 2. The opposite triangles formed by joining the cor- 
 responding extremities of three equal and parallel straight 
 lines lying in different planes, will be equal and the plane* of 
 the triangles will be parallel. 
 
 Let EP, BM, and DO, be three equal and parallel 
 straight lines lying in different planes. By joining their 
 corresponding extremities, we have the triangles EBD 
 and PMO. Now, since EP and BM are equal and 
 parallel, EBMP is a parallelogram, and EB is equal and 
 parallel to PM; in the same manner, we show that ED 
 is equal and parallel to PO, and BD to MO; hence the 
 triangles are equal, ha ring the three sides of the one, 
 respectively, equal to the three sides of the other. 
 That their planes are parallel, follows from Cor., Theo 
 rem 16. 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 Any one of the three plane angles bounding a triedral 
 angle, is less than the sum of the other two. 
 
 Let A be the vertex of a solid angle, bounded by the 
 three plane angles, BAG, BAD, and DAC; then will any 
 one of these three angles be less than the sum of the 
 
 
 other two. To establish this proposition, we have only 
 to compare the greatest of the three 
 angles with the sum of the other 
 two. 
 
 Suppose, then, BAG to be the 
 greatest angle, and draw in its plane B« 
 the line AE, making the angle 
 CAE equal to the angle CAD. On "iT 
 
 AE, take any point, E, and through it draw the line CEB. 
 Take AD, equal to AE, and draw BD and DC. 
 
 Now, the two triangles, CAD and CAE, having two 
 sides and the included angle of the one equal to the two 
 sides and included angle of the other, each to each, are 
 equal, and CE = CD; but in the triangle, BDC, BC< 
 BD + DC. Taking EC from the first member of this 
 inequality, and its equal, DC, from the second, we have, 
 BE < BD. In the triangles, BAE and BAD, BA is 
 common, and AE = AD by construction ; but the third 
 side, BD, in the one, is greater than the third side, BE, 
 in the other ; hence, the angle BAD is greater than the 
 angle BAE, (Th. 22, B. I); that is, [_BAE < [_BAD; 
 adding the \_EAC to the first member of this inequality, 
 and its equal, th.e.[_DAC, to the other, we. have 
 
 [_BAE+l_EAC< [_BAD + [_DAC. 
 And, as the [_ BAG is made up of the angles BAE and 
 EAC, we have, as enunciated, 
 
 ]_BAC< [_BAD + [_DAC. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The sum of the plane angles forming any solid angle, is 
 always less than four right angles. 
 
 Let the planes which form the solid angle at A, be cut 
 by another plane, which we may call the plane of the 
 base, BCDE. Take any point, a, in this plane, and draw 
 aB y aC, aD, aE, etc., thus making as many triangles on 
 
 
 169 
 
 the plane of the base as there are tri- 
 angular planes forming the solid angle 
 A. Now, since the sum of the angles 
 of every A is two right angles, the sum 
 of all the angles of the A's which 
 have their vertex in A, is equal to the 
 Bum of all angles of the A's which have 
 their vertex in a. But, the angles BOA 
 + AOD, are, together, greater than 
 the angles BOa + aOD, or BCD, by the last proposition. 
 That is, the sum of all the angles at the bases of the A's 
 which have their vertex in A, is greater than the sum of 
 all the angles at the bases of the A's which have their 
 vertex in a. Therefore, the sum of all the angles at a is 
 greater than the sum of all the angles at A ; but the sum 
 of all the angles at a is equal to four right angles ; there- 
 fore, the sum of all the angles at A is less than four right 
 angles. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 If two solid angles are formed by three plane angles respect- 
 ively equal to each other, the planes which contain the equal 
 angles will be equally inclined to each other. 
 
 Letthe [_ASC=the [_DTF, 
 the |_ ASB = the [_ J> TE, and 
 the [_BSO= the [_ETF; then 
 will the inclination of the 
 planes, A SO, ASB, be equal 
 to that of the planes, DTF, 
 DTE. 
 
 Having taken SB at pleas- 
 are, draw BO perpendicular 
 
 to the plane ASO; from the point 0, at which that perpen- 
 dicular meets the plane, draw OA and 00, perpendicular 
 to SA and SO; draw AB and BO; next take TE = SB, 
 and draw EP perpendicular to the plane DTF; from the 
 15 
 
 
 point P, draw PB and PF, perpendicular to TB and 
 TF; lastly, draw BE and FF. 
 
 The triangle SAB, is right-angled at A, and the tri- 
 angle TBF, at B, (Th. 5) ; and since the |__ ASB = the 
 L J> TF, we have [_ SB A - L 2^ J likewise, SB=TF; 
 therefore, the triangle SAB is equal to the triangle TBF) 
 hence, SA = TB, and AB = Di?. In like manner it 
 may be shown that SO = TF, and BO = J£F. That 
 granted, the quadrilateral SAOO is equal to the quadri- 
 lateral TBPF; for, place the angle A SO upon its equal, 
 2)2^, and because SA = 2'i), and SO = TF, the point A 
 will fall on i), and the point on F; and, at the same time, 
 A 0, which is perpendicular to SA, will fall on PB, which 
 is perpendicular to TB, and, in like manner, 00 on PF; 
 wherefore, the point will fall on the point P, and A 
 will be equal to BP. But the triangles, A OB, BPF, are 
 right angled at and P; the hypotenuse AB = BF, and 
 the side AO = BP; hence, those triangles are equal, 
 (Cor, Th. 39, B. I), and \_OAB=[_PBF. The angle OAB 
 is the inclination of the two planes, ASB, ASO; the angle 
 PBF is that of the two planes, BTF, BTF; conse- 
 quently, those two inclinations are equal to each other. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 Scholium 1. — The angles which form the solid angles at S and T, 
 may be of such relative magnitudes, that the perpendiculars, BO and 
 EP, may not fall within the bases, ASC and DTF; but they will 
 always either fall on the bases, or on the planes of the bases produced, 
 and will have the same relative situation to A, S, and C, as P has 
 to D, T, and F. In case that and P fall on the planes of the bases 
 produced, the angles BCO and EFP, would be obtuse angles ; but the 
 demonstration of the problem would not be varied in the least. 
 
 Scholium 2. — If the plane angles bounding one of the triedral 
 angles be equal to those of the other, each to each, and also be simi 
 larly arranged about the triedral angles, these solid angles will be ab- 
 solutely equal. For it was shewn, in the course of the above demon- 
 stration, that the quadrilaterals, SAOC and TDPF, were equal; and 
 on being applied, the point falls on the point P; and since the trian- 
 gles A OB and DPE are equal, the perpendiculars OB and PE ar« 
 
 
 ilsc equal. Now, because the plane angles are like arranged about 
 the triedral angles, these perpendiculars lie in the same direction ; 
 hence the point B will fall on the point \E, and the solid angles 
 will exactly coincide. 
 
 Scholium 3. — When the planes of the equal angles are not like dis- 
 posed about the triedral angles, it would not be possible to make these 
 triedral angles coincide ; and still it would be true that the planes of 
 the equal angles are equally inclined to each other. Hence, these 
 triedral angles have the plane and diedral angles of the one, equal to 
 the plane and diedral angles of the other, each to each, without having 
 of themselves that absolute equality which admits of superposition. 
 Magnitudes which are thus equal in all their component parts, but 
 will not coincide, when applied the one to the other, are said to be 
 symmetrically equal. Thus, two triedral angles, bounded by plane 
 fcngbs equal each to each, but not like placed, are symmetrical triedral 
 
 
 BOOK VII, 
 
 SOLID GEOMETRY. 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. A Polyedron is a solid, or volume, bounded on all 
 sides by planes. The bounding planes are called the 
 faces of the polyedron, and then intersections are its 
 edges, 
 
 2. A Prism is a polyedron, having two of its faces, 
 called bases, equal polygons, whose planes and homolo- 
 gous sides are parallel. The other, or lateral faces, are 
 parallelograms, and constitute the convex surface of the 
 prism. 
 
 The bases of a prism are distinguished by the terms, 
 upper and lower; and the altitude of the prism is the per 
 pendicular distance between its bases. 
 
 Prisms are denominated triangular, quadrangular, pent 
 angular, etc., according as their bases are triangles, quad- 
 rilaterals, pentagons, etc. 
 
 3. A Right Prism is one in which the planes of the 
 lateral faces are perpendicular to the planes of the bases. 
 
 4. A Parallelopipedon is a prism 
 whose bases are parallelograms. 
 
 5. A Rectangular Parallelopipedon 
 is a right parallelopipedon, with 
 rectangular bases. 
 
 
 173 
 
 6. A Cube or Hexaedron is a rectangu- 
 lar parallelopipedon, whose faces are all 
 equal squares. 
 
 7. A Diagonal of a Polyedron is a straight 
 line joining the vertices of two solid 
 angles not adjacent. 
 
 8. Similar Polyedrons are those which 
 
 are bounded by the same number of similar polygons 
 like placed, and whose homologous solid angles are 
 equal. 
 
 Similar parts, whether faces, edges, diagonals, or 
 angles, similarly placed in similar polyedrons, are termed 
 homologous. 
 
 9. A Pyramid is a polyedron, having 
 for one of its faces, called the base, any 
 polygon whatever, and for its other faces 
 triangles having a common vertex, the 
 sides opposite which, in the several trian- 
 gles, being the sides of the base of the 
 pyramid. 
 
 10. The Vertex of a pyramid is the 
 common vertex of the triangular faces. 
 
 U. The Altitude of a pyramid is the perpendicular 
 distance from its vertex to the plane of its base. 
 
 12. A Right Pyramid is one whose base is a regular 
 polygon, and whose vertex is in the perpendicular to the 
 base at its center. This perpendicular is called the axis 
 of the pyramid. 
 
 13. The Slant Height of a right pyramid is the perpen- 
 dicular distance from the vertex to one of the sides of 
 the base. 
 
 14. The Frustum of a Pyramid is a portion of the pyr- 
 amid included between its base and a section made by a 
 plane parallel to the base. 
 
 Pyramids, lik* prisms, are named from the forms of 
 their bases. 
 15* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 15. A Cylinder is a body, having for 
 its ends, or bases, two equal circles, 
 the planes of which are perpendicular 
 to the line joining their centers ; the 
 remainder of its surface may be con- 
 ceived as formed by the motion of a 
 line, which constantly touches the cir- 
 cumferences of the bases, while it 
 remains parallel to the line which 
 joins their centers. 
 
 We may otherwise define the cylinder as a body gen- 
 erated by the revolution of a rectangle about one of its 
 sides as an immovable axis. 
 
 The sides of the rectangle perpendicular to the axis 
 generate the bases of the cylinder; and the side opposite 
 the axis generates its convex surface. The line joining 
 the centers of the bases of the cylinder is its axis, and is 
 also its altitude. 
 
 If, within the base of a cylinder, any polygon be in- 
 scribed, and on it, as a base, a right prism be con- 
 structed, having for its altitude that of the cylinder, such 
 prism is said to be inscribed in the cylinder, and the cylin- 
 der is said to circumscribe the prism. 
 
 Thus, in the last figure, ABODEc is an inscribed 
 prism, and it is plain that all its lateral edges are con- 
 tained in the convex surface of the cylinder. d 
 
 If, about the base of a cylinder, any 
 polygon be circumscribed, and on it, 
 as a base, a right prism be con- 
 structed, having for its altitude that 
 of the cylinder, such prism is said to 
 be circumscribed about the cylinder, and 
 the cylinder is said to be inscribed in 
 the prism. 
 
 Thus, ABCLEFc is a circum- 
 scribed prism; and it is plain that 
 
 
 175 
 
 the lino, mn, which joins the points of 
 tangency of the sides, EF and ef, with 
 the circumferences of the bases of the 
 cylinder, is common to the convex sur- 
 faces of the cylinder and prism. 
 
 16. A Cone is a body bounded by a 
 circle and the surface generated by the 
 motion of a straight line, which con- 
 stantly passes through a point in the 
 perpendicular to the plane of the circle 
 at its center, and the different points in 
 its circumference. 
 
 The cone may be otherwise' defined as a body gene 
 rated by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about 
 one of its sides as an immovable axis. The other side 
 of the triangle will generate the base of the cone, while 
 the hypotenuse generates the convex surface. 
 
 The side about which the generating triangle revolves 
 is the axis of the cone, and is at the same time its altitude. 
 
 If, within the base of the cone, any 
 polygon be inscribed, and on it, as a 
 base, a pyramid be constructed, having 
 for its vertex that of the cone, such 
 pyramid is said to be inscribed in the 
 cone, and the cone is said to circumscribe 
 the pyramid. 
 
 Thus, in the accompanying figure, 
 V — ABODE, is an inscribed pyramid, 
 and it is plain that all its lateral edges 
 are contained in the convex surface of 
 the cone. 
 
 If, about the base of a cone, any poly- 
 gon be circumscribed, and on it, as a 
 base, a pyramid be constructed, having 
 for its vertex that of the cone, such pyramid is said to be 
 circumscribed about the cone, and the cone is said to be 
 inscribed in the pyramid. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 17. The Frnstnm of a Cone is the portion of the cone that 
 is included between its base and a section made by a plane 
 parallel to the base. 
 
 18. Similar Cylinders, and also Similar Cones, are such as 
 have their axes proportional to the radii of their bases. 
 
 19. A Sphere is a body bounded by one uniformly-curved 
 surface, all the points of which are at the same distance 
 from a certain point within, called the center. 
 
 We may otherwise define the sphere as a body gene- 
 rated by the revolution of a semicircle about its diameter 
 as an immovable axis. 
 
 20. A Spherical Sector is that 
 portion of a sphere which is in- 
 cluded between the surfaces of 
 two cones having a common 
 axis, and their vertices at the 
 center of the sphere. Or, it is 
 that portion of the sphere which 
 is generated by a sector of the 
 generating semicircle. 
 
 21. The Radius of a Sphere is 
 a straight line drawn from the 
 
 center to any point in the surface ; and the diameter is 
 a straight line drawn through the center, and limited on 
 both sides by the surface. 
 
 All the diameters of a sphere are equal, each being 
 twice the radius. 
 
 22. A Tangent Plane to a sphere is one which has a 
 single point in the surface of the sphere, all the others 
 being without it. 
 
 23. A Secant Plane to a sphere is one which has more 
 than one point in the surface of the sphere, and lies 
 partly within and partly without it. 
 
 Assuming, what will presently be proved, that the in- 
 tersection of a sphere by a plane is a circle, 
 
 24. A Small Circle of a sphere is one whose plane does 
 not pass through its center; and 
 
 
 177 
 
 25. A Great Circle of a sphere is one whose plane passes 
 through the center of the sphere. 
 
 26. A Zone of a sphere is the portion of its surface in- 
 cluded between the circumferences of any two of its paral- 
 lel circles, called the bases of the zone. "When the plane 
 of one of these circles becomes tangent to the sphere, the 
 zone has a single base. 
 
 27. A Spherical Segment is a portion of the volume of a 
 sphere included between any two of its parallel circles, 
 called the bases of the segment. 
 
 The altitude of a zone, or of a segment, of a sphere, 
 is the perpendicular distance between the planes of its 
 bases. \ 
 
 28. The area of a surface is measured by the product 
 of its length and breadth, and these dimensions are always 
 conceived to be exactly at right angles to each other. 
 
 29. In a similar manner, solids are measured by the 
 product of their length, breadth, and height, when all their 
 dimensions are at right angles to each other. 
 
 The product of the length and breadth ©f a solid, is 
 the measure of the surface of its base. 
 
 Let P, in the annexed fig- 
 ure, represent the measuring 
 unit, and AF the rectangular 
 solid to be measured. 
 
 A side of P is one unit in 
 length, one in breadth, and 
 one in height; one inch, one 
 foot, one yard, or any other unit that may be taken. 
 
 Then, 
 
 lxlxl 
 
 1, the unit cube. 
 
 Now, if the base of the solid, AC, is, as here repr< • 
 sented, 5 units in length and 2 in breadth, it is obvious 
 that (5x2 = 10), 10 units, each equal to P, can be placed 
 on the base of AC, and no more; and as each of these 
 onits will occupy a unit of altitude, therefore, 2 units of 
 
 M 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 altitude will contain 20 solid units, 3 units of altitude, 
 30 solid units, and so on ; or, in general terms, the num- 
 ber of square units in the base multiplied by the linear units 
 in perpendicular altitude, will give the solid units in any rect- 
 angular solid. 
 
 THEOREM I. 
 
 If the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of one prism 
 be equal to the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of 
 another, each to each, and similarly disposed, the prisms will 
 be equal. 
 
 Suppose A and a to be the vertices of two solid angles, 
 bounded by equal and similarly placed faces; then will 
 the prisms, ABODE— -i^and abcde — n, be equal. 
 
 For, if we place the base, 
 abcde, upon its equal, the base 
 ABODE, they will coincide; 
 and since the solid angles, 
 whose vertices are A and a, are 
 equal, the lines ab, ae, and ap, 
 respectively coincide with AB, 
 AE, and AP ; but the faces, al and ao, of the one prism, 
 are equal, each to each, to the faces, AL and AO, of the 
 other; therefore pi and po coincide with PL and PO, 
 and the upper bases of the prisms also coincide : hence, 
 not only the bases, but all the lateral faces of the two 
 prisms coincide, and the prisms are equal. 
 
 Oor. If the two prisms are right, and have equal bases 
 and altitudes, they are equal. For, in this case, the rect- 
 angular faces, al and ao, of the one, are respectively 
 equal to the rectangular faces, AL and AO, of the other; 
 and hence the three faces bounding a triedral angle in 
 the one, are equal and like placed, to the faces bounding 
 a triedral angle in the othei 
 
 
 THEOREM II. 
 
 The opposite faces of any parattelopipedon axe equal, and 
 their planes are parallel. 
 
 Let ABOD — E be any parallelopipedon ; then will its 
 opposite faces be equal, and their planes will be parallel. 
 
 The bases ABOD and FEGH are 
 equal, and their planes are parallel, 
 by definitions 2 and 4 of this Book ; 
 it remains tor us, therefore, only to 
 show that any two of the opposite 
 lateral faces are equal and parallel. 
 
 Since all the faces of the parallelopipedon are parallel- 
 ograms, AB is equal and parallel to DC, and AH is also 
 equal and parallel to DF; hence the angles HAB and 
 FDO are equal, and their planes are parallel, (Th. 17, B. 
 VI), and the two parallelograms, HABGr and FDCE, 
 having two adjacent sides and the included angle of the 
 one equal to the two adjacent sides and included angle 
 of the other, are equal. 
 
 Oor. 1 Hence, of the six faces of the parallelopipedon, 
 any two lying opposite may be taken as the bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. The four diagonals of a parallelopipedon mutu- 
 ally bisect each other. For, if we draw A and HE, we 
 shall form the parallelogram A OEH, of which the diago- 
 nals are AE and HO, and these diagonals are at the same 
 time diagonals of the parallelopipedon; but the diagonals 
 of a parallelogram mutually bisect each other. Now, if 
 the diagonal FB be drawn, it and HO will bisect each 
 other, since they are diagonals 'of the parallelogram 
 FHBO. In like manner we can show that if DGr be 
 drawn, it will be bisected by AE. Hence, the four diag- 
 onals have a common point within the parallelopipedon. 
 
 Scholium. — It is seen at once that the six faces of a parallelopipe- 
 don intersect each other in twelve edges, four of which are equal to 
 HA, four to AB, and four to AD. Now, we may conceive the parallel- 
 opipedon to be bounded by the planes determined by the three lines 
 
 
 GEOMETR 
 
 AH, AB, and AD, and the three planes passed through the extremi* 
 ties, H, B, and JD, of these lines, parallel to the first three planes. 
 
 THEOREM III. 
 
 The convex surface of a right prism is measured by the 
 perimeter of its base multiplied by its altitude. 
 
 Let ABODE — iVbe a right prism, of 
 which AP is the altitude ; then will its 
 convex surface he measured by 
 
 {AB + BO + OB + DE + EA)xAP. 
 For, its convex surface is made up of the 
 rectangles AL, BM, ON, etc., and each 
 rectangle is measured by the product of 
 its base by its altitude ; but the altitude 
 of each rectangle is equal to AP, the alti- 
 tude of the prism ; hence the convex sur- 
 face of the prism is measured by the pro- 
 duct of the sum of the bases of the rectangles, or the 
 perimeter of the base of the prism, by the common alti- 
 tude, AP. 
 
 Oor. Kight prisms will have equivalent convex surfaces, 
 when the products of the perimeters of their bases by 
 their altitudes are respectively equal ; and, generally, their 
 convex surfaces will be to each other as the products of 
 the perimeters of their bases by their altitudes. Hence, 
 if the altitudes are equal, their convex surfaces will be as 
 the perimeters of their bases ; and if the perimeters of 
 their bases are equal, the^r convex surfaces will be as 
 their altitudes. 
 
 THEOREM IV. 
 
 The two sections of a prism made by parallel planes between 
 its bases are equal polygons. 
 
 Let the prism ABODE — N be cut between its bases 
 by two parallel planes, making the sections QBS, etc.. 
 
 
 181 
 
 and TVX, etc. ; then will these sections 
 be equal polygons. 
 
 For, since the secant planes are paral- 
 lel, their intersections, QR and TV, by 
 the plane of the face JEAPO are parallel, 
 (Th. 9, B. VI) ; and being included be- 
 tween the parallel lines, AP and EO, they 
 are also equal. In the same manner we 
 may prove that BS is equal and parallel 
 to VX, and so on for the intersections of 
 the secant planes by the other faces of 
 the prism. Hence, these polygonal sections have the 
 sides of the one equal to the sides of the other, each to 
 each. The angles QBS and TVX are equal, because 
 their sides are parallel and lie in the same direction ; and 
 in like manner we prove [__ RSY = [_ VXZ, and so on 
 for the other corresponding angles of the polygons. 
 Therefore, these polygons are both mutually equilateral 
 and mutually equiangular, and consequently are equal. 
 
 Cor. A section of a prism made by a plane parallel to 
 the base of the prism, is a polygon equal to the base. 
 
 THEOKEM V. 
 
 Two parallelopipedons, the one rectangular and the other 
 oblique, will be equal in volume when, having the same base 
 and altitude, two opposite lateral faces of the one are m the 
 'planes of the corresponding lateral faces of the other. 
 
 Designating the parallelo- 
 pipedons by their opposite 
 diagonal letters, let AG be 
 the rectangular, and AL the 
 obnque, parallelopipedon, hav- 
 ing the same base, A C, and 
 the same altitude, namely, 
 the perpendicular distance be- 
 16 
 
 
 tween the parallel pranes, AC and EL. Also let the fa^e, 
 AK, be in the plane of the face, AF, and the face, BL, m 
 the plane of the face, BG. We are now to prove that the 
 oblique parallelopipedon is equivalent to tne rectangular 
 parallelopipedon. 
 
 As the faces, AF and AK, are in the same plane, and 
 the parallelopipedons have the same altitude, EFK is a 
 straight line, and EF— IK, because each is equal to AB. 
 If from the whole line, FK, we take FF, and then from 
 the same line we take IK= FF, we shall have the re- 
 mainders, FI and FK, equal ; and since AF and BF are 
 parallel, \_AFI = [_BFK ; hence the A's, AFI and 
 BFK, are equal. Since HE and MI are both parallel to 
 DA, they are parallel to each other, and FIMH is a par- 
 allelogram ; for like reasons, FKLG is a parallelogram, 
 and these parallelograms are equal, because two adjacent 
 sides and the included angle of the one are equal to two 
 adjacent sides and the included angle of the other. The 
 parallelograms, BE and CF, being the opposite faces of 
 the parallelopipedon, AG-, are equal. Hence, the three 
 plane faces bounding the triedral angle, E, of the triaii* 
 gular prism, EAI — E, are equal, each to each, and like 
 placed, to the three plane faces bounding the triedral angle 
 F, of the triangular prism, FBK — G, and these prisms 
 are therefore equal, (Th. 1). Now, if from the whole 
 solid, EABK — H, we take the prism, EAI — H, there 
 will remain the parallelopipedon, AL; and, if from the 
 srme solid, we take the prism, FBK—G, there will remain 
 the rectangular parallelopipedon, AG. Therefore, the 
 oblique and the rectangular parallelopipedons are equiva- 
 lent. 
 
 Cor. The volume of the rectangular parallelopipedon, 
 AG, is measured by the base, ABCB, multiplied by the 
 altitude, AF, (Def. 29) ; consequently, the oblique paral- 
 lelopipedon is measured by the product of the same base 
 by the same altitude. 
 
 
 183 
 
 Scholium.- -If neither of the parallelopipedons is rectangular, but 
 they still have the same base and the same altitude, and two opposite 
 lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the corresponding lateral 
 faces of the other, by precisely the same reasoning we could prove the 
 parallelopipedons equivalent. Hence, in general, any two parallelo- 
 pipedons will be equal in volume when, having the same base and aUtiPude, 
 two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the correspond- 
 ing lateral faces of the other, 
 
 THEOREM VI. 
 
 Two parallelopipedons having equal bases and equal alti- 
 tudes^ are equivalent. 
 
 Let A G- and AL be two paral- 
 lelopipedons, having a common 
 lower base, and their upper bases 
 in the same plane, HF. Then 
 will these parallelopipedons be 
 equivalent. 
 
 Since their upper bases are in 
 the same plane, and the lines IM and KL are par- 
 allel, and also EF and HG, these lines will intersect, 
 when produced, and form the parallelogram NOPQ, 
 which will be equal to the common lower base of 
 the two parallelopipedons. Now, if a third parallelo- 
 pipedon be constructed, having BD for its lower base, 
 and OQ for its upper base, it will be equivalent to the par- 
 allelopipedon AG, and also to the parallelopipedon AL, 
 (Th. 5, Scholium) ; hence, the two given parallelopipe- 
 dons, being each equivalent to the third parallelopipe- 
 don, are equivalent to each other. 
 
 Hence, two parallelopipedons having equal bases, etc. 
 
 THEOREM VII. 
 
 The volume of any parallelopipedon is measured by the 
 product of its base and altitude, or the product of its three 
 dimensions. 
 
 
 Let ABCD—Gr be any parallelopipedon ; tl en will its 
 volume be expressed by the product ^_h 
 
 of tbe area of its base and altitude. hj 
 
 If the parallelopipedon is oblique, l/ 
 we may construct on its base a right 
 parallelopipedon, by erecting perpen- 
 diculars at the points A, B, 0, and D, 
 and making them each equal to the 
 altitude of the given parallelopipedon ; 
 and the right parallelopipedon, thus 
 constructed, will be equivalent to the given parallelopip- 
 edon, (Th. 6). Eow, if the base, ABOD, is a rectangle, 
 the new parallelopipedon will be rectangular, and meas- 
 ured by the product of its base and altitude, (Def. 29). 
 But if the base is not rectangular, let fall the perpen- 
 diculars, Be and Ad, on CD and CD produced, and take 
 the rectangle ABcd for the base of a rectangular paral- 
 lelopipedon, having for its altitude that of the given 
 parallelopipedon. "We may now regard the rectangular 
 face, ABFE, as the common base of the two parallelo- 
 pipedons, Ag and AG-', and, as they have a common 
 base, and equal altitude, they are equivalent. Thus we 
 have reduced the oblique parallelopipedon, first to an 
 equivalent right parallelopipedon on the same base, and 
 then the right to an equivalent rectangular parallelopip- 
 edon on an equivalent base, all having the same alti- 
 tude. But the rectangular parallelopipedon, Ag, is 
 measured by product of its base, ABcd, and its altitude; 
 hence, the given and equivalent oblique parallelopipedon 
 is measured by the product of its equivalent base and 
 equal altitude. 
 
 Hence, the volume of any parallelopipedon, etc. 
 
 Cor. Since a parallelopipedon is measured by the pro- 
 duct of its base by its altitude, it follows that parallelo 
 pipedons of equivalent bases, and equal altitude?, are equiva 
 lent, or equal in volume. 
 
 
 THEOREM VIII. 
 
 Parallelopipedons on the same, or equivalent hoses, are to 
 each other as their altitudes ; and parallelopipedons having 
 equal altitudes, are to each other as their bases. 
 
 Let P and p represent two parallelopipedons, whose 
 bases are denoted by B and b, and altitudes by A and a, 
 respectively. 
 
 Now, P = B x A, and p = b x a, (Th. 7). 
 
 But magnitudes are proportional to their numerical 
 measures ; that is, 
 
 P : p :: B x A : b X a. 
 
 If the bases of the parallelopipedons are equivalent, 
 we have B — b; and if the altitudes are equal, we have 
 A = a. Introducing these suppositions, in succession, 
 in the above proportion, we get 
 
 P : p :: A : a, 
 and P : p : : B : b. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; Parallelopipedons on the same, etc, 
 
 THEOREM IX. 
 
 Similar parallelopipedons are to each other as the cubes of 
 their like dimensions. 
 
 Let P and p represent any two similar parallelopipe- 
 dons, the altitude of the first being denoted by h, and 
 the length and breadth of its base by I and n, respect- 
 ively; and let h', V, and n r , in order, denote the correeh 
 ponding dimensions of the second. 
 Then we are to prove that 
 
 P : p :: n 8 : n" :: I* : V* :: h n : h'\ 
 We have 
 
 P = Inh, and p - Vn'K* (Th. 7) ; 
 and by dividing the first of these equations by the 
 second, member by member, we get 
 16* 
 
 
 P _ Inh 
 J~~ I'n'h'' 
 which, reduced to a proportion, gives 
 P : p :: Inh : Vn'Jt. 
 But, by reason of the similarity of the patallelopipo 
 dons, we have the proportions 
 
 I if : ; n : n' 
 h : h 1 : : n : n' ; 
 we have also the identical proportion, 
 
 n : n' : : n : n' . 
 By the multiplication of these proportions, term by 
 term, we get, (Th. 11, B. II), 
 
 Inh : l'n f h f : : n* : n n . 
 That is, P : p : : n* : ri\ 
 
 By treating in the same manner the three proportions, 
 I : V : : h : h' 
 n : n r : : h : h r 
 h : h' : : h : h f , 
 we should obtain the proportion 
 
 P : p :: h* : h"; 
 and, by a like process, the three proportions, 
 h : h' : : I : V 
 n : n' : : I : V 
 I : V :: I : I', 
 will give us the proportion 
 
 P : p :: I* : V\ 
 Hence the theorem ; similar parallelopipedons are to each 
 other, etc. 
 
 THEOREM X. 
 
 The two triangular prisms into which any parallelopipedon 
 is divided, by a plane passing through its opposite diagonal 
 edges, are equivalent. 
 
 Let ABCD — F be a parallelopipedon, and through 
 the diagonal edges, BF and DH, pass the plane BH. divi- 
 ding the parallelopipedon into the two triangular prisms. 
 
 
 187 
 
 ABB-E and BCB—G ; then we are to prove that these 
 prisms an equivalent. Letus divide 
 the diagonal, BB, in which the se- 
 cant plane intersects the base of the 
 parallelopipedon, into three equal 
 parts, a and c being the points of 
 division. In the base, AB CD, con- 
 st ruct the complementary paral- 
 lelograms, aC and a A, and in the 
 parallelogram, badD, construct the 
 complementary parallelograms, 
 cd and cb, and conceive these, to- 
 gether with the parallelograms, 
 Ba, ac, cB, to be the bases of 
 smaller parallelopipedons, having 
 their lateral faces parallel to the 
 
 lateral faces of, and their altitude equal to the altitude of, 
 the given parallelopipedon, A Gr. 
 
 Now it is evident that the triangular prism, BCD — Gr, 
 is composed of the parallelopipedons on the bases, a 
 and cd, and the triangular prisms, on the side of the 
 secant plane with this prism, into which this plane divides 
 the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cB. The 
 triangular prism, ABB — E, is also composed of the par- 
 allelopipedons on the bases, Aa and be, together with the 
 triangular prisms on the side of the secant plane with 
 this prism, into which this plane divides the parallelopip- 
 edons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD. 
 
 But the parallelograms, a and a A, being complement- 
 ary, are equivalent, (Th. 31, B. I) ; and for the same 
 reason the parallelograms, cd and cb, are equivalent ; and 
 since parallelopipedons on equivalent bases and of equal 
 altitudes, are equivalent, (Cor., Th. 7), we have the sum 
 of parallelopipedons on bases a and cd, equivalent to 
 the sum of parallelopipedons on the bases, aA and cb. 
 Hence, the triangular prisms, ABB — E and BOB — Gr, 
 
 
 differ in volume only by the difference which may exist 
 between the sums of the triangular prisms on the two 
 Bides of the secant plane into which this plane divides 
 the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cd. 
 
 Now, if the number of equal parts into which the diag- 
 onal is divided, be indefinitely multiplied, it still holds 
 true that the triangular prisms, ABB — B and BOB — 6r, 
 differ in volume only by the difference between the sums 
 of the triangular prisms on the two sides of the secaLt 
 plane into which this plane divides the parallelopipedons 
 constructed on the bases whose diagonals are the equal 
 portions of the diagonal, BB. But in this case the sum 
 of these parallelopipedons themselves becomes an indefi- 
 nitely small part of the whole parallelopipedon, A Cr, and 
 the difference between the parts of an indefinitely small 
 quantity must itself be indefinitely small, or less than 
 any assignable quantity. Therefore, the triangular 
 prisms, ABB — B and BOB — Gr, differ in volume by less 
 than any assignable volume, and are consequently equiv- 
 alent. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the two triangular prisms into which, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Any triangular prism, as ABB — B, is one half 
 the parallelopipedon having the same triedral angle, A, 
 and the same edges, AB, AB, and AB. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since the volume of a parallelopipedon is meas- 
 ured by the product of its base and altitude, and the tri- 
 angular prisms into which it is divided by the diagonal 
 plane, have bases equivalent to one half the base of the 
 parallelopipedon, and the same altitude, it follows that, 
 the volume of a triangular prism is measured by the product 
 of its base and altitude. 
 
 The above demonstration is less direct, but is thought 
 to be more simple, than that generally found in authors, 
 and which is here given aa a 
 
 
 189 
 
 Second Demonstration 
 
 Let ABCD — F be a parallelo- 
 pipedon, divided by the diagonal 
 plane, BH, passing through the 
 edges, BF and BR; then we are 
 to prove that the triangular 
 prisms, ABB—E and BQD—G, 
 thus formed, are equivalent. 
 
 Through the points B and F, 
 pass planes perpendicular to the 
 edge, BF, and produce the late- 
 ral faces of the parallelopipedon 
 to intersect the plane through B ; 
 then the sections Bcda and Fghe 
 are equal parallelograms. For, since the cutting planea 
 are both perpendicular to BF, they are parallel, (Th. 10, 
 B. VI) ; and because the opposite faces of a parallelo- 
 pipedon are in parallel planes, (Th. 2), and the intersec- 
 tions of two parallel planes by a third plane are parallel, 
 (Th. 9, B. VI), the sections, Bcda and Fghe, are equal 
 parallelograms, and may be taken as the bases of the 
 right parallelopipedon, Bcda — h. But the diagonal plane 
 divides the right parallelopipedon into the two equal tri- 
 angular prisms, aBd — e and Bed — g, (Th. 1). We will 
 now compare the right prism with the oblique triangular 
 prism on the same side of the diagonal plane. 
 
 The volume ABD — e is common to the two prisms, 
 ABD — F xnd aBd — e ; and the volume eFh — F, which, 
 added to this common part, forms the oblique triangular 
 prism, is equal to the volume aBd — A, which, added to 
 the common part, forms the right triangular prism. For, 
 since ABFF and aBFe are parallelograms, AF = ae, and 
 taking away the common part Ae, we have aA—eF; and 
 since BFHD and BFhd are parallelograms, we have DE 
 = dh ; and from these equals taking away the common 
 part. Dh, we have dD = hE. Now, if the volume eFh — H 
 
 
 be applied to the volume aBd — B, the base eFh falling 
 on the equal base aBd, the edges eE and hH will fall 
 upon aA and dB respectively, because they are perpen- 
 dicular to the base aBd, (Cor. 2, Th. 3, B. VI), and the 
 point E will fall upon the point A, and the point H upon 
 the point B ; hence the volume eFh — H exactly coincides 
 with the volume aBd — B, and the oblique triangular 
 prisrr. ABB — E is equivalent to the right triangular 
 prism aBd — e. 
 
 In the same manner, it may be proved that the oblique 
 triangular prism, BQBOr, is equivalent to the right tri- 
 angular prism, Bcdg. The oblique triangular prism on 
 either side of the diagonal plane is, therefore, equivalent 
 to the corresponding right triangular prism ; and, as the 
 two right triangular prisms are equal, the oblique trian- 
 gular prisms are equivalent. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the two triangular prisms, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XI. 
 
 The volume of any prism whatever is measured by the prod* 
 net of the area of its base and altitude. 
 
 For, by passing planes through the homologous diag- 
 onals of the upper and lower bases of the prism, it will 
 be divided into a number of triangular prisms, each of 
 which is measured by the product of the area of its base 
 and altitude. Now, as these triangular prisms all have, 
 for their common altitude, the altitude of the given 
 prism, when we add the measures of the triangular 
 prisms, to get that of the whole prism, we shall have, 
 for this measure, the common altitude multiplied by the 
 sum of the areas of the bases of the triangular prisms : 
 that is, the product of the area of the polygonal base 
 and the altitude of the prism. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of any prism, etc. 
 
 Cor. If A denote the area of the base, and H the alti» 
 
 
 hide of a prism, its volume will be expressed by A X 11. 
 Calling this volume V, we have 
 
 Denoting by A', W, and V, in order, the area of the 
 base, altitude, and volume of another prism, we have 
 
 V = A 1 x H f . 
 
 Dividing the first of these equations by the second, 
 u ember by member, we have 
 
 YL A x H 
 
 V ' A' x R' y 
 which gives the proportion, 
 
 V : V : : A x H : A 1 x H'. 
 If the bases are equivalent, this proportion becomes 
 
 V : V : : H : H' ; 
 anl if the altitudes are equal, it reduces to 
 
 V : V : : A : A'. 
 Hence, prisms of equivalent bases are to each other as 
 their altitudes; and prisms of equal altitudes are to each other 
 as their bases. 
 
 THEOREM XII. 
 
 A plane passed through a pyramid parallel to its base, 
 divides its edges and altitude proportionally, and makes a 
 section, which is a polygon similar to the base. 
 
 Let ABODE — V be any pyramid, whose base is in the 
 plane, MN, and vertex in the parallel plane, mn ; and let 
 a plane be passed through the pyramid, parallel to its 
 base, cutting its edges at the points, a b, c } d, e, and the 
 altitude, EF, at the point I. By joining the points, a, J, 
 c, etc., we have the polygon formed by the intersection 
 of the plane and the sides of the pyramid. Eow, we are 
 to prove that the edges, VA, VB, etc., and the altitude, 
 FE, are divided proportionally at the points, a, b, etc., 
 and I; and that the polygon, a, b, c, d, e, is similar to the 
 base of the pyramid. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 bince the cutting plane is parallel to the base of the 
 pyramid, ab is parallel to AB, (Th. 9, B. VI) ; for the 
 same reason, bo is parallel to BO, cd to OB, etc. Now, 
 in the triangle VAB, because ab is parallel to the base 
 AB, we have, (Th. 17, B. II), the proportion, 
 
 VA : Va : : VB : Vb. 
 
 In like manner, it may be shown that 
 
 VB : Vb : : VO : Vc, 
 
 and so on for the other lateral edges of the pyramid. F 
 being the point in which the perpendicular from F pierces 
 tbe plane mn, and I the point in which the parallel secant 
 plane cuts the perpendicular, if we join the points F and 
 V, and also the points I and e by straight lines, we have 
 in the triangle FFV, the line le parallel to the base FV; 
 hence the proportion 
 
 VF : Ve :: FF : Fl 
 
 Therefore, the plane passed through the pyramid par- 
 allel to its base, divides the altitude into parts which have 
 
 
 to each other the same ratio as the parts into which it 
 divides the edges. 
 
 Again, since ab is parallel to AB, and be to BO, the 
 angle abc is equal to the angle ABC, (Th. 17, B. VI.) ; in 
 the same manner we may show that each angle in the 
 polygon, abode, is equal to the corresponding angle in the 
 polygon, ABODE-, therefore these polygons are mutually 
 equiangular. But, because the triangles VBA and Vba 
 are similar, their homologous sides give the proportion 
 
 Vb : VB :: ah : AB; 
 and because the triangles Vbc and VBO are similar, we 
 also have the proportion 
 
 Vb : VB :: be : BO. 
 
 Since the first couplets in these two proportions are the 
 same, the second couplets are proportional, and give 
 ab : AB : : be : BO. 
 
 By a like process, we can prove that 
 be : BO :: ed : OD, 
 
 and that cd : CD :: de : DE, 
 
 and so on, for the other homologous sides of the two 
 polygons. 
 
 Hence, the two polygons are not only mutually equi- 
 angular, but the sides about the equal angles taken in the 
 same order are proportional, and the polygons are there- 
 fore similar, (Def. 16, B. II). 
 
 Hence the theorem; a plane passed through a pyramid, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor, 1. Since the areas of similar polygons are to each 
 other as the squares of their homologous sides, (Th. 22, 
 B. H), we have 
 
 area abode : area ABODE i ab* i AB*. 
 
 But, ab : AB :: Va : VA :: Fl : FE; 
 
 hence, ab* : AB 2 :: jf : FE*: 
 
 therefore, area abode : area ABODE : Fl* : FE*. 
 17 N 
 
 
 That is, the area of a section parallel to the base of a 
 pyramid, is to the area of the base, as the square of the 
 perpendicular distance from the vertex of the pyramid to 
 the section, is to the square of the altitude of the pyramid. 
 
 Cor. 2. Let V— ABODE and X—RST be two pyra- 
 mids, having their bases in the plane MN, and their ver- 
 tices in the parallel plane mn ; and suppose a plane to be 
 passed through the two pyramids parallel to the common 
 plane of their bases, making in the one the section abode, 
 and in the other the section rsL 
 
 Kow,area ABODE: area abode : :AB 2 : ab\ (Th.22,B.II), 
 
 and " EST: " rst ::~M 2 :r~s~\ 
 
 But, AB : ab : : VB : Vb, 
 
 and BS : rs : : XR : Xr. 
 
 Because the plane which makes the sections is parallel 
 to the planes MN and mn, we have, (Th. 11, B. YI), 
 VB : Vb :: XR : Xr; 
 therefore, (Cor. 2, Th. 6, B. II), AB :ab::RS: rs. 
 By squaring, AB 2 : ab 2 : RS 2 : rs 2 ; 
 hence, area ABODE : area abode : : area RST : area* rst. 
 
 That is, if two pyramids having equal altitudes, and their 
 bases in the same plane, be cut by a plane parallel to the com* 
 mon plane of their bases, the areas of the sections will be 
 proportional to the areas of the bases ; and if the bases are 
 equivalent, the sections will also be equivalent. 
 
 THEOREM XIII. 
 
 If two triangular pyramids have equivalent bases and 
 equal altitudes, they are equal in volume. 
 
 Let V— ABO and v—abc be two triangular pyramids, 
 having the equivalent bases, ABO and abc, and let the 
 altitude of each be equal to OX; then will these two 
 pyramids be equivalent. 
 
 
 195 
 
 -i i 
 
 t/ 
 
 
 AFT"'? 
 
 1 // y 
 
 1/ -i'H 
 
 
 m 
 
 // /A /I 
 
 F 
 
 ~^f 
 
 ^B 
 
 Place tlie bases of the pyramids on the same plane, 
 with their vertices in the same direction, and divide the 
 altitude into any number of equal parts. Through the 
 points of division pass planes^ parallel to the plane of the 
 bases ; the corresponding sections made in the pyramids 
 by these planes are equivalent, (Th. 12, Cor. 2) ; that is, 
 the triangle DJEF is equivalent to the triangle def, the 
 triangle Or HI to the triangle glii, etc. 
 
 JSTow, let triangular prisms be constructed on the tri- 
 angles ABO, DEF, etc., of the pyramid V— ABO, these 
 prisms having their lateral edges parallel to the edge, 
 VO, of the pyramid, and the equal parts of the altitude, 
 OX, for their altitudes. Portions of these prisms will be 
 exterior to the pyramid V — ABO, and the sum of their 
 volumes will exceed the volume of the pyramid. 
 
 On the bases clef, ghi, etc., in the other pyramid, con- 
 struct interior prisms, as represented in the figure, 
 their lateral edges being parallel to vc, and their alti- 
 tudes also the equal parts of the altitude, OX. Portions 
 of the pyramid, v — dbc, will be exterior to these prisms, 
 
 
 and the volume of the pyramid will exceed the sum of 
 the volumes of the prisms. 
 
 Since the sum of the exterior prisms, constructed in 
 connection with the pyramid V — ABO, is greater than 
 the pyramid, and the sum of the interior prisms, con- 
 structed in connection with the pyramid v — abc, is less 
 than this pyramid, it follows that the difference of these 
 eums is greater than the difference of the pyramids them- 
 selves. But the second exterior prism, or that on the 
 base DEF, is equivalent to the first interior prism, or 
 that on the base def, and the third exterior prism is 
 equivalent to the second interior prism, (Th. 10, Cor. 2), 
 and so on. That is, beginning with the second prism from 
 the base of the pyramid, V — ABO, and taking these 
 prisms in order towards the vertex of the pyramid, and 
 comparing them with the prisms in the pyramid, v — abc, 
 beginning with the lowest, and taking them in order 
 toward the vertex of this pyramid, we find that to each 
 exterior prism of the pyramid, V — ABO, exclusive of 
 the first or lowest, there is a corresponding equivalent 
 interior prism in the pyramid, v — abc. 
 
 Hence the prism, ABODFF, is the difference between 
 the sum of the prisms constructed in connection with 
 the pyramid, V— ABO, and the sum of the interior 
 prisms constructed in the pyramid, v — abc. But the, first 
 sum being a volume greater than the pyramid, V— ABO, 
 and the second sum a volume less than the pyramid, 
 v — abc, it follows that the volumes of the pyramids differ 
 by less than the prism, ABOBEF. 
 
 Now, however great the number of equal parts into 
 which the altitude, OX, be divided, and the correspond- 
 ing number of prisms constructed in connection with 
 each pyramid, it would still be true that the difference 
 between the volumes of the pyramids would be less than 
 the volume of the lowest prism of the pyramid V— ABO; 
 Dutwhenwe make the number of equal parts into which 
 
 
 the altitude is divided indefinitely great, the vok me ot 
 this prism becomes indefinitely small : that is, the differ- 
 ence between the volumes of the pyramids is less thau 
 an indefinitely small volume ; or, in other words, there 
 is no assignable difference between the two pyramids, 
 and they are, therefore, equivalent. 
 
 Ilence the theorem ; if two triangular pyramids, etc. 
 
 THEOREM XIV. 
 
 Any triangular pyramid is one third of the triangul xr 
 prism having the same base and equal altitude. 
 
 Let F — ABO be a triangular pyramid, and througa F 
 pass a plane parallel to the plane of the base, ABO. Iu 
 this plane, through F, construct the 
 triangle, FDE, having its sides, FD, E 
 
 DE, and EF, parallel and equal to BO, /^T ~~7\ 
 
 OA, and AB, respectively. The tri- / 0>\ / 
 
 angle, FDE, may be taken as the / /h\ 
 upper base of a triangular prism of 'I 'V 
 
 which the lower base is ABO. "\. ~\ / 
 
 Now, this triangular prism is com- b 
 
 posed of the given triangular pyramid, 
 F — ABO, and of the quadrangular p/ramid, F — A ODE. 
 This last pyramid may be divided by a plane through the 
 three points, 0, F, and F, into tha two triangular pyra- 
 mids, F—DEO and F—AOE. But the pyramid, J 7 — 
 DEO, may be regarded as h^ing the triangle, EFD, 
 equal to the triangle, ABO, for its base, and the point, 0, 
 for its vertex. The two pyramids, F — ABO and — DEF, 
 have equal bases and equal altitudes ; they are therefore 
 equivalent, (Th. 13). Again, the two pyramids, F — DEO 
 and F — AOE } have a common vertex, and equivalent bases 
 in the same plane, and they are also equivalent. There- 
 fore, the triangular prism, ABODEF, is composed of 
 
 n* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 three *tpiv«dent triangular pyramids, one of which is the 
 given triangular pyramid, F — ABC. 
 
 Hetice the theorem ; any triangular pyramid is one third 
 of the triangular prism, etc. 
 
 Cor. The volume of the triangular prism heing meas- 
 ured hy the product of its hase and altitude, the volume of 
 a triangular pyramid is measured by one third of the product 
 of its base and altitude. 
 
 THEOREM XV. 
 
 The volume of any pyramid whatever is measured by one 
 third of the product of its base and altitude. 
 
 Let V — ABCDE be any pyramid ; then will its volume 
 be measured by one third of the product of its base and 
 altitude. 
 
 In the base of the pyramid, draw the 
 diagonals, AD and A C, and through 
 its vertex and these diagonals, pass 
 planes, thus dividing the pyramid into 
 a number of triangular pyramids 
 having the common vertex F", and the 
 altitude of the given pyramid for their 
 common altitude. 
 
 Now, each of these triangular pyra- 
 mids is measured by one third of 
 the product of its base and altitude, 
 (Cor., Th. 14), and their sum, which 
 constitutes the polygonal pyramid, is 
 therefore measured by one third of 
 the product of the sum of the trian- 
 gular bases and the common altitude ; but the sum of the 
 triangular bases constitutes the polygonal base, ABCDE. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of any pyramid what- 
 ever, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Denote, by B, ff, and V, respectively, the base, 
 altitude, and volume of one pyramid, and by B' f IF, and 
 
 
 P, the base, altitude, and volume of another ; then we 
 Bhall have 
 
 and V = i'B f x W. 
 
 Dividing the first of these equations by the second, 
 member by member, we have 
 
 V _ B x E 
 
 V B f x E' 9 
 which, in the form of a proportion, gives 
 
 V : V : : B X E : B' x E>. 
 
 From this proportion we deduce the following conse- 
 quences : 
 
 1st. Pyramids are to each other as the products of their 
 bases and altitudes. 
 
 2d. Pyramids having equivalent bases are to each other a* 
 their altitudes. 
 
 3d. Pyramids having equal altitudes are to each other as 
 their bases. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since a prism is measured by the product of 
 its base and altitude, and a pyramid by one third of the 
 product of its base and altitude, we conclude that any 
 pyramid is one third of a prism having an equivalent base and 
 equal altitude 
 
 THEOREM XVI. 
 
 The volume of the frustum of a pyramid is equivalent to 
 the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, each of which has 
 an altitude equal to that of the frustum, and whose bases are, 
 respectively, the lower base of the, frustum, the upper base of 
 the frustum, and a mean proportional between these bases. 
 
 Let V— ABODE and X—RST be two pyramids, the 
 one polygonal and the other triangular, having equiva- 
 lent bases and equal altitudes ; and let their bases be 
 placed on the plane MN, their vertices falling on the 
 parallel plane ran. Pass through the pyramids a plane 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 parallel to the common plane of their bases, cutting o .it 
 the sections abode and rst ; these sections are equivalent, 
 (Th. 12, Cor. 2), and the pyramids, V— abode and X—rst, 
 are equivalent, (Th. 13). Now, since the pyramids, 
 V— ABODE and X—BST, are equivalent, if from the 
 first we take the pyramid, V — abode, and from the second, 
 the pyramid, X — rst, the remainders, or the frusta, 
 ABODE— a and BST—r, will be equivalent. 
 
 If, then, we prove the theorem in the case of the frus- 
 tum of a triangular pyramid, it will be proved for the 
 frustum of any pyramid whatever. 
 
 Let ABO — D be the frustum of a 
 triangular pyramid. Through the 
 points D, B, and 0, pass a plane, 
 and through the points D, O, and 
 E, pass another, thus dividing the 
 frustum into three triangular pyra- 
 mids, viz., D—ABO, O—DEF, and 
 D—BEO. 
 
 Now, the first of these has, for its 
 
 
 base, the lower base of the frustum, and for its altitude 
 the altitude of the frustum, since its vertex is in the 
 upper base ; the second has, for its base, the upper base 
 of the frustum, and for its altitude the altitude of the 
 frustum, since its vertex is in the lower base. Hence, 
 these are two of the three pyramids required by the 
 enunciation of the theorem ; and we have now only to 
 prove that the third is equivalent to one having, for its 
 basa, a mean proportional between the bases of the frus- 
 tum, and an altitude equal to that of the frustum. 
 
 In the face ABED, draw HB parallel to BE, and 
 draw HE and HO. The two pyramids, D — BEO and 
 H—BEO, are equivalent, since they have a common 
 base and equal altitudes, their vertices being in the line 
 BH, which is parallel to the plane of their common 
 base, (Th. 7, B. VI). "We may, therefore, substitute the 
 pyramid, H—BEO, for the pyramid, D—BEC. But the 
 triangle, BOH, may be taken as the base, and E as the 
 vertex of this new pyramid ; hence, it has the required 
 altitude, and we must now prove that it has the required 
 base. 
 
 The triangles, ABO and HBO, have a common vertex, 
 and their bases in the same line ; hence, (Th. 16, B. II), 
 
 A ABO : A HBO n AB : HB :: AB : BE. (1) 
 
 In the triangles, BEE and HBO, \_E^\_B, and 
 BE=HB; hence, if BEE be applied to HBO, L E fall- 
 ing on L B, an( i tne s id e BE on HB, the point B will 
 fall on H, and the triangles, in this position, will have a 
 common vertex, H, and their bases in the same line ; 
 hence, 
 
 A HBO : A BEE : : BO : EF. (2) 
 
 But, because the triangles, ABO and BEE, are similar, 
 
 we nave 
 
 AB . BE ii BO i EF. (3) 
 
 From proportions (1), (2), and (3), we have, (Th. 6, 
 
 b n), 
 
 
 A ABO : A HBO : : A HBO : A DEF; 
 that is, the base, HBO, is a mean proportional between 
 the lower and upper bases of the frustum. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of the frustum of a pyra- 
 mid, etc, 
 
 THEOREM XVII. 
 
 The convex surface of any right 'pyramid is measured by 
 the perimeter of its base, multiplied by one half its slant height. 
 
 Let S—ABOBEF be a right pyramid, s 
 
 of which SH is the slant height ; then will k 
 
 its convex surface have, for its measure, /M 
 
 ±SH(AB + BO+OB + BE+EF+FA). Mm 
 
 Since the base is a regular polygon, and /e/LjJa\ 
 the perpendicular, drawn to its plane from ^1/ I \ \\ 
 S, passes through its center, the edges, \ / i / 
 SA, SB, SO, etc., are equal, (Th. 4, B. YI), ahb 
 and the triangles SAB, SBC, etc., are equal, and isosceles, 
 each having an altitude equal to SH. 
 
 Now, AB x \SH measures the area of the triangle, 
 SAB ; and BO X %SH measures the area of the triangle, 
 SBO; and so on, for the other triangular faces of the 
 pyramid. By the addition of these different measures, 
 we get 
 
 %SH(AB + BO + OB + BE + EF + FA), 
 as the measure of the total convex surface of the pyramid. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of any right 
 pyramid, etc, 
 
 THEOREM XVIII. 
 
 The convex surface of the frustum of any right pyramid is 
 measured by the sum of the perimeters of the two bases, mul- 
 tiplied by one half the slant height of the frustum. 
 
 Let ABOBEF — d be the frustum of a right pyramid; 
 then will its convex surface be measured by 
 
 $Ilh(AB-+ BC4-CD+DE-\ EF+FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa), 
 
 
 203 
 
 For, the upper base, abcdef, of the 
 frustum is a section of a pyramid 
 by a plane parallel to the lower 
 base, (Def. 14), and is, therefore, 
 similar to the lower base, (Th. 12). 
 But the lower base is a regular 
 polygon, (Def. 12); hence, the up- 
 per base is also a regular polygon, 
 of the same name; and as ab and 
 AB are intersections of a face of 
 the pyramid by two parallel planes, A H B 
 
 they are parallel. For the same reason, be is parallel to 
 BO, cd to OB, etc., and the lateral faces of the frustum 
 are all equal trapezoids, each having an altitude equal 
 to Hh, the slant height of the frustum. 
 
 The trapezoid ABba has, for its measure, \Hh(AB+ab), 
 (Th. 34, Book I) ; the trapezoid BOcb has, for its meas- 
 ure, \Hh{BO + be), and so on, for the other lateral faces 
 of the frustum. 
 
 Adding all these measures, we find, for their sum, 
 which is the whole convex surface of the frustum, 
 
 IHh {AB+ B C+ CD+DE+EF+ FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa). 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of the frustum. 
 
 THEOREM XIX. 
 
 The volumes of similar triangular prisms are to each other 
 as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges. 
 
 Let ABO— F ana 
 
 abc— /be two similar 
 triangular prisms ; 
 then will their vol- 
 umes be to each 
 other as the cubes, 
 whose edges are the 
 homologous edges 
 
 
 AB and a b, or as the cubes, whose edges are the homol- 
 ogous edges BE and be, etc. Since the prisms are similar, 
 the solid angles, whose vertices are B and b, are equal ; 
 and the smaller prism, when so applied to the larger that 
 these solid angles coincide, will take, within the larger, 
 the position represented by the dotted lines. In this 
 position of the prisms, draw EH perpendicular to the 
 plane of the base ABO, and join the foot of the perpen- 
 dicular to the point B, and in the triangle BEIT draw, 
 through e, the line eh, parallel to EH', then will EH 
 represent the altitude of the larger prism, and eh that of 
 the smaller. 
 
 Now, as the bases ABO and aBc, are homologous faces, 
 they are similar, and we have, (Th. 20, Book II), 
 
 A ABO : A aBc : : AB* CoE* ( 1 ) 
 
 But the A's BEH and Beh are equiangular, and there 
 fore similar, and their homologous sides give the propor- 
 tion 
 
 BE : Be :: EH : eh (2) 
 
 and from the homologous sides of the similar faces, 
 ABED and aBed, we also have 
 
 BE : Be :: AB : aB (3) 
 
 Proportions (2) and (3 ), having an antecedent and con 
 sequent the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. II), 
 
 EH : eh w AB \ aB (4) 
 
 By the multiplication of proportions (1) and (•*), term 
 Dy term, we get 
 
 A ABO X EH : A aBc X eu : : AB* : aB* 
 
 But A ABO X EH measures the volume of the larger 
 prism, and A aBc x eh measures the volume of the 
 smaller. 
 
 Hence the theorem; the volumes of similar triangular 
 prisms^ etc. 
 
 
 Cor. 1. The volumes of two similar prisms having any 
 bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on 
 their homologous edges. 
 
 For, if planes be passed through any one of the late<-al 
 edges, and the several diagonal edges, of one of these 
 prisms, this prism will be divided into a number of smaller 
 triangular prisms. Taking the homologous edge of the 
 other prism, and passing planes through it and the seve- 
 ral diagonal edges, this prism will also be divided into 
 the same number of smaller triangular prisms, similar to 
 those of the first, each to each, and similarly placed. 
 
 ]STow, the similar smaller prisms, being triangular, are 
 to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges ; 
 and being like parts of the larger prisms, it follows that 
 the larger prisms are to each other as the cubes of the 
 homologous edges of any two similar smaller prisms. But 
 the homologous edges of the similar smaller prisms are 
 to each other as the homologous edges of the given 
 prisms ; hence we conclude that the given prisms are to 
 each other as the cubes of their homologous edges. 
 
 Cor. 2. The volumes of two similar pyramids having any 
 bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on 
 their homologous edges. 
 
 For, since the pyramids are similar, their bases are 
 similar polygons ; and upon them, as bases, two similar 
 prisms may be constructed, having for their altitudes, the 
 altitudes of their respective pyramids, and their lateral 
 edges parallel to any two homologous lateral edges of the 
 pyramids. 
 
 Now, these similar prisms are to each other as the cubes 
 of their homologous edges, which may be taken as the 
 homologous sides of their bases, or as their lateral edges, 
 which were taken equal and parallel to any two arbitrarily 
 assumed homologous lateral edges of the two pyramids ; 
 hence the pyramids which are thirds of their respective 
 prisms, are to each other as the cubes constructed on any 
 two homologous edges. 
 
 18 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 Cor. 3. The volumes of any two similar polyedrons arz U 
 each other as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges. 
 
 "For, by passing planes through, the vertices of the 
 homologous solid angles of such polyedrons, they may 
 both be divided into the same number of triangular 
 pyramids, those of the one similar to those of the other, 
 each to each, and similarly placed. 
 
 Now, any two of these similar triangular pyramids are 
 to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges ; 
 and being like parts of their respective polyedrons, it 
 follows that the polyedrons are to each other as the cubes 
 of the homologous edges of any two of the similar tri- 
 angular pyramids into which they may be divided. But 
 the homologous edges of the similar triangular pyramids 
 are to each other as the homologous edges of the poly- 
 edrons ; hence the polyedrons are to each other as the 
 cubes of their homologous edges. 
 
 THEOREM XX. 
 
 The convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured 
 by the product of the slant height and one half the sum of 
 the circumferences of the bases of the frustum. 
 
 Let ABCD — abed be the frustum of 
 
 a cone ; then will its convex surface be 
 
 , , . (circ. 00 + circ. oc) 
 measured by Aa x i — '-, 
 
 in which the expression, circ. 00, de- 
 notes the circumference of the circle 
 of which 00 is the radius. Inscribe in 
 the lower base of the frustum, a regu- 
 lar polygon having any number of 
 sides, and in the upper base a similar 
 polygon, having its sides parallel to 
 those of the polygon in the lower base. 
 
 These polygons 
 
 
 may be taken as the bases of the Irustum of a right 
 pyramid inscribed in the frustum of the cone. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the in- 
 scribed polygons, the convex surface of the frustum of 
 the pyramid is measured by its slant height multiplied by 
 one half the sum of the perimeters of its two bases, 
 (Th. 18) ; but when we reach the limit, by making the 
 number of sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the 
 slant height, perimeters of the bases, and convex surfaco 
 of the frustum of the pyramid become, severally, the 
 slant height, circumferences of the bases, and convex sur- 
 face of the frustum of the cone. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the convex surface of the frustum, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. If we make oc = OC, and, consequently, circ. 
 oc = circ. OC, the frustum of the cone becomes, a cylin- 
 der, and the half sum of the circumferences of the bases 
 becomes the circumference of either base of the cylinder, 
 and the slant height of the frustum, the altitude of the 
 cylinder. Hence, the convex surface of a cylinder is meas- 
 ured by the circumference of the base multiplied by the alti- 
 tude of the cylinder. 
 
 Cor. 2. If we make oc = 0, the frustum of the cone 
 becomes a cone. Hence, the convex surface of a cone is 
 measured by the circumference of the base multiplied by one 
 half the slant height of the cone. 
 
 Cor. 3. If through E, the middle point of Co, the line 
 Ff be drawn parallel to Oo, and Em perpendicular to 
 Oo, the line oc being produced, to meet Ff at/, we have, 
 because the A's EFC and Efc are equal, 
 
 Em = O0 + M . 
 
 2S 
 
 if we multiply both members of this equation by 2*, 
 we have 
 
 
 that is, circ. Em is equal to one half the sum of the cir 
 cumferences of the two hases of the frustum. Hence, the 
 convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured by the. 
 circumference of the section made by a plane half way between 
 the two bases, and parallel to them, multiplied by the slant 
 height of the frustum. 
 
 Cor. 4. If the trapezoid, OCeo, he revolved ahout Oo 
 as an axis, the inclined side, Cc, will generate the con- 
 vex surface of the frustum of a cone, of which the slant 
 height is Cc, and the circumferences of the hases are circ. 
 OC and circ. oc. Hence, if a trapezoid, one of whose sides 
 is perpendicular to the two parallel sides, be revolved about 
 the perpendicular side as an axis, it will generate the frustum 
 of a cone, the inclined side opposite the axis generating tho 
 convex surface, and the parallel sides the bases of the frustum. 
 
 THEOREM XXI. 
 
 The volume of a cone is measured by the area of its base 
 multiplied by one third of its altitude. 
 
 Let V— ABC, etc., he a cone; then 
 will its volume he measured hy area 
 ABC, etc., multiplied hy iVO. 
 
 Inscribe, in the base of the cone, any 
 regular polygon, as ABCDEF, which 
 may he taken as the base of a right pyra- 
 mid, of which V is the vertex. The 
 volume of this inscribed pyramid will 
 have, for its measure, (Th. 15), 
 
 polygon ABCDEF x iVO. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the pol f- 
 gon inscribed in the base of the cone, it will still ho d 
 true that the pyramid of which it is the base, and who-e 
 vertex is V, will be measured by the area of the poly- 
 gon, multiplied by one third of VO; but when we 
 reach the limit, by making the number of sides indefi- 
 
 
 uitely great, the polygon becomes the ^cle in which it 
 is inscribed, and the pyramid become +he cone. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of a cone, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. If R denote the radius of the base of a cone, 
 and ff its altitude, or axis, its volume will be expressed 
 
 by 
 
 iff x *i2 2 ; 
 
 hence, if V and V designate the volume ~> of two cones, 
 of which R and R' are the radii of the bases, and H and 
 ff' the altitudes, we have 
 
 V: V :: J#x *R 2 : \H' x «R' 7 ;: Bx«& : ff' X «R'\ 
 
 From this proportion we conclude, 
 
 First. That cones having equal altitudes are to each other 
 as their bases. 
 
 Second. That cones having equal bases are to each other 
 as their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 2. Retaining the notation above, we have 
 
 YL El ^1 m 
 
 V " H x R*' l J 
 and, if the two cones are similar, 
 
 ff : ff ! :: R : i2'; 
 ff 1 R' , ff" R'* 
 
 or > ~ff = R'> hence >ir = -&' 
 
 By substituting for the factors, in the second member 
 of eq. ( 1 ), their values successively, and resolving into a 
 proportion, we get 
 
 V : V :: R* : R"; 
 and V : V :: ff 3 : H". 
 
 Hence, similar cones are to each other as the cubes of the 
 radii of their bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. A cone is equivalent to a pyramid having an equiv> 
 alent base and an equal altitude. 
 18* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XXII. 
 
 'The volume of the frustum of a cone is equivalent to the 
 sum of the volumes of three cones, having for their common 
 altitude the altitude of the frustum, and for their several 
 bases, the bases of the frustum and a mean proportional be- 
 tween them. 
 
 Let ABQD — abed be the frustum of a 
 cone ; then will its volume be equiva- 
 lent to the sum of the volumes, having 
 Oo for their common altitude, and for 
 their bases, the circles of which, OO, oc, 
 and a mean proportional between OO 
 and oc, are the respective radii. 
 
 Inscribe in the lower base of the frus- 
 tum any regular polygon, and in the 
 upper base a similar polygon, having 
 its sides parallel to those of the first. These polygons 
 may be taken as the bases of the frustum of a right pyra- 
 mid inscribed in the frustum of the cone. 
 
 The volume of the frustum of the pyramid is equiva- 
 lent to the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, having 
 for their common altitude the altitude of the frustum, 
 and for their several bases the bases of the frustum, and 
 a mean proportional between them, (Th. 16). 
 
 Eow, however great the number of sides of the poly- 
 gons inscribed in the bases of the frustum of the cone, 
 this measure for the volume of the frustum of the pyr* 
 mid, of which they are the bases, still holds true ; biu 
 when we reach the limit, by making the number of the 
 sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the polygons be- 
 come the circles, the frustum of the pyramid becomes 
 the frustum of the cone, and the three partial pyramids, 
 whose sum is equivalent to the frustum of the pyramid, 
 become three partial cones, whose sum is equivalent to 
 the frustum of the cone. 
 
 
 211 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of the frustum of a cone, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Let R denote the radius of the lower base, R f 
 that of the upper base, and IT the altitude of the frustum 
 of a cone; then will its volume be measured, (Th. 21), by 
 
 IE x *i2 2 + iH x «R n + iffx *R x R', 
 since *R x R' expresses the area of a circle which is a 
 mean proportional between the two circles, whose radii 
 arc R andi2'. 
 
 Now, if the bases of the frustum become equal, or 
 7? — R ', the frustum becomes a cylinder, and each of the 
 last two terms in the above expression for the volume of 
 the frustum of a cone will be equal to the first ; hence, 
 the volume of a cylinder, of which iZ"is the altitude, and 
 It the radius of the base, is measured by H X *R 2 . 
 
 Therefore, the volume of a cylinder is measured by the 
 area of its base multiplied by its altitude. 
 
 Cor. 2. By a process in all respects similar to that pur- 
 sued in the case of cones, it may be shown that similar 
 cylinders are to each other as the cubes of the radii of their 
 bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. A cylinder is equivalent to a prism having an 
 equivalent base and an equal altitude. 
 
 THEOREM XXIII. 
 
 If a plane be passed through a sphere, the section will be a 
 circle. 
 
 Let be the center of a sphere 
 through which a plane is passed, 
 making the section AmBn ; then 
 will this section be a circle. 
 
 From let fall the perpendic- 
 ular Oo upon the secant plane, 
 and draw the radii OA, OB, and 
 Om, to different points in the 
 intersection of the plane with 
 the surface of the sphere. Now, 
 
 
 the oblique lines OA, OB, Om, are all equal, being ladii 
 of the sphere; they therefore meet the plane at equal dis 
 tances from the foot of the perpendicular Oo, (Cor., Th. 4, 
 B.VI); hence oA, oB, om, etc., are equal: that is, all the 
 points in the intersection of the plane with the surface of 
 the sphere are equally distant from the point 0. This 
 intersection is therefore the circumference of a circle of 
 which o is the center. 
 
 Hence the theorem; if a plane be passed thrcugh a 
 sphere, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. Since AB, the diameter of the section, is a chord 
 of the sphere, it is less than the diameter of the sphere ; 
 except when the plane of the section passes through the 
 center of the sphere, and then its diameter becomes the 
 diameter of the sphere. Hence, 
 
 1. All great circles of a sphere are equal. 
 
 2. Of two small circles of a sphere, that is the greater 
 whose plane is the less distant from the center of the sphere. 
 
 3. All the small circles of a sphere whose planes are at the 
 same distance from the center, are equal. 
 
 Cor. 2. Since the planes of all great circles of a sphere 
 pass through its center, the intersection of two great 
 circles will be both a diameter of the sphere and a com- 
 mon diameter of the two circles. Hence, two great circles 
 of a sphere bisect each other. 
 
 Cor. 3. A great circle divides the volume of a sphere, and 
 also its surface, equally. 
 
 For, the two parts into which a sphere is divided by 
 any of its great circles, on being applied the one to the 
 other, will exactly coincide, otherwise all the points in 
 their convex surfaces would not be equally distant from 
 the center. 
 
 Cor. 4. The radius of the sphere which is perpendicular 
 to the plane of a small circle, passes through the center of th* 
 circ le. 
 
 
 Cor. 5. A plane passing through the extremity of a radius 
 of a sphere, and perpendicular to it, is tangent to the sphere. 
 
 For, if the plane intersect the sphere, the section is a 
 circle, and all the lines drawn from the center of the 
 sphere to points in the circumference are radii of the 
 sphere, and are therefore equal to the radius which is per- 
 pendicular to the plane, which is impossible, (Cor. 1, Th. 
 3, B. VI). Hence the plane does not intersect the sphere, 
 and has no point in its surface except the extremity of 
 the perpendicular radius. The plane is therefore tangent 
 to the sphere by Def 22. 
 
 THEOREM XXIV. 
 
 If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two 
 opposite angles of a regular polygon of an even number of 
 sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, the perimeter of either 
 semi-polygon thus formed will generate a surface whose measure 
 is the axis multiplied by the circumference of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Let ABODEF be a semi-polygon cut 
 off from a regular polygon of an even 
 number of sides by drawing the line AF 
 through the center 0, and the vertices A 
 and F, of two opposite angles of the poly- 
 gon ; then will the surface generated by 
 the perimeter of this semi-polygon re- 
 volving about AF as an axis, be meas- 
 ured by AF X circumference of the in- 
 scribed circle. 
 
 From m, the middle point, and the extremities B and 
 C of the side B 0, draw mn, BK, and OL, perpendicular to 
 AF; join also m and 0, and draw BIT perpendicular to 
 QL. The surface of the frustum of the cone generated 
 by the trapezoid BKLO, has for its measure circ. mn X 
 BO, (Cor. 3, Th. 20). Since mO is perpendicular to BO, 
 and mn to BIT, the two A's, BOH and mnO, are similar, 
 and their homologous sides give the proportion 
 
 
 mn : mO :: BE (= KL) : BO 
 
 and as circumferences are to each other as their radii, we 
 have 
 
 circ. mn : circ. mO :: KL : BO 
 
 Hence, circ. mn x BQ = circ. mO X KL. 
 
 But mO is the radius of the circle inscribed in tne 
 polygon. Hence, the surface generated by BQ during the 
 revolution of the semi-polygon, is measured by the cir- 
 cumference of the inscribed circle multiplied by KL, the 
 part of the axis included between the two perpendicu- 
 lars let fall upon it from the extremities B and 0. The 
 surface generated by any other side of the semi-polygon 
 will be measured, in like manner, by the circumference of 
 the inscribed circle multiplied by the corresponding part 
 of the axis. 
 
 By adding the measures of the surfaces generated by 
 the several sides of the semi-polygon, we get 
 
 Circ. mO x (AK + KL + LN+ JSTM+ MF) 
 
 for the measure of the whole surface. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the line drawn through the cm 
 Mr, etc. 
 
 Cor. It is evident that the surface generated by any 
 portion, as CD and DK, of the perimeter, is measured by 
 circ. mO x LM. 
 
 THEOREM XXV. 
 
 The surface of a sphere is measured by the circumference 
 of one of its great circles multiplied by its diameter. 
 
 Let a sphere be generated by the revolution of the 
 Bemi-circle, AKF, about its diameter, AF; then will the 
 surface of the sphere be measured by 
 Circ. AOxAF. 
 
 Inscribe in the semi-circle any regular semi-polygon, 
 and let it be revolved, with the semi-circle, about the axii 
 
 
 AF; the surface generated by its perim- 
 eter will be measured by 
 
 Circ. mO x AF, (Th. 24), 
 
 and this measure will hold true, how- 
 ever great the number of sides of the in- Hj 
 scribed semi-polygon. But as the num- 
 ber of these sides is increased, the 
 radius mO, of the inscribed semi-circle, 
 increases and approaches equality with 
 the radius, AO; and when we reach the limit, by 
 making the number of sides indefinitely great, the radii 
 and semi-circles become equal, and the surface generated 
 by the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon becomes 
 the surface of the sphere. Therefore, the surface of the 
 sphere has, for its measure, 
 
 Circ. A x AF. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the surface of a sphere is meas- 
 ured, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. A zone of a sphere is measured by the circumfer- 
 ence of a great circle of the sphere multiplied by the altitude 
 of the zone. 
 
 For, the surface generated by any portion, as CD and 
 DE, of the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon has, 
 for its measure, circ. mO X LM, (Cor. Th. 24) ; and as 
 the number of the sides of the semi-polygon increases, 
 LM remains the same, the radius mO alone changing, 
 and becoming, when we reach the limit, equal to AO: 
 hence, the surface of the zone is expressed by 
 
 Circ. Ad X LM, 
 whether the zone have two bases, or but one. 
 
 Cor. 2. Let H and H r denote the altitudes of two 
 zones of spheres, whose radii are R and R ' ; then these 
 zones will be expressed by 2<>rR x H and 2*R ' x R r ; 
 and if tht surfaces of the zones be denoted by Z and Z' f 
 we have 
 
 
 Z : Z 1 : 2«RxH : 2«R' x H f i: Rx E : R' x H'> 
 
 •Hence, 1. Zones in different spheres are to each other at 
 their altitudes multiplied by the radii of the spheres. 
 
 2. Zones of equal altitudes are to each other as the radii 
 of the spheres, 
 
 3. Zones in the same, or equal spheres, are to each other as 
 their altitudes. 
 
 Cor. 3. Let R denote the radius of a sphere; then will 
 its diameter be expressed by 222, and the circumference 
 of a great circle by 2irR; hence its surface will be ex 
 pressed by 
 
 2«R x 2R = 4iri2 2 . 
 
 That is, the surface of a sphere is equivalent to the area of 
 four of its great circles. 
 
 Cor. 4. The surfaces of spheres are to each other as the 
 squares of their radii. 
 
 THEOREM XXVI. 
 
 Tf a triangle be revolved about either of its sides as an axis, 
 the volume generated will be measured by one third of the prod- 
 uct of the axis and the area of a circle, having for its radius 
 the perpendicular let fall from the vertex of the opposite 
 angle on the axis, or on the axis produced. 
 
 First. Let the triangle ABC, 
 in which the perpendicular from 
 C falls on the opposite side, AB, 
 be revolved about AB as an axis ; 
 then will *Vol. A ABChuve, for 
 its measure, \AB x *CD . 
 
 The two A's into which A ABC is divided by the 
 perpendicular DC, are right-angled, and during the rev- 
 olution they will generate two cones, having for their 
 
 * Vol. A ABC, cone A ADC, are abbreviations for volume gener- 
 ated by A ABC, cone generated by A ADC; and surfaces of revolu- 
 sien generated by lines will hereafter be denoted by like abbreviations. 
 
 
 common base the circle, of which D is the radius, and 
 for their axes the parts DA and DB, into which AB is 
 divided. 
 
 Now, *Cone a ADO is measured by \AD x *DO\ 
 (Th. 21), and cone A BDO, by %BD x «DO % \ but these 
 two cones compose Yol. A ABO; and by adding their 
 measures, we have, for that of Yol. A ABO, 
 
 IAD x *D0 2 + iBD x *~D(7 2 = J AB x <^DO\ 
 Second. Let the trian- 9 
 
 gle FFGr, in which the 
 perpendicular from G- 
 falls on the opposite side 
 FF produced, be revolved 
 about FF as an axis ; 
 
 then will Yol. A FFG E F_ "h 
 
 have, for its measure, %EF x *GfH\ CrH being the per- 
 pendicular on FF produced. For, in this case it is appa- 
 rent, that Yol. A FFGr is the difference between the 
 cone A FHCr and the cone a FHCr. The first cone has, 
 for its measure, \FH x *GH\ and the second, for its 
 measure, %FH x wGrJI 2 ; hence, by subtraction, we have 
 
 Vol. A FFG = IEH X hGH 2 — iFH X 7t~GH 2 = IEF X 7t~GH 2 . 
 Hence the theorem ; if a triangle be revolved about either 
 of its sides, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — If we take either of the above expressions for the meas- 
 ure of the volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about one 
 of its sides, for example the last, and factor it otherwise, we have 
 
 \EF X *GH* = EFX $GHxU*2GH= FFx $GHX — 3 
 
 Now, EF X %GH expresses the area of the triangle EFG; and 
 
 2x X GH 
 
 , one third of the circumference described by the point Q 
 
 o 
 
 during the revolution. 
 
 The expression, \AB X rtDC 2 , maybe factored and interpreted in the 
 
 * See note on the preceding page. 
 19 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 same manner. Hence, we conclude that the volume generated by th* 
 revolution of a triangle about either of its sides, is measured by the area 
 of the triangle multiplied by one third of the circumference described in 
 the revolution by the vertex of the angle opposite the axis. 
 
 THEOREM XXVII. 
 
 The volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about 
 any line lying in its plane, and passing through the vertex of 
 one of its angles, is measured by the area of the triangle mul- 
 tiplied by two thirds of the circumference described, in the 
 revolution, by the middle 'point of the side opposite the vertex 
 through which the axis passes. 
 
 Let the triangle ABCbe 
 revolved about the line 
 AG, drawn through the 
 vertex A, and lying in the 
 plane of the triangle, and 
 let HE be the perpendicu- 
 lar let fall from H, the 
 middle point of BO, upon 
 the axis AG- ; then will Vol. a ABO have, for its meas 
 ure, A ABO x § circ. HE. 
 
 From the extremities of BO, let fall the perpendicu- 
 lars BE and OB, on the axis; and from A draw AST per 
 pendicular to BO, or BO produced, and produce OB, 
 until it meets the axis in G-. 
 
 Now, it is evident that Yol. A ABO is the difference 
 between Yol. A AGO and Yol. A AGB. But Yol. 
 A AGO is expressed by a AGO x J circ. (7i>;and Yol. 
 A AGB, by A AG B x J circ. BE, (Scholium, Th. 26). 
 Hence, 
 
 Vol. A ABC = ^ AGO X I circ. CD — A AGB X i circ. BF. 
 
 Substituting for areas of A's, and for circumferences, 
 their measures, we have 
 
 
 Vol. A A£C= GO X IAK X ?^2— GB x UK X ^^ 
 
 o o 
 
 = GCx \AKx 2 J^R—{GC—BC) X UKX ^^ 
 
 o • 
 
 ~GCXIAKX^^— GCXIARX^^+BCXUK*^ 1 ^ 
 o 8 8 
 
 = GO X \AK X ^(CD — BF) + BC X $AR X — „— . 
 
 o o 
 
 But i?iV being drawn parallel to J.#, we have 
 GN = CD — BF; 
 hence, substituting this value for CD — BF, in the first 
 term of the second member of the last equation, we have 
 
 o o 
 
 = GCx CNx ±AK x 2 ^ + BC x %AK x ?^^, 
 
 by changing the order of factors in the first term of the 
 second member. The homologous sides of the similar 
 triangles, GOD and BCN, give the proportion 
 
 GO : CD : : BO : ON 
 
 whence, GO x ON = CD x BO 
 
 Substituting this value for GO X CJSF, in the last equa- 
 tion above, and arranging the factors as before, it becomes 
 
 Vol. A ABC= BO x lAKx ^^ + BC x \AK x ^F 
 - BO x UK x g^V BF >. 
 
 a 
 
 But CD + BF= 2HF; hence 
 Vol, A ABC=--BCx \AKx —~=BCx ±AKx f .2*. J7#j 
 
 o 
 
 and since 
 
 BO x \AK= A ABC, and § x 2«.HE - § circ. ##, 
 
 this measure conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 It only remains for us to consider the case in which 
 the axis is parallel to the base BC of the triangle The 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 precedi :g demonstration will not now apply, because it 
 supposes BO, or B produced, to intersect the axis. 
 
 Let the axis AE, be parallel to the 
 base BO, of the A ABO. From B 
 and let fall on the axis the perpen- 
 diculars BE and OB. 
 
 Now it is plain that 
 
 Vol. A ABO= cylinder rectangle BODE -f 
 cone a ADO — cone A AEB. 
 
 Substituting in second member, for cylinder and cones, 
 their measures, we have 
 
 Vol. AABO= BE x *£Z) 2 + IAD x ^OD 2 — \AE x «BE* 
 =$DEx *7JD 2 +iDEx «OD 2 +§ADx*OD*—iAEx *BE\ 
 
 But BE = OD, and ^DE + %AD = \AE. Reducing by 
 these relations, we have 
 
 Vol. A ABO= %DE x «OD 3 = %DE x \OD x 4*.OD 
 = DEx lODx %.<L«.0D = B0x \QD x \Z«.OD. 
 
 And, since BO x \OD expresses the area of the tri- 
 angle ABO, and §.2^.(77), two thirds of the circumfer- 
 ence described by any point of the base, this expression 
 also conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume generated by the revela- 
 tion, etc. 
 
 Oor. If the generating 
 triangle becomes isosceles, 
 the perpendicular from A 
 meets the base at its middle 
 point. In this case, if we 
 resume the expression 
 
 BOx \AK x 4 -^. 
 
 it becomes 
 
 BO x \AK x KE x i*. 
 
 
 But, since AKis perpendicular to BC, and KE to BN, 
 the a's AKE and CBN are similar, and their honiolo* 
 gous sides give the proportion 
 
 BO : BJST :: AK : KE 
 
 whence, BCx KE = BJSTx AK 
 
 Changing the order of factors in the last expression on 
 the preceding page, and replacing BOxKE by its value, 
 it becomes 
 
 lAKx AKxBNx ±* = AK 2 xMxf* 
 
 Hence, 
 
 Vol. A ABO= |* x AK 7 x BN.= $« x AK 2 x DF 
 
 That is, the volume generated by the revolution of an isos - 
 celes triangle about any line drawn through its vertex and lying 
 in the plane of the triangle, is measured by \n times the square 
 of the perpendicular of the triangle multiplied by the part of the 
 axis included between the two perpendiculars let fall upon it 
 from the extremities of the base of the triangle. 
 
 Scholium. — If we resume the equation 
 
 Vol. A ABC = BC X \AK X ^^ 
 
 o 
 
 and change the order of the factors in the second member, it may be 
 put under the form 
 
 Vol. A ^BC = BC X 2*.HE X \AK. 
 
 But during the revolution of the triangle, the side BC generates the 
 surface of the frustum of a cone, which surface has for its measure 
 
 BC X 2*.HE (Th. 20, Cor. 3). 
 
 Hence, the above equation may be thus interpreted: The volumt 
 generated by the revolution of a triangle about any line lying in its plans 
 and passing through the vertex of one of its angles, is measured by the 
 surface generated, during the revolution, by the side opposite the vertex 
 through which the axis passes multiplied by one third of the perpen- 
 dicular drawn from the vertex to that side. 
 
 19* 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 THEOREM XXVIII. 
 
 If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two op* 
 posite angles of a regular polygon, of an even number of 
 sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, either semi-polygon 
 thus formed will, during this revolution, generate a volume 
 which has, for its measure, the surface generated by the 
 perimeter of the semi-polygon multiplied by one third of its 
 apothem. 
 
 Let ABODE be a regular semi-poly- 
 gon, cut off from a regular polygon 
 of an even number of sides, by draw- 
 ing a line through the center, 0, and 
 the vertices, A and E, of two opposite 
 angles of the polygon ; then will the 
 volume generated by the revolution 
 of this semi-polygon about AE, as an 
 axis, be measured by (Sur. AB -f sur. 
 BO + sur. CD -f sur. DE) x }Om, Om 
 being the apothem of the polygon. 
 
 For, if from the center of 0, the lines OB, 00, OD, be 
 drawn to the vertices of the several angles of the semi- 
 polygon, it will be divided into equal isosceles triangles, 
 the perpendicular of each being the apothem of the 
 polygon. 
 
 Now, the volume generated by A AOB has, for its 
 measure, 
 
 Sur. AB x iOm, 
 Sur. BO X iOm, 
 Sur. OD x \Om, 
 
 that by A BOO, 
 " A OOD, 
 " A DOE, 
 
 Sur. DE x iOm, (Scholium, Th. 27). 
 
 By the addition of the measures of these partial vob 
 nines, we find, for that of the whole volume, 
 
 Vol. semi-polygon ABODE = sur. perimeter ABODE X iOm, 
 
 and were the number of the sides of the semi -polygon 
 
 
 increased or diminished, the reasoning would be in no 
 wise changed. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; if the line drawn through the cen- 
 ter, etc. 
 
 Scholium. — The volume generated by any portion of the semi-poly- 
 gon, as that composed of the two isosceles /±'a BOC, COD, is meas 
 
 ured by 
 
 Sur. perimeter BCD X 10m. 
 
 THEOREM XXIX. 
 
 The volume of a sphere is measured by its surface multi- 
 flied by one third of its radius. 
 
 Let a sphere be generated by the 
 revolution of the semicircle AOE, 
 about its diameter, AE, as an axis; 
 then will the volume of the sphere be 
 measured by 
 
 sur. semi-circ. OA x \OA. 
 
 For, inscribe in the semi-circle any 
 regular semi - polygon, as ABODE, 
 and let it, together with the semi-cir- 
 cle, revolve about the axis AE. The 
 semi-polygon will generate a volume which has, for i ts 
 measure, 
 
 Sur. perimeter ABODE x JOw, (Th. 28), 
 in which Om is the apothem of the polygon. 
 
 Now, however great the number of sides of the in- 
 scribed regular semi-polygon, this measure for the volume 
 generated by it, will hold true ; but when we reach the 
 limit, by making the number of sides indefinitely great, 
 the perimeter and apothem become, respectively, the 
 semi-circumference and its radius, and the volume gen 
 erated by the semi-polygon becomes that generated by 
 the semi-circle, that is, the sphere. Therefore, 
 
 Vol. sphere = sur. semi-circ. OA x %OA. 
 
 
 GEOMETKY. 
 
 Scholium 1. — If we take any portion of the inscribed senii-pulygon, 
 as BO C, the volume generated by it is measured by sur. BC X %Om y 
 (Scholium, Th. 27) ; and when we pass to the limit, this volume be- 
 comes a sector, and sur. BC a zone of the sphere, which zone is the 
 base of the sector. Hence, the volume of a spherical sector is measured 
 by the zone which forms its base multiplied by one third of the radiux 
 of the sphere. 
 
 Scholium 2. — Let R denote the radius of a sphere ; then will its 
 diameter be represented by 2R. Now, since the surface of a sphere is 
 equivalent to the area of four of its great circles, and the area of a 
 great circle is expressed by 7tR 2 , we have 
 
 Vol. sphere = 4*R* X IR = \rtRK 
 
 And since R 3 = l(2R ) 3 , we also have 
 
 Vol. sphere = £*i2 3 = i*(2i?)». 
 
 Hence, the volume of a sphere is measured by four thirds of it times the 
 cube of the radius, or by one sixth of tt times the cube of the diameter. 
 
 THEOREM XXX. 
 
 The surface of a sphere is equivalent to two thirds of the 
 surface, bases included, and the volume of a sphere to two 
 thirds of the volume, of the circumscribing cylinder. 
 
 Let AMD be a semi-circle, and 
 ABQD a rectangle formed by B: 
 drawing tangents through the 
 middle point and extremities of 
 the semi-circumference, and let Mr- 
 the semi-circle and rectangle be 
 revolved together about AD as 
 an axis. The rectangle will thus c 
 generate a cylinder circumscribed 
 about the sphere generated by the semi-circle. 
 
 First. The diameter of the base, and the altitude of 
 the cylinder, are each equal to the diameter of the 
 sphere ; hence the convex surface of the cylinder, being 
 measured by the circumference of its base multiplied by 
 its altitude, (Cor. 1, Th. 20), has the same measure aa 
 the surface of the sphere, (Th. 25). But the surface of 
 the sphere is equivalent to four great circles, (Cor. 3j 
 
 /^^ A "^\ 
 
 T^z 
 
 H 
 
 ^- 
 
 -%i 
 
 
 J?N 
 
 ^^^_ D _^s 
 
 
 Th. 25). Hence, the convex surface of the cylinder is 
 equivalent to four great circles ; and adding to these the 
 bases of the cylinder, also great circles, we have the 
 whole surface of the cylinder equivalent to six great 
 circles. Therefore, the surface of the sphere is four 
 sixths = two thirds of the surface of the cylinder, in- 
 cluding its bases. 
 
 Second. The volume of the cylinder, being measured 
 by the area of the base multiplied by the altitude, (Cor. 
 1, Th. 22), is, in this case, measured by the area of a 
 great circle multiplied by its diameter = four great cir- 
 eles multiplied by one half the radius of the sphere. 
 
 But the volume of the sphere is measured by four 
 great circles multiplied by one third of the radius, (Scho- 
 lium 2, Th. 29). Therefore, 
 
 Vol. sphere : Vol. cylinder : : J : J : : 2 : 3 ; 
 
 whence, Vol. sphere = § Vol. cylinder. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the surface of a sphere is equiva- 
 lent, etc. 
 
 Cor. The volume of a sphere is to the volume of the cir~ 
 cumscribed cylinder, as the surface of the sphere is to the sur- 
 face of the cylinder. 
 
 Scholium. — Any polyedron circumscribing a sphere, may be regarded 
 as composed of as many pyramids as the polyedron has faces, the cen- 
 ter of the sphere being the common vertex of these pyramids, and the 
 several faces of the polyedron their bases. The altitude of each pyra- 
 mid will be a radius of the sphere ; hence the volume of any one pyra- 
 mid will be measured by the area of the face of the polyedron which 
 forms its base, multiplied by one third of the radius of the sphere. 
 Therefore, the aggregate of these pyramids, or the whole polyedron, 
 will be measured by the surface of the polyedron multiplied by one 
 third of the radius of the sphere. 
 
 But the volume of the sphere is also measured by the surface of the 
 sphere multiplied by one third of its radius. Hence, 
 
 Sur. polyedron : Sur. sphere : : Vol. polyedron : Yol. sphere. 
 
 That is, the surface of any circumscribed yolycdron is to the surface 
 of the sphere^ as the volume of the polyedrori is to the volume of ihs 
 sphere. 
 
 
 THEOREM XXXI. 
 
 The volume generated by the revolution of the segment of a 
 circle about a diameter of the circle exterior to the segment, is 
 measured by one sixth of «r times the square of the chord of 
 the segment, multiplied by the part of the axis included be- 
 tween the perpendiculars let fall upon it from the extremities 
 of the chord, . 
 
 Let BOB be a segment of the circle, 
 whose center is 0, and AH a part of a 
 diameter exterior to the segment. Draw 
 the chord BB, and from its extremities 
 let fall the perpendiculars, BF, BE on 
 AH; also draw Om perpendicular to 
 BB. The spherical sector generated 
 by the revolution of the circular sector 
 BCBO about AH, is measured by zone BB x \B0, 
 (Scholium 1, Th. 29), = 2«.BO x EF X %BO - §*W x 
 EF; and the volume generated by the isosceles triangle 
 BOB is measured by 
 
 \^Om" x EF, (Cor. 1, Th. 27). 
 
 The difference between these two volumes is that gen- 
 erated by the circular segment BOB, which has, there- 
 fore, for its measure, 
 
 l«EF(BO* — ~Om) - %«EF x Bm^, (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 But since Bm = \BB, Bm = \BB* \ hence, by sub- 
 Btituting, we have 
 Vol. segment BOB - \«EF x \BB* - \*~BB* x EF. 
 
 Hence the theorem. 
 
 THEOREM XXXII. 
 
 The volume of a segment of a sphere has, for its measure, 
 the half sum of the bases of the segment multiplied by its alti- 
 tude, plus the volume of a sphere which has this altitude for 
 its diameter. 
 
 
 Let BOB be the arc of a circle, and 
 BF and BE perpendiculars let fall 
 from its extremities upon a diameter, c A 
 of which AH is a part; then, if the 
 area BCBEF be revolved about AH I 
 as an axis, a spherical segment will 
 be generated, for the volume of which 
 it is proposed to find a measure. 
 
 The circular segment will generate a volume meas- 
 ured by \«BB 2 x EF, (Th. 31) ; and the frustum of the 
 cone generated by the trapezoid BBEF will have, for 
 its measure, 
 
 i<r"5P 2 x EF+ i«BE* xEF+ i«BF xBEx EF, (Th. 22), 
 = §«EF(BF 2 +~BE 2 + BF x BE). 
 
 But the sum of these two volumes is the volume of 
 the spherical segment, which has, therefore, for its 
 measure, 
 
 i*EF {BB 2 + 2BF 2 + 2BE 2 + 2BF x BE) 
 From B let fall the perpendicular Bn on BE; then will 
 Bn = BE—nE=BE — BF; 
 
 hence, Bn = BE 2 — 2BE x BF + BF 2 
 
 2 "^—2 
 
 and since BB - Bn + Bn = EF + Bn % 
 
 we have BB 2 = EF 2 + BE 2 + BF 2 — 2BE x BF. 
 
 By substituting this value for BB 2 , in the above meas- 
 ure for the volume of the segment, we find 
 
 UEF(EF 2 + DE 2 + RF 2 ^2DExBF^2BF 2 -j-2DE 2 + 2BFxDE] 
 r- I «EF {EF 2 + WE 2 + ZBF 2 ) =faEF* + EF ( ^ DE ~^ —-- ). 
 
 Which last expression conforms to the enunciation. 
 
 Hence the theorem ; the volume of a segment of a sphere, 
 etc. 
 
 Cor. When the segment has but one base, BF becomes 
 eero, and EF becomes EA\ and the final expression 
 
 
 which we found for the volume of the segment reduces 
 to 
 
 $«£A> + EA x ' 
 
 2 
 
 Hence, A spherical segment having but one base, is equiva- 
 lent to a sphere whose diameter is the altitude of the segment, 
 plus one half of a cylinder having for base and altitude the 
 base and altitude of the segment. 
 
 Scholium. — "When the spherical segment has a single base, we may 
 
 put the expression, \hEA + EA X — — , under a form to indicate a 
 
 convenient practical rule for computing the volume of the segment. 
 
 Thus, since the triangle DEO is right-angled, and 0j£= OA — EA, 
 we have 
 
 DE 2 =TDO a — ~OE 2 = O? — Ol 2 + 20A X EA—~EA 2 
 
 = 20Ax EA—~EA\ 
 
 By substituting this value for DE 2 in the expression for the volume 
 of the segment, we find 
 
 UEA? + EAX?X(20AXEA — ~EA*) 
 
 2 
 
 Bsi*1Z f -f EA 2 X % [20A — EA) 
 
 2 
 
 = }rtEA 9 +U.ZEA i {20A — EA) 
 = \hEA\EA + Q.OA — 3 EA) 
 = lrtEA\6.0A — 2EA) 
 = l7tEA\%OA — EA) 
 
 Hence, the volume of a spherical segment, having a single base, is 
 measured by one third of n times the square of the altitude of the seg- 
 ment, multiplied by the difference between three times the radius of lfa& 
 sphere and this altitude. 
 
 RECAPITULATION 
 
 Of some of the principles demonstrated in this and the pre- 
 ceding Boohs. 
 
 Let R denote the radius, and D the diameter of any 
 circle or sphere, and H the altitude of a cone, or of a 
 segment of a sphere ; then, 
 
 
 BOOK VII. 229 
 
 Circuinforence of a circle == 2*JK. 
 Surface of a sphere = 4*J2 2 , or nD\ 
 
 Zone forming the base of a 1 _ ~ ^ „. 
 
 segment of a sphere, / 
 Volume or solidity of a sphere = {*B*, or £*!)•. 
 Volume of a spherical sector = %nR 2 x JZ". 
 Volume of a cone, of which ^ 
 
 Jit is the radius of the V = \*IP x H. 
 
 base ) 
 
 Volume of a spherical seg-' 
 
 ment, of which R' is the 
 
 radius of one base, and 
 
 R" the radius of the 
 
 other, and whose altitude 
 
 is#, 
 
 If the so ir ment has but one^ . „, , ^hR'* 
 
 ;,„ -, ,! = \*H* + H.—^ ; or, 
 
 base, R" = zero, and the > 2 
 
 volume of the segment, J = J*JP(3i2 — H). 
 
 PRACTICAL PROBLEMS. 
 
 1. The diameter of a sphere is 12 inches ; how many 
 cubic inches does it contain? Arts. 904.78 cu. in. 
 
 2. What is the solidity of the segment of a single base 
 that is cut from a sphere 12 inches in diameter, the altitude 
 of the segment being 3 inches? Arts. 141.372 cu. in. 
 
 3. The surface of a sphere is 68 square feet ; what is 
 its diameter ? Ans. D = 4.652 feet. 
 
 4. If from a sphere, whose surface is 68 square feet, a 
 segment be cut, having a depth of two feet and a single 
 base, what is the convex surface of the segment ? 
 
 Ans. 29.229+ sq. ft. 
 
 5. What is the solidity of the sphere mentioned in the 
 two {receding examples, and what is the solidity of the 
 segment, having a depth of two feet, and but one base ? 
 
 A ( Solidity of sphere, 52.71 cu. ft. 
 t " " segment, 20.85 " 
 20 
 
 
 6. In a sphere whose diameter is 20 feet, what is the 
 solidity of a segment, the bases of which are on the same 
 side of the center, the first at the distance of 3 feet from 
 it, and the second of 5 feet; and what is the solidity of 
 a second segment of the same sphere, whose bases are 
 also on the same side of the center, and at distances 
 from it, the first of 5 and the second of 7 feet ? 
 
 a ( Solidity of first segment, 525.7 cu. ft 
 US I " " second " 400.03 " 
 
 7. If the diameter of the single base of a spherical 
 segment be 16 inches, and the altitude of the segment 4 
 inches, what is its solidity ? * 
 
 Arts. 435.6352 cubic inches. 
 
 8. The diameter of one base of a spherical segment is 
 18 inches, and that of the other base 14 inches, these 
 bases being on opposite sides of the center of the sphere, 
 and the distance between them 9 inches ; what is the 
 volume of the segment, and the radius of the sphere ? 
 
 a ( Vol. seg., 2219.5 cubic inches. 
 \ Bad. of sphere, 9.4027 inches. 
 
 9. The radius of a sphere is 20, the distance from the 
 center to the greater base of a segment is 10, and the 
 distance from the same point to the lesser base is 16 ; 
 what is the volume of the segment, the bases being on 
 the same side of the center? Ans. 4297.7088. 
 
 10. If the diameter of one base of a spherical segment 
 be 20 miles, and the diameter of the other base 12 miles* 
 and the altitude of the segment 2 miles, what is its 
 solidity, and what is the diameter of the sphere ? 
 
 * First find the radius of the sphere. 
 
 Note. — The Key to this work contains full solutions to all the problems in 
 the Geometry and Trigonometry, and the necessary diagrams for illustration. 
 
 
 BOOK VIII. 
 
 PRACTICAL GEOMETRY. 
 
 APPLICATION OF ALGEBRA TO GEOMETRY, AND ALSO 
 PROPOSITIONS FOR ORIGINAL INVESTIGATION. 
 
 No definite rules can be given for the algebraic solu- 
 tion of geometrical problems. The student must, in a 
 a great measure, depend on his own natural tact, and 
 Lis power of making a skillful application of the geomet- 
 rical and analytical knowledge he has thus far obtained. 
 
 The known quantities of the problem should be repre- 
 sented by the first letters of the alphabet, and the un- 
 known by the final letters ; and the relations between 
 these quantities must be expressed by as many inde- 
 pendent equations as there are unknown quantities. To 
 obtain the equations of the problem, we draw a figure, 
 the parts of which represent the known and unknown 
 magnitudes, and very frequently it will be found neces- 
 sary to draw auxiliary lines, by means of which we can 
 deduce, from the conditions enunciated, others that can 
 be more conveniently expressed by equations. In many 
 cases the principal difficulty consists in finding, from the 
 relations directly given in the statement, those which 
 are ultimately expressed by the equations of the problem. 
 Having found these equations, they are treated by the 
 known rules of algebra, and the values of the required 
 magnitudes determined in terms of those given. 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM I. 
 
 Given, the hypotenuse, and the sum of the other two sides 
 of a right-angled triangle, to determine the triangle. 
 
 Let ABO be the A. Put OB = y, AB 
 = x, AO= h, and OB + AB = s. Then, 
 by a given condition, we have 
 
 x + y = s; 
 and, x*+ y*= h\ (Th. 39, B. I). 
 
 lleducing these two equations, and we have 
 
 x = \s =b i^W^7; y mm \s =fc Jv^tf — * 2 . 
 
 If A = 5 and * = 7, a; = 4 or 3, and y = 3 or 4. 
 
 Remark. — In place of putting x to represent one side, and y the 
 other, we might put [x -f- y) to represent the greater side, and (x — y) 
 the less side ; then, 
 
 h 2 
 x* + y* = -, and 2x = s, etc. 
 
 PROBLEM II. 
 
 (riven, the base and perpendicular of a triangle, to find the 
 side of its inscribed square. 
 
 Let ABO be the A. Put 
 AB mm b, the base, OB — p, 
 the perpendicular. 
 
 Draw EF parallel to AB, 
 and suppose it equal to EG, 
 a side of the required square ; and put EF = x. 
 
 Then, by similar A's, we have 
 
 01 : EF : : OB : AB. 
 
 That is, 
 Hence, 
 
 p — x 
 
 P 
 
 b. 
 
 bp — bx = px ; or, x m t f . 
 r - b + p 
 
 That is, the side of the inscribed square is equal to the 
 product of the base and altitude, divided by their sum. 
 
 
 233 
 
 PROBLEM III. 
 
 In a triangle, having given the sides about the vertical 
 angle, and the line hisecting that angle and terminating in 
 the base, to find the base. 
 
 Let ABO be the a, and let a cir- 
 cle be circumscribed about it. Di- 
 vide the arc AEB into two equal 
 partu at the point E, and draw EO. 
 This line bisects the vertical angle, 
 (Cor., Th. 9, B. HI). Draw BE. 
 
 Put AD = x, DB = y, AQ = a, 
 OB = b, OD = c, and BE = w. The two A's, ADO and 
 EBO, are equiangular; from which we have 
 
 w + o : b : : a : c ; or, cw + <? 2 = ab ; ( 1 ) 
 
 But, as EO and J.1? are two chords that intersect each 
 other in a circle, we have 
 
 cw = xy, (Th. IT, B. III). 
 Therefore, xy + c* = ab. ( 2 ) 
 
 But, as (7D bisects the vertical augle, v; e have 
 
 a : b :: x : y, (Th. 24, B. II). 
 
 Or, 
 
 Hence, 
 
 And, 
 
 Now, as x and # are determined, the base is deter- 
 mined. 
 
 Remark. — Ot serve that equation (2) is Theorem 20, Book III 
 20* 
 
 
 x = 
 + <?' = 
 
 ' b' 
 
BOOK VIII 
 
 (3) 
 or, y = 
 
 
 
 a 
 
 -\A- 
 
 jfib 
 
 a 
 
 
 
 
 X- 
 
 m W»- 
 
 a 
 
 
 GEOMETRY. 
 
 PROBLEM IV. 
 
 To determine a triangle, from the base, the line bisecting 
 the vertical angle, and the diameter of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 Describe the circle on the given 
 diameter, AB, and divide it into two 
 parts, in the point D, so that AD x 
 DB shall be equal to the square of 
 one half the given base, (Th. 17, B. III). 
 
 Through D draw EDG, at right 
 angles to AB, and EG will be the given base of the 
 triangle. 
 
 Put AB — n, DB = m, AB = d, DG = b. 
 
 Then, 
 
 n -f m = d, and 
 
 nm 
 
 and these two equations will determine n and m ; there- 
 fore, we shall consider n and m as known. 
 
 Now, suppose EEG to be the required A; and draw 
 RIB and HA. The two A's, ABE, DBI, are equian- 
 gular ; and, therefore, we have 
 
 AB : EB : : IB : DB. 
 
 But EI is a given line, that we will represent by c ; 
 and if we put IB — w, we shall have EB = c + w; then 
 the above proportion becomes, 
 
 d : c + w : : w : m. 
 
 Now, w can be determined by a quadratic equation ; 
 and, therefore, IB is a known line. 
 
 In the right-angled A DBI, the hypotenuse IB, and 
 the base DB, are known ; therefore, DI is known, (Th. 
 39, B. I) ; and if DI is known, EI and IG are known. 
 
 Lastly, let EH= x, EG = y, and put EI= p, and IG 
 -?• 
 
 Then, by Theorem 20, Book III, pq + <?' = org ( 1 ) 
 
 But, x : g :: p : q (Th. 24, B. II) 
 
 
 235 
 
 Or, 
 
 x=*l 
 
 (2) 
 
 Now, from equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) we can determine x 
 andy, the sides of the A ; and thus the determination has 
 been attained, carefully and easily, step by step. 
 
 PROBLEM V. 
 
 Three equal circles touch each other externally, and thus 
 inclose one acre of ground; what is the diameter in rods of 
 each of these circles f 
 
 Draw three equal circles to touch each other exter- 
 nally, and join the three centers, thus forming a triangle. 
 The lines joining the centers will pass 
 through the points of contact, (Th. 7, 
 B.IH). 
 
 Let R represent the radius of these 
 equal circles; then it is obvious that 
 each side of this A is equal to 2R. 
 The triangle is therefore equilateral, 
 and it incloses the given area, and three equal sectors. 
 
 As the angle of each sector is one third of two right 
 angles, the three sectors are, together, equal to a semi- 
 circle ; but the area of a semi-circle, whose radius is R, is 
 
 AT J? 2 
 
 expressed by — ; and the area of the whole triangle 
 
 irR 2 
 
 must be — - -f 160 ; but the area of the A is also equal to 
 
 R multiplied by the perpendicular altitude, which is 
 fiv/3. 
 
 Therefore, 
 Or, 
 
 jRV3 = ^ + 160. 
 
 22»(2%/3 — *) = 320. 
 320 
 
 320 
 
 - 992.248. 
 
 2 v/3 — 3.1415926 0.3225 
 Hence, R = 31.48 + rods, for the required result 
 
 
 Problem VI. — In a right-angled triangle, having given 
 the base and the sum of the perpendicular and hypotennse, 
 to find these two sides, 
 
 Prob. VII. — Given, the base and altitude of a triangle, to 
 divide it into three equal parts, by lines parallel to the base. 
 
 Prob. VIII. — In any equilateral A, given the length of 
 the three perpendiculars drawn from any point within, to the 
 three sides, to determine the sides* 
 
 Prob. IX. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 base, ( 3 ), and the difference between the hypotenuse and per- 
 pendicular, ( 1 ), to find both these two sides. 
 
 Prob. X. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 hypotenuse, (5), and the difference between the base and 
 perpendicular, ( 1 ), to determine both these two sides. 
 
 Prob. XI. — Having given the area of a rectangle inscribed 
 in a given triangle, to determine, the sides of the rectangle. 
 
 Prob. XII. — In a triangle, having given the ratio of the 
 two sides, together with both the segments of the base, made 
 by a perpendicular from the vertical angle, to determine the 
 sides of the triangle. 
 
 Prob. XIH. — In a triangle, having given the base, the 
 sum of the other two sides, and the length of a line drawn 
 from the vertical angle to the middle of the base, to find the 
 sides of the triangle. 
 
 Prob. XTV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the lengths of two lines drawn from the acute angles to 
 *he middle of the opposite sides. 
 
 Prob. XV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the perimeter, and the radius of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XVI. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the ratio of the two sides. 
 
 Prob. XVII. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the hypotenuse, and the side of the inscribed square. 
 
 
 Prob. XV III. — To determine the radii of three equal cir- 
 cles inscribed in a given circle, and tangent to each other, and 
 also to the circumference of the given circle. 
 
 Prob. XIX. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the 
 perimeter, or sum of all the sides, and the perpendicular let 
 fall from the right angle on the hypotenuse, to determine the 
 triangle ; that is, its sides. 
 
 Prob. XX. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the hypotenuse, and the difference of two lines drawn 
 from the two acute angles to the center of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXI. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the difference of the two other 
 fades. 
 
 Prob. XXII. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 base, the perpendicular, and the rectangle, or product of the 
 two sides. 
 
 Prob. XXIII. — To determine a triangle, having given the 
 lengths of three lines drawn from the three angles to the mid- 
 dle of the opposite sides. 
 
 Prob. XXTV. — In a triangle, having given all the three 
 Bides, to find the radius of the inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXV. — To determine a right-angled triangle, having 
 given the side of the inscribed square, and the radius of the 
 inscribed circle. 
 
 Prob. XXVI. — To determine a triangle, and the radius 
 of the inscribed circle, having given the lengths of three lines 
 drawn from the three angles to the center of that circle. 
 
 Prob. XXVTI. — To determine a right -angled triangle, 
 having given the hypotenuse, and the radius of the inscribed 
 tircle. 
 
 Prob. XXVJLLL. — The lengths of two parallel chords on the 
 tame side of the center being given, and their distance apart, 
 to determine the radius of the circle. 
 
 Prob, XXIX. — The lengths of two chords in the same 
 
 
 circle being given, and also the difference of their distance 
 from the center, to find the radius of the circle. 
 
 Prob. XXX. — The radius of a circle being given, and also 
 the rectangle of the segments of a chord, to determine the dis- 
 tance of the point at which the chord is divided, from the 
 center. 
 
 Prob. XXXI. — If each of the two equal sides of an isos- 
 celes triangle be represented by a, and the base by 2b, what 
 will be the value of the radius of the inscribed circle ? 
 
 A j, b^a* — b* 
 
 Ans. R = - — . 
 
 a + b 
 
 Prob. XXXII. — From a point without a circle whose 
 diameter is d, a line equal to d is drawn, terminating in the 
 concave arc, and this line is bisected at the first point in which 
 it meets the circumference. What is the distance of the point 
 without from the center of the circle ? 
 
 It is not deemed necessary to multiply problems in the 
 application of algebra to geometry. The preceding will 
 be a sufficient exercise to give the student a clear con- 
 ception of the nature of such problems, and will serve as 
 a guide for the solution of others that may be proposed 
 to him, or that may be invented by his own ingenuity. 
 
 MISCELLANEOUS PROPOSITIONS. 
 
 We shall conclude this book, and the subject of Geom- 
 etry, by offering the following propositions, — some the- 
 orems, others problems, and some a combination of both, 
 — not only for the purpose of impressing, by application, 
 the geometrical principles which have now been estab- 
 lished, but for the not less important purpose of culti- 
 vating the power of independent investigation. 
 
 After one or two propositions in which the beginner 
 will be assisted in the analysis and construction, we shall 
 leave him to his own resources, with the caution that a 
 
 
 239 
 
 patient consideration of all the conditions in each case, 
 and not mere trial operation, is the only process by which 
 he can hope to reach the desired result. 
 
 1. From two given points, to draw two equal straight 
 lines, which shall meet in the same point in a given 
 straight line. 
 
 Let A and B be the given points, 
 and CD the given straight line. Pro- 
 duce the perpendicular to the straight 
 line AB at its middle point, until it 
 meets CD in G. It is then easily 
 proved that G is the point in CD in 
 which the equal lines from A and 
 B must meet. That is, that AG 
 = BG. 
 
 If the points A and B were on 
 opposite sides of CD, the directions 
 for the construction would be the 
 same, and we should have this fig- 
 ure; but the reasoning by which 
 we prove AG = BG would be un- 
 changed. 
 
 2. From two given points on the same side of a given 
 straight line, to draw two straight lines which shall meet 
 in the given line, and make equal angles with it. 
 
 Let CD be the given line, and 
 A and B the given points. 
 
 From B draw BE perpendicular 
 to CD, and produce the perpen- 
 dicular to F, making EF equal to 
 BE) then draw AF, and from the 
 point G, in which it intersects 
 CD, draw GB. Now, [__BGE=> 
 \_EGF =\_AGC. Hence, the 
 angles B GD and A G C are equal, 
 and the lines AG and BG meet 
 
 in a common point in the line CD, and made equal angles witk 
 that line. 
 
 
 3. If, from a point without a circle, two straight lines 
 be drawn to the concave part of the circumference, making 
 equal angles with the line joining the same point and the 
 center, the parts of these lines which are intercepted within 
 the circle, are equal. 
 
 4. If a circle be described on the radius of another circle, 
 any straight line drawn from the point where they meet, 
 to the outer circumference, is bisected by the interior one. 
 
 5. From two given points on the same side of a line 
 given in position, to draw two straight lines which shall 
 contain a given angle, and be terminated in that line. 
 
 6. If, from any point without a circle, lines be drawn 
 touching the circle, the angle contained by the tangents is 
 double the angle contained by the line joining the points 
 of contact and the diameter drawn through one of them. 
 
 7. If, from any two points in the circumference of a 
 circle, there be drawn two straight lines to a point in a 
 tangent to that circle, they will make the greatest angle 
 when drawn to the point of contact. 
 
 8. From a given point within a giv^n circle, to draw a 
 straight line which shall make, with the circumference, 
 an angle, less than any angle made by any other line 
 drawn from that point. 
 
 9. If two circles cut each other, the greatest line that 
 can be drawn through either point of intersection, is that 
 which is parallel to the line joining their centers. 
 
 10. If, from any point within an equilateral triangle, 
 perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, their sum is equal 
 to a perpendicular drawn from any of the angles to the 
 opposite side. 
 
 11. If the points of bisection of the sides of a given tri- 
 angle be joined, the triangle so formed will be one fourth 
 of the given triangle. 
 
 12. The difference of the angles at the base of any tri- 
 angle, is double the angle contained by a line drawn from 
 the vertex perpendicular to the base, and another bisect- 
 ing the angle at the vertex. 
 
 
 13. If, from the three angles of a triangle, lines be 
 *rawn to the points of bisection of the opposite sides, 
 tfiese lines intersect each other in the same point. 
 
 14. The three straight lines which bisect the three 
 ! angles of a triangle, meet in the same point. 
 
 15. The two triangles, formed by drawing straight 
 lines from any point within a parallelogram to the ex- 
 tremities of two opposite sides, are, together, one half the 
 parallelogram. 
 
 16. The figure formed by joining the points of bisection 
 of the sides of a trapezium, is a parallelogram. 
 
 17. If squares be described on three sides of a right- 
 angled triangle, and the extremities of the adjacent sides 
 be joined, the triangles so formed are equivalent to the 
 given triangle, and to each other. 
 
 18. If squares be described on the hypotenuse and sides 
 of a right-angled triangle, and the extremities of the sides 
 of the former, and the adjacent sides of the others, be 
 joined, the sum of the squares of the lines joining them 
 will be equal to five times the square of the hypotenuse. 
 
 19. The vertical angle of an oblique-angled triangle 
 inscribed in a circle, is greater or less than a right angle, 
 by the angle contained between the base and the diam- 
 eter drawn from the extremity of .the base. 
 
 20. If the base of any triangle be bisected by the diam- 
 eter of its circumscribing circle, and, from the extremity 
 of that diameter, a perpendicular be let fall upon the 
 longer side, it will divide that side into segments, one of 
 which will be. equal to one half the sum, and the other to 
 one half the difference, of the sides. 
 
 21. A straight line drawn from the vertex of an equi- 
 lateral triangle inscribed in a circle, to any point in the 
 opposite circumference, is equal to the sum of the two lines 
 which are drawn from the extremities of the base to the 
 same point. 
 
 22. The straight line bisecting any angle of a triangle 
 
 21 Q 
 
 
 inscribed in a given circle, cuts the circumference in a 
 point which is equi-distant from the extremities of the 
 side opposite to the bisected angle, and from the center 
 of a circle inscribed in the triangle. 
 
 23. If, from the center of a circle, a line be drawn to 
 any point in the chord of an arc, the square of that line, 
 together with the rectangle contained by the segments 
 of the chord, will be equal to the square described on the 
 radius. 
 
 24. If two points be taken in the diameter of a circle, 
 equidistant from the center, the sum of the squares of the 
 two lines drawn from these points to any point in the cir- 
 cumference, will be always the same. 
 
 25. If, on the diameter of a semicircle, two equal circles 
 be described, and in the space included by the three cir- 
 cumferences, a circle be inscribed, its diameter will be % 
 the diameter of either of the equal circles. 
 
 26. If a perpendicular be drawn from the vertical angle 
 of any triangle to the base, the difference of the squares 
 of the sides is equal to the difference of the squares of 
 the segments of the base. 
 
 27. The square described on the side of an equilateral 
 triangle, is equal to three times the square of the radius 
 of the circumscribing circle. 
 
 28. The sum of the sides of an isosceles triangle is less 
 than the sum of the sides of any other triangie on the same 
 base and between the same parallels. 
 
 29. In any triangle, given one angle, a side adjacent to 
 the given angle, and the difference of the other two sides, 
 to construct the triangle. 
 
 30. In any triangle, given the base, the sum of the 
 other two sides, and the angle opposite the base, to con- 
 struct the triangle. 
 
 31. In any triangle, given the base, the angle opposite 
 io the base, and the difference of the other two sides, to 
 instruct the triangle. 
 
 
 BOOK IX. 
 
 SPHERICAL GEOMETRY. 
 
 DEFINITIONS. 
 
 1. Spherical Geometry has for its object the investiga- 
 tion of the properties, and of the relations to each other, 
 of the portions of the surface of a sphere which are 
 bounded by the arcs of its great circles. 
 
 2. A Spherical Polygon is a portion of the surface of a 
 sphere bounded by three or more arcs of great circles, called 
 the sides of the polygon. 
 
 3. The Angles of a spherical polygon are the angles 
 formed by the bounding arcs, and are the same as the 
 angles formed by the planes of these arcs. 
 
 4. A Spherical Triangle is a spherical polygon having 
 but three sides, each of which is less than a semi-circum- 
 ference. 
 
 5. A Lime is a portion of the surface of a sphere in- 
 cluded between two great semi-circumferences having a 
 common diameter. 
 
 6. A Spherical Wedge, or TTngula, is a portion of the 
 Bolid sphere included between two great semi-circles having 
 a common diameter 
 
 
 7. A Spherical Pyramid is a portion of a sphere bounded 
 by the faces of a solid angle having its vertex at the 
 center, and the spherical polygon which these faces inter- 
 cept on the surface. This spherical polygon is called the 
 base of the pyramid. 
 
 8. The Axis of a great circle of a sphere is that diameter 
 of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the 
 circle. This diameter is also the axis of all small circles 
 parallel to the great circle. 
 
 9. A Pole of a circle of a sphere is a point on the sur- 
 face of the sphere equally distant from every point in the 
 circumference of the circle. 
 
 10. Supplemental, or Polar Triangles, are two triangles on 
 a sphere, so related that the vertices of the angles of 
 either triangle are the poles of the sides of the other. 
 
 PKOPOSITION I. 
 
 Any two sides of a spherical triangle are together greater 
 than the third side. 
 
 Let AB, AC, and BC, be the three 
 sides of the triangle, and D the center 
 of the sphere. 
 
 The angles of the planes that form 
 the solid angle at D, are measured by 
 the arcs AB, AG, snidBC. But any 
 two of these angles are together greater 
 than the third angle, (Th. 18, B. VI). Therefore, any two 
 sides of the triangle are, together, greater than * ue third side. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 PROPOSITION II. 
 
 The sum of the three sides of any spherical triangle is less 
 than the circumference of a great circle. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle ; the two sides, AB 
 and AC, produced, will meet at the point which is diame- 
 trically opposite to A f and the arcs, ABB and ACB are 
 
 
 245 
 
 together equal to a great circle. But, 
 by the last proposition, BC is less 
 than the two arcs, BD and DC There- 
 fore, AB + BO + AC, is less than 
 ABD + ACD; that is, less than a 
 great circle. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 PROPOSITION III. 
 
 The extremities of the axis of a great circle of a sphere 
 are the poles of the great circle, and these points are also 
 the poles of all small circles parallel to the great circle. 
 
 Let be the center of 
 the sphere, and BD the 
 axis of the great circle, 
 Cm Am" ; then will B and 
 D, the extremities of the 
 axis, be the poles of the 
 circle, and also the poles 
 of any parallel small cir- 
 cle, as FnE. 
 
 For, since BD is per- 
 pendicular to the plane 
 of the circle, Cm Am", it 
 
 is perpendicular to the lines OA, 0m', Om", etc., passing 
 through its foot in the plane, (Def. 2, B. VI); hence, all 
 the arcs, Bm, Bm', etc., are quadrants, as are also the 
 arcs Dm, Dm', etc. The points B and D are, therefore, 
 each equally distant from all the points in the circumfer- 
 ence, Cm Am" ; hence, (Def. 9), they are its poles. 
 
 Again, since the radius, OB, is perpendicular to the 
 plane of the circle, Cm Am", it is also perpendicular to 
 the plane of the parallel small circle, FnE, and passes 
 through its center, 0'. Now, the chords of the arcs, BF, 
 Bn, BE, etc., being obiique lines, meeting the plane of 
 the small circle a 4 - oqual distances from the foot of the 
 
 
 
 o" -- 
 
 \e 
 
 
 / IS 
 
 — * — Z^- 
 
 
 
 hi 
 
 m» 
 
 
 [.-""'-""/ 
 
 / 
 
BOOK IX 
 
 \ iJtr 
 
 
 
 
 
 \j)f 
 
 
 
 
 perpendicular, BO', are all equal, (Th. 4, B. VI); hence, 
 the arcs themselves are equal, and B is one pole of the 
 circle, FnE. In like manner we prove the arcs, BF, Dn, 
 BE, etc., equal, and therefore D is the other pole of the 
 same circle. 
 
 Hence the proposition, etc. 
 
 Cor. 1. A point on the surface of a sphere at the distance 
 of a quadrant from two points in the arc of a great circle, not 
 at the extremities of a diameter, is a pole of that arc. 
 
 For, if the arcs, Bm, Bm r , are each quadrants, the angles, 
 BOm and BOm f , are each right angles; and hence, BO 
 is perpendicular to the plane of the lines, Om and 0m f , 
 which is the plane of the arc, mm'; B is therefore the 
 pole of this arc. 
 
 Cor. 2. The angle included between the arc of a great circle 
 and the arc of another great circle, connecting any of its points 
 with the pole, is a right angle. 
 
 For, since the radius, BO, is perpendicular to the plane 
 of the circle, Cm Am", every plane passed through this 
 radius is perpendicular to the plane of the circle ; hence, 
 the plane of the arc Bm is perpendicular to that of the 
 arc (7m; and the angle of the arcs is that of their planes. 
 
 PKOPOSITION IV. 
 
 The angle formed by two arcs of great circles which inter- 
 sect each other, is equal to the angle included between the tan- 
 gents to these arcs at their point of intersection, and is meas- 
 ured by that arc of a great circle whose pole is the vertex of 
 the angle, and which is limited by the sides of the angle or 
 the sides produced. 
 
 Let AM and AN be two arcs intersecting at the 
 point A, and let AE and AF be the tangents to these 
 arcs at this point. Take AC and AD, each quadrants, 
 and draw the arc CD, of which A is the pole, and OQ 
 and OB are the radii. 
 
 
 247 
 
 Now, since the planes of the arcs intersect in the radius 
 OA, and AE is a tangent to one arc, and AF a tangent 
 to the other, at the common point 'A, A 
 these tangents form with each other an 
 angle which is the measure of the angle 
 of the planes of the arcs ; but the angle 
 of the planes of the arcs is taken as the 
 angle included by the arcs, (Def. 3). 
 
 Again, because the arcs, AQ and AD, 
 are each quadrants, the angles, A 00, 
 AOD, are right angles ; hence the radii, 
 OC and OD, which lie, one in one face, 
 and the other in the other face, of the 
 diedral angle formed by the planes of the arcs, are 
 perpendicular to the common intersection of these faces 
 at the same point. The angle, OOD, is therefore the 
 angle of the planes, and consequently the angle of the 
 arcs ; but the angle OOD is measured by the arc OD. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 Oor. 1. Since the angles included between the arcs of 
 great circles on a sphere, are measured by other arcs of 
 great circles of the same sphere, we may compare such 
 angles with each other, and construct angles equal to 
 other angles, by processes which do not differ in principle 
 from those by which plane angles are compared and con- 
 structed. 
 
 Oor. 2. Two arcs of great circles will form, by their in- 
 tersection, four angles, the opposite or vertical ones of 
 which will be equal, as in the case of the angles formed 
 by the intersection of straight lines, (Th. 4, B. I). 
 
 PROPOSITION V. 
 
 The surface of a hemisphere may be divided into three right- 
 angled and four quadrantal triangles, and one of these right- 
 angled triangles will be so related to the other two, that two 
 of its sides and one of its angles will be complemental to the 
 
 
 Bides of one of them, and two of its sides supplemental to two 
 of the side.s of the other. 
 
 Let ABO be a right-angled spherical triangle, right 
 angled at B. 
 
 Produce the sides, AB and AC, and 
 they will meet at A', the opposite 
 point on the sphere. Produce BO, 
 both ways, 90° from the point B, to 
 P and P', which are, therefore, poles 
 to the arc AB, (Prop. 3). Through 
 A, P, and the center of the sphere, 
 pass a plane, cutting the sphere into 
 two equal parts, forming a great circle on the sphere, 
 which great circle will be represented by the circle 
 PAP' A' in the figure. At right angles to this plane, 
 pass another plane, cutting the sphere into two equal 
 parts ; this great circle is represented in the figure by the 
 straight line, POP'. A and A' are the poles to the great 
 circle, POP' ; and P and P f are the poles to the great 
 circle, ABA f . 
 
 !N"ow, OPB is a spherical triangle, right-angled at B, 
 and its sides OP and OB are complemental respectively 
 to the sides BO and A of the A ABO, and its side PD 
 is complemental to the arc DO, which measures the 
 [_BAO of the same triangle. Again, the A A' BO is right- 
 angled at B, and its sides A'O, A'B, are supplemental 
 respectively to the sides AO, AB, of the A ABO. There- 
 fore, the three right-angled A's, ABO, OPB, and A'BO, 
 have the required relations. In the A AOP, the side AP 
 is a quadrant, and for this reason the A is called a quad- 
 ran tal triangle. So also, are the A's A' OP, AOP', and 
 P'OA', quadrantal triangles. Hence the proposition. 
 
 Scholium. — In every triangle there are six elements, three sides and 
 three angles, called the parts of the triangle. 
 
 Now, if ail the parts of the triangle ABC are known, the parts of 
 each of the A' s > PCD and A'BC, are as completely known. And 
 when the parts of the A PCD are known, the parts of the A ' 8 A C2 
 
 
 and A'CP are also known ; for, the side PD measures each of the | 's 
 
 P^lCand PA'C, and the angle CPD, added* to the right angle A' PD t 
 
 gives the | A' PC, and the | CPA is supplemental to this. Hence, 
 
 the solution of the A ABC is a solution of the two right-angled and 
 four quadrantal A's? which together with it make up the surface of 
 the hemisphere. 
 
 PROPOSITION VI. 
 
 If there be three arcs of great circles whose poles are the 
 angular points of a spherical triangle, such arcs, if produced, 
 will form another triangle, whose sides will be supplemental 
 to the angles of the first triangle, and the sides of the first 
 triangle will be supplemental to the angles of the second. 
 
 Let the arcs of the three great cir- 
 cles be GH, PQ, KL, whose poles are 
 respectively A, B, and 0. Produce the 
 three arcs until they meet in D, E, and 
 F. We are now to prove that E is the 
 pole of the arc AO; D the pole of the 
 arc BO; F the pole to the arc AB. 
 Also, that the side EF, is supplemental 
 to the angle A; EB to the angle 0; 
 and BF to the angle B; and also, that the side A is 
 supplemental to the angle E, etc. 
 
 A pole is 90° from any point in the circumference of 
 Us great circle ; and, therefore, as A is the pole of the 
 arc Gff, the point A is 90° from the point E. As is 
 the pole of the arc LK, is 90° from any point in 
 that arc ; therefore, is 90° from the point E ; and 
 E being fcO° from both A and 0, it is the pole of the arc 
 AC. In the same manner, we may prove that B is the 
 pole of BO, and F the pole of AB. 
 
 Because A is the pole of the arc Git, the arc GH 
 measures the angle A, (Prop. 4); for a similar reason, 
 PQ measures the angle B, and LK measures the angle 0, 
 Because E is the pole of the arc AO, EH = 90° 
 Or, EG +GH= 90° 
 
 For a like reason, FH + GH = 90° 
 
 
 Adding these two equations, and observing that QJf 
 = A, and afterward transposing one A, we have, 
 EG + GIT + FIT = 180° — A. 
 
 Or, UF=1S0°— A } 
 
 In like manner, jF2> = 180° — B \ («) 
 
 And, BE = 180° — J 
 
 But the arc (180° — A), is a supplemental arc to A, by 
 the definition of arcs; therefore, the three sides of the 
 triangle BEF, are supplements of the angles A, B y C, of 
 the triangle ABO. 
 
 Again, as E is the pole of the arc A C, the whole angle 
 E is measured by the whole arc LH. 
 
 But, AC + CE = 90° 
 
 Also, AQ + AL = 90° 
 
 By addition, AQ+AC+QH + AL = 180° 
 By transposition, ^(7+ (7^+^^ = 180° —J. O 
 That is, £#, or E= 180°— ^L<7 } 
 
250 GEOMETRY. 
 
 And, i)=180° — J5(7 J 
 
 That is, the sides of the first triangle are supplemental 
 to the angles of the second triangle. 
 
 PROPOSITION Til. 
 
 The sum of the three angles of any spherical triangle, is 
 greater than two right angles, and less than six right angles. 
 
 Add equations («), of the last proposition. The first 
 member of the equation so formed will be the sum of 
 the three sides of a spherical triangle, which sum we 
 may designate by S. The second member will be 6 right 
 angles (there being 2 right angles in each 180°) less the 
 three angles A, B, and O. 
 
 That is, S = 6 right angles — (A + B + C) 
 
 By Prop. 2, the sum S is less than 4 right angles; 
 
 
 therefore, to it add s, a sufficient quantity to make 4 
 right angles. Then, 
 
 4 right angles = 6 right angles — (A + B -f C) -f * 
 
 Drop or cancel 4 right angles from both members, and 
 transpose (A + B + O). 
 
 Then, A + B + = 2 right angles + a. 
 
 That is, the three angles of a spherical triangle make 
 a greater sum than two right angles by the indefinite 
 quantity *, which quantity is called the spherical excess, 
 and is greater or less according to the size of the triangle. 
 
 Again, the sum of the angles is less than 6 right angles. 
 There are but three angles in any triangle, and each one of 
 them must be less than 180°, or 2 right angles. For, an 
 angle is the inclination of two lines or two planes ; and 
 when two planes incline by 180°, the planes are parallel, 
 or are in one and the same plane ; therefore, as neither 
 angle can be equal to 2 right angles, the three can never 
 be equal to 6 right angles. 
 
 PROPOSITION VIII. 
 
 On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles which 
 are mutually equilateral are also mutually equiangular ; and, 
 conversely, triangles which are mutually equiangular are also 
 mutually equilateral, equal sides lying opposite equal angles. 
 
 First— -Let ABO and DEF, in 
 which AB = BE, AO= DF, and 
 BO = EF, be two triangles on 
 the sphere whose center is 0; 
 then will the [_ A, opposite the 
 side BO, in the first triangle, be 
 equal the [_D, opposite the equal 
 side EF, in the second; also 
 L# = l E, andl_<?=t F. 
 
 
 For, drawing the radii to the vertices of the angles of 
 these triangles, we may conceive to he the common 
 vertex of two triedral angles, one of which is hounded 
 by the plane angles A OB, BOO, and A 00, and the other 
 by the plane angles DOE, EOF, and J)OF. But the 
 plane angles bounding the one of these triedral angles, 
 are. equal to the plane angles bounding the other, each 
 to each, since they are measured by the equal sides of the 
 two triangles. The planes of the equal arcs in the two 
 triangles are therefore equally inclined to each other, 
 (Th. 20, B. VI) ; but the angles included between the 
 planes of the arcs are equal to the angles formed by the 
 arcs, (Def. -3). 
 
 Hence the [_ A, opposite the side BO, in the A ABU, 
 is equal to the [_ -A opposite the equal side EF, in the 
 other triangle ; and for a similar reason, the [__B= l_E, 
 and the l_0=l_F. 
 
 Second. — If, in the triangles ABO and DEF, being on 
 the same sphere whose center is 0, the [_A = [_D, the 
 \_B = [_E, and the L<7« L^ 7 ; tnen will the side AB, 
 opposite the [__ 0, in the first, be equal to the side BE, 
 opposite the equal [__F, in the second; and also the side 
 A equal to the side BF, and the side BO equal to the 
 side EF. 
 
 For, conceive two triangles, denoted by A'B'O f and 
 D'E'F', supplemental to ABO and BEF, to be formed; 
 then will these supplemental triangles be mutually equi- 
 lateral, for their sides are measured by 180° less the 
 o] posite and equal angles of the triangles ABO and 
 DEF, (Prop. 6) ; and being mutually equilateral, they 
 are, as proved above, mutually equiangular. But the 
 triangles ABO and DEF are supplemental to the tri- 
 angles A'B'O' and D'E'F 1 '; and their sides are therefore 
 measured severally by 180° less the opposite and equal 
 angles of the triangles A'B'O' and D'E'2", (Prop. 6), 
 
 
 Hence the triangles ABO and DEF, which are mutually 
 equiangular, are also mutually equilateral. 
 
 Scholium. — With the three arcs of great circles, AB, AC, and BC t 
 either of the two triangles, ABC, DEF, may be formed ; but it is evi- 
 dent that these two triangles cannot be made to coincide, though they 
 are both mutually equilateral and mutually equiangular. Spherical 
 triangles on the same sphere, or on equal spheres, in which the sides 
 and angles of the one are equal to the sides and angles of the other, 
 each to each, but are not themselves capable of superposition, are 
 called symmetrical triangles. 
 
 PROPOSITION IX. 
 
 On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles having 
 two sides of the one equal to two sides of the other, each to 
 each, and the included angles equal, have their remainmg 
 sides and angles equal. 
 
 Let ABO and DEF be two 
 
 triangles, in which AB — DE, 
 AO = DF, and the angle A = 
 the angle D ; then will the side 
 BO be equal to the side FE, 
 the L B = the [__E, and |_ G 
 
 For, if DE lies on the same 
 side of DjFthat AB does of AO, the two triangles, ABC 
 and DEF, may be applied the one to the other, and they 
 may be proved to coincide, as in the case of plane tri- 
 angles. But, if DE does not lie on the same side of DF 
 that AB does of AO, we may construct the triangle which 
 is symmetrical with DEF; and this symmetrical triangle, 
 when applied to the triangle ABO, will exactly coincide 
 with it. But the triangle DEF, and the triangle sym- 
 metrical with it, are not only mutually equilateral, but 
 also are mutually equiangular, the equal angles lying 
 opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8) ; and as the one or the 
 other will coincide with the triangle ABO, it follows that 
 
 
 the triangles, ABO and DBF, are either absolutely or 
 symmetrically equal. 
 
 Oor. On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles 
 having two angles of the one equal to two angles of the other, 
 each to each, and the included sides equal, have their remain- 
 ing sides and angles equal. 
 
 For, if \__A = L A L-# - L-^i and side ^ B - side 
 DE, the triangle DBF, or the triangle symmetrical with 
 it, will exactly coincide with A ABO, when applied to it 
 as in the case of plane triangles ; hence, the sides and 
 angles of the one will be equal to the sides and angles 
 of the other, each to each. 
 
 PKOPOSITION X. 
 
 In an isosceles spherical triangle, the angles opposite the 
 equal sides are equal. 
 
 A 
 
 Let ABO be an isosceles spherical tri- 
 angle, in which AB and A are the equal 
 sides ; then will [__ B = [__(?. 
 
 For, connect the vertex A with D, the / 
 
 middle point of the base, by the arc of a / 
 great circle, thus forming the two mutu- *f—~- 
 ally equilateral triangles, ABB and ADO. 
 They are mutually equilateral, because AD is common, 
 BD = DO by construction, and AB=AO by supposition; 
 hence they are mutually equiangular, the equal angles 
 being opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8). The angles B 
 and 0, being opposite the common side AD, are there- 
 fore equal. * 
 
 Oor. The arc of a great circle which joins the vertex 
 of an isosceles spherical triangle with the middle point of 
 the base, is perpendicular to the base, and bisects the ver- 
 tical angle of the triangle ; and, conversely, the arc of a 
 
 
 255 
 
 great circle which bisects the vertical angle of an isosceles 
 spherical triangle, is perpendicular to, and bisects the 
 base. 
 
 PROPOSITION XI. 
 
 If two angles of a spherical triangle are equal, the opposite 
 sides are also equal, and the triangle is isosceles. 
 ' In the spherical triangle, ABO, let the [_B — [_0; then 
 will the sides, AB and A 0, opposite these equal angles, 
 be equal. 
 
 For, let P be the pole of the base, BO, 
 and draw the arcs of great circles, PB, 
 PO; these arcs will be quadrants, and at 
 right angles to BO, (Cor. 2, Prop. 3). 
 Also, produce OA and BA to meet PB 
 and PO, in the points E and F. Wow, 
 the angles, PBF and POE, are equal, 
 because the first is equal to 90° less the 
 [__ABO, and the second is equal to 90° 
 less the equal \__AOB; hence, the A's, 
 PBFan&POE, are equal in all their parts, 
 since they have the [_P common, the [_PBF = \__POE, 
 and the side PB equal to the side PO, (Cor., Prop. 9). 
 PE is therefore equal to PF, and [_PEO= \__PFB. 
 1 Taking the equals PF and PE, from the equals PO 
 and PB, we have the remainders, FO and EB, equal ; 
 and, from 180°, taking the [_'s PFB and PEO, we have 
 the remaining [__'s, AFO and AEB, equal. Hence, the 
 A's, AFO and AEB, have two angles of the one equal to 
 two angles of the other, each to each, and the included 
 sides equal; the remaining sides and angles are therefore 
 equal, (Cor., Prop. 9). Therefore, A is equal to BA, 
 and the A ABO is isosceles. 
 
 Cor. An equiangular spherical triangle is also equilat- 
 eral, and the converse. 
 
 
 Behare. — In this demonstration, the pole of the base, BC, is sup- 
 posed to fall without the triangle, ABC. The same figure may be used 
 for the case in which the pole falls within the triangle ; the modifi- 
 cation the demonstration then requires is so slight and obvious, that 
 it would be superfluous to suggest it. 
 
 PROPOSITION XII. 
 
 The greater of two sides of a spherical triangle is opposite 
 the greater angle ; and, conversely, the greater of two angles 
 of a spherical triangle is opposite the greater side. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle, in which the angle A 
 is greater than the angle B ; then is the side BO greater 
 than the side A C. 
 
 Through A draw the arc of a 
 great circle, AD, making, with AB, 
 the angle BAI) equal to the angle 
 ABB. The triangle, BAB, is isos- 
 celes, and DA = DB, (Prop. 11). 
 
 In the a ACD, CD+AD>AC, 
 (Prop. 1.); or, substituting for AD its equal DB, we have, 
 CD + DB> AC. 
 
 If in the above inequality we now substitute CB for 
 CD-\-DB, it becomes CB > CA. 
 
 Conversely ; if the side CB be greater than the side CA, 
 then is the \_A > th« [__i?. For, if the [_A is not greater 
 than the [_B, it is either equal to it, or less than it. The 
 [__A is not equal to the [_B ; for if it were, the triangle 
 would be isosceles, and CB would be equal to CA, which 
 is contrary to the hypothesis. The [_A is not less than 
 the [_B; for if it were, the side CB would be less than the 
 side CA, by the first part of the proposition, which is also 
 contrary to the hypothesis ; hence, the [_A must be greater 
 than the L^- 
 
 
 PROPOSITION XIII. 
 Two symmetrical spherical triangles are equal in area 
 
 Let ABO and BEF be two A's on the same sphere, 
 having the sides and angles of the one equal to the sides 
 and angles of the other, each to 
 each, the triangles themselves 
 not admitting of superposition. 
 It is to be proved that these 
 A's have equal areas. 
 
 Let P be the pole of a small 
 circle passing through the three 
 points, ABO, and connect P 
 with each of the points, A, B, 
 
 and 0, by arcs of great circles. Next, through E draw 
 the arc of a great circle, EP', making the angle DEP' 
 equal to the angle ABP. Take EP' = BP, and draw 
 the arcs of great circles, P'B, P'F. 
 
 The A's, ABP and BEP', are equal in all their parts, 
 because AB=BE, BP=EP', and the \__ABP=[_BEP', 
 (Prop. 9). Taking from the \__ABO the \__ABP, and 
 from the \__DEF the \_BEP' , we have the remaining 
 angles, PBO and P'EF, equal; and therefore the A's, 
 BOP and EFP 1 , are also equal in all their parts. 
 
 Now, since the a's, ABP and DEP', are isosceles, they 
 will coincide when applied, as will also the A's, BOP 
 and EFP 1 , for the same reason. The polygonal areas, 
 ABQP and BEFP 1 , are therefore equivalent. If from 
 the first we take the isosceles triangle, PAO, and from the 
 second the equal isosceles triangle, P'BF, the remainders, 
 or the triangle* ABO and BEF, will be equivalent. 
 
 Remark. — It is assumed in this demonstration that the pole P falls 
 without the triangle. Were it to fall within, instead of without, no 
 other change in the above process would be required than to add the 
 isosceles triangles, PAC, P / DF, to the polygonal areas, to get the 
 areas of the triangles, ABC, DEF. 
 
 
 Cor. Two spherical triangles on the same sphere, or on 
 equal spheres, will be equivalent — 1st, when they are 
 mutually equilateral; — 2d, when they are mutually equi- 
 angular ; — 3d, when two sides of the one are equal to 
 two sideb of the other, each to each, and the included 
 angles are equal ; — 4th, when two angles of the one are 
 equal to two angles of the other, each to each, and the 
 included aides are equal. 
 
 PKOPOSITION XIV. 
 
 If two arcs of great circles intersect each otlier on the sur- 
 face of a hemisphere, the sum of either two of the opposite tri- 
 angles thus formed will he equivalent to a lune whose angle is 
 the corresponding angle formed by the arcs. 
 
 Let the great circle, AEBC, be the base of a hemi- 
 sphere, on the surface of which the great semi-circumfer- 
 ences, BBA and CBE, inter- 
 sect each other at B ; then will 
 the sum of the opposite tri- 
 angles, BBC and BAB, be 
 equivalent to the lune whose 
 angle is BBC; and the sum 
 of the opposite triangles, 
 CBA and BBJE, will be equiv- 
 alent to the lune whose angle 
 is CBA. 
 
 Produce the arcs, BB A and 
 CBE, until they intersect on the opposite hemisphere at H\ 
 then, since CBE and BEE are both semi-circumferences 
 of a great circle, they are equal*. Taking from each the 
 common part BE, we have CB = HE. In the same way 
 we prove BB = HA, and AE = BC. The two triangles, 
 BBC and HAE, are therefore mutually equilateral, and 
 hence they are equivalent, (Prop. 13). But the two tri- 
 angles, BAE and ABE f together, make up the lune 
 
 
 259 
 
 BEHAB\ hence the sum of the a's, BBO and ABE, is 
 equivalent to the same lune. 
 
 By the same course of reasoning, we prove that the 
 sum of the opposite A's, BAQ and BBE, is equivalent 
 to the lune BOHAB, whose angle is ABO. 
 
 PROPOSITION XV. 
 
 The surface of a lune is to the whole surface of the sphere, 
 as the angle of the lune is to four right angles ; or, as the arc 
 which measures that angle is to the circumference of a great 
 circle. 
 
 I^ztABFCA be a lune on the 
 surface of a sphere, and BCE 
 an arc of a great circle, whose 
 poles are A and F, the vertices 
 of the angles of the lune. The 
 arc, BO, will then measure the 
 angles of the lune. Take any 
 arc, as BB, that will be con- 
 tained an exact number of times 
 in BO, and in the whole circum- 
 ference, BOEB, and, beginning at B, divide the arc and 
 the circumference into parts equal to BB, and join the 
 points of division and the poles, by arcs of great circles. 
 We shall thus divide the whole surface of the sphere 
 into a number of equal lunes. Now, if the arc BO con- 
 tains the arc BB m times, and the whole circumference 
 contains this arc n times, the surface of the lune will 
 oontain m of these partial lunes, and the surface of the 
 sphere will contain n of the same ; and we shall have, 
 Surf, lune : surf, sphere : : m : n. 
 
 But, m : n :: BO : circumference great circle ; 
 hence, surf, lune : surf sphere : : BO : cir. great circle; 
 or, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: [_BOO : 4 right angles. 
 
 
 This demonstration assumes that BD is a common 
 measure of the arc, BC, and the whole circumference. It 
 may happen that no finite common measure can be 
 found ; but our reasoning would remain the same, even 
 though this common measure were to become indefinitely 
 small. 
 
 Hence the proposition. 
 
 Cor. 1. Any two lunes on the same sphere, or on equal 
 spheres, are to each other as their respective angles. 
 
 Scholium. — Spherical triangles, formed by joining the pole of an 
 arc of a great circle with the extremities of this arc by the arcs of 
 great circles, are isosceles, and contain two right angles. For this 
 reason they are called bi-rectangular. If the base is also a quadrant, 
 the vertex of either angle becomes the pole of the opposite side, and 
 each angle is measured by its opposite side. The three angles are then 
 right angles, and the triangle is for this reason called tri-rectangular. 
 It is evident that the surface of a sphere contains eight of its tri- 
 rectangular triangles. 
 
 Cor. 2. Taking the right angle as the unit of angles, 
 and denoting the angle of a lune by A, and the surface 
 of a tri-rectangular triangle by T, we have, 
 surf, of lune : 8^ :: A : 4; 
 
 whence, surf, of lune = 2 A X T. 
 
 Cor. 3. A spherical ungula bears the same relation to 
 the entire sphere, that the lune, which is the base of the 
 ungula, bears to the surface of the sphere ; and hence, 
 any two spherical ungulas in the same sphere, or in 
 equal spheres, are to each other as the angles of their re- 
 spective lunes. 
 
 PKOPOSITION XVI. 
 
 The area cf a spherical triangle is measured by the excess 
 of the sum of its angles over two right angles, multiplied by 
 the tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Let ABC be a spherical triangle, and DJEFLK the cir- 
 cumference of the base of the hemisphere on which this 
 triangle is situated. 
 
 
 Produce the sides of the tri- 
 angle until they meet this cir- 
 cumference in the points, D, U, 
 F, L, K, and P, thus forming 
 the sets of opposite triangles, 
 DAE, AKL ; BEF, BPK; CFL, 
 CDP. 
 
 Now, the triangles of each of 
 these sets are together equal to 
 a lune, whose angle is the cor- 
 responding angle of the triangle, (Prop. 14) ; hence we 
 have, 
 
 ADAE + AAKL = 2 A x T % (Prop. 15, Cor. 2). 
 ABEF + ABPK = 2B x T. 
 A CFL + A CDP = 2(7 x T. 
 
 If the first members of these equations be added, it is 
 evident that their sum will exceed the surface of the 
 hemisphere by twice the triangle ABC; hence, adding 
 these equations member to member, and substituting for 
 the first member of the result its value, 4T + 2 A ABC, 
 we have 
 
 4I 7 + 2aABC = 2A.T + 2B.T+ 2CT 
 
 or, 2T+ AABC=> A.T + B.T + C.T 
 
 whence, A ABC = A.T + B.T + C.T—2T. 
 
 That is, AABC - (A + B + C— 2) T. 
 
 But A + B + C — 2 is the excess of the sum of the 
 angles of the triangle over two right angles, and T de- 
 notes the area of a tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Hence the proposition ; the area, etc. 
 
 
 PROPOSITION XVII. 
 
 77ie area of any spherical polygon is measured by the excess 
 of the sum of all its angles over two right angles, taken as 
 many times, less two, as the polygon has sides, multiplied by 
 the tri-rectangular triangle. 
 
 Let AB CDE be a spherical poly- ^-—"7 
 
 gon; then will its area be meas- b^"^ / 
 
 ured by the excess of the sum of /\ / 
 
 / \ / 
 
 the angles, A, B, 0, D, and E, over / 
 
 two right angles taken a number / \ 
 
 of times which is two less than J -~J*Je 
 
 the number of sides, multiplied by \ / 
 
 T, the tri-rectangular triangle. \. / 
 
 Through the vertex of any of the p 
 
 angles, as E, and the vertices of 
 
 the opposite angles, pass arcs of great circles, thus divi- 
 ding the polygon into as many triangles, less two, as the 
 polygon has sides. The sum of the angles of the several 
 triangles will be equal to the sum of the angles of the 
 polygon. 
 
 Now, the area of each triangle is measured by the 
 excess of the sum of its angles over two right angles, 
 multiplied by the tri-rectangular triangle. Hence the 
 sum of the areas of all the triangles, or the area of the 
 polygon, is measured by the excess of the sum of all the 
 angles of the triangles over two right angles, taken as 
 many times as there are triangles, multiplied by the tri- 
 rectangular triangle. But there are as many triangles as 
 the polygon has sides, less two. 
 
 Hence the proposition ; the area of any spherical voly- 
 gon, etc. 
 
 Cor. If S denote the sum of the angles of any spherical 
 polygon, n the number of sides, and T the tri-rectan- 
 gular triangle, the right angle being the unit of angles ; 
 the area of the polygon will be expressed by 
 
 [£_ 2 (n — 2)] x T= (#— 2n + 4) T. 
 
 University of California Library 
 or to the 
 NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
 Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
 University of California 
 Richmond, CA 94804-4698 
 
 ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 
 
 • 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
 (510)642-6753 
 
 • 1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
 books to NRLF 
 
 • Renewals and recharges may be made 4 
 days prior to due date. 
 
 DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 
 
 SENT ON ILL 
 
 FEB 2 2001 
 
 U. C. BERKELEY 
 
 2,000(11/95) 
 
 
 MS 
 
 
 Standard French Course. 
 
 By Louis Fasquelle, LL. D., late Professor of Modern Languages in the University 
 
 of Michigan 
 The plan of this popular Series embraces a combination of two rival systems: the 
 Oral, adopted by Ollendorff, Robertson, Manesca, and others, with the old Classical 
 or Grammatical System. One of its principal features is a constant comparison of the 
 construction of the French and English Languages. The Reading Books ar selected 
 from the best French Authors, carefully edited, with copious Notes and References and 
 neatly executed. The "Course" has been republished in England, and is in successful 
 use in the Schools of that country. 
 
 Standard German Series. 
 
 By W. H. Woodbury, A. M. 
 This Series is founded on similar principles with Fasquelle's French Series, and is 
 highly commended and largely used by the best teachers of the language in the country. 
 Ja?" It comprises a Full Course in the study of the language. 
 
 STANDARD SERIES OF 
 
 Progressive Spanish Readers. 
 
 By Prof. L. F. Mantilla. 
 
 These Readers are specially intended for Schools in the "West India Islands, Mexico 
 and the Spanish South American States, but will answer every purpose for the acquire- 
 ment of the Spanish language by anyone who desires to make it a study. 
 
 %W Full descriptive Circulars, with titles and prices, of the above series will be 
 forwarded by mail on application. 
 
 Taylor's Greek Grammar. 
 
 AN ELEMENTARY GRAMMAR OF THE GREEK LANGUAGE, with 
 Exercises and Vocabularies. By Samuel H. Taylor, LL. D. Based on the 25th 
 edition of Kuhner's Grammar. 400 pages. Price $1.60. 
 
 KENDRICK'S GREEK INTRODUCTION. By Asahel C. Kendrick, D. D., 
 Professor of Greek in the Rochester University. 172 pages. 80 cents. 
 
 SPENCER'S GREEK PRAXIS. By J. A. Spencer, S. T. D., Professor of Greek 
 in the College of the City of New York. A new and excellent work, with Notes 
 and a Vocabulary. 1 vol. cloth. $1.00. 
 
 TIROCINIUM; or, First Lessons in Latin. By D. Bendan, Ph. D. 154 
 pages. 60 cents. 
 
 ARS ORATORIA : Selections from Cicero and Quintiltan on Oratory. 
 With Notes. By Martin Kellogg, Professor of Latin and Greek in the University 
 of California. 1 vol. handsomely bound in cloth. 157 pages. Price $1.25. 
 
 %*THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blaheman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHERS, 
 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New York. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
 
 Arithmetical Examples, 
 
 MENTAL AND WRITTEN. With numerous Tables of Money, Weights, 
 Measures, &c, designed for Review and Test Exercises. By D. W. Fish, A. M. 
 i2mo. cloth, 282 pages. Price $1.00. By mail on receipt of the price. 
 
 This work occupies the place in Robinson's Series formerly held by M The Arith- 
 metical or Test Examples ;" but it is a much fuller work. It contains a large and 
 promiscuous collection of practical examples, both Mental and Written, involving all the 
 principles and ordinary applications of Common Arithmetic, to be used both as a class- 
 book and as a book 0/ reference by the teacher. 
 
 The design is to furnish a large number of well-prepared Intellectual and Written 
 Questions and Problems, without analysis, rule, process, or answer, for thorough drill 
 and review, and that may be used in connection with any other book, or series of books, 
 on the subject, or with great profit put into the hands of advanced and graduating 
 classes, after finishing some systematic treatise on Practical Arithmetic, instead of taking 
 an extended work on Higher Arithmetic. 
 
 There is a general classification of the examples, the work being divided into six 
 chapters. The first chapter presents a full statement of the Standards and Tables of 
 Weights and Measures, other Tables, Notes, &c. ; the second involves the applications of 
 the Simple Rules of Arithmetic, and of Properties of Numbers ; the third includes 
 Common and Decimal Fractions ; the fourth, Compound and Denominate Numbers ; the 
 fifth, Percentage, in all its varied applications ; the sixth comprehends all other subjects 
 belonging to this science. Each succeeding chapter combining the principles and pro- 
 cesses of the preceding ones, as well as of the new subjects added. 
 
 Two editions are printed, one for the use of Teachers, with answers ; the other, without 
 answers, for the use of Classes. 
 
 From Ohio Educational Journal, E. E. White ( 'author of 'White 's Arithmetics ), Editor : 
 " This little book is written and published as a part of Robinson's Mathematical 
 Series, but of course it may be used in connection with any other series or any text-book 
 on the subject of arithmetic. The book is gotten up handsomely and, accompanying some 
 good text-book on arithmetic, would unquestionably do good service. The problems 
 are classified as to subjects, rendering the book usable in classes of all grades." 
 
 ***THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 educational publishebs, 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New Vork. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
 
 Loomis's Music for the Common Schools. 
 
 FIRST STEPS IN MUSIC. A Graded Course of Instruction in Music for Common 
 
 Schools. By Geo. 3 Loomis. To be completed in Four Books. 
 
 t Number One. Price 15 cents. 
 v R J Number Two. Price is cents. 
 
 j Number Three. Price 35 cents, 
 v Number Four. Price 60 cents. 
 
 This series presents a simple, graded course of instruction in Music adapted to the 
 primary classes in our Schools— the very place where the study of Music should begin 
 Children should not only be taught to sing, but they should be taught at an early age 
 to read Music : and it is the design of these books to aid in accomplishing this result. 
 They present the simple rudiments of the subject in a progressive series of easy exercises, 
 accompanied with such instruction as will make the way clear to teachers of very slim 
 musical qualifications. The steps are so gradual in their progressiveness that the teacher 
 can easily keep ahead of the class, and lead them along 
 
 TESTIMONIALS. 
 
 From Hon. Henry Kiddle, Supt. Schools, New York City. 
 
 "First Steps in Music, by Prof. George B. Loomis, seems tome admirably adapted 
 
 for elementary instruction in that art. The method is based on correct principles of 
 
 teaching, and the lessons, dictated by a long practical experience of Prof. Loomis, are 
 
 such as to enable teachers generally to apply them with facility and success." 
 
 From G. A. Chase, Prin. Louisville, Ky. y Female High School. 
 " I have tried Mr. Loomis 1 Plan with the little pupils in the school of a friend of mine. 
 It is astonishing how delightedly and rapidly they learn the elements of vocal music. 1 
 never saw anything equal to the First Steps as an aid to primary instruction." 
 
 From S. M. Capron, Prin. Hartford, Ct., High School. 
 " I knew of no other attempt {' Loomis 1 First Steps') so successful to bring the elemen- 
 tary principles of the science down to the comprehension of children." 
 
 %*THE EDUCATIONAL REPORTER— Full 'of interesting and 
 valuable Educational information, is published three times a year, bearing 
 date respectively January, May and September, and will be sent to 
 teachers and educationists, without charge, on application. 
 
 Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 
 
 educational publishers, 
 138 & 140 Grand St., New York. 133 & 135 State St., Chicago. 
 
