THE

L I T T L E
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

BOSTON:

G. W. COTTRELL, PUBLISHER.
36 Comma.PREFACE.

 

Tms instructive and entertaining history was
written about one hundred and fifty years ago,
by a very ingenious and celebrated person,
Daniel De Foe. Before he became an author,
he was a hosicr, and then a pantile-maker; but
in business he did not succeed, and he sunk into-
great distress. He published many works, of
which Robinson Crusoe is the chief. It is said
that he derived the idea of this story from the
narrative of Alexander Selkirk, a sailor who
was left ashore on the island of Juan Fernandez,
and was brought away by Captain Rogers, after
he had lived there by himself for many years.
Let us hope that this tale of wonderful adven-
tures, bitter sufferings, and perilous escapes,
will teach our young friends the advantages of
a safe and quiet home, and cure them of that
sad disorder of the mind, a discontented and
restless disposition.7

THE ADVnfiNTURES OF ROBINSCN
CRUSOE.

Romxsox Causes, according to his own ac-
count of himself, was at the age of eighteen a
discontented and most unreasonable young gen-
tleman. He had kind parents, a comfortable
home, and all the advanzages coxnmonly arising
from prosperous circumstances; and yet he was
dissatisfied. He appeared to be weary of good
things, and to desire evil things for the sake of
the change. You will see that he had more than
enough of troubles and disasters in the course of
his life to teach him the value of common com-
forts at home. Our first print represents him
sullen and dejected by the fireside, with all
things convenient about him; his sisterhas hold
of his hand and is endeavoring to persuade him
into a goo 1 humour, whilst his parents are rep-
reSenting the adv antages he there possessed, and
are pointing to the case of a beggar at the door
to whom a sen ant has been sent with relief, but
who endures the pitiless wintry storm and hun-
ger at the same time. Robinson disregards all
that can be said and done to attach him to his
home; he becomes ill-tempered and reserved,
and would you believe it, he forms the sad reso-
lution of leaving his parent's house. I quite ex-
pect to find him in some dreadful situation of
distress the next time we hear of him--let us see.9

0 YES, here he is on board a ship in a storm,
which is just ready to sink! They are gett'inga
boat ready for him and the rest of the crew. I
fear it is too small to take them every one, I hope
Robinson will escape some how--that is the lad
I mean; the wind has just blown his hat 011', do
:not you see? Before I tell you what became of
him this time, I must explain how he came on
'board that ship and where it was to have sailed.
The case was this. Robinson had stated his dis-
-contents to some of his young acquaintances,
.amongst whom was a sailor-lad whose father
owned a vessel trading from Hull in Yorkshire
to London. This lad told Crusoe that he would
be happy if he would but go to sea--a very great
mistake indeed, which many a boy finds out too
late. Robinson disliked home and regular habits
- so much that he took this bad advice--left his
~parentS, brothers and sisters without saying
good bye, and got on board this vessel one fine
- evening in company with his sailor friend. They
sailed out of the river Humber, and delightfull
it seemed at first, but in a few hours the wind
- rose and blew boisterously, the waves flew over
the ship and tossed it up and down. At last the
- ship was thrown upon some rocks which knock-
ed a great hole in it, so that they began to sink
and were obliged to take to their boat as I said
1 e ore.ll

WELL, and so as soon as poor Robinson and all
the peOple had got into the little boat, the great
ship went down! Yes, it sunk down into the
sea, till at last even the top of the mast was co-
vered by the waves. All the corn and merchan-
dise which were to have been sold in London
for thousands of pounds, and all the ship that
had cost thousands too, with their boxes of
clothes and everything, were all lost at once
and never heard of more. But Robinson and
the rest of them, had no time to think of those
things, for they were afraid every moment that
their little boat with themselves in it would also
go down, the weather was so tempestuous, the
sea was so rough, and their boat was so over
loaded. But it pleased Providence to spare all
their lives that time. They arrived at a place
called Yarmouth in Norfolk, weak, hungry and
frightened, and miserable; but the people of the
town were very good to them and gave them
food, lodging and clothes. Robinson tells us
that he had at this time some money in his pocket
with which he might have returned home. He
had some thoughts of doing so, but he felt more
ashamed of seeing his friends again and confess-
ing his fault than of continuing to be a diso-
bedient runaway lad. So he proceeded>> Lon-
don, where it appears some relations of his
were living.ROBXNSON Cnvson does not tell us much of his
visit to London, but that he was still bent on
going abroad, and in fact obtained money of
his relations for that purpose. Perhaps they
thought it better that he should go, unsettled
and contrary as his disposition was, than be
forced back again to make his parents misera-
ble by his ill-humour. So after spending some
time in London, young Crusoe embarked in a
trading vessel, bound for Guinea {in the coast of
Africa, taking with him a few toys and trifles to
deal with the natives for their gold dust. The
engraving represents him offering some strings
of beads and a hatchet for some gold-dust,
brought to him bya black prince--not Black
Prince of England, please to remember. Rob-
inson says, that this was the only successful
voyage he ever made. He gained about PS300 in
money, and some knowledge of navigation into
the bargain. He again returned to London;
but strange to tell, did not visit his parents at
York nor take any notice of his other relations.lb

ROBINSON had now money enough to become
the master of a Guinea trading vessel, and soon
set out again to try his fortunes. They were
misfortunes indeed this time, for his vessel was
taken by Moorish pirates; that is sea robbers
from Morocco, and he and all the crew were
made prisoners--that is, slaves. See now Rob-
inson Crusoe reduced from prosperity to slavery
--from the condition of a gentleman's son, or a
merchant on his own account, to that ofa toil-
ing drudge in the house and garden of an African
robber! Crusoe's master Sometimes employed
him in fishing excursions, and on one of these
occasions, when there was nobody but himself,
one man and a boy on board, Robinson began to
entertain the thought of making his escape; so
knowmg that this man could swim perfect well,
and that they were no great dis'auee from shore,
Robinson shoved him suddenly m er board, and
putting out to sva with a fair wind, soon got out
of sight of land. Ile easily persuaded the boy
named Xury to become his servant and help him
all he could. And so they remained a long time
beating about in the Mediterranean, and not
knowing whereabouts they were, nor indeed to
which place it would be best to go.Pages
16 - 17
Missing
From
OriginalI SUPPOSE that our two Wanderers must have
sailed through the Straits of Gibraltar without
knowing it, for the next we hear of them is,
that they were steering southward in the Atlan-
tic Ocean, hoping to meet with some European
ship. If Robinson could have found a convey-
ance then, safely to his father's house at York,
how glad he would been! They continued out
at sea some time longer, and being much in want
of food, they approached a shore and saw some
wild black people, of whom they obtained some
supplies, but who seemed very much astonished
and not a little frightened at their unexpected
guests, who did not wish to trouble them long
with their company, and therefore soon sought
and regained their little vessel. Whilst they
were driving before the wind in much anxiety
as to their fate, Xury suddenly cried out, " 0!
master, a ship--a ship!" They were both ever-
joyed at the sight, which was evidently a Euro-
pean vessel, and now their chief effort was to
make themselves perceived; for the vessel,
though in sight, was not sailing towards them.
So they hoisted a white flag as high as they
could, and at length had the joy of se _' that
they were observed, as the Vessel now terod
her course and came towards them.

0.
f2]

WHEN the ship came up to our adventurers, the
captain inquired of Robinson, in three <<lili'erent
languages, who and what he was; but unhappi-
1y, this young man not having improved his
time at school, understoodnota word he said in
French, in Spanish, or in Portuguese. At last,

' a Scotch sailor who chanced to be on board,
found that Robinson was anEnglishman, and so
got the needful information out of him; which
when the captain understood, induced him to
take the two young men on board with all their
geods. The Portuguese captain behaved very
well indeed to his new guests, and ofl'ered to
take them where he was going, that was to the
Braz1ls in South America, an to buy his boat
at a fair price of him when he got there. He
also offered to take the boy Xury and employ 1
him 1n his ship, which was a great benefit to
both. They had a prosperous voyage to the
Brazils. The captain, who was generous as
well as just, refused to take anything of Robin-
son for his passage, and at the same time bought
all he had to sell at a very good price--the boat
and all that was in it, with the lion's skin, pro-
duced him thus a very useful sum of money;
the thing above all things needful in arriving on
a foreign shore.AND now we find Robinson Crusoe' 1n quite a
new situation and condition in life. Being re-
commended by the captain to an honest res1dent
who was master of a sugar plantation, he ac-
quainted himself with the manner of cultivating
that plant, and of making the sugar itself. At
length he purchased some land and set up plan-
ter. But Robinson began now to reflect that he
could have done better than this at home, had
he liked to have settled on a farm, or to any
other profession or business. In fact, though he
was succeeding as well as he could expect, he
began to be unhappy and discontented again.

At length when he had been about four years in
the Brazils, and had considerable increased his
property, Robinson Crusoe determined to sell
all off and go to sea again as a merchant; and
what trade do you think be fixed upon now to
carry forward on the seas'I--the slave trade! I
am sorry to say, that he resolved to sail to the
coast of Africa to purchase poor negroes to work
in the plantations of Brazil.2D

BUT our restless adventurer was soon punished
for his incurable discontent, and for his unjust
purpose of enslaving'his fellow men. He sailed
in a good vessel with a crew of fourteen per-
sons, and such articles of traffic as would ena

ble him to purchase slaves of the African chiefs.
But they had not been many days out at sea
when a violent tempest arose, such as in the
tropical seas is called a tornado; this drove them
far away from their intended course, and indeed
quite out of their knowledge, so that for twelve
days they knew not where they were or whither
they were oing. Whilst they were in this per-
plexity an terror, one of the sailors suddenly
called out " land 1" That meant that he could
see land; but Robinson had no sooner ran out of
the cabin to look out, than the vessel struck upon
a sand-bank; and the motion being this stopped,
the sea broke over with tremendous violence,
threatening every instant to wash them all over-
board and to break the ship in pieces. At last
they did as before, and as is usual in such cases,
they got the boat down and embarked in her,
although they had little hope that they could
thereby escape. At length their worst fears
were realised; the fatal wave came which over-
set their boat and threw them all into the stor-
my seal - '27

You would now expect an end of the story, but
that you know if they had allbeen drowned, no
one could have told about the storm. Yes, one
was saved, and he got to shore without any boat
at all. It was Robinson, who was thrown out
like the rest of them; but so it happened that
the wave which upset the boat bore him on its
foaming edge, and at length hurled him with
violence on the shore. He had 'ust time to get
on his legs and run higher up efore the next
wave came, which would have carried him back
again to the whelming ocean. Poor Crusoe had
scarcely escaped this danger when he dropped
nearly insensible from the violence, exertion,
and fright, he had undergone. When he came
to himself he looked up and thanked God for
his wouderful deliverance. He was the only
one saved out of the whole company; he never
saw them afterwards, nor any sign of them, but
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that
were not fellows. Robinson cast his eyes to the
stranded vessel, which lay at some distance buf-
feted by the yet rollin sea. It seemed to him
a miracle that he could have got on shore.So our friend Robinson Crusoe is at length land-
ed all alone on an entirely unknown shore
What was to become of him now--what should
he do? Can you tell me what you would do in
such a case--hunger coming on, night approach-
ing, and no food or lodging provided! I rather
think you would wish yourself at home again,
as there is no doubt Robinson did on that ceca-
sion. In fact he soon began to think that he
had but a dreadful deliverance fi-om a sudden to
a lingering death. His condition was indeed
pitiable. He was wet and had no other clothes,
nor anything to eat and drink, nor any prospect
but that of perishing with famine or being de-
voured by wild beasts. He had no weapon to
defend him, or to enable him to procure any
animal for his sustenance; he had nothing about
him but a knife, and a tobacco-box and pipe,
with a little tobacco. He walked about in very
great distress and agony of mind, and as night
came on he had nothing for it but to climb up
into a thick bushy tree out of the way of wild
beasts, and here he fell fast asleep.31

THE next morning early Robinson awoke in his
leafy chamber, and rubbing- his eyes wondered
not a little where he was. Hunger soon re-
minded him that he had had no 'supper, and
when he had roused himself completely he could
not tell where his breakfast was to come frorn.
This was rather a serious predicament--worse
than sitting by his father's fireside atfiYork, tak.
ing rolls and coffee on a rainy morning. Before
Crusoe descended from the tree he looked out
on the ocean. The storm had abated, and he
was surprised to observe that the wreck of the
ship had been thrown higher up and much nearer
the shore. This gave him some cemtort, and
he walked as far as he could towards her, but
still found half a mile of waterbetween the ves-
sel and the land. In a few hours, however, the
tide had ebbed out so far that he could approach
the ship b swimming, and after having pad-
dled roun it for some time, he at length found
a bit of rope han ing from her side, b which
he swung himsel up and got on boar . Now
he perceived that if theg had all kept the shi

that they would all have een safe, and he wo ,

have had companions in his exile. a,33

WHEN Robinson got on board the vessel, it was
a sad sight indeed. She was Wedged fast, so
that the fore part was secured and whole, but
the hind part was greatly damaged and broken,

and she was more than half filled with water.
All the masts, sails and ropes--which are called
the rigging--were gone. Happily for Robinson
he found the provision room but little injured,

and the chief of the stores remaining good. 0
with what relish did he devour biscuits and ba-
con, cheese and salt fish, and how refreshed he
was by a drop of good wine from the neck of a
broken bottle, tho ug'h 1n his emess he sadly
cut his mouth withug the glass! e found indeed
that he was in danger of gindulging to excess af-
ter his long fast, and therefore presently set
about another kind of employment. He knew
that his very existence depended on his being
able to transport these provisions to the shore
for his future subsistence, but how was this to
be done? there was no boat, and the remains of
the vessel would not hold together long, strained
as it still was by the force of the sea and wind.
He could to be sure swim away as he had done,

and he could put a biscuit or two in his mouth;
but it was needful to hit on some better contri-
vance than that--what do you think it could he!

' -\'.34 - 35
Missing
From
Original
ROBINSON did not get to land without hazard and
difllculty; for when his raft touched the ground,
the opposite part began to sink in the water, so
that he and his wares were very nearly sloped
off into the sea. He just succeeded in prevent-
ing this, and at length got all his goods up high
and dry on the shore. Oh, how thankful he
was !--there was food enough and other comfor-
table things for a long time to come; no thoughts
of starving now. His next care was to find a
place of lodging for himself, and of security
for his goods. So, having piled them to ether
as well as he could, he took a gun an some
powder, and ascended a high hill at no great
distance. Then it was that he discovered this
strange spot to be an island, for he could see the
ocean with its waves sparkling all round it. The
island itself was of course not very large, nor
was it barren; there were woods and grassy
vales, and various animals skipping about, but
he could not discover the least sign of a human
being. You see him there on the top of the hill
in the engraving, and there are his casks and
chests in aheap below. What has he done with
his raft? Oh! there it is, tied to a stump driven
into the sand!
ROBINSON Causes came down from the hill and
walked about to explore the island further, but
was greatly afraid of losing sight of his stores.
So he did not go a great way that day; but when
evening arrived he felt very much fatigued with
his exertions, and began to wish much for some
quiet lodging in which he might lie secure for
the night. However, he could find none, and
therefore he barricaded himself round as well as
he could with the tubs, chests, and boards;
and having taking his supper, passed the night
very comfortably. In the morning he again
looked towards the ship, and finding she still
remained, he determined to try and raft over as
many more things as he thOught would be useful
to him, and, in fact, went and came on this er-
rand several times, and greatly increased his
stores on the island. It was not to be expected
that he should do this every time without an
accident; on one occasion the raft and all that
was on it was upset and washed away, and him-
self narrowly escaped drowning. These expe-
ditions were at length put an end to as he had
expected. One morning when he awoke after
a windy night and looked towards the sea, the
ship had entirely disappeared; not a plank was
visible, all had been borne away by the curling
green waves!ROBINSON Causes, though solitary, was no lon-
ger destitute on his little island. Provisions,
drink, clothing, tools, materials, arms, gun--
powder and shot, with innumerable other arti-
cles, not excepting MONEY! he had supplied
himself with .in more 01' less abundance. You
will ask, of what use money could be to him in
an uninhabited island? None whatever certain-
ly; but he prudently thought that if ever a ship
came that way, gold would be of use again.
Still Robinson was without a habitation. He
had goods but no lodging, and that was rather
awkward; he was also in constant terror of wild
beasts issuing from the woods, which might eat
his provisions, and perhaps himself at last. So
he cansidered what he should do, and resolved
to erect himself a tent with the sails and cordage
of the ship, until he could provide himself some
more secure habitation. He found that he should
lose all knowledge of the days, months, or
years of his present life, unless he kept some
account of their progress; so he got some long
sticks, and cutting a notch every day, could at
any time count them up and find where he was
in the year.

.ua43

Rosmsox's tent would not have protected him
from the attacks of wild beasts, of which he
was so much afraid, if he had trusted to ropes
and canvas. 'l'o fortify himself to his satisfac-
tion, be enclosed it in a ring fence made with
stakes driven lirmly into the ground, and so high
as not to be mounted by men or animals. He
would not even make a door for himself to enter
lest he should chance to leave it open, but used
a ladder, which he. alxvays drew up after him.
So he was secure, and at the same. time solitary
indeed. Within this enclosure, or within his
tent, he brought all his various stores anti use-
ful articles. This spot was close. under the side
of a hill, in which he scooped out a cave, which
he made. his cellar. Now, though this young
man was for the present in much less distress
than might have been expected, he was by no
means happy. The thoughts of his native land,
and the social comforts he had forsaken without
cause, often brought tears into his eyes; and
his utter loneliness made him, for the. most part,
melancholy and wretched. If he had not been
obliged to employ himself so much in laborious
occupations required by his situation, he might
have lost his reason altogether. I trust that none
of my young readers will envy nim, snug as was
his tent and cave, and although he was a sort of
monarch over the island he inhabited.[T was, according- to Robinson's reckoning, the
30th of September, 16:39, when he first. set foot
on this island. At that period mariners had
traversed the seas but little, and there were
countless lands and seas which had never appa-
rently been-visited by men. It Would now be
rather ditlicult to find a solitary island, or even
the rocky summit of a mountain ahuv e the sea,
which has not been seen, named, and laid down
in some chart or another. Uur adventurer did
not neglect to provide himself with pen, ink
and paper, books, and nautical instruments out
of the ship's stores; and these relieved his dul-
ness very much, and enabled him to write his
history at full length. What he says in his nar-
rative about this island as an unknown country
to all the world, might have been true almost
two hundred years ago; but this would not quite
do to write as existing at the present day. The

rint shows Robinson in his tent, writing his

istory by the light of a lamp.
As this is but a little book, and Robinson Cru-
eoe's story is a very long one, we cannot give
an account of every thing- he mentions in his
own history, but must content. ourselves with
noticing the most interesting circumstances. It.
happened very fortunately for Robinson lhat the
island had no savage or venomous beasts upon
it, which was rather surprising for a spot in the
torrid zone. He found indeed wild cats and
wild goats, both of which he tamed, and made
of them a sort of companions. nt'flilit'fl these,
there were birds, some of them rood for food,
and parrots, one of which he can t, and taught
it to call him by his name. ins provisions
brought from the ship would not have snbsisted
hun more than a few months, so that he was
very glad to find an vplies on the island of some
sort. lie had the ash and milk of the goats,
of whose skins he made himself clothes; and
he found gra res and wild fruits in abundance.
There Were, lbesides, hares and rabbits, and fish
to be obtained occasionally from the sea. Still
he would have wanted corn victuals, if he had
not chanced to shake out one of the ship's bags
. in which a few grains had remained. These
eprange up and in time produced him all that he
required for himself and his goats. in the print
you see him attending these animals."71': have said that Robinson dug a cave in the
side of the hill. He found this so much more
cool and comfortable in the heat of the day than
his tent, that he Set to work to enlarge it for a
habitation at certain times. He worked very
hard at this fov eighteen days, and had just con-
gratulated himself on the progress he had made,
when a great misfortune happened which had
very nearly put an end to all his adventures.
The earth from above tumbled down sudden]
and almost huried him beneath it! With much
diiliculty he extricatedhimselt', and then had all
his work to do over again; taking care now to
prop up the ceiling of his cave as e proceeded.
After this happened an earthquake, which made
poor Robinson quake, accompanied by a storm
which almost tore his tent from the ground. But
a worse misfortune than these, and one that
alarmed him much more, was a dangerous ill-
ness, an ague that attacked him and confined
him to his habitation many days, and which he
thought at one time would have ended fatally.
See how deplorable he looks, with no atten-
dants near but his cats and his poll-parrot!b;

Ir was some time before poor Robinson reco-
vered his usual health and strength; he could do
little but wander slowly about, trusting to Na-
ture as his only physician. When, however, he
became quite well, he determined to make a
more extensive survey of the island than he had
done before; so he set out one fine morning with
such provisions as he could conveniently carry.
Wandering up by the banks of abrook, he found
many pleasant meadows, rich and verdant; and
in places were growing many splendid plants
and flowers peculiar to the warm climates. The
chief of these were aloes, sugar-canes, tobocco
plants and melons. Proceeding further, he came
to woods of maho any and cedar, with vines
and grapes in abun ance. When night came on;
he climbed into a tree as before: and this seems'
to be the safest lodging in those countries for
travellers on such occasions. The next morn-
ing he proceeded and found the country still
more luxuriant and delightful, so that he could
not help feeling satisfaction at the thought that
it seemed to be all his own, and that without
dispute. Robinson travelled thus some miles,
and at length returned home laden with delicl
ous fruits.53

BUT notwithstanding the fruits and the animals
Robinson obtained, he found that he must turn
farmer or husbandman in earnest, if he would
be sure of a certain store of food for the future.
So he enclosed a piece of ground, dug it up with
much labor, and sowed the grain in the proper
season. Do you know that the climate in the
torrid zone has only two kinds of weather to
mark the year, the rainy season and the dry:
thus, it is rainy in our spring and autumn, and
dry during our summer and winte The first
time he sowed his corn, he lost 18 crop for
want of knowing this: the dry season came, and
it was all parched up, and so perished. I think
Robinson Crusoe must have been very well
qualified to write a book of trades, he had to
undertake so many himself. \Ve find him a
sailor, fisherman, ship-builder, carpenter, far-
mer, grazier, butcher, basket-maker, pot and
pan maker, miller, tailor, and twenty other
things, and king of the country at the same
time. All this was very curious, and it is cer-
tainly entertaining enough to read about; but
Robinson would rather have been engaged in
any one of those trades in England and no king
at all, than shut up in his lone island with no-
body but his cats and his parrot to speak to.
What do you think of the matter?05

WE must now inquire more particularly how
our friend Robinson proceeded in some of the
employments just mentioned. Poor fellow! he
tells us that he had no pots or pans to put and
carry any liquid in, nor a basket to take provi-
sions with him ona journey. Luckily he found
some willow-trees, whose long boughs and
tough twigs enabled him to provide himself
with baskets both light and strong, though not
perhaps very neat or ornamental. He was more
troubled to make pots and pans, and would have
given several pieces of his useless gold for a
good pitcher and a brown dish, such as in Eng-
land we can get for a few pence. However, he
set to work; but he says we should both pity
and laugh were we to see the awkward, mis-
shapen things he made at first. Why, his pots
fell in and his pots fell out with their own
Weight: and as for liquors, they all preferred
making the best of their way out, to remaining
confined in such ugly apartments. But at length
he found out the method of forming these vessels
better, and of hardening them too; for, finding
a piece of one of them which had been in the
fire accidentally baked as hard as a stone he
took the hint, and building up lighted embers
round his pots, made them as solid as he wished.ROBINSON'S next concern was to procure the
means of grinding or rather bruising his corn,
for it was neither convenient nor wholesome to
eat it whole. To construct a mill to grind it,
was out of the question; though I dare say the
island had both wind and water. It was need-
ful to devise some more simple machine, and
he could think of nothing better than a pestle
and mortar. He spent many a day endeavoring
to find a great stone big enough to hollow out
for the purpose, but was unsuccessful- and pro-
bably if he had obtained one, he could not have
cut into it. At last he procured a block of wood
hard enough, which he scoo ed out with fire
. and labor. It was not very itiicult to form a
pestle, or beater, with a heavy knob at the end
of the same material. There he is, pounding
away and quite busy. I am afraid, with all his
labor, his flour was very coarse and husky, so
' that his bread and puddings must have set him
Ieoughing sometimes.s is?

Poon Robinson had a labm-ious time of it when
he turned carpenter; for though he had trees
enough, it cost him weeks of toil to cut one
down; and then to make them into boards with-
out a saw was sad fatiguing work indeed. He
says he was forty-two whole days making one
long shelf for his cave; for he had to chop each
side flat with his axe, so that you see one tree
made but one board; butasawyer would in half
a day have cut out twenty or more. But he had -
a more im ortant project in his head than mak-
in a shel , or even a house. What; could it be

id he wish to build a church, ofii' castle, or
a tower? Try and think for him, and imagine
what it was he desired most of all, and at all
times--yes, more than all the comforts which a
house replete with every convenience could

have supplied him in his lonely island.t SUPPOSE you must have guessed by this time
that the thing Crusoe most desired was a ship,
)r even a boat, to bear him, if not to England,
at least to some land where there were human
beings to converse with! Yes, that was what
he louged for--society. IIow thankful we ought
all to be for kind friends and relatives, always
at hand to aid or cheer us! Solitude is the
greatest punishment almost that can be inflicted
on us in this life, and so Robinson found it. As
he walked one day by the sea-side full of these
thoughts, he saw the large boat belonging to
the ship-wrecked vessel lying high up on the
beach, where it had been cast, bottom upwards.
Now, it' half-a-dozen men could but have lent
him a hand for a few minutes, they would have
turned it over and brought it to the sea, so as to
have floated it oll' at high tide. But there was
only poor Robinson, who, although he got levers
and rollers from the wood, found that he could
not move the boat a foot! Then he set himself
to dig away the sand beneath it; and thus indeed
he dld alter the position of the boat, but still
he was quite unable to move it forwarddeg so he
was obliged to give the old boat ur after he had
Ipent many days about it.I AM ready to think that it would have been bet-
ter for Robinson to content himself on his is-
land, than to attempt to venture out to sea in a
boat by himself, it' he had one ready for his use.
But he thought differently; and tinding that
there were no hopes of managing the ship's
boat, he resolved to try and make one--he that
had been seven weeks makingone single. board!
But so intent was he on this scheme. that he did
not even reflect on the possibility of conveying
the new boat to the sea, from the wood where
the tree was to he felled. He owns that he
acted very much like a simpleton in all this busi-
ness. However, to work he went, and cut down
a cedar tree, almost six feet in diameter--that
is, in width straight across at the bottom. It is
most surprising that he could ever {all such a
tree! lie was twenty days hcwing' and hacking
at it to cut it down; fourteen more ettiug the.
top and branches otl'. Then it took h m a month
to shape the. outside of the log like the fashiOn
of a boat, and three months more to hollow it
out with fire and labor. So at last his boat was
so far finished, and it was big enough to 11am
carried six and twenty men! In fact, he was
quite delighted with it; bttt does it not look odd
to see him admiring it so much, lying as it does
in the midst of a wood, not a bit of rippling
ocean to be seen!ROBINSON tells us that he was highly delighted
with his boat: but soon came the sad reflection
that it was not in, nor near the water; and it
happened, unluckily, that between the boat and
the sea there was a hill! Now he had no more
power to move this boat than the other, and the
distance was greater. It seems that he never
thought of that. At first he tried to cut the hill
away; but that was rather to much for him,
and there was no rail way company to undertake
it. Then he thought to dig a canal or dock to
let the water up to the spot; and be calculated
that this would occupy him ten or twelve years
at least, there being only two excavators, hi

right hand and his left, to perform the work.
This he thought was too much too attempt, and
so he gave up all thoughts of Launching this
boat, which had pleased him sohighly at first.
When he had finished this boat, he had been
four years on that lonely, unknown island!r." 9

,ud' 0'
.

\. >>.~.f ' . '- J. L. ,
Ann 'now Robinson tells us a little of hilc'e'n'dig
tion, His clothes were nearly worn to rat)-
his beard resembled that of the goats around
him; his shoes and stockings were long ago
worn out, nor had he a hat to his head. As to
provisions, those obtained from the ship of
course were all gone; and what was worse, his
powder and shot, with which he procured game,
.erenearly expended also. His ink too, with -
ich he 'wrote a dailg account of his affairs,
we) almost gone; and t is want grieved him as
much as the others, some of which he could in
a sort of way supply. As for clothes, he man-
aged pretty well with his goat-skins and threads
Jf the same to botch himself ups. suit; nay,
more, he made an umbrella of the same mate-
rial to defend him from the heat of the sun: and
thus equipped, our engraving represents him
walking about his island. His chief employ-
ments were, cultivating his fields and garden;
gathering, curing, and packing his fruits; at-
tending his tamed animals; procuring and dres-

_ sing 1118 food; with various other operations and

labors needful in his situation. Finding, how-
ever, that he had still time on his hands, his
mind stran ely reverted to his former design 0'
escaping ' possible from the island.

>t

' ."~68 - 69
Missing
From
Original
ROBINSON would sooner encounter dangers than
have dull ease and safety. He soon found that
though the island was not large, the led es of
[Oaks about it forced him a good way out 0 sea,
and he narrowly escaped being thrown upon
them. \Vhen he had passed these, he came to
a furious current. such as you observe at the
sluice of a water-mill. He was now between the
rocks and this current, which he. feared would
carry away his boat and overwhelm it. He con-
tinued beating about here for two days unable
to return, the wind bcin contrary, and having
only a choice ofdangers ( nring that time. Then
he thought of his quiet hut and cave on the is-
land, and the provision and other comforts therc
stored up, and reproached himself for his desire
of change. He. stretched forth his hands to-
wards the island. and said, "0 happy, happy
spot, I shall newrsee more! 0 miserable crea-
ture, whither am I going!" Bntjnst as he had
given himself up for lost, a breeze arose to-
wards the island. So on he spread his little sail
and plied his oars; and so in the course of two
or three hours he regained the island, and fall-
ing on his knee. when he had stepped ashore, he
devoutly thanked Almighty God for this great
deliverance. Ile laid himself down in his cave
to refresh his weary limbs, and was not a little
startled by a voice, which said, "Robinson!
Robinson! where have you been?"Rosmsos answered his parrot very kindly, and
perhaps for want of other ears, acknowledged
to the bird how very foolish he had been. He
now made himself more contented at home, and
set about improving his condition. He made
much better chairs and tables, pots and pans,
baskets, and other useful articles, than he had
at first. Then he determined to increase his
stock of goats as his powder and shot got low,
with which he had procured game. So he made
pitfalls for the wild goats, in which at last he
caught as many as he required. He enclosed for
them a spacious meadow, and thus could manage
them without inconvenience. His stock in-
creased so, that in about two years he had nearly
fifty goats, young and old. So he had goat's
flesh, and milk too, when he pleased. See him
now in his cave, sitting down to dinner. There
is his poll-parrot on one side, looking very
knowing, his two cats on the other looking very
lovin , and an old dog at his feet. I wonder
whatie has got for dinner? I should think goat-
mutton, roast or boiled, and perhaps some of
his barley bread boiled in milk for a pudding.
Should you not like to dine with him?
ROBINSON wished very much that some on:
could have taken a sketch of him, in his walk-
ing-dress, as he strolled about the island. H!
has described it so, that the artist has, I see, ac-
complished the task. We will explain it in hit
own words. " I had a great high, shapclesl
cape, made of a goat's skm, witha flap hanging
down behind, as well to keep the sun from m:
as to kee out the rain. I had a short jacket oi
goat's skin, with long'skirts; pantaloons of thc
same shaggy material; of which also I had sockl
or buskins, that supplied the place of shoes am
stockings. I had a broad belt, in loops of whicl
hung a saw and hatchet; another belt, having a
pouch, swung over my shoulder, in which I
kept my powder and shot; at my back I carrier
a basket, on my shoulder a gun, and over m3
head a great clumsy thing made of goat's skin
like an umbrella, to keep off the sun." 80 mucl
'for the appearance and condition of our friem
Robinson Crusoe: we must now attend to othe:
thin s, as new events soon opened upon him
"It appened," says he, " one day about noon
as I was walking on the shore, that I discerned
to my unspeakable surprise, the plain impres-
sion of a man's foot on the sand 1"ROBINSON declares that hg'stood like one thl
derstruck; he listened, look around, mounte
hill, listened again, but could perceive nothi
more. At length he sped home as fast as.
legs would carry him, fearing an enemy at eve
turn. He skipped over the wall of his enc.
sure, and drew the ladder quietly after him, 2
passed a sleepless night. Now again he wish
for that undisturbed solitude of which he 11
complained before. He wearied his brain w:
conjectures as to who the persons could
whose foot-marks he had seen, and whence th
could have come. He continued in this alm
some days, during which time he scarcely dar
to peep abroad. When he did so, he saw not
ing of any human beings; but determined
render his dwelling more secure by stren the
ing the fences round his dwelling, an th
making them answer the purpose of fortiflc
tions to his little castle! He, however, pass
two years more without disturbance of any kin
and the fear of enemiesbegan to subside, t
again his solitude was his chief affliction.78 - 83
Missing
From
Original85

WHEN the sea was calm, Robinson rowed him-
self to the wreck, and found that not a soul on
board was left alive. He obtained from the ves-
sel many articles of which he was much in
want, and made many voyages for that purpose
as he had done before. Another Year or two
passed away, and Robinson continued as solita-
ry as ever; but at length it seemed as if he was
to have company more than enough, for he saw
five canoes full of savages approaching the is-
land! He fetched the telescope which he had
obtained from the ship, and, climbing his hill
of observation, he plainly discerned about thirty
persons sitting round a fire, and two apparently
bound ready to be killed! One of these he pre<<
sently saw, releasing himself from his bonds,
dart away from his enemies like lightning to-
wards the woods. With such amazing swift-
ness did he run, urged by hopes and fears for
his life, that he left his pursuers far behind, and
rapidly approached the spot where Robinson
was standing, who now thought it time to in-
terfere. He sprang in between the pursuers and
pursued, and firing off, first a pistol, and then a
musket, so desperately alarmed the savages,
who had never heard fire-arms before, and whc
saw one of their companions dr0p dead, that
they immediately took to their canoes, and
Went away as fast as they could ply their cars

,6?

'1'THE young savage who had escaped from his
enemies was not less alarmed than the rest, and
fell flat on his face before Robinson, who had
much ado to soothe him and to persuade him to
rise. You see this young savage would have
been killed and eaten in a very short time, if he
had not slipped his cords and run away. He
seemed very thankful to Robinson, though of
course he could not make himself understood by
words; and, to make short of it, Robinson
found him a very excellent companion and as-
sistant, when he had taught him a few words of
English. As it was on Friday that Robinson
first saw him, he gave that name, and you will
hear of him now as his man Friday! He was
very clever, expert, obedient, and attached to
his master; he soon learned the use of European
implements, and could shoot game with a gun
exceedingly well. Robinson taught him the
principles of religion, made him abhor the
savage practices of his own nation, and, in fact,
educated him and civilized him completely in
the course of time.
Ronmsou and his man Friday pasfidsome years
together without any particular adVenture. It
was one morning in the year, 'which was the
twenty-seventh of Crusoe's captivity in the is
land, that Friday perceived a number of canoes
full of savages approaching the island. The
young man was frightened, thinking they were
.come to seek for him and eat him up; but Rob-

}. inson comforted him, and promised to defend

" him. When the savages had sat down on the
shore, it was evident that they were come on
their old errand, and meditated another horrid
feast. So Robinson and Friday each took as
many guns as they could carry, and determined
to put a stop to such proceedings. They ap-
proached as near as they could without being
discovered, and could see about twenty savages
feasting away, and two wretched ones ready to
be killed. Then Robinson determined to fire
their guns at the savage men. This they re-
peated until two or three of the savages were
killed, many wounded, and the rest lrightened,
not knowing whence this attack proceeded. In
great consternation they jumped up and took to.
their boats, leaving their prisoners bound on
the shore. One of these was a white man, a
Spaniard, who jum ed for joy at his deliverance,
so unexpected. ho do you think the other
was? . I will tell you presently.' ' ' f."
* - Is": .A. 5 , ax
. n ' V I _.
I' 1' 0'"%ue='i--':;;'
P ' 1 fl. :- .5

THE other intcnded victim, thus surprisingly
released, was an old man, at whom Friday gazed
at first with intense earnestness, and at length,
rushing towards him, clasped In his arms his
own father! It is impossible to describe the
mutual joy of parent and child on this occasion.
Friday danced about him and showed the utmost
degree of filial duty and affection. He rubbed
his benumbed hands, brought him drink and food,
and had the satisfaction of seeing his father's
activity at length restored. Robinson was
scarcely less surprised and pleased at this strange
event; and now questioned the Spaniard, and
found that he too had been cast away, but not
on an uninhabited land. He had lived some
time with the natives, when they were attacked
and over-powered by a neighboring tribe, who
took himself and many others prisoners, who
would all have been devoured had they not been
delivered by Robinson and his man Friday.
Very thankful they were for their escape, and
for the food and shelter Robinson gave them.
He might now indeed call himself a king, hav-
ing subjects three in number, who acknowledg-
ed his authority: but we have more events pre-
sently to relate.
MORE visitors now poured in on Robinson. One
morning his man Friday ran and told him that a
canoe, such as he had never seen before, was
in sight and rowing towards them. Robinson
soon perceived that they were Europeans--yes
-and how great was his joy to find that they
were English too! Yet he had his fears that
these people could be after no good, and there
had been no storm to injure any vessel. So Rob-
inson kept on his guard, and now saw plainly an
English ship at anchor at no great distance. The
boat drew to shore, the men landed, and bore
on their shoulders three persons bound as 'priso-
ners. Robinson soon found out what was the
nature of the case, and being a man of courage,
determined, if possible, to release these priso-
ners as he had done the others. Whilst, there-
fore, the sailors were absent ranging in the
woods, he and Friday approached, and unhind-
ing the men, who were utterly astonished at
their deliverers, bade them defend themselves
and put arms in their hands. These three with
Robinson and his companidns made seven in all,
who, finding the sailors in the woods drunk or
asleep, came on them unawares, bound them
all'with cords, and so made them prisoners in
turn i--Was not that well done?I cannot describe the surprise and alarm of thee
men at finding themselves bound fast, and thei
prisoners released; but they were obliged 1
submit. The fact is, those sailors were mutl
mrs,--that is, they had rebelled against th
captain and officers of their ship, and had brougl
them to this island for the purpose of leavu
them to perish; but you see their violent doing
were overruled against them. They now in
plored mercy, for they knew they were in t]
power of their officers again and "had deserv:
to die. Their captain referred all to Robinso
whom they made judge in this business. I
said he could not promise them what he won
do for two or three days--then they would fi:
out his intentions. This was very cleverly m
naged; for the people in the ship, wonderi
that their companions did not return, sent a
other boatful to the island, leaving only two
three in the vessel. When Robinson and I
men saw them coming, they hid themselv
and as soon as the men stepped ashore, tl
rushed upon them so suddenly and with 3:
resolution, that they mastered them every 0
and took possession of both their boats. "

"F m