Qopyrighted [895

MFlguonuu Baas.
new YORK.)(JBINSON CRUSOF. wzisstlv:
youngest son ut' ilia parenta-

I'lis father was a man of stum-
wealdm able to give his :mn n. gum]
110"ch and to rat-Jul him lo school.
l:. us; his wish that his son should
become a lawyer. hut the lmy'shuud
lit-gun very untiy l0 IJC [filed with
thoughts of ll'ZIVL'i. and nothim;
would satisfy llin'. ind. in go in 5:51,
His father gave lzim wise: and

- r

earner-cl. (:1'n.nsc:l againat it. um. im' ;=_

 

time his :uivicu prevailed; but in
the and tlzc boys desire to roam
lmi him to set his father's wishes at naught. 0m: day.
being,r ut Ilalll. a sezapnt't town of England, ltc: int-I. u Hchonl
fellow who was almnt to sail in his father's ship and "'11-'-
urged 1")" lillil l-O gfo with him. In an evil hour he yielded.
and \l'itltouL asking: God's Messing; or his father's. in: went
or. hoard.

   

Um: day, when they had been oul about. two \x-u_:<_-l<s. e.
__["v.'|$ storm came: up, and the ship struck u rock near :1
2*"'il".:;".' coast. The cr'i' launched :1 boat. and stingiit to
recap: in it. but Lho waves soon overturned it. and all were:
.'sl'pai'atmi in II": sea. Rniiinxon Crusm: was. carried h)" a
i'at'e tut-{Hrti lile Shore, mid at length thrown ulmn ll 1:
land st-nsnhgss.

 

"flu-71 he recovered hi: begun to look about tn See if any
of hih' comrades had I.'chpeti. but he could see no Sign ul

:any of them.
Night coming on. he climbed into a thick. hushy true In)
sleep. nnL knowing hut that the-re. might hr; ran-ennui:
lx.-;t~:ts :here. \thn he awoke next morning. lhc. sea It calm.
and he: could Her: the ship about a mile from the. shore : and when
1111: tide tabbed hr: .suum out In her. Hr. found that all tin: lzrn-
"l-'i'rlv'? were. Ili')'. an?! lacing: very hungry. filled his pockets with

 

'-;>;:.iit. :m l :1: .:=. ht: \utlll' about other :hinga 2 for in: saw that lit:
must lose no time. in getting ashore all that he could from the ship.
First. he: threw swcrhnnfli several spare. yards and spam. Tlu-n he
"'th down tl'm ship's aillc and tlfid them Ingvtht-r. and laying u Few

  

   

The nudwln Lil-my
Du'kuy

K1219 primshort pieces of plank upon
them, he had a raft strong enough
to bear a moderate wrzight. Next he
lowered upon it three semncn's chests.
and filled them with provisions. After
a long: search he found the carpenter's
chest. which was a great prize to him. He
lowered it upon the raft. and then secured a
supply of guns and gunpowder. \Vith this cargo he - _
started for the shore, and succeeded in landing it safe. -. '

His next work was to View the country, and seek a proper place
to stow his goods. lie knew not yet when: he was. whether on :1
(:outimsnl,' or an ishuul. Seeing a hill not over a mile away, very
steep and high. he climbed to the top of it, and discovered that
he was on an island. barren, and probably uninlmlxitcd. except by

rild animals. _

\Vhen Robinson Crusoe realized the lonely. desperate situatinn
that he was in. his heart sunk. and he almost wished that he: hail
perished with the others. But soon perceiving the ingrutitude of
this state of mind. he. fell upon his knees to thank God for saving
his lifc.----his alone among so many,--and a feeling of confidence
erase in his breast that He would still protect him in the midst of
the lmrils by which he was surrounded.

 

Everyday for twislvn .(lgyl'srfllc made-ii trip" to the vessel. bring-
ing: ashore all that he thought wmtld befruseful to him. The night
of the twelftlrduy there was-n violent wind, and when he awoke in
the morning the ship was nowhere to be seen.

He then gave his thoughts to providing himself with a safe dwell'
hug-place. Although he had hardly ever handled tools before
in his life. his needs now forced him to fmcl out their use. He set
himself at work to build a hut. or cabin. out. of the timbers he had
saved from the. wreck. It was a task that took a. long time, but
at last, by effort and contrivance, it was finished. and he had a
fairly comfortable house. which he called his castle.

After it was completed. hr: applied himself to linking other
things that would add to his comfort. First. he made a chair and
a table, with an immense amount of labor, for each board that he:
used had to be formed from the trunk of a tree. being hewed flat
or. two sides until it was thin enough. To provide himself wirhSAILING AROUND THE ISLAND.

clothes. he saw-(:11 the skins 0f all the creatures he shot. and driud
them. and made gurlncms for himself out of them. In addition.
at the cost of a great deal of limc and trouble. he". made. also of
skins, an umbrella. which he: needed greatly to kw]; off both sun

and rain.
He: had found upon the ship two cats and a do". The cals he:THE FOOT--PRINTS IN THE SAND.

carried ashore on the raft, while the dog; swam ashore himself. and
was a trusty servant to Robinson Crusoe for many years. Beside
the company of these. pets, he had that of a parrot which he
caught and taught to apcuk, and its chatter sun-1.11 to while away
many hours that would otht'rwisc have been dreary.

Ht: went out every day with his gun to hunt for food. Hefound that there were goats
running wild on the island, and
he often succucded in shooting some
of them. But hr; saw that his powder and
shot would. in time, all be. gone. and that
to have. a steady supply of goats llcsh. he

must brood them in flocks. So in: Heel. a

trap to take some alive. and caught sev-

eral. lIe enclosed a piece of ground for
them to run in ; and in time had 3 large Hock
which furnished him with all the moat: hr. nmrrlcd.

For :1 long time he lirooded over the idea of" makingn canon out
of the trunk of n trczct, and at last ht: succeeded in shaping with his
axe a rough vessel in'which he snilmi around tlte island.

Years and years of this lottoly life: passe-J. away. Although
Crusoe had. to some extent. be'c'otnc announced with his solitary lot
got at times a terrible sense of lonclinuss and desolation would
comom-'cr him. Many titties wouhl he go to tine topof' a hill
- where he could look "mitt to son. in hopes
of catching sight of- a ship. Sometimes '
he would fancy that. at a vast distance. he
spied It suil.' Ht: would I
please himself with llnpt:
of it. but after looking at
it steadily. till he was "nl'i
most blind. would
lose it quite. "l'hon

 
 
  
   
  
 
 

in an agony of misery
and dcspnir ltc wouid
sit down and weep and
sob like it child.

But om: day he. saw a sight which. while it gave him cause for
alarm, served to turn his thoughts in :t new channel. It was the
print of H. naked foot upon the sand near the. share. I: filled him
with a. new (car. for 'it showed that the: islantl must sometimes bu:
visited by savages.

One morning. <<oing out quite early, he could sue: the light of
:1 fire about two miles away. He stoic up under the. t:()\'ttrt)llrt1c15
and bushes until he was near enough to observe what was going on.
He saw that five canoes were drawn up on tho s'nnru. whilt- :=.
swan" of naked savages were dancing; about a fire. Presently they
dragged two poor wretches from the boats. Ont: m" them was
knocked rlmvn at once, and several of the savages set to work to

 
     
 
    
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

V .A . ' __cut him up. They were evidently cannibals. that is. people who
eat men, and were going to hold one of their horrible feasts t: pon
their capLives. The other captive". was>>: lei't standing for 2'. moment.
and setting :1 cltunct: to escape. started to run. Robinson Crusoe
was "early alarmcrl win-n he. saw that the runaway was coming
direct}: toward himself, bat when he saw that only two pursued.
and that thn rnnznvzty gained upon them, he made up his mind to
help him. ""hen they were near enough, Robinson Crusoe stepped
in between the l".ll'.21\'.':l3'nhfl his pursuers. and adva icing on the
forentmt of the latter. knocked him (lawn with the stock nt' his
gun. The other raised his bow and was going to shoot. when
Kohinsnn Crnsm: tired at him and killed him. Then he madt:
signs to the runaway to come to him, and the. poor creature did so
in fear and trembling. kneeling at (jrnsmz's l'vnt. :15 a sign that he
was his slat-e. Crusoe took him home to his castle and gave. him
something to uni. Robinson Crusoe had n w a companion, and
in a short time lll'. began to teach him to speak English. First he
let him know that his name was to be Friday. for that "as the day
on which his life. hzttl been saved. Then he taught him everything .
that; he thought would make: him useful. handy, :an'd helpful. Ht:
clothed him in a suit much: of gtmtskina, and the poor fellow seem>>
ml :0 be: greazly pleased to be dressed like his master.

One day Robinson Crusoe took him with him when he. went
hunting, and was much amused at the way his gun mystified hini.
He first shot :1 bird. Friday didn't set.- it fall.
and was greatly frightened by the noise of the
gun. but when Robinson Crusoe pointed
to the bird, and made signs: {or him
to pick it up. he was
filled with wonder and
amazement. It wasa
long time below he
could understand the
nature of firearms. or
overcome his fear of
the gun. which he.
seemed to think was
endowed with life, andCRUSOE \VATCHING THE SAVACES.

which he used to address very bc5ccchingly in his own language.
imgging it not to kill him.
After he had learned enough English to be able to talk I'rmriy.

he told Robinson Crusnc of a partyof shipwrcclmd Spanish suiim's.

who had been cast ashore on the mainland. and had luscn he
3.3 fi'iended b}- Ihc': savages of his tribe. A grcal Ilvsirc to sue them
5%GRATITUDE OF THE RESCUE-ID CAPTIVE.

seized Crusoe ; and he 5:: about xlmzlking. with Friday's assistance,
a has: large enough to rarry lujnth uver.

Hui one morning. before thcy had got on very far with the lask,
Friday came running in a state of great frighk. lo Icil that three
canoes. full of Sflvflgfis, had lamind on the island. Robinson Crusoe
arm-ed himself wilh :l swnr-l and a hatchet. and taking Ll" lhu gunsthey could carry, he and Friday went to a thicket nl' trms: which
stood near where the savages were. From then; they could 51:6
them sitting about fires they had made. cutting the flesh of one
victim. while another captive, a white man. la}; bound near by.

Perceiving that than: was no time to lose it' they \muld save: the
captive. Robinson ('Irnsoc tool: one gun and Friday another, and
both fired into the crowd together. They killed and wounded
several. and the rest were thrown into the wildest. confusion. The);
continued firing un:il they had emptied their guns. Then they
rushed forward. and. Friday using the hatchet and Crusoe the
sword. they killed all the remaining savages, except four who sue>>-
ceeded in reaching their-canoes. Bidding Friday'ruhslso the white
captive, Crusoe ran to another of the canoes, intending to pursue
the savages to seen, but in the canoe he was surprised to find a poor
creature bOuntl hand and foot. lle cut him free. and helped him to
rise, for he could hardly stand. Friday coming up, CrusOe hid him
speak to the man. and tell him in: was saved. When Friday heard
the man answer. he firstlooleud at him with astonishment, then
embraced and kissed him. and laughed, jumped about, and sung.
like om: that was mad. When he came a little to himself he told.
Crusoe. that the captive was his father. >>

The two rescued men were then taken to the castle ; and Crusm:
learned from the white man that he was one of thb Spaniards of
whom l-'riday had told him. It was proposed that he should return
to the mainland with Friday's father in the new boat, as scon as it
was completed. and bring the rest of his countrymen to Crusoc's
island to live. This was agreed to. and all set to work to finish the
boat. Finally everything was ready and they Set sail.

One morning. a short time after. Friday brought word to Crusoe
that a ship was in sight. This was news so welcome to Crusoe that
he went nearly wild with joy. hut presently the prudent thought
occurred to him that it might be well not to let those aboard see
him, until he could learn something about their business there. Sohe watched in concealment.
and in a short time saw 2-. hoat
leave the ship and make for the. shore.

Eleven men landed, and Crusoe saw that
while most of them dispersed about the
island. three: kept by themselves and ap- , , {a j ,
peared to ht: much dejected. \V hen the ,' PS1:
others were out of hearing.

Crusoe approached these three.
and began to question them. and
found that they were English. that one
was the captain of the ship. and that the
0than were the mate and a passenger. .
that. there had been a mutiny on hoard.
and that the men. as a favor, instead of
killing them, were going to leave them
on Lluz island.

Crusoe ofi'eretl to aid them to recover
the ship. and going back to the castle.
brought guns and gave them to them.
Then they waited for the men who were
scattered about the island to return.
and when they came. shot: tw ,who, the
captain said. Avert; leaders in the mischief. _
and the others. taken by surprise, cried out for pardon. This the cap-
tain granted on condition that they would return to their duty. and
swear to assist him in recovering the ship, a; which they all agreed.
many of them gladly, for they hatl 'lx:cn forEed into the mutiny h}-
sorne of the bolder and more vicious spiritsamong them.

Thu-task of taking the ship was postponed until midnight. when
most of those aboard would be asleep. Thoseon watch. when they
saw the boat approach. Supposed it was merely the. sailors who had
gone ashore returning alter disposing of the' prisoners. and they
were held in (that. until the: party got aboard, when they were im-
mediatelyhnockcd down and
secured. 'l'hen all the hat-
she; were fastened, so that
those below decks were made
prisoners.

When this was done, tilt:
captain ordered the mate with
three men to break intu the
round-house. where the rebel
captain lay. lle having
taken the alarm. had got up.
and with two others had
seized fire-arms. with which.
when the mate split open
the dour. they fired amongst
the attackers. wounding the
mate. but killing nobody-
The mate calling for help,FRIDAY BRINGS ALARMING NEWS.

rushed into the: round-housu, \mum'led as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head. so that he never spoke
more. Upon that the: reasl. yiclulctl, and the ship was elTuctnally
taken. without the loss of any more lives.

Then the captain went back to the island. and told R0hinmn
Crusoe that the ship and all that he hml was at his service. in re-FRIDAY FINDS HIS FATHER.

turn for what he had done for him. Crusoe Luld lxizn that In: asked
nothing more than that he should carry Friday and himself to Eng-
land. and this. the captain gladly agreed to (In. He provided Cru-
soe with clothing from his own wardmhe, and Crusoe took aboard
with him. in addition lo 3mm; gold that he: had saved from the
wruck only his goutskin coat and cup and his umbrella. which hewished to keep for relics.
Everything else on the island
he left for the Spaniards when they
should return from the mainland. and
he wrote out for their benefit a full ac-
count of his way of living. and all his
pians and contrivauces. He also induced
the captain to leave a. supply of tools that
hr. know would be. useful to them. and an
assortment of seeds of various kinds. Then they
set "sail. and Robinson Crusoe. lcft the island. twenty-eight; ,
y :srs. two months and ninctccn days after he had landed upon it. l

  
   
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    

Three days after setting sail. us they passed near the mast of an
island. they saw classtozethe . shore a great fleet of canoes. i'ull of
savages armed with, hows a'nd arrows The}: were going through
strange evolutions. and Friday S'tid that they were probably setting
out to make war on some other tribe. When they caught sight of
thc ship. and saw that those on board were walnhing them, they

a-

-- a,"
, ,.
.1 ' r"':r:?'ii'i'.SSt'<<1 ;
i",- . .Laa'rfijjbw' I"
. ~. ' _,-I ii". 2"
I u n

.s' . l

..

 

came paddling tmvard it. and soon ware swarming about on all
sides, uttering curious cries. and making uncouth gestures. Those
(m the ship were very much puzzled to know what their intentions
could be. and finally Robinson Crusoe told Friday to go on the up- i
per deck and speak to them in his own language. which he. hoped
they might bl: nhle to understand. Friday did .35 in: was bid. but
had spoken onl)r a feiv words when the savages lct fly a great
cloud of arrows at him. 50 poor was their aim that only three of .
the arrows struck him, but one of the. three pierced him thrOugh
the heart, and he. fell dead.

When Robinson Crusoe saw this he became almost frantic with
mgo. and ordered the ship's guns to be; loaded with grapeshot and
fired into the Hunt. The effect was tremendous. More than halfof the canines were destroyed, aml the sea for :1 Lime was covered
with the wretched savages, smuggling to Swim, and uttering the
most frightful howls. The. fortunate ones in those of the canoes
that had not been hit did not wait 10 help their comrades, but
slmuticd Oli- as fast as they could ])Hll(i|('.. One 1)}: one the other-3
sunk, and in a short time the 5:13 was as clear of them as if they
had never been there.

Thus a terrible vengeance was taken for Friday's death, but his.
master full: little consoled thereby. The poor fellow was so honest,
faithful, and affectionate, and had ways so cheerful and pleasant. that
Robinson Crusoa had grown to be most sincerely attached to him.
and he now mournnri him as if he had been a son. He caused his
body to be: buried in the sea with all the honors possible. and it
seemed to him as if the delight of lining restored to his old home
hardly made up for the loss of mu: who had beculnt: so dear to him.

The voyage homeward was continued: and no further mishap
occurring, Robinson Crusoe arrived safe in England after his many
yuan; nl' absence. Hi: fmzml that his l'uthrr and mother were clear].
as wcil as many of his Old friends. and For a limo he felt almost as
lonely as on his island. But he married a worthy will: before: long.
and buying a farm with fire gold he had brought home. settled
down to a. quiet country life. He was blast with cililtlrml who

grew up to be his delight and comfort. and his old 3g: was spent
in peace and happiness.