_ .
. , .
fi- ._'
5;; --' ~
'. k l

 

Friday and the Bear.THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON ORUSOE.

BY

DANIEL DEFOE.

gt Ebb Qihitimt.

LONDON:

ROUTLEDGE, WARNE, & ROUTLEDGE,

BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL;
NEW YORK: 56, WALKER STREET.

1864:.PREFACE.

*-

IF ever the story of any private man's adventures in
the world were worth making public, and were acceptable

when published, the Editor of this account thinks this will
be so.

The wonders of this man's life exceed all that is to be
found extant; the life of one man being scarce capable
of greater variety.

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and
with a religious application of events to the uses to which
wise men always apply them: viz., to the instruction of
others, by this example, and to justify and honour the
wisdom of Providence in all the variety of our circumstances
let them happen how they will.
0!

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

*--

I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Breme
who. settled first at Hull: he got a ood estate by merchandise, an
leanng off his trade, hved afterwar s at York; from whence he had
married my _mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very

d family in that country, and from whom I was called Robinson

eutziiaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we
are now called--nay we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe;
and so my compamons always called me. .

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to
an Enghsh reviment of foot in Flanders .formerly commanded by
the famous Collonel Lockhart, and was lulled at the battle near
Dunkirk against the Spamards. What became of my second brother
I never knew, any more than my father or mother did know what _
was become of inc. .

Being the third son of the famil , and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very ear y _With rambhng thoughts: my
father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent share of
learnin , as far as house-educationan a country free-school generallyl
go, an deSigned me for the law; but .I would be satis ed w1t
nothm but. gomo to_ sea; and my mchnation to this led me. so
strong against t e Will, nay, the commands of my father, and against
all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends,
that there seemed to be something fatalin that propensity of nature,
tendin directly to the life of misery which was to befal me.

My ather, a wise and tgrave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he oresaw was my desi He called me one
mormn into his chamber, where he was co ed by the gout, and
ex ted very warmly With me upon this sumt; he asked me
what reasons, more than a. mere wandering in tion, I had for
leavnig my father's house and my native country, where I might; be
well introduced, and had fifrospect of raising my fortune by apphcap
tion and industry, With a ' e of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior10 uonmson causon.

fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise
by enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of a
nature out of the common road; that these things were all either too
far above me, or tdo far below me; that mine was the middle state
or what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found by long experience, was the best state in the world the most
suited to human ha piness, not exposedto the miseries and hardships,
the labour and s erings of the mechanie part of mankind, and not
embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the ufppler
part of mankind. He told me I nnght Judge of the ha oiness o t 3
state by this one thing viz., that this was the state 0 e whichall
other people envied - that kings have fre uently lamented the mise-
rable consequence of being born to great t mgs, and Wished they had
been laced in the middle of the two extremes, between the _mean
and tllie great~ that the Wise man gave his testimony to this, as
the1 standard of felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor
no es.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calami-
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many yielsmtudesas the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers, and
uneasiness, either of body or mind, as those were who by Vicious
living, luxury, and extravagances on one hand, or by hard labour, want
of necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand, bring
distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way
of living; that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the
handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health somety, all agreeable diversmns, and all desirable pleasures,
were the blessmgs attending the middle station of life; that this way
men went Silently and smoothl through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed Wit the labours of the hands or of the
head not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with
perplexed Circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the body
of rest; nor e ored With the passion of envy, or the secret burning
lust of ambition or great thin s; but in easy circumstances, sliding
gently through the world, an senSibly tasting the sweets of living,
Without the itter; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every
day's experience to know it more sensrbly.

After this, he ressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not. to p y the young man, nor. to preci itate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life Iwas rn in, seemed to
have rov1ded against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
br_ea ; that he would do_ well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had just been recommending
to me; and that if I was not very easijgnd happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate or fault that must . der it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his dutfi in warn-
ing me against measures which he knew would be to m urt- in a
word. that as he would do very kind things for me if would staynonmson macs. 11

and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go
away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an
sample, to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to kee
him from going mto theLow Country were, but could not rev
his young esires romptgn him to run mto the army, where was
lulled; and thoug he said e would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to say to me that if I did take this foohsh step, God
would not bless me, and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
havmg neglected his counsel, when there mlght be none to assrst 1n
mErecovery. . . . ' .
observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly pro-

phetic, though I sup ose my father did not know it to be so himself;

say, I observed t e tears mm down his face ve plentifully,
eslpecmlly when he s ke of my brother who was ed; and that
w en he spoke of m avinv leisure to repent, and none to assist me,
he was so moved t at he hroke OR the discourse, and told me his
heart was so full he could say no more to me. .

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as. indeed who could be

othemse? and I resolved not to thmk of gomg abroad any more,
but to settle at home according to my father's desrre. But, alas! a
few days wore it all off ; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's
further importumties, in a few weeks after, _I resolved to 'run quite
away from him. However, 1 did not act quite so hastily as the first
heat of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time when
I thought her a httle. pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that m
thoughts were so entirely bent u on seemg the worl that I shoul
never settle to anything with reso utiqn enough to go t ugh w1th 1t,
and my father had better g1ve_ me his consent than. force me to go
Without 1t; that I was now eighteen years old, whlch was too late
to PS0 apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an. attorney - that I was sure,
if d1 , I should never serve out my .time, but I should certainly
run awav from my master before my time was out, and go to sea;
and if she would speak to my father to let me ac one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not_11ke 1t, would go no
more; and I would promise, by a double diligence, to recover the
time that I had lost.
. This dput my mother into a great passion; she told me she knew
.115 woul be to no purpose to ages]: to my father upon .any such sub-
)ect; that he knew too well w at was my mterest to give his consent
to anything so much for.my hurt; and. that she wondered .how I
could thmk of anlyhsluch thmg after the discourse I had had wrth my
father, and such (1 and tender expressrons as she knew my father
had used to me; and that, in short, if I would rum m elf, there was
no helpOfor me; but I might depend I should never ve then: con-
sent to 1t; that for her art, she would .not have so much hand in my
destruction; andfl'ltiho d never have it to say that my 111011113! W83
w11hngw enmy erwasno .

Though my mother refused to name it to my father, yet I heard
afterwards that she reported all the discourse to him, and that my
father, after showmg a great concern at 1t, said to her, wrth a sigh:
" That boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born; I
can give no consent to i ." .

. It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though,
in the meantime, I continued obstmately deaf to all proposals of
setthng to business, and frequently expostulated With .my father and
mother about their being so positively determined agamst what they
knew m inclinations rom ted me to. But being one day at H ,
whither went easu y, an without any purpose of making an elope-
ment at that time; but, I say, being there, and _one of my compamons
being going b sea to London in his father's ship, and prompting me
to go with t em, with the common allnrement of a seafanng man,
that it should cost me nothing for m passage, I consulted neither
father nor mother any more, nor so muc as sent them word of It; but
leaving them to hear of it as they might, Without asking God's blessmg
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows on the lst of September,
1651, I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any oung
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner or continued onver
than mine. The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, than t e
wmd be to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner;
and, as had never been at sea before, I was most mexpressrbly Sick
in body and terrified in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon
whatl had done, .and how justly I was overtaken by the Judgment of
Heaven for my chked leavmg my father's house, and abandomno my
duty. All the good counsels of m parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties came now fres mto my mmd ; and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has come
smee, reproached me with the contempt of adv1ce, and the breach of
my du to God and my father. .

All t while the storm increased, and the sea went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times smce; no, nor
what I saw a few days after; but it was enough to affect. me then,
who was but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and
that every time the Shlp fell down, as I thought it did, 1n.the trough
or hollow of the sea, we should never use more: in this agony of
mind, I mademany vows and resolutions, that if it would please God
to s are my hfe in this one yoyage 11 ever I got once my foot upon
dry and am, I would. 0 directly home to my father and never set
it mto a s 'p again w e I lived; that I would take his advrce and
never nm myself into such.m1senes as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle station
of hfe how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his days and
never (1 been ex osed to tempests at sea, or troubles on s ore;
and, 111 short, I reso ved that I would, hke a true repenting prodigal,
go home to my father. _

These wrse and sober thoughts contmued all the while the storm
lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next day the mud
was abated, and the sea calmer, and Ibegan to bee little inured to it:
however, I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea.aosmsos causon. 13

sicl: still; but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was
mte over, and a charmmg fine evemng followed; the sun went
.own perfectly clear, and rose so the next .mormng; and having
httle or no wmd, and a smooth .sea, the sunshming upon it, the sight
was, as I thought the most dehghtful that ever I saw. _

I had slept well .in the mght, and was now no more sea-Sick, but
ve chee looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough
an temblet e day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant m
so little a time after. And now, lestomg good resolutions should
continue, my compamon, who had entice me away, comes to me:
" Well, Bob," says he, clappmg me upon the shoulder, " how do you
do after 1t? I warrant you were frlghted, wer'n't yo last mght
when it blew but a capful of wmd P " -- "A cap d'you call
1t?'f said I; " 'twas a temble storm."---" A storm, you fool ":11"
rephes he; "do you call that a storm? why, 1t was nothing at ;
give us but a good Ship and sea-room, and we think nothmg of such
a squall of wind as that; but you're but a freshwater sailor, Bob.
Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye
see what cha ' g weather t1s now?" Te mahe short this sad
part of my st ry, we went the waypf all sailors ; the punch was
made, and I was made half-drunk w1th it - and m that one mght's
wrckedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflectlons upon my
past conduct, all my resolutlons for the future. In a word, as the
sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness
by the abatement of that storm, so the. hurry of my thoughts bemg
over, my fears and a prehensrons of bemg swallowed up by the sea
being forgotten an the currentpf m former desues returned, I
entirely forgot t e vows and promises t at I made in my distress. I
fqund, indeed, some intervals of reflect1on; and the senous thoughts
dld, as 1t were, endeavour to return again sometlmes; but I shook
them off and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and appl ' g myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the
return 0 those fits--for so I called them; and I had 1n five or srx
dalys got as complete a victory over my conscience, as any yemno
fe ow that resolved not to be troubled with 11: could desrrea utI
was to have another trial for 1t stlll; and Providence, as m such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely WlthOllt excuse;
for if would not take this for a dehverance the next was to be such
a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of. .

The Slxtll ay of our being at sea we came mto Yarmouth Roads;
the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made
but httle way since the storm. Here we were obhged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wmd .contlnumg .contrary, 1712., at
south-west, for seven or eight days, dunng which time a great many
ships from Newcastle came intp the same roads as the common har-
bour where the ships might wait for a wmd for the nver. .

. We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided
1t.np the nver, but that the wind blew too fresh, and, after we had
' lam four or five days blew ve hard. However the roads hen?
' reckoned as good as aharbour, t e anchorage good, and our groun -
tackle very strong, our men were unconeerned, and not inthe least
alpprehensive of danger, but spent the time. in rest and mirth, after
t e manner of the sea; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might nde as easy as

ssrble. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid
orecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twme our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the
sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables
veered out to the better end. .

By this time it blew a terrible storm mdeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves.
The master, though vigilant in the business of preservmg the ship,
yet as he went in and out of his cabin b me, I ceuhl hear him
softly to himself say several times, " Lor . be merciful to us! _we
shall be all lost; we shall be all undone!" and the like: During
these first hurries I was stupid lying still in my cabin,.whlch was in
the steerage, and cannot describe my temper: 1 could ill resume the
first penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and hard-
ened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death had been
past; and that this would be nothing like the first _: but when the
master himself came by me, as I said 'ust now, and Stud we should be
all lost, Iwas dreadfully frighted. ' got up out of my cabin, and
looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw: the sea ran moun-
tains high, and broke u on us every three or four minutes; when I
could look about, I con (1 see nothing but distress round us; two
ships that rid near us, we found,_ had cut their masts by the board,
bemf' deep laden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid about
amrIe a-head of us was foundered. Two more SthS, being driven
from their anchors, were run out of the roads to sea, at all adven-
tures, and that not with a mast standing. The light ships fared the
best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or three of them
drove, and came close by us, running away with only their spntsail
out before the wind.

Towards evemng the mate and boatswain begged the master of
our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast, which he wasvery
unWilling to do ;. but the boatswain protesting to him, that if he
dld not, the Shlp would founder, he consented; and when the
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shoo
the ship so much, they were obhged to cut that away also, and make
a clear deck. _ . '

Any one must Judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who
was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at
out a little. But if _I can express at this distance the thoughts I had
about me at that time, Iwas 1n tenfold more horror of mind upon
account of my former convictions, and the having returned from them
to the resolutions I had Wickedly taken at first, than I was at death
itself! and these, added to the terror of the storm put me into such
a condition, that I can by no words describe it. 'But the worst was
not come yet; the storm contmued With such fury, that the seamen
themselves acknowledeed the had never scena worse. We had a
good ship, but she was ldeep la em and wallowed 1n the sea, so that the
seamen every now and then cried out she would founder. It was my
advantage 1n one _resnect that I did not know what the meant b

' founder, till I inquired. However the storm was so v10 ent, that
saw, what is not. often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some
others more sensrble than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting
every moment when the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle
of the niOht, and under all the rest of our distresses, one of the
men that had been down to see, cried out we had sprung a leak; another
said, there was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called

, to the pump. At that word, my heart, as I thought, died Within me;
and I tell ackwards upon the side of m bed where I sat, mto the
cabin. However, the men roused me, an told me, that I, that was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at which

I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.

While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who, not

able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip, and run away to the

sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of

distress. I, who knew nothino what they meant, thought the ship
, had broken, or some dreadful t ing happened. In a word, I was so
surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time when
every body had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what
was become of me; but another man stepped up to the pump and
thrusting me aside wrth his foot let me he, thinkmg I had been dead;
and it was a. eat while before I came to myself.

We worke on; but the water increasina' in the hold, it was appa-
rent that the ship would founder; and though the. storm began to
abate a httle, yet as it was not possible she could swrm till we might
run into any )ort, so the master continued firing guns for help; and
a hght ship, w 0 had rid it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to
help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to he near
the ship's side, 12111 at last the men rowing very heartily, and ventur-
ing their hves to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stem with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a reat length,
which they, after much labour and hazard, took he] .of and we
hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their boat. _It
was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think
of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our master
promised them, that if the boat was stavedupon shore, he would
make it good to their master: so artly rowmg, and party drivmg,
our boat went away to the nort ward, sloping towards the shore
almost as far as Winterton Ness. .

. We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of . our ship
till we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what
was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I
had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was Slnkmg;
for from the moment that they rather put me into the boat, than that
I might be said to go in, my heart was, as. it were, dead within me,
partly with fright, partly with horror of mmd, and the thoughts of
what was yet before me. _ ,

While we were in this condition,--the men yet labourmg at the
car to bring the boat near the shore,---we could see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many
people nmning alon the strand to ass15t us when we should come
near; but we made ut slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach the shore, till, bemg past the hght--house at Wmtertor:i
the shore falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the lan
broke off a little the violence of the mud. Here we got in, and
though not without much difficulty got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of
shi s, and had money given us suflielent to carry us either to London
or back to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone bacl; to Hull and have gone
home, I had been ha p ', and my father, as m our blessed Saviour's

arable, had even ' e the fatted calf for me- for hearing the ship
went away in was cast away m Yarmouth Itoads, it was a great
while before he had any assurances that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now wrth an obstmacy that nothing
could resist; and though I had several times loud calls from my rea-
son, and mv more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power
to do it. Iknow not what to call this, nor Will I urge that itis a
secret overruling-decree, that hurries us on to be the instruments of
our own destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush
upon 1t With our eyes open..Certa1_nly, nothing but some such decreed
unavoidable misery, which it was 1mposs1ble for .me to escape, could
have pushed me forward against the calm reasomngs and persuasions
of m most ret1red_thoughts, and against two such visible instructions
as I ad met mth m my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I. The first time he 5 he
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or t ee
days for we were separated in the town to several quarters; I sa ,
the first time he saw me, it a peared his tone was altered; and, loci-
ing ve melancholy, and sh g his head, he asked me how I did,
and te ing his father who I was, and how Ihad come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad: his father turning to me,
with avery grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you
"ought never. to go to sea any more; you ought to take this for a
plain and visrble token that you are not to be a seafaring man."

'Why, sir," said I, " will you go to sea no more?" " That is ano-
ther case," said he; " it is my ealhng, and therefore my duty; but as
you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect if you persrst. Perha 3 this has
all befallen us on your account, hke Jonah m the ship 0 Tarshish.
Pray," continues he, "what are you; and on what account did yougo
to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story; at the end of. and even the commands of my fa

nonmsox onuson. 17

which he burst out into a strange kind of assion: "What had I
done," says he, " that such an unha py wretc should come into my
shi P I would not set my foot in t e same ship With thee again for
a t ousand ounds." This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his
spirits, who were (yet agitated _by the sense of his loss, and was
farther than he coul have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father, and
not temeg Providenee to my ruin; telling me I might see a visible
hand of . eaven against me. " And, young man," said he, " depend
upon it, if you'do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with
nothing but disasters and disappomtments, till your father's words
are ed upon you." _

We partedsoon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went I knew not. As for me, having some
money in m pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on t e road, had many struggles with myself, what course of
hfe I should take, and whether I should 0 home or go to sea.

As to gomg home, shame opposed the est motions that offered to
my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he
laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamedto see, not
my father and mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I
have since often observe. , how incongruous and irrational the com-
mon temperof mankind is, espeCially of outh, to that reason which
ought to guide them in such cases, m., t at they are not ashamedto
sm, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for
, which they ought Justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the
' returning, WlllCh only can make them be esteemed Wise men. _

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain
what measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irre-
. Sistible reluctance continued to gomg home; and as I stayed awhile,
} the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore off ; and as that
abated, the little motion I had in my deSires to return wore off With
.- it, till at last I quite laid aSide the thoughts of it, and looked out for
a voyage.
~. That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's
, hquse,-which hurried me into the Wild and indigested notion of
raising my fortune; and that im ressed those conceits so foreihly
. upon me, as to make me deaf to a eeod advme, and to the entreaties

t er: I say, the same influence,
whatever it was presented the most unfortunate of all ente rises to
my view; and Iwent on board a vessel bound to the coast 0 Africa;
; or as our sailors vulgarly called it, a voyage to Guinea. .
x= It was my great omisfortune that in all these adventures I did not
shii) myself as a sailor; when, though I might indeed have worked a
. litt e harder than ordinary, yet at t e same time'I should have learnt
3. the duty and office of a fore-mast man; and in time might have qua-
hfied myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for amaster. But as it
; , Was always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here; for having
' money in my. pocket, and good clothes upon m back, I would always

' 9n board in the habit of a entleman; an so I neither had any
usmess in the ship, nor learne to do any.
0
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in Lon-
don, which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young
fellows as I then was; the devrl generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early; but it was not so wrth me. I first got
acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea; and who, having had very good success there, was resolved
to go again: this captain taking a_ fancy to. my conversation, which
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me sa I had a mind
to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expense; I should be his mcssmate and his companion; and
if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement. . . '

I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship with
this captain, who was an honest lain-dealing man, I went the voyage
with him and carried a small a venture with me, which, by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very consiv
derably; for I carried about PS40 in such toys and trifles as the captain
directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered toeether by the assist-
ance of some of my relations whom I correspon ed with; and who,
I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so much
as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all
my adventures, which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend
the captain; under whom also I got a com etcnt knowledge of the
mathematics and the rules of navigation, earned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short, to
understand some things that were needful to be understood by a
sailor: for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant:

for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my '

adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost PS300,
and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; particularly,
that I was continually Sick being thrown into a violent calenture by
the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being u on
tile 1(tz'oast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north even to the ' e
1 se .

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dymor soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again and I embarked m the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carrv uite PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that
I had PS200 left, which had lodged with my friend's widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes; the first was
this--our ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or
rather between those Islands and the African shore, was surprised in
the grey of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase
to us mth all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as our yards would 5 read, or our masts carry to get clear;
but. finding the irate game upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a few ours, we prepared to fight; our ship havm twelve
guns,_ and the rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon e came
up wrth us, and bringing to, by mistake, ust athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our. stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our
guns to. bear on that Side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire and ouring in also
his small shot from near two hundred men which he Iliad on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves; but laying
us on board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty
men upon our decks, who iinmcdiatel fell to cutting and hacking the
sails and rigging. YV e phed them wit 1 small-shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How-
ever to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being
disabled, and three of our men_killed, and eight wounded, we were
obhgcd to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended;
nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, as the rest
of our men were, but was kefit by the captain of the rover as his ipro er

rize, and made his slave, eing young and momble, and fit or lhis

usiness. At this surprising change of my Circumstances, from a
merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now
I looked back 11 on my father's prOphetic discourse to me, that I
should be misera 1e and have none to relieve me, which I thought
was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not be worse;
for now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone
without redemption: but, alas ! this was but a taste of the misery I
was to go through, as Will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, so
I was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man-of-war ; and that then I should
. be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away -. for
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little
garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about lus house} and
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to he in the
cabin to look after the ship. ,

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I'might

. take to effect it, but found no way that had the least probability in
; it; nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational; for I
. had nobody to communicate it to that would embark With me, n6
E fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but myself;
, so that for two years, though I often pleased myself With the imagi-
: nation, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it
; in practice. _ .
; After about two years, an odd circumstance resented itself, which
, put the old thought of making some attempt or my hbprty 8183111, in
,-' my head. My patron lying at home, longer t an usual Without fitting
, c
out his Shlp, which, as I heard was for want of money, he used,
constantly, once or twice a week, sometnnes oftener, 1f the weather
was fair to take the ship's pinnace, and go out mto the road a-fishmv;
and, as he always took me and young Maresco wrth h1m to row the

boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous m '

catching fish- insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a
Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth--the Maresco, as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him. _ _ .

It happened one time, that gomg a-fishmg In a calm mormng a
fog rose so thick that, though we were not half a lame fromt e
shore, we lost sight of it; and rowmg we knew not whit er or which
way, .we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when the

mommg came, we foxmd we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling a

in for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from the

shore. However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of -
labour and some danger; for the wmd began to blow pretty fresh '

in the morning; but we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster,_ resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and havmg lymo by him the long-boat
.-of our English ship that he had taken, he rose ved he would not 0
a-fishin any more without a compass and some .rons1on; so ole
ordere the carpenter of his ship, who also was an Eng sh slave _to build
a little state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that
of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer, and haul home the
main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She .sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sall -
and the boom glbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and
low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table
to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such
11 uor as he thought fit to drink; and his bread, rice, and coffee.

Ve went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and as I was most
dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It hap-
pened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure
or for fish wrth two or three Moors of some distinction in that place,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent
on board the boat over-night a larger store of provisions than ordinary;
and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and shot,
which were on board lns ship, for that they designed some sport of
fowling as wellas fishin".

I got all tlungs ready as he had directed, and waited the next
mommg With the boat washed clean, her ancient and endants out,
and everythmrr to accommodate his Guests ; when by--an -by my patron
came on boar alone and told me his guests had put off going, from
some busmess that fell out, and ordered me, with the man and boy,
as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to su at his_house ; and commanded that as soon
as I got some fish I s ould bring it home to his house: all which I
pre ared to do. _

s moment, my former notions of dehverance darted into my
thoughts for now I found I.was likely to have a little ship at m
comman : and my master bemg gone, I prepared to furnish myse ,

'

l
l
l
2 not for fishin business, but for. a voEage; though I knew not, neither
did I so muc as consrder, whither should steer,--anywhere to get
out of that place. was my desire.
My first contnvance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
' to get somethmg for our subsrsteuce on board- for I told him we
must not presume to eat of our atmn's bread. He said that was true ;
, so he brought a large basket 0 rusk or biscuit, and three jars of fresh
. water, into the boat. .1 knew where my patron's case of bottles
; stood, which it was ev1dent by the make, were taken out of some
. English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was
; on shore, as if they had been there before for our master. I conveyed
' also a eat lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above
' half a undredweight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a
; saw, and a hammer, all of which were of great use to us afterwards,
': es ecially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried u on him,
-' w 'eh he innocently came into also: his name was Ismae , which
they call Muley, or Moely- so I called to him z--"Moely," said I,
" our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not et a little
powder and shot? It may be we may kill some alcamies a. fowl like
our curlews) for ourselves for I know he keeps the gunner's stores
~ 'n the 81111). " Yes," says he, " I'll bring some ;" and accordingly he
If rou ht a great leather pouch, which bheld a pound and a half of
a 100W er, or rather more; and another with shot, that had five or six
'11 ounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat. At the same
1' ime, I had found some powder of my master's in the great cabm,
it-h which I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was
lmost em ty, pouring what was m it into another; and thus fur-
{5 ished wit everything needful, we sailed out of the port to fish.
5| he castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were,
{and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the
if; , ort before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The "Wind
if: ' lew from the N.N.E., which was contrary to mv desrre, for had 1t

"lown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of Spain,
'pnd at least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
'5 low which way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
.. '- here I was, and leave the rest to fate. .

- . After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for_when I had
" sh on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
;. hem, I said to the Moor, " This will not do; our master Will not be
us served; we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm
\ greed and being in the head of the boat set the sails- and, as I had
, he helm, _I run the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
, er to as If I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped
' {ward to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for some-
" pg behind him, I took him by surprise with my am under his
: aist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immedi-
; ,. ely, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken
,-; '--, told me he would all over the world with me. He swam so
-.~ tong after the boat t at he would have reached me very qmckly,

, Iere being but little wind; upon which I stepped into. the cabinCi
y d fetching one of the fowlmg-pieces, I presented it at him, and tol
him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him-
none: "But," said I, " you swim well enough to reach to the shor
and the sea 13 calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I

do you no harm; but if you come neart . e boat, I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my hberty :" so he turned himself
about and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached
it Wltll ease, for he was an excellent smmmer. . .

I could have been content to have taken this Moor With me, and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was one, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and
said to him, " ury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a
great man; but ifuyou will not stroke your face to be true to me,"
that 18 swear by ahomet and his father's beard, " I must throw you
mto the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so mno-

cently, that I could not distrust him, and swore to be faithful to me,
and all over the world with me. _

. ' e I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the heat rather stretching to Windward, that they
might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as mdeed any one
that had been m their wits must have been supposed to do) : for who
would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the trul
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surro
us With their canoes, and destroy us; where we could not go on shore
but we should be. devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless
savages of human kind? '

But as soon .as it grew dusk m the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, ben ' o my course a little
towards the east, that I might keep in with the s ore: and ham a
fair, fresh gale of win and a smooth, met sea, I made such sall t t
I beheve by the next ay at three o'c ock in the afternoon, when I
first made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty
mfles south of Sallee: qmte beyond the Emperor of Morocco's donn-
mons, or mdeed of any other lung thereabouts, for we saw no peo le.

Yet such was the fright I had taken. of the Moors and the drea l
apprehensrons I had of13 falling mto their hands, that I would not stop
or on shore or come to an anchor; the wind contmuin _fa.1r tlll I

salled m that manner five days; and then the wmd s ting to the
southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase
of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and came to an anchor 1n the mouth of a little river, I knew
not. what, or where; neither what latitude, what country, what
nation, or. what river. I neither saw, or desired to see any. people;
the menial thing I wanted was fresh water. We came mto this
cree in t e evemn , resolvmg to sm on shore as soon as it was :
dark, and discover t country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we
heard such dreadful norses of the barking, roarin , and howling of '
wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that e Rigor b3? was
readytodiemthfear, and b ged of menpttogoons ret day.
"Well, Xury," said I, " then won't; but 1t.may be we may see men
day, who will be as bad to us as those hons."--" Then we give

In the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, " make them run wey."
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However
I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram Scent of
our. patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up" After all, s
advrce was good, and I took 1t: we dropped our httle anchor, and y
still all night; I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours
we saw vast great creatures Swe knew not what to call them) of many
sorts, come down to the sea-s ore and run into the water, wallowin
and washing themselves for the pleasure of. cooling themselves; and
they made such hrdeous howlmgs and yellmgs, that I never indeed
heard the like. . .

Xury was dreadfully fnghted, and indeed so was I too; but we-
were both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures
come swimming towards our boat - we could not see him, but we
might hear h1m.by lllS blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious
beast. Xury said 1t was a hon, and it might be so for aught I know;
but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away:
" No," says I, " Xury; we can slip our cable, With the buoy to 1t, and
go off to sea; the cannot follow us far." I had no .sooner said
so, but I erceive the creature (whatever it was) Within two oars'
length, w 'ch sometbmg surprised me; however, I immediately
stepped to the .cabm-door, and taking up my gun, fired at him;
upon which he immedlately turned about, and swam towards the
shore again. _ . .

But it is impossrble to describe the horrid nomes and hideous cries
, and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the norse or report of the a
thing I have some reason to beheve those creatures had never eard.
before: this convinced me that there was no going onshore for us in
the night on that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was
another question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of
the savages, had been as bad to have fallen into the hands of hops
and tigers; at least we were equally asprehensrve of the danger of 1t.

Be that as 1t would, we were oblige to go on shore somewhere or
other for water for we had not a pint left in the boat ;_ when or where
to'glet it, was the pomt. X1113 said,.if I would let him go on shore
w1t one of the jars, he woul find if there was any water, and bring
some to me. I asked him why he would go? Whfi I should not .go,
and he stay in the boat? The boy answered wit so much affection,
as made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, tm
eat me, you go wey."--"Well Xury," said I, "we Wlll both go
if the Wlld mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us."
So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded
on shore; carrying nothing but our-arms, and two Jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat fearing the of
canoes "17.11 which down the river-' but the ho seem a lowp .
about a mile up 1; e country, rambled to it and y-and- y I saw- him
i come running towards me. I thought e was pursued by some
f: savage, or fnvhted vnth some wild beast, and I ran forwards towards
him to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something
hanginfilover his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a are but different in colour, and longer legs: however, we
were very lad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great Joy
that poor inry came with, was to tell me he had found good water,
and seen no Wild mans. _

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for
water, for a little higher up the creek where we were we found the
water fresh when the tide was out, wlnch flowed but a little wa up;
so we filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, an pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human crea-
ture in that part of the country. _

As I had been one voyr veto this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries and the Ca e de Verd Islands also,
lay not far off from the coast. But as I ha no instruments to take
an observation to know what latitude we were in, and not exactly
knowing, or at least remembering, what latitude they were in I knew
not where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I mio'ht now easily have found some of these islands. But
m hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part
w ere the English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon
their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was must
be that country which, lying. between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by
wild boasts; the Negroes havin abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors: an the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness: and, indeed, both forsakintr
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions leo ards an
other furious creatures which harbour there - so that t e Moors
use it for their hunting only, where they go like an armv, two or
three thousand men at a time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited
comitriby day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild
beasts y mght. .

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of Tene-
rifi'e, being the high top of the Mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries;
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the
sea also 0mg too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first esign, and keep alone the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had
left this place; and once 111 particular, being early in the morning, we .
came to an anchor under a httle pomt of land, which was pretty high; "
and the tide begmnmg to flow, we lay still to go farther in. X ,
whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls sdjf'tl'y
to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore; " for,"
sa 5 he, "look yonder hes a dreadful monster on the side of that

ock, fast aslee .". I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful
monster indeed, or it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side of
the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were

a little over him. " Xury, ' says I, " you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frighted, and said, " Me kill! he eat me at one
mouth ;" one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to the
boy, but bade him he still, and I took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then loaded another with
two bullets; and the third (for we had three ieces I 10 ed with
five smaller ullets. I took the best aim I co (1 wit the first iece
to have shot him in the head, but he. la so with his leg raised a 'ttle
above his nose that the slugs hit his eg about the_knee, and broke
the bone. He started up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke
fell down again; and then got up upon three legs, and gave the most
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had
not hit him on the head - however, I took 11 the second piece imme-
diately and though he hegan to move off, red again, and. shot him
in the ead,_ and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little
noise, but he struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore. " Well, go," said I: so the boy
jumped .into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to
shore With the other hand, and coming closeto the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him In the head again, which
des atched him quite.

his was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was
very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature
that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would
have some of him; so he comes on board, and asked me to give
him the hatchet. " For what, Xury?" said I. " Me cut off 1118
head," said he. However, Xury could not _cut oil lns head, but he
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and It was a monstrous great
one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might,
one way or other, he of some value to us; and I resolved to take oil'
his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but
Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how
to do it. Indeed it took us both up the whole day, but at last we
got off the hide, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun
fifl'ectually dried it in two days' time, and it atterwards served me to

e u on.

Alger this, we made on to the southward continually for ten or
twelve days, living ve sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, an oing no oftener to the shore than we were
obliged for fresh water. y design in this was, to make the RIVCI'
Gambia or Senegal, that is to say anywhere about the Cape de Verd
where I was in ho es to meet with some European ship; and if I d1
not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the-Islands,
or perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the sh1 s from
Euro e, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to _Bras , or to
the ast Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and, m a word, I
put thewhole of my fortune upon this single point, either that Imust
meet With some ship, or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I
have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited; and, m two or
three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand 11 on the shore to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite b ack, and naked.
I was once inclined to have 0'onc on shore to them; but Xury was
my better counsellor, and said to me, " No go, no go." However,
I hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they
ran along the shore by me a good way: I observed they had no wea-
gions in their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which

ury said was a lance, and that they could throw them a great way
with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs
as well as I could; and particularly made signs for something to eat;
they beckoned to me to step my beat, and they would fetch me some
meat. Upon this, I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two
of them ran up into the country, and in less than half an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
such as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what
the one or the other was: however, we were willing to accept it, but
how to come at it was our next dispute, for I would not venture on
shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they took a
safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it down
and went and stood a great way 011' till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully: for while we were lying by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great
fury from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange, but I believe it was the latter; because, in the first place,
those ravenous creatures seldom a pear but in the night; and in the
second place, we found the peop e terribly frighted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged
themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come for
their diversion: at last one of them began to come nearer our
boat than at first I ex ected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with al possible expedition, and bade Xury load
both the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I
fired, and shot him directly in the head: immediately be sank down
into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as
if he was struggling for life, and so mdeed he was: he immediately
made to the shore ; .but between the wound, which was his mortal
hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached
the shore. .

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor crea-
tures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror ' but
when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I
made signs to them to come to the shore they took heart and came,
and began to search for the creature. I found him by his blood stain-
ing the water : and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him
and gave the Negroes to haul, the ged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leo ard, sEotted, and fine to an admirable

degree; and the Negroes hel up t eir hands with admiration, to
think what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountams
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what it
was. J. found qrucklv the Negroes wished to eat the flesh of this
creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had. no knife, vet, with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took off his skm as readily, and much more readil , than we
con (1 have done with a knife. They offered me some 0 the flesh,
which I declined, pointing out that 1 would give it them; but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely and brought me
a great deal more of their revisions, which, though I did not under-
stand, yet 1 accepted. I t ien made signs to them for some water, and
held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom u ward, to show
that 1t_was empty, and that I wanted to have it fille . They called
immediately to some of their friends, and there came two women, and
hroughta great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I su posed 1n the
sun; this they set down to me, as before, and I sent ury on shore
mth my jars, and filled them all three. The women were as naked as

e men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for about
eleven days more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw
the land run out a great length into the sea, at. about the distance of
tour or five leagues before me; and the sea bemg very calm, I kept
a large offing to make this point. At length, doubhng the omt, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on_the 0t er s1de,
to'seaward: then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that
this was the Ca e de Verd and those the islands, called, from thence
Cape de Verd slands. waever, they were at a great distance, and
1 could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should be taken
With a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one or other. .

In thlS dilemma, as I was very pensive I stepped mto the cabin,
and sat down Xury having the ielm 5 w en, on a sudden, the boy
cried out, " l aster, master, a ship With a sail! " and the foohsh boy
was frighted out of his wits, thinkino it must needs be some of his
master's shipl sent to pursue us, buti knew we were far enough out
of their reac . I jumped out of the cabin, and immedlateli' saw, not
only the ship, but that it was a Portuguese ship; and, as thought,
was bound to the coast of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and did not design to come any nearer to the shore:
upon which 1 stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolvmg
to s eak With them if possible.

ith all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way, but that they would be gone by before I could
make any signal to them: but after I had crowded to the utmost, and
beganto des air, they it seems, saw, by the hel of their glasses, that
it was some opean boat, which they suppose must belong to some
ship that was lost; so the shortened sail to let me come up. I was
encouraged with this, an as I had my patron's ancient on board, I
made a waft of it to them, for a Signal of dlStl'eSS and fired a gun.
both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke, thouoh
they did not hear the gun. Upon. these svmals they very kmdly
brought to, and lay by for me; and in about three hours' time I came
up With them. . . .

. They asked me what I was, in Portuguese and in Spanish and
in. French, but I understood none of them; but, at last, a scots
sailor who was on board, called to me; and I answered him, and told
him Iwas an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallee- they then bade me come on board, and
veliy kindly took me in, an all my goods. . . .

t was an inexpressible Joy to me, Wlllcll any one Will believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable
and almost hgfieless condition as I was in; and I immediately
offered all I h to the captain of the ship, as a return. for my
deliverance; but he (generously told me, he would take nothing from
me, but that all I ha should be delivered safe to me, when I came to
the Brasfls. "For" says he, "I have saved your life on no other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; audit may, one time
or_other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. BeSIdes,"
said he, " when I carry (you to the Brasils, so great a way from our
own country, if I shoul take from you what you have, you ' be
starved there, and then I only take away that life I have oiven. No,
no," sa 3 he; "Seignor Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), "I Wlll carry
you thit er in charity, and those things will help to buy your subsmt-
ence there, and your assage home again."

As he was eharitab c in this roposal, so he was just in the per-
formance to .a t1ttle; for he or ered the seamen, that none should
touch anything that I had: then he took everything into his own
possess1ou, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
macht have them, even to my three earthen jars.

is to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told
me he would buy it of me for lllS ship's use; and asked me what I
would have for 1t? I told lum, he had been so generous to me in
everything, that I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but
left it entirely to him: upon which, he told me he would give me a
note of hand to pay_ me eighty woes of eight for it at Brasil; and
when it came there, if anyone 0_ ered to give more, he would make it
up; He offered me also Sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
w 1ch I was loath to take; not that I was unwrlliuo to let the captain
have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor fiaoy's liberty, who
had assisted me so faithfullfi' in procuring my_ own. However, when
I let_h1m know my reason, e owned it to be Just, and offered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obhgation to set him free in
ten years, if he turned Christian: upon this and Xury saying he was
willing to go to him, I let the .captam have 'm.

We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and I arrived in the
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Ba , in about twenty-two
days after. And now I was once more elivered from the most
miserable of all conditions of hfe; and what to do next with myself I
was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember: he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's sIcin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in m . boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
be punctually de vered to me; and what I was Willing to sell, he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lnm of bees'-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest:
in a word, I ma e about two hundred and twenty pieces of e} ht of
all my cargo - and with this stock, I went on shore in the Bras .

I had not been long here .before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call it
(that is, a plantation and a su -liouse). I lived With him some
time, and acquainted myself, by t at means, With the mannerof lant-
ing and making of sugar; and seeino how well the planters live , and
how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a hcence to
settle there, I would turn planter among them: resolvim, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money, which I had left
in London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of letter
of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a Inn for my plantation and settle.
meut; such a one as might be suita le to the stock winch I proposed
to myself to receive from England. .

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but_ born of Enghsh
parents whose name was Wells, and in much such Circumstances as I
was. call him my neighbour, because his lantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. Iy stock was but low,
as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything else,
for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order; so that the. third year we planted
sometobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes in the year to come: but we both .wanted help - and
160w}; found, more than before, I had done wrong in parting With my

ov 'ury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was no
great wonder. I had no remedy but to 0 on: I had got into an
emplovment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the
hfe I dehghted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and
broke through all his good advice: nay I was_commg into the very
middle station, or up er degree of low life, which my father adVised
me to before, and w 'ch, if I resolved to go on With, I might as
well have staid at home, and never have fatigued myself in the world,
as.I had done: and I used often to say to myself, I could have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone five thousand30 ROBINSON cnuson.

miles off to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and
at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the world that
had the least knowledge of me. _ . .

In this manner I used to look upon my condition With the utmost
regret. I had nobody to converse With, but now and then this neigh-
bour; no work to be done but by the labour of my hands - and I
used to say, I lived just "0 a man cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobody there but himself. But how just has it been;
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare their resent
conditions with others that are .worse, Heaven may oblige t em to
make the exchange, and be convrnced of their former felicity by their
ex erience: I say, how just has it been, that the truly solitary life I
re ected on, in an island of meredesolation, should be my lot, who
had so often unjustly com ared it with the life which I then led,
in which, had I continued, had, in all probability, been exceeding
prosperous and rich. .

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there, in providing
his lading, and preparing for lllS voyage, nearly three months- when,
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave
me this friendly and sincere advice :---" Seignor Inglesc," says he
(for so he always called me), "if you will give me letters, and a
procuration in form to me, with orders to the person who has your
mone in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to Such persons
as I s all direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, 1
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return: but,
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you
say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so that
if it come safe, you ma order the rest the same way; and, if it
misczltrry, you may have t 1e other half to have recourse to for your
su

Ellis was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could
not but be convmced it was the best course I could take; so I
accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had
left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he
desired. .

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Por-
tugal captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and what con-
dition I was now in,.w1th all other necessary directions for my
supply; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means, by some of the Enghsh merchants there, to send over, not the
order only, but a full account of my story to a merchant at London,
who represented 1t effectually to her: whereupon she not only deli-
vered the money, but, out of her own oeket, sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for is humanity and charlty

me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
goods, such as the captam had written for, sent them directly to him
, at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me to the Brasils: among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in my business to
think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work,
and utensrls, necessary for my plantation, and which were of great
' use to me.

'4 When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for I was
.' 51 rised wrth the Joy of it; and m good steward, the captain, had
, laid) out the five pounds, which my iend had sent him for a present
; for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for
>> six years' servree, and would not acceptpf any consideration, except
' a hatle tobacco, which I would have him accept, bemg of my own
' ro uce.

' p Neither was this all; for my goods being all English manufacture
- such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable an
' desirable in the country, I found means to sell them to a very great
' advantage; so that I might say, I had more than four times the
value of m first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond 111 poor
' neighbour, mean in the advancement of my plantation- or the
first thin<r I did, I bought me a Nem slave, and an _Iluropean
', servant also: I mean another besides that which the captam brought
, me from Lisbon.

' But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our
; greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with
' great success in my plantation; I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
f my own nrround, more than I had (115 osed of for necessaries among
' my neighbours; and these fiftiy rolls, Ibeing each of above a hundred
3, weight, were well cured, and aid by against the return of the fleet
j from Lisbon: and now increasing in business and in wealth, my head
;. began to be full of projects and undertakings be 0nd my reach; such
' as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best hea in business. - Had
' I continued in the station I was now m, I had room for all the hap y
' things to have yet befallen me, for which myl father so earnest y
T recommended a quiet, retired life, and of whic he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full of: but other things
. attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own
miseries; and particularly, to increase my fault, and double the
i. reflections uIlJ'on myself, which in my future sorrows I should haye
i leisure to ma 'e, all these miscarrir oes were procured b my apgarent
.1 obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wan ering a road,
-{ and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views of
_: domg myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects, and
f. those measures of life, which nature and provrdence concurred to
,_; present me with, and to make my duty.

_.f As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents,
:1 $9 I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy
; ; view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation,
' only to pursue a rash and. immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thmg admitted; and thus I _cast myself down agam
a} mto the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into or

51 Perhaps could be consistent with life, and a state of health in'the
. wor
To come, then, by the just degrees, to the particulars of this part it
of my story :-You may suppose, that havmg now lived almost four
years m the Brasfls, and beginmnv to thrive and prosper very well
upon my lantation, I had not onl .learned the lan 0e but had
coutractc acquaintance and friends g among 111 .fe ow-planters, as
well as among the merchants at St. alvador, w ch was our port;
and that, in my discourses among them, I had frequently given them
an account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea; the manner l
of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy it was to pur-
chase upon the coast for trifleST--such as beads, to s, knives, scissors, _
hatchets, bits of glass, and the hke--not only gold ust Gmnea grains, "
elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes, for the servrce of, the Brasils, in i
great numbers. . ,3

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying Negroes; '1
which was a trade, at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been came on by the assientos, or ermission .
of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the pu lic stock; -'
so that few Negroes were brought, and those excessrvely dear.

It happened, being 1n company With some merchants and planters f"
of m acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three 4;
of t em game to me the next morning and told me they had 3.
been musmg very much upon what I had discoursed With them of '3.
the last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me; .1
and, after enjoming me secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to '91
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well .<<
as I, and were straitcned for nothino so much as servants - that as it '
was a trade that could not be carried on, because they could not pub A
thy sell the Negroes .when they came home, so they desired to make }
but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide ',
them among their own lantations; and, in a word, the question was, 3
whether I would go t1e1r supercargo in the ship, to manage the ;,
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me thatI
should have my equal share of the Negroes, wrthsut providing any 1
part of the stock. .

This was a faireiroposal it must he confessed, had it been made .
to any one that ha not; had a settlement and a plantation of his own "
to look after, which was in a fair way of coming to be very consi- ,
derable, and wrth a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus 9-
entered and estabhshed, and had nothing to do but to go on as I had
begun, for three or four cars more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from ngland; and who in that time, and With a,
that little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or _
four thousand pounds sterhng, and that increasing too--for me to -
think of such.a voyage was the mostpreposterous thing that ever
man in such circumstances could be guilty of. .

But I, that was born to be _my own destroyer, could no more read:
the offer, than I could restrain my first ramblmg desims, when my
father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them
I would go with all m heart, if they would undertake to look after
my plantation in my a sence, and would dispose of it to such as I
should direct, if I miscarried. This they all enoaged to do, and
entered into writings or covenants to do so; andbl made a formal
will, disposing of my lantation and effects in case of in death,
making the captain of t e ship that had saved my life, as beiore, my
universal heir, b_ut obliging iim to dispose of my effects as I had
directed in my Wlll; one-half of the produce being to himself, and th(
other to be shipped in England.

In short, 1 took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and
to kec up my plantation: had I used half as much rudence to have
locket into my own interest, and have made a Ju gment of what I
ought to have done and not to have done, I had certainly never
gone away from so prosperous an undertaking, leavmg all the pro-

able Views of a tlirivmg Circumstance, and gone upon a voy 0e to
sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing 0 the:
reasons I had to exgect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurric on, and obeyed blindlv the dictates of my fancy
rather than my reason; and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out,,
and the cargo furmshcd, and all things done, as by agreement, by-
my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the Istr.
of September, 1659, being the same dav eight years that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their
authoritv, and the fool to m own Interest.
' Our ship was about one undred and twenty tons burden, carried
- six guns, and fourteen men, beSides the master, his boy, and myself;

we iad on board no large caiiso of goods, except of such toys as
_ were fit for our trade with the egroes, such as beads, bits of glass,
; shells, and other trifles, especially little looking-glasses,kmves, seissors,
. hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the
northward upon our own coast, With design to stretch over for the
L African coast, when we came about ten or twelve degrees of northern
I latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of course in those days. We
-, had veryr good weather, only excessively hot, all the way upon our own:
' coast, till we came to the height of Ca e St. Au stmo; from whence,
: keeping further off at sea, we lost sig t of lan , and steered as if we-
? were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our course
: N.E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we-
. passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude,
3' when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our know-
: ledge. It began from the south-east, came about to the north-west,
, and.t|ien settled in the north-east; from whence it blew in such a
' terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing
,- but drive, and, seudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever
; fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to. be swallowed up;
3, nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their hves.

In this distress we had, beSides the terror of the storm one of our

en die of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed overboard.

bout the twelfth day the weather abating a little, the master made

observation as well as he could. and found that he was in about
I)
eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees
of longitude difference west from Ca )e St. Augustina; so that
he found he was upon the coast of uiana, or the north part of
Brasil, beyond the river Amazons, towards that of the river Oroo-
no uc, commonly called the Great River ' and.began to consult=
wit me what course he should take, for t ie ship was leaky, and
very much disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast
of Brasil. _

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of _tlie
sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited '
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Caribbee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for
Barbadoes; which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid the in-draft of the ,
oay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily erform, as we hoped, in
about fifteen days' sail; whereas we con d notpossiblv make our ,
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assrstancc both to our '
shi and to ourselves. ;

fi'ith this design, we changed our course, and steered away N.W.
by W., in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for, being 111
the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the way of all human commerce, that had all 3
our lives been saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being .
devoured by savages, than ever returning to our own country. ;

In this distress, the wind still blowing ver hard, one of our men
early in the morning cried out, " Land l" an we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the.
world we were, than the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment,
her motion being so stopped the sea broke over her in such amanner,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition
to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circum-
stances. We knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it was 1
we were driven; whether an island or the main,--whether inhabited g
or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though i
rather less than at first, we could not so much as hope to have
the ship hold many minutes without breaking into pieces unless the
winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a
word, we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death every '
moment, and every man, accordingly, preparing for another world; :
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that which I

 

was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, con-
trary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the
master said the wind began to abate.

New, thouah we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the
ship having thus struck upon thesand and sticking too fast for us
to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and
had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could.
We had a boat at ourostern just .before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, 1n the next place,
she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea- so there
, was no hope from her. We had another boat on board, but how to get
her off into the sea was a. doubtful thing; however, there was no
. time to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
'- minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.
_, In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
, with the help of the rest of the men, got her slung over the ship's
' side; and getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, bemg
. eleven in number, to God's mercy and the Wild sea: for though the
7 storm was abated considerably, yet the sea. ran dreadfully high upon
' the shore, and might be well called den wild zee, as the Dutch call
' the sea in a storm. . .
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly,
-' that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live, and that we
T should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor,
- if we had, could we have done anything wrth 1t; so_we worked at
. the car towards the land, though with heavy hearts, hke men going
\, to execution; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer the
" shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pleees by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest
' manner; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our
_21 ilesgruction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could towards
: an .
, What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether. steep or
shoal, we knew not; the .only hope that could rationally give us the
.- least shadow of expectation, was, if we might find some bay or gulf,
.. or the mouth of some river, where by great chance we might have
' run our boat in, or got under the lee of the'land, and perhaps made
. smooth water. But there was nothinv like this appeared; but as we
" grade nearer and nearer the shore, thezland looked more frightful than
' e sea.
.. After we had rowed or rather driven about a league and a half,
>> as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern
a of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word
'. it took.us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and
separating us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us
not time to say, "0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in a
- moment.
v. Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
; r I sunk into the water: for though I swam very well, yet I could not
.. deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
: havmg dnven.me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the
j; shore, and havmo spent itself went back, and left me upon the land
:.;.3. almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I ad so much
.' presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the
mam land than I expected I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to
, make on towards the lan as fast as I could, before another wave
- 1. should return and take me 1111: again; but I soon found it was impos-
sible to 8V01d-1t; for I saw t e sea Some after me as high as a great
' D

R
hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to
contend with: my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself
upon the water, if I could; and so by swnnming, to preserve my
breathing and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible, my greatest
concern now being, that the sea, as it .would carry me a great way
towards the shore when it came on might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back towards the sea. .

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twentyor
thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried With
3 might force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way;
but I he (1 my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath. when,
as I felt myself raising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, '
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a 0mod while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground again '
with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover breath, and
till the waters went from me, and then took to my heels and ran, with
what strength I had, further towards the shore. But neither would
this deliver me from the f of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again; and tvnce more was lifted up by the waves and carried
forwards as before, the shore beino ver flat.

The last time of these two had we nigh been fatal to me; for
the sea havmg hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather
dashed me, c'ainst a dpiece of a rock, and that with such force, as it
left me sense ess, an . indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for
the blow taking my Side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, uite
out of my bod ;_ and had it returned again immediately, I must ave
been stranvle in the water: but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again with the
water, I resolved to hold fast By a piece of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if pOSSible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves T
were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till
the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took, I got to the main land; where to my cat
comfort, I clambcred up the chfl's of the shore, and sat me own
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of the
water.

I was now landed, and safe onshore, and began to look up and
thank God that my hfe was saved, in a case wherein there was, some
mlnutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible
to express, to the hfe, what the ecstacies and transports of the soul
are, when it is so saved as I may say, out of the very grave: and I
do not wonder now at. the custom, when a malefactor, who has the
halter about his neck, is tied up and ust going to be turned off and
has a reprieve brought to hnn; Isay, do not wonder that they bring
a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell him of

it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart,
and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands; and my whole
being, as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation of my deliverance;
making a thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe;
reflectmg upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
should not be one soul saved but m self; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards, or any sign of t iem, except three of their hats,
one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth
of the sea bemw so big, I could hardl see it, it lay so far off; and
considered, Lord! how was it pOSSible could get on shore?

After I had solaced my mind With the comfortable part of my
condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was
in, and what was next to be done: and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, m a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I _see any prospect before me, but that of
perishing With hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts: and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself vamst an other creature that might des1re to kill me for
theirs. aIn a wor , I had nothing about.me but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a httle tobacco in a box. This was all my provision; and
this threw me into temble agomes of mind, that, for a while, ran
about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I began, With a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous
beasts in that country, as at mght they always come abroad for their
prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that.time, was to
get up into a thick bushy tree, hke a fir but thorny, which grew near
me, and where I resolved to sit all nig it, and conSider the negrt da
what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of hfe.
walked about a furlono' from the shore, to see if I could find any
fresh water to drink, which I did to my great Joy; and having drank,
and put ahttle tobacco inmy mouth to revent hunger, I went to the
tree, and getting 11 into it, endeavoure to place myself so as that if I.
should sleep I mig t not fall. And having cut _me a short stick, hke
a. trimcheon, for my defence I took up my lodging; and haying been
excesswely fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortabl as, I
believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myse more
refreshed With it than I think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not r {re and swell .as before; but that
which surprised me most was, thatatlie ship was hfted off in the mght
from the sand where she lay, b the swelling of the tide, and was
driven up almost as far as the roe which I at first mentioned, where
I had been so braised by the wave dashing me against it. This bemg
within about amile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that at least I might
save some necessary things for my use. _

When I came down from m apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again and the first thing found was the boat, which lay, _as the
wind and sea had tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on
my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have

t to her - but found a neck, or inlet, of water between me and the

t, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back tor the
present, beinv more intent upon getting at the slnp, where I hoped
to find somet ' g for my present suhSIstence.

A little after noon, I found the .sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship.
And here I found a fresh renewmg of my grief, for I saw eVidently.
that if we had ke it on board, we had been all safe: that is to say,
we had all_got sa 'e _on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to
be left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I nowwvas. .
This forced tears-to my e es again; but as there was little relief in -
that, I resolved, if possib e, to get to the ship; so I pulled 01f my
clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the water.
But when I came to the ship, my difliculty was still orreater to know
how to get on board ;. for, as she lay aground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing Within my reaclrto lay hold of. I swam
round her tWice, and .the second time I spied a small iece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hung down by t e fore-chains
so low, that with great dilliculty I ot hold of it, and by the help of
that rope I got up into the forecast e of the ship. Here I found that
the ship was bulged and had 3. eat deal of water in her bold; but
that she lay so on the side of a ank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low, almost
to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work was to
search and to see what was spoiled and what was free. And first, I
found that all the ship's proViSions were dry and untouched by the
water and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room,
and filled mf' Pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other
things, for iad no time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great cabin, of whichI took a large dram, and which I had indeed
need. enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted
nothing but a boat, to furmsh myself with many things which I force
saw would be yery necessary to me.

It was in vain to Sit still and'wish for what was not to be had; and
this extremit roused my application. We had several spare yards,
and two ort ree large spars of wood, and. a spare top-mast or two
in the shi : I resolved to fall to work With these, and I flung as
many of em overboard as I could manage for their weiwht, tying
every one with a rope, that they mioht not drive away. When this
was done, I went down the ship's Side and pulling them to me, 1 tied
four of them together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of
a raft, and la g two or three short pieces of lank u on them,
cross-ways, I ound I could walk upon it very we , but t t it was
- not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I
, went to work, and With the carpenter's saw I cut a spare to -mast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great cal of
' labour and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have
. done upon another occasion.

' My raft was now strong enough .to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what tocload it With, and how to preserve what I
' laid upon it from the surf of the sea: but I was not long conside '
this. I first. laid all the plank or boards upon it that I could get an

i having consrdercd well what I most wanted, I firstogot three of the
' seameii's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down ppon my raft; the first of these I filled with provisions,
' viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh
(which we hved much u on), and a httle remainder of European corn,
' which had been laid by or .some fowls which we brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
>> wheat together; but, to my great disappomtment I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spOiled it all.. As for hquors, I found
, several cases of bottles belon ing to our skipper, in which were some
- cordial waters; and in all, a out. five or 51); gallons of rack, These
I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor any room for them. While I was domg this, I found the
tide began to flow, though. very cahn; and I had the mortification to
see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on the shore, upon
the sand, swim away. As for my breaches, which were only linen,
and open-knee'd, I swam on board in them and m . stockings.
However, this set me .on rummaging for clothes, of w eh I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon ---as, first tools to work
with on shore. And it was after long scare ing that I found out the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
mucliomore valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been at
that time. I got it down to my raft, whole as it was, without losmg
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and. arms. Therewere
two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two istols.
These 1 secured first, with some powder-horns and a small sf of
shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barre s of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft With
the arms. .And now I thought myself pretty well freighted'hand
began to think how I should et to shore with them, havmg neither
sai , oar, or rudder; and the east cap-full of wind would have over-
set all my naVigation.

.I had three encouragements: lst, a smooth, calm sea; 2ndly, the
tide rismg, and setting in to the shore - 3rdly, what httle Wlnd there
was blew me towards the land. And thus, having found two. or three
broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were
in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a hammer: With this cargo I put
to sea. For a mile or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that
I found it drive a little distant from the place where_I had landed
before; b which I perceived that there was some indraft of the
water, an conse uently, I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might ma 'e use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of .the tide set mto '
it; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to keep in the middle of =
the stream. . _
But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which,
if I had, I think, verily, would have broke my heart; for, knowmg
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a
shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it wanted but a httle
that all my cargo had slip ed ofl' towards the end that was afloat, and
so fallen into the water. did my utmost, by setting my back agamst
the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not thrust off the
raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture Iwas
in; but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the .rismg of the water
brought me a little more upon a level; and, a httle after, the water
still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar
I had into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found
myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both Sides, and a

strong current or tide running 11 . I looked on both sides for a

groper place to get to shore, for was not willing to be driven too
igi up the river: hoping, in time, to see some $111 at sea, and
therefore resolved to p ace myself as near the coast as could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek to
which, with great painand difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
iii? so near, that reaching ground With my oar, I could thrust her

ectly in. But here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into the
sea again; for that shore l'ing pretty steep--that is to say, sloping,
--there was no place to lan , but where one end of my float, if it ran
on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that
it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to wait
till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an
anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of
ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of
water, I thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars into the
ground,--one on one side, near one end, and one on the other side
near the other end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and
left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to VIEW the country, and seek a pro er place
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from
whatever might ha pen. Where I'was,I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or an is and; whether inhabited or not inhabited; whether
in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above amile
from me, which rose .up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward.
L} I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery 11 to the top
of that lull where after I had with great labour and ifiiculty got
.3 to the top, I saw my fate, to mv great aflliction viz., that I was in an
island envn'oncd on every side by the sea: no land to be seen except
1 some rocks, which lav a great way off, and two small islands, less
"than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

;" I found also that the Island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good
.- reason to beheve, umnhabited except by wild beasts, of whom, how-
ever, I saw none. Yet I saw abun ancc of fowls, but knew not their
; kinds, neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food
"' and what not. At my coming back I shot at a great bird, whichI
._. saw Sitting upon a tree, on the Side of a great wood. I beheve it was
'- the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world.
~ I had no sooner fired, than from all the parts of the wood there arose
, an iimumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one according to his usual note, but
not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I
killed, I took it to he a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling

,-. it, but it had no talons or claws more than common. Its flesh was

;; carrion, and fit _for nothing.

..- Contented With this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to
7' work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that
'; day: what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed. where
f to rest, .for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowmg but
3 some wrld beast might devour me, though, as I afterwards found,
" there was really no need for those fears.

= However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the
. chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made akmd of
. hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way
' . to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures, hke
hares, run out of the wood where I shot the fowl. _

., I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
,, out of the s ip, which would be useful to me, and articularly some
; of the rigging and sails, and such other things asmig t come to land;
and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, 1f possi-
ble. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessanlv
,. break her all in fnieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, tlll I
. had got every t ing out of the shi that I could get. Then I called
. a conned--that is to say, in my t oughts--whether I should take
; back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go
'- as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I stripE-letd
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a chequered s ,
a air of lmen drawers and a pair of pumps on my feet.

.got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft ;. and,
having had. experience of the first, I neither made this so unw1eldy,
nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very use-

ul to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or three
bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of
hatchcts, and, above all, that most useful thing called a grmdstone.
All these I secured, together with several things belongmg to the
gunner; particularly two or three iron crows, .and 'two barrels ot
musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowhng-piece, with some
small quantity of owder more; a large bagful of small shot, and a
great roll of sheet. ead; but this last was so heavy I could not bust
it up to get it over the ship's Sldc.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find,
and a spare fore-top sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and With
this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to
my very great comfort. . .

I was under some apprehensron, during my absence from the land
that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore: but when I
came back, 1 found no sign of any ViSitor; only there sat a creature
like a wild cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
1t, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun to her, but, as
she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon "7111011 I tossed her a bit of biscuit,
though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great: however, I s ared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled
at it, and ate it, an looked (as if pleased? for more ; but I thanked
her, and could spare no more: so she mare red off.

Having got my second cargo on shore,--though I was obliged to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for the were
too heavy, being large casks,--I went to work to make me a litt e tent,
with the sail, and some poles which I cut for that purpose : and into
this tent I brought everything that I knew would s oil either with
rain or sun; and I piledall the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from
man_or beast.

When 1_ had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some
boards. Within, and an empty chest set up on end without; and
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length.bf' me, I went to bed for the
first time, and sle t very quietly all mg 1t, for I was very wear and
heavy - for the nig t before I had slept little, and had laboure very
hardball day, to fetch all those things from the ship, and to get them
on s ore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up,
I believe, for one man : but I was not satisfied still, for while the
ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everything
out of her that I could: so every day, at low water, I went on oar
and brought away something or other; but particularly the third
time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as
also all the small r0 es and rope twine I could get, with a piece of
spare canvass, whic was to mend the sails u )on occasion, and the
barrel of wet gtm owdcr. In a word, I broug t away all the sails
first and last; 0 y that I was obliged to cut them in pieces, and
bring. as much at a time as I could, for they were no more useful to
be sails, but as mere canvass only. .

But that which comforted me more still. was, that last of all, after
a I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had
'9 notlnng more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with ;--I say, after all this, I found a great hogsbead of bread, three
' large runlets of mm, or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour: this was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more Erowsrons, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon
.. emptied t e hogshead o the _bread, and wrap e_d it up, parcel 21v]
'1: parcel, m pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and), m a word, I got
"5 this safe on shore also. .
.3, 'l'he'next day I made another voyage, and now, havmg plundered
'2' the ship of .what was portable and fit to hand out, I began With the
cables, cutting the great cable mto pieces, such as I could move, I
, got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the ironowork I could
.~ get; and havmg cut down the spritsail- ard, and the'mizenvyard, and
.9, everything I could, to make a large rat, I loaded it With all these
heavy goods, and came away ; but my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was so unwreldy, and so overladen, that after I was
' entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of _my goods, not
'_ being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
-: threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it was no
great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a
I" eat part of it lost, especially the iron, whichI expected would have
, een ot great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I got most
of the leces of cable ashore, and some. of the iron, though With infi-
mte la our; for I had to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. After this, I went every day on board, and
brought away what I could et. ,
, v I had been now thirteen ays on shore, and had been eleven times
. onboard the ship, in which time I had brought away all that one
Barr of hands could well be supposed ca able to brmg; though I

eheve verily, had the calm weather held, should have brought away
f the whole Slll , piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth time to go
" on board, I ouud the Wind began to rise: however, at low water I
'. went on board, and though I thought I had rummaged the cabmso
' ell'ectually that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a
locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors,
and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good kmves
and forks : in another I found about thirty-six pounds value mmonei,
-some EurOpean coin, some Brasil, some pieces-ofoeig t, some gol ,
1:: and some Silver. .

; I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: " 0 drug!" said I
aloud, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me --no,
f' not the takmg off the ground : one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou art3
.: and go to the bottom, as a creature whose hfe 18 not worth saymg.'
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and wrapplng all
2' I . a piece of canvass, I began to think of making another raft; but
J Vlnle I was pregaring this, I found the sky overcast, and the mud
' egan to use, an in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh 3816 from
. he shore. 1t presentl occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre<<
' nd to make a raft wit the wind off shore; and that it was my busy
ness to be gone before the tide of flood began, otaerwise I mightnot
be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down mto
the water, and swam across the channel which lay between the ship
and the sands, and even that with difliculty enough, partly with the
weideght of the things I had about me, and artly from the roughness ,
of the water; for the wind rose very hasti y, and before it was quite
hi h water it blew a stem).
at I had got home to my little tent, where 1 lav, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew ver hard all that night, and ,
in the morning, when I looked out, behol no more shi was to be
seen! I was a little surprised but recovered myself wit 1 this satis'
factory reflection, that I had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, ~
to get everything out of her that could be useful to me; and that,
indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I ;
had had more time. ,
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out '3
of her, except what might drive on shore from her wreck; as, indeed -
divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of small .
use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself 2
against either sav o'es, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were 7;
in the island; an I had many thoughts of the method how to do .3
this, and what kind of dwelling to make,--whether I should make me 1;.
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth : and, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
im roper to give an account of. ,
soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement, "i
because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea, and I
believed it would not be wholesome, and more particularly because 9
there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find amore healthy ;'
and more convement s ot of ground.
I consulted several t ings in my situation, which I found would be f:
grodper for me: Ist, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned: .4;
n , shelter from the heat of the sun: 3rdly, security from raven- .'
ous creatures, whether men or beasts: 4thly, a view to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my
deliverance, of which I was not Willing to banish all my expectation
ye . .
In search of a lace proper for this, I found a little plain on the side i
of a rising h1ll,w ose front towards this little plain was steep as a '.
house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the top. i
On the side of the rock there was a hollow filace, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but t ere was not really any
cave, or way into the rock, at all. ',-
0n the flat of the em, Just before this hollow place, I resolved 2
to itch my tent. T 15 plain was not above a hundred yards broad, :7
andJ about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door; and, ,'
at the end of it, descended n'regularlg' every way down into the low ,.
ound by the sea-side. It was on t e N.N.W. side of the hill; so :
t t it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and .
by S. sun, or thereabouts, Wthh, in those countries, is near the setting. 3,
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took 1n about_ ten yards in its semi-diameter, from
therroek, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
en mg. '

In this half-circle I. pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like iles, the biggest
end being out of the ground above five feet and a-ha f and sharpened
. on tlllC top. The two rows did not stand above six inches from one
. anot ier.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and
, laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these

two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside,
, leaning against them, about two feet-- and a-half high, like a spur to a
' post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
r get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labour
f' especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and
drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a
' short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted
' over after me; and so I was com letely fenced in and fortified, as I
- thought, from all the world an consequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it appeared
afterwards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies
'3' that I apprehended danger from. .
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I earned all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
.. the account above; and I made a. large tent, which, to reserve me
a; from the rains, that in one part of the year are very we cut there, I
:3: made double, one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it ~
3 I... and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had save
' :3 among the sails.
. 3' And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
.3, belonged to the mate of the ship. .
3-32 Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that
a, would spoil by the wet; and havmg thus enclosed all my goods, I
it made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed
*- and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
g' When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock and
ringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my
1:92 cut, I .laid them up within my fence, in the nature of aterrace,
3f: 0 that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half ' and thus
A?! made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
,' $ - my house. _
It cost me much labour and many da 3 before all these tlnngs were
u" rpught to erfection; and therefore must go back to some. other
hings whicr took u some of my thoughts. At the same time it
'2 appened, after I ha laid my scheme for the setting up m tent, and
akmg the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a t ck, dark
_ :23; loud, a sudden flash of lightning happened and after that, a great
a; lap of thunder, as is naturally the eflect o it. I was not so much
surprised with the lightninv, as.I was with a thought which darted
into my mind as swnt as tie lightning itself: 0 my powder! My
very heart sank within me whenll thought that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing
near so anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder too:
fire, I should never have knomi who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, .that after the storm
was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
ap lied myself to make bags and boxes, to .se arate the owder,
an to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in ope that w iatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; and to keep it so
apart, that it should _not be possmlc _to make one Kart fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortmght- and I t ink my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not ap rehend any danger from that; so I
placed it in my new cave, whic i, in my fancy, I cflled my kitchen; and
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
mi ht come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

n the interval of time while this was domg, I went out once at
least every day With my gun, as well to divert in self as to see if I
could kill anything fit for food; and, as near as could, to acquaint
myself with what the island produced. The first time 1 went out, I
presently discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a
great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this misfor-
tune to me, 1712., that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot
that it was the difficultest thing in the world to come at them; but I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then
shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a
little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw me
in the valleys, though they were u on the rocks, they would run
away as in a terrible fright; but if t iey were feeding in the valleys
and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence
concludedi that by the pOSItlon. of their optics, their sight was so
directed ownward, that ther did not readily see objects that were
above them; so afterwards, took this method,--I always climbed
the 1:ocks first, to get above them, and then had frequently a fair
mar .

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat
which had a little kid by her, which she oavesuck to which grieved
me heartily; for, when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still b
her, till I came and took her up- and not only so but when I carrie
the old one With me, upon.my shoulders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my )ale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat; so was forced to kill it, and ate
it myself. These two supplied _me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparino'ly and saved my prOVlSlonS, my bread especially, as much as
possiny I could.

Hanng now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary to
rovide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and what I did
for that, as also how 1 enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its place; but I must now
give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was not cast
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent
storm, qultc out of the course of our intended voyage, and a great
way, viz., some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of
the trade of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a determi-
nation of Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and sometimes I would
expostulate wrth myself why Providence should thus completely ruin
its creatures, and render them so absolutely miscrable- so wrthout
help, abandoned, so entirely dc resscd, that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a ifc.

But sometlnng always returned swift upon me to check these
thoughts, and to re rove me- and particularly, one day, .walking
with my gun in my rand, by the sea-side, I was very pensrve upon
the subject of my present condition, when reason, as it were ex os-
tulated with me the other way, thus: "Well, you are in a eso te
condition, it is true; but, pray remember, where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten?
Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were you smgled out?
Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pomted to the sea.
All evils are to be considered with the good that is in them, and wrth
what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished for ma
subsistence, and what would have een my case if it had not ha pene
(which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship fioate from
the place where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore that I had time to get all these tlnnos out of her; what would
have been my case, if I had been forced todiave lived in the condition
in which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or
necessaries to supply and procure them? " Particularly," said I,
aloud (though to myself), ' what should I have done Without a gun,
without ammunition, wrthout any tools to make anything, or to_ work
with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covennng'
and that now I had all these to sufficient quantity, and was in a fair
way to provide myself in such a manner as to live Without my gun,
when my ammunition was spent: so that I had a tolerable view of
subsisting, without any want, as long as I lived; 'for I consrdered,
from the beginninv, how I would provide for the accrdents that might
happen, and for the time that was to come, even not only after my
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health and strengt-
should decay. _ _ . . .

I confess, I had not entertamed any notion ofmy ammunition being
destroyed at one blast,--I mean my powder bemg blown up by 11 ht-
mng- and this made the thoughts of it'so surprlsmg to me, w en
1t lig tened and thundered, as I observed Just now.
And_now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of
silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before,
I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
was, by m r account, the 30th of September, when, in the manner as
above said, I first set foot upon tus horrid island; when the sun
being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost 'ust over my head:
for ID reckoned myself, by observation, to be in t e latitude of nme
degrees twentv-two minutes north of the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days; but to

revent this, I cut wrth my knife upon a large post, in ca Ital
etters; and making it into a great cross, I set up on the shore w ere
I6SSSSsPS lauded, "I came on shore here on the 30th of September,

0 .

Upon the sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long one; and thus
Imkept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of

e.

In the next lace, we are to observe that among the many things
which I broug t out of the ship, in the several v0 ages which as
above mentioned, I made to it, 1 got several things 0 less value, but
not at all less useful to me, which I omitted settin down before; as,
in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several arce s in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; t ee or four com asses,
some mathematical instruments dials, perspectives, charts, an books
of navigation- all which I huddled together, whether I might want
them or no: also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up amon my
things; some Portuguese books also - and, among them, two or t ree
Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say some-
thing in its place- for I carried both the cats with me; and as for
the 0g he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore
to me the day after I went on shore with m first cargo, and was a
trusty servant to me many years- I wante nothing that he could
fetch me, nor any company that he could make u to me; I on]
wanted to have lum talk to me, but that woul not do. As
observed before, I found ens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them
to the utmost; and I s iall show that w rile my ink lasted, I ke
things very exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I co (1
not make any ink by any means that I could devise.

And this ut me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that had amassed together- and of these, ink was one; as
also a spade. pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want that
without much difficulty. .

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it

was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, or
surrounded mfi' habitation. The pilespr stakes, which were as heavy
asI could we hit, were a long time in cuttmg and preparing in the
woods, and more, by far, In hrmging home; so that I spent some-
times two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts and
a third day m driving it into the ground; for which purpose, I got
a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one
of the iron crows - which, however, though Ifound it, made dnvmg
those sts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what.
need have been concerned at the tediousness of an hing _I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor ha I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee, except.
the ranging the island to seek for food, which I dld, more or less,
every day. . . _

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circum-
stances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of my affairs 1n.
writing, not so much to leave them to .any that were to come after
me, for I was likely to have but few heirs, as to dchver my thoughts.
from daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mmd: and as my
reason began now to master my desrondcncy, I. began toeomfort
myself as well as I could, and to set 1 1e good against the evrl, that I
might have something to distinguish my case. from worse; and I
stated very_ impartially, like debtor and creditor,---the comforts I

 

enjoyed agamst the miseries I suffered, thus:----

EVIL.

I am cast upon a horrible, de-
solate island, void of all hope of
recovery.

I am singled out and separated,
as it were, from all the world, to
be miserable.

I am divided from mankind,--
a solitaire; one banished from
human society.

I have not clothes to cover
me.

I am without any defence, or
means to resxst any \'lOlCllCC of
man or beast.

I have no soul to speak to, or
reheve me.

Goon.

But Iam alive; and not drowned,
as all my slnp's company were.

But I am singled out too, from
all the ship's crew, to be spared
from death- and he that miracu-
lously saved me from death, can
deliver me from this condition.

. But I am not starved, and pe-
rishmg on a barren place, afl'ord-
mg no sustenance. .

. But I am In a hot chmate,where,
if I had clothes, I could hardly
wear them. _

But I am cast on an Island
where I see no wild beasts to hurt
me, as I saw on the coast of Africa:
and what if Ihad been shipwrecked
there ?

But God wonderfully sent the
ship in near enough to the shore,
that I have got out as many ne-
cessary things as Will either supply
my wants, or enable me to. supply
myself, even as long as I hve.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was
scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but there was some-
thing negative, or something positive, to be thankful for in it: _and let
this stand as a direction, fmm the experience of the most miserable
of all conditions in this world: that we may always findin it some-
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the description of good
and evil, on the credit side of the account. _ _ _

Having now brought my mind a .little to relish my condition, and
given over looking out to sea, to see if I could Spy a ship,--I say, giving
over these things, I began to apply myself to arrange my way of
living, and to make things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under the
side of a rock, surrounded with a strong alc of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wall, for I) raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs. about two feet think on the outside: and after
some time I think it was a year and a-half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to t e rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found
at some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe,
too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as they
lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had' no room to turn
myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work farther into
the earth- for it was a loose sandy rock, which vielded easily to the
labour I bestowed on it: and so when 1 found I was pretty safe as
to beasts of prey, Iworked sideways, to the right hand into the rock;
and then turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made me
a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a back-way
to 0133' tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to store my
go .

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I
could not write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure,
without a table: so I went to work. And here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and origin of the mathematics, so by
stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making the most
rational Judgment of things, everv man may be, in time, master 0'
every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life; and yet
in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found, at last that
I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had
tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without tools;
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
Earhaps were never made that way before, and that with infinite

hour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
Slde with my axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a plank and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for the rodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a p ank or board: but my
time or labour was httle worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another. .

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above in
the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that
I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I had wrou ht out
some boards as above, I made large shelves, f the breadth o a foot
and a half, one overanother all along one 31 e of my cave, to lay all
my tools, nails, and iron-work on; and, in a word, to separate every.
tluno' at large into their places, that I m10llt come easily at them. I
knoclced pieces into the wall of the reel: to hang my guns and all
things that would hang up: so that had my cave been to be seen, it
looked like a general magazme of all necessary things; and I had
everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my stock of all
necessaries so great. .

And now it was. that I began to keep a Journal of every day's
employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and
not only hurry as to labour, but in too much discom osure of mind;
and my Journal would have been full of many ull things: for
example, I must have said thus, 'fSept. SUM--After I had got to
shore, and had escaped drowmng, instead of hemg thankful to God
for my deliverance having first vomited With the great quantity of
saltwater which had got into my stomach, and recovering myself a little,
I ran aboutthe shore, wringing my hands and beating my head and face i
exclaiming at my misery, an crying out, 'I was undone, undone!
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to repose;
but durst not sleep, for fear of bein devoured."

Some days after this, and after had been on board the ship, and
got all that I could out of her, yet I_could not forbear getting up to
the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of? seem
a ship; then fancy, at a vast distance I spied a sail lilease myse
with the hopes of it, and then after loolring steadily, till. was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly. . . .

But havmg gotten over these things in some measure, and having
settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a '
chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I began .to.kee my
journal; of whichI shall here give ou the cOpy.(though in it .be
told all these particulars over again as long as it lasted; for having
no more ink, 1 was forced to leave it off.

THE JOURNAL.

September 30, 1659.--I, dpoor, miserable Robinson Crusoe being
shipwrecked, during a drea ful storm,.m the offing, came on s ore on
this dismal, unfortunate island, which I called f' The Island of
Despair- " all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
m'i'iifth degSttdeiih d I t ' aflli tin yself at the dismal

eres o e ay spen m. c gm.
circumstances I was brought to, em, I had neither food, house,
It
clothes, wea n, nor place to fly to: and, in despair of any relief
saw nothing at death before me: either that I should be devour
by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want_of
food. At the a proach of night I slept.m a tree, for fear of Wllcl
creatures; but 5 e t soundly, though it rained all mght. . .

October 1.--;In t e mormng I saw, to my great surprise, the shi
had floated With the high tide, and was driven on shore again muc
nearer the island; which as it was some comfort on one hand, _for
seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, Ihoped if the wmd
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and necessaries out
of her for my rehef ; so on the other hand, it renewed my Grief at the
loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board,
might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they would not have been
all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been saved, we
might perha s have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to
have carrie us to some .other part of the world. I spent great
part of this day in perplexmg myself on these things; but, at length,
seein the ship almost dry, 1 went upon the sand as near as I could,
and t en swam on board. This day also it continued raining, though
with no wind at all.

From the lst of October to the 24th.--All these days entirely spent
inmany several voyages to_ vet all I could out of the ship, which 1
brought on shore, every title of flood, 11 on. rafts. Much rain also
in the days, though With some mtervals 0 fair weather; but it seems
this was the rainy season.

Oct-20.71 overset my raft and all the goods I had got upon it;
but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I reco-
vered many of them when the tide was out.

Oct. 25.7-It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind;
during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowmg a little
harder than before, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of
her, and that on] at low water. I spent this day in covering and
:ficurmg the goo which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil

em.

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a
place to fixniy habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from
any attack in the mght, either from Wlld beasts or men. Towards
mght, I fixed upon a proper place, _under a rock, and marked out a
seinicn'cle tor my encampment; which I resolved to strengthen with
a work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles, lined within with
cables, and without With turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my new habitatitm, though some part of the time it rained
exceedinglyhard. . .

The 3lst in the mormng I went out into the island with my gun, -
to see for somefood, and discover the country; when I killed a she-
ant, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also

ecause it would not feed.

November 1.--I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the

first night; making it as large as I could, With stakes driven in to
swmg my hammoch upon.
Nov. 2.--I set up all Indy chests and boards, and the pieces of timber
winch made my rafts, an With them formed a fence round me, a little
w1thm the place I had marked out for m fortification.

Nov. 3.---I went out wrth m gun, an killed two fowls like ducks,
which were very good food. the afternoon went to work to make
me a table. . .

Nov: 4.--This morning I began to order my times of work, of going

out with my fun, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz., eve
mommg I wal 'ed out Wlth my gun for two or three hours, if it di
not ram; then employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to hve on; and from twelve till two I lay down
to slee , the weather being excessrvely hot; and then, in the evening
to wor again. The working part of this day and of the next were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry
workman, though time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soonafter, as I believe they would do any one else.
.-.Nov. 5.-.--Tlus day, went abroad With my gun and my dog and
killed a Wild eat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh ood tor nothing;
every creature that I killed I took oil' the skins an preserved them.
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which
I did not understand; but was surprised, and almost frightened, with
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowmg
what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work with my table
again, and finished .lt: though not to my likmg; nor was it long before
Idearned to mend it. .

Nov. 7 .--Now 1t began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th,
10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday), I took wholly
u to make me a chair, and wrth much ado brought it to a tolerable
s . ape, but never to please me; and even in the making I pulled it in
pieces several times. . . _

Note--I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, ormttmg my
mark for them on mv post, I forgot which was which. .

Nov. 13. ----Thrs day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth - but 1t was accompamed with terrible thunder
and lightning, which i'righted me dreadfully, for fear of my powder.
As soon as it was over, I resolved to. separate my stock of powder
auto as many little parcels as possrble, that it might not be m

anger.

Jim. 14, 15, 16.--These three days I spent in making little square
chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or two_pounds at
most, of powder; and so, putting the powder in I stowed it in laces
as secure and remote from one another as possible. On one 0 these
three days, I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it. . . . ,

Nov. 17 .--Th1s day I began to dig belnnd my tent mto the rock, to
make room for my further convemency. . _ .

.Noter--Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, v1z., a
pickaxe a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket- so I des1sted from
my wor , and began to consider how to an ply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pickaxe, I ma 6 use of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though heav ; but the next thing was a
shovel, or s ade; this was so absolute y necessary, that, indeed, I
could do not ing efl'ectually without it; but what kind of one to make
I knew not.

Nov. 18.--The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree
of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the iron-tree,
for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home, too, with diffi-
culty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive hard--
ness of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a long
while upon this machine, for I worked it effectually, by little and
little, into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly sha ed
like ours in England, only that the board art having no iron 510d
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so ong; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but
never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in
makmg.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. A
basket I could not make by any means, having no such things as
twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware--at least, none vet found
out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the
wheel; but that I had no notion of ; neither did I know how to go
about it; besides, I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons
for the spindle or axis of the wheel to mm in; so I ave it over, and
so, for carrying away the earth which I dug out of t e cave, I made
me a thing like a bed, which the labourers carrv mortar in, when
they serve the bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as
the. making the shovel; and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less
than four days, I mean always excepting my morning walk .w1th my
gun, which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed also bringing home
something fit to eat.

N90. 23.--My other work having now stood still, because of my
making these tools, when they were finished I went on, and working
every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in wideng and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiousifi. '

Note.--Durmg this time, I worked to make this room, or cave,
spacxous enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or magazme, a
kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for my lodging, fkept to
the tent; except that sometimes, in the wet season of the year, it
rained so hard, that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me
afterwards to cover all my place Within my pale with long poles, in
the form of rafters leaning. against the rock, and load them wrth flags
and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December 10.--I began now to think my grave or vault finished,
when.on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great

uantity of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much
t at, in short it frivhted me, and not Without reason, too ; for if I
had been under it, fhad never wanted a $ve-dwger. I had now
a great deal of work to do over again, for had the loose earth to
carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11.--This.daytI went to work with it accordingly, and got two
shores or posts pitched upl'lf'llt to the t0p, with two pieces of boards
across over_ each post ;_ this Ifimshed the next day - and setting more
posts up With boards, in. about a week more I ha the roof secured -
and the posts, standmg m rows, served me for partitions to part oil
the house.

Dec, 17.--From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could be hung up;
and now I began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20.--l\' ow I carried everything into the cave and began to
furnish my_house, and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to
order my Victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me :
also I made me another table.

Dec. 2-l.---Much rain all night and all day: no stirring out.

Dec. 25.--Rain all day.

Dec. 26.--No ram, and the earth much cooler than before, and.
pleasanter. _

Dec. 27.7Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I caught.
it, and led it home in a string; when I had it at home, I bound and.
splintered up its leg, which was broke.

N.B.--I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew well and
as strong as ever; but by my nursmg it so long it grew tame, and fed
upon the little green at my door, and would not go_ away. This was
the first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that I might have food when my powder and shot was all .,
spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 3I.--Great heats, and no breeze, so that there was
no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food; this time I spent
in utting all my things in order within oors. .

mmary 1.---Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late mth
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, gom
farther into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the Island,
found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard to-
come at; however, I resolved to try it I could not bnng my dog to:
hunt them down. . . J

Jan. 2.--Accordingly, the next day I went out With my dog, and
set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they all faced about
upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near t em.

Jan. 3.--I began my fence, or wall; which, being still jealous of
nay being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and
s rong. ,

N.B.--This wall being described before, I purposely onnt what was
said in the journal; it is sufficient to observe that I was. no less time
than from the 3rd of January to the 14th of April working, hmshmg,
and perfecting this wall, though 1t_was no more than about twent -
four yards inIength, being a half-circle, from one place in the rock .
another place about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being in
the centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many da 3',
nay, sometimes weeks, together; but I thought I should never
perfectly secure till this wall was finished; and it gs scarce credible
what inexpreSSible labour everything was done With, es ccially the
bnnomg iles out of the woods, and diiving them into t e ground;
for fma e them much bigger than I needed to have done. .

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced, With a
turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there they would not perceive anytlnn'r hke a
habitation; and it was verv well I did so, as may be observed here-
after, upon a very remarkable occasion. .

During this time I made in rounds in the woods forgame every
day, when the rain permitte me, and made frequent discoveries in
these {walks of something or other to my advantage; articularly I
found a kind of Wild pigeons, which build, not as woo -pigeons in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taknig
some vouno ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so;
but when they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of fee mo them, for I had nothing to give them; however,
I frequently founda their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat. And new, in the .managing my household affairs,
I found myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first it
wasoimposable for me to make; as, indeed, with some of them it was:
for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small
runlet or two, as 1 observed before but I could never arrive at the
capaCity of making one by them, though I spent many weeks about
it; I could neither put in the heads, or Join the staves so true to one
another as to make them hold water; so I Gave that also over. In
the next place, I was at a great loss for candles; so that as soon as
ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock I was obliged

to go to bed. I remembered the lump of bees'-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had none of that now; the
only remed I'had was, that when I had killed a oat I saved the
tallow, an . With a little dish made of clay, whichfi baked in the
sun, tq whichI added a Wick of some oakum 1 made me alam ;
and tlns gave me he'ht, though not a clear steady light like a candle.
In. the middle of alI my labours it ha pened that, rummaging m
. things, I found a httle bag, which, as I imted before, had been fille
with corn for the feeding 9f poultry,---not_ for this voyage but before,

.as I supelose when the ship came from Lisbon. The little remainder
of corn t .at had been in the bag was all devoured with the rats and I
.saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being wilting to
have the bag' for. some other use (I think it was to put powder in,
when I div1 ed 11; for the fear of the lightning or some such use),
I shook the husks of corn out of it on one Side of my fortification,
under the reek. . .

It was. a httle before the great rains Just now mentioned that I
threw this stuff away, taking .no notice, and not so much as remem.
bermg that Ihad thrown anyt nor there, when about a month after, or
thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of somethin green shooting out

of the ground, which I fancied might be some p ant I had not seen;
but 1 was surprised and perfectly astonished, when, after. a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve cars come out, which were
Erlectllggeeln barley, of the same kind as our European-nay, as our

g is ar ey.

It is impossible to espress the astonishment and confusion of my
thoughts on this occasmn- I had hitherto acted upon no religious
foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
head, nor had entertained any sense of an _ hing that had befallen
me, otherwise than as chance, or, as we ghtly say, what pleases
God, without so much as inquiring into the end of Provrdence inthese
things, or his order in governing events for the world. But after I
saw barley grow there in a climate which I knew was not proper for
corn, and especially that I knew not how it came therehit startled
me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously
caused his grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and that
it 1:115 so directed purely for my sustenance on that Wild, miserable
p ce.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes
and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should
happen upon my account; and this was the. more strange to me,
because I saw. near it still, all along by the Side of the rock, some
other sti'agglme' stalks, which proved to be stalks of nee and
which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was
ashore there. . .

I not only thought these the ure productions of l'rovidence for
my sup ort, but not doubting t at there was more in the place, I
went a1 over that part of the island where I had been before, peenno-
in every corner, and under every rock, to see for more of it but I
could not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, thatI shook
a bag of chickens' meat out in that place, and then the wonder began
to cease; and I must confess, my rehgiqus thankfulness to .God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common; though I_ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforseen a provnlence, as if it had been
miraculous; for it was really the work of I'rowdence to me, that
should order or ap oint that ten or twelve s of corn should remain
unspoiled when t e rats had destroyed the rest, as if it had been
dro ped from heaven; as also,.that I should throw_1t out in that par-
tic _ar place, where, it beme 1n the shade of a llldeg'll rock, it sprang
up Immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else, at that
time, it had been burnt up and destroyed. . .

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you ma be sure, in their
season which was about the end .of June; an , laying up every
corn, resolved to sow them all again, hoping, in time, to have. some
guantity, sufficient to sup 1y me With bread. But it was not till the

ourth year that I could ow myself the least grain of this corn .to

eat and even then but s anng , as I shall say afterwards, 1n .lts
order; for I lost all that sowe. the first season, by not observmg
the proper time; for I sowed it Just. before the dry season, so that it
ntgvefac came up at all, at least not as it would have done: of which in
t p e.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, which I preserved with the same care and for the same use,
or to the same purpose, to make me bread, or rather food; for I
found ways to cook it without baking, though I did that also after
some time.

But to return to my Journal :--

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April, [closed it up, contriving to go into
it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be
no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16.---I finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to the
top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the inside:
this was a complete inelosure to me; for within I had room enough,
and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could first
mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost had all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was thus -.
--As I was busy in the inside, behind my tent, Just at the entranCe
into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising
thing indeed: for, all on a sudden, I found the earth come crumbling
down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scared; but thought nothing of
what was really the cause, onlv thinking that the top of my cave was
fallen in, as some of it had done before: and for fear I should be
buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill
which I expected might roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped
down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible earth-
quake; for the ground I stood on shook three times at about eight
minutes' distance, Wltll three such shocks as would have overturned
the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on the
earth, and a great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about half
a mile from me, next the sea, fell down, with such a terrible noise as
I never heard in _all my life. I perceived also the very sea was put
into violent motion by it- and I believe the shocks were stronger
under the water than on the island.

I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick,
like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the
rock awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupified con-
dition I was in,_ filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then
but the hill falling upon mytent and all my household goods, and
burying all at once ; and this sunk my very soul within me a second
time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; and yet I_had not heart enough to go over
my wall again, for fear of being-buried alive, but sat still upon the
ground greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while, I had not the least serious religious thought; nothing
but the common "Lord have mercy upon me!" and when it was over,
that went away too. .

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if
it would rain; soon after that, the wind arose by httle and little, so
that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane: the
sea was, all on a sudden, covered over Wltll foam and froth; the shore
was covered with the breach of the water; the trees were torn up by
the roots ; and a terrible storm it was. 'lhis held about three hours,
and then began to abate; and in two hours more it was quite calm,
and began to rain very hard. All this while I sat upon the ground,
very much terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts, that these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought, my spirits began to
reVive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, went in and sat
down in my tent; but the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready
to be beaten down with it; and I was forced _to into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it s ould fall on my
head. This Violent rain forced me to a new work, m., to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the water go out,
which would else have flooded my cave. After I had been in my cave
for some time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
folloiv,.I began to be more composed. And now to support my 5 nits,
which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store, an took
a small sup of rum- which however, I did then and always ve
sparingly 'nowing I could have no more when that was gone. t
continue raining all that mght, and great art of the next day, so
that I could not stir abroad; but my mind emg more composed, I
began to think of what I had best do; concluding, that if. the island
was subject to these earthquakes, there would .be no living for me
in a cave, but I .must conSIder of building a little but in an open
place, which I imght surround with a wall, as I had done here,
and so make m self secure from wild beasts or men; for I con-
cluded if I stai where I was, I should certainly, one time or other,
be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove in tent from theplace
where it now stood, which was Just under the. anging precipice of
the hill; and which, if it should be shaken agam, would certainly fall
upon my tent: and I spent the two next days, being the 19th and
20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never sle t in
quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad Without any ence
was almost equal to it : but still, when I looked about and saw how
everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealedI was, and how
safe from danger, it made me ver loath to remove. In the mean-
time, it occurred to me that it wo (1 require a vast deal of time for
me to do this, and that I must he contented to venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove
to it. So with this resolution I composed myself for.a time; and
resolved that I would to work with all s eed to build me awall
with piles and cables, c., in a circle, as b ore, and set my tent up
in it, when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I
was till it was finished, and fit to remove. This was the Blst.

April 22.--The next morning I began to consider of means to
put this resolve into execution; but I was at a great loss about my
tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchets for trafiic With the Indians) but wrth much
chop ing and cuttinv knotty hardwood, they were all full of notches
and uh, and though I had a grmdstone, I could not turn it and
grind my tools too. This cost me as much thought as a statesman
would have bestowed upon a grand pomt of politics, or a 'udve u on
the life and death of a man. At length, I contrived a w eel Wit 1 a
itging, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at

erty.

Note--I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least
not to take notice how it was done, though since 1 have observed it
is very common there; besides that, my grindstone was very large
and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to
perfection. .

April 28, 29..--These two whole da's I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine. for turning my grin stone performing very well.

April 30.--Hav1ng perceived my bread had been low a great while,
now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a
day, which made my heart very heavy. .

Ma 1.--In the morning, looking toward the sea-side, the tide being
low, saw something he on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it
looked like a cask; when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to o.
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore
for the presenthand went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed. The
forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least Six
feet, and the stern which was broke in ieces and parted from the
rest b the force of the sea, soon after I ad left rummaging her, was
tosse , as it were, up, and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown
so high on that Side next her stern that whereas there was a great
place of water before, so that} couid not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck Without sw1mming, I could now walk quite up to
her when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at first, but
soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake; and as b this
violencethe shi was more broke 0 en than former] , soOmany t ings
came daily on s ore, wluch the sea ad loosened, an which the mas
and water rolled by degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted. my thou hts from the design of removing my
habitation, and I busmd myse mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make anfiay into the ship; but I found
nothing was to be expected of that d, for all the made of the ship
was choked u with sand. However, as I had learned not to des air
of anything, resolved to pull everything to pieces that I coul of
the Ship, concluding that everything I co d get from her would be of
some use or other to me. .

May 3.--I began 31th my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thought hel .some of the upper part or quarter deck together
and when I had _cut it .through, I cleared away the sand as well as
could from the Slde whleh lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to give over for that time.

232a 4.---I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, t I was weary of. my 5 ort; when, just going to leave of, I
caught a. youn dol hm. I ad made me along line of some rope-
yarn but ha no ooks; yet _I freigfntly caught fish enough, as
Eel) as I cared to eat; all which I ed 1n the sun, and eat them

Ma3{15.---Worked on the wreck - out another beam asunder, and
broug t three great fir-planks oii' from the decks, which I tied
together, and made to float on shore when the tide of flood came on.

May (ii--Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of her,
and other pieces of iron-work - worked 'very hard, and came home
very much tired, and had thong ts of givmg 1t over.

May 7 .---Went to the wreck again, not with an intent to work, but
found the weight ofthe wreck had broke 1tself down, the beams being
cut- that several pieces of the Ship seemed to he loose, and the ms1de
of the hold lay so open that I could sec into 1t, but 1t was almost
full of water and sand. .

May 8.--Went to the wreck, and carried an Iron crow to wrench
up the deck, which lay now qmte clear of the water or sand. I
wrenched open two planks, and brought them on shore also wrth the
tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day. _

May 9.----Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way Into the
body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the
crow, but could not break them up. I felt also a roll of Enghsh lead,
and could stir it, but it was too heav to remove.

.Mczg/ 10-714.--Went every day to t e wreck; and got a great many
pieces of tnnber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred
weight of iron. . . .

May 15.--I carried two hatchets, to tr If I could not cut _a piece
off the roll of lead, by placing the edge 0 one hatchet, and driving 1t
With the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half 1n the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

Ma 16.---It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared
more roken bythe force of the water; ut I stayed so long in the
woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented my gomg to
the wreck that day. .

May _17.--I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a
great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see what they
me, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to

0' away. .

H31 24:.----Every day to this day, I worked on the wreck; and With

hard hour 1 loosened some things so much w1th the crow, that the
first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil
pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had spofled 1t. I con-
tinued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the time
necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this part of
in employment, to be when the tide. was up, that I might be ready
w en it was ebbed out : and by this time I had got timber, and plank,
and iron-work, enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how;
and also_I got, at several times, and in several pieces, near one hun-
dred weight of the sheet-lead. .

J1me 16.--Going down to the sea-Side, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen, which, it seems, was only my
misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity; for had I ha -
pened to be on the other Slde of the island, I might have had hundre
of them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear
enough for them. . '

June 17.--I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three score
e gs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury and
p easant that ever I tasted in my life having had no flesh, but of
goats and fowls, Since I landed in this horrid lace.

J2me 18,--Ra1ned all day, and I stayed wit lln._ I thought, at this
time, the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly; which I knew
was not usual in that latitude.

J2me 19.---Very ill, andshivering, as if the weather had been cold.

J2me 20.--No rest all night : violent pains in my head, and feverish.

J2me 21.-Very ill; frighted almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition,--to be sick, and no help: prayed to God
for the first time since the storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I
said, or why; my thoughts being all confused.

. J2me 22.-A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions of
Sickness. . . '

June 23.----Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.

June 24-.---Much better. .

J2me 25.---A_n <<rue very Violent: the fit held me seven hours; cold
(it, and hot, With aint sweats. after it.

June 26.---Better; and havmg no victuals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak: however, I killed a she-goat, and with much
difficulty got it home, and brorled some of it, and ate. I would fain
have stewed it and made some broth, but had no pot.

June 27.--The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all day, and
neither ate nor drank. Iwas ready to perish for thirst; but so weak,
I had not strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again but was light-headed; and when I was not, I
was so ignorant t at I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried,
" Lord, look 11 on me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me l"
I sup ose I di nothing else for two or three hours; till the fit wear-
ing 0 , I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I
awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceedin
thirsty; however, as I had no water in my habitation, I was force
to lie till morning and went to sleep again. In this second sleep, I
had this terrible earn: I thought that I was sitting on the ground,
on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the
earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a reat black cloud,
in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground: he was all over
as bright as a flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards
him: his countenance was most incxpressibly dreadful, im ossible for
words to describe; when he stepped upon the ground wit his feet, I
thought the earth trembled, Just as it had done before in the earth-
quake, and all the air looke , to my apprehension as if it had been
filled With flashes of fire. He was no sooner landed upon the earth,
but he moved forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some dis-
tance, he spoke to me,--or I heard a voice so terrible that it is
impossible to express the terror of it. All that I can say I under-
stood, was this :--" Seeincr all these things have not brou ht thee to
repentance, now thou shalt die ;" at which words, I thoug t he lifted
up the spear that was in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I
mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those
horrors. Nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that
grained upon my mmd when I awaked, and found it was but a

am.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the
good instruction of my father was t ien worn out by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant con-
versation with none but such as were like myself, wicked and profane
to the last degree. I do not remember that I had, in all that time,
one thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards towards
God,. or inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways; but _a
certain stupidity of soul, wrthout desrre of good, or conscience of evil,
had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most hardened,
unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors can be sup-

osed to be: not having the least sense, either of the fear of God, in
anger or of thankfulness to God, in deliverance.

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the
more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through all the variety
of miseries, that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as
one thought of it being the hand of God, .or that it was a just pumsh-
ment hr my sin. My rebellious behavxour against my .father,--or
my present sins, which were great,--or so much as a pumshment for
the general course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as
one thought of what would become of me, or one wish to God;to
direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel
sava s. But I was merely thoughtless _of a God or a Provrdenee,
aete . like a mere brute, from the rinelplcs of nature, and by the
dictates of common sense only, an , indeed, hardly that. When I
was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portugal captam, well used,
and dealt justlv and honourably witn as well as charitablv, I had not
the least tharikfulness in my thouo ts. When, again, I was ship-
wrecked, mined, and in danger of drowning, on this island, I was as
far from remorse, or looking on it as a 'udgment. I only said to
myself often, that I was an unfortunate 0g, and born to be always
miserable. .

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all myship's
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was. surfirised with a kind of
ecstacy and some transports of soul, which, ad the race. of God
assiste , might have come up to true thankfulness; ut it ended
where it began, in a mere common flight of Joy, or, as I ma . say,
bein lad fwas alive, withoutthe least reflection upon the . tm-
guis e goodness of the hand which had preserved me and had smgled
me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or an
inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful unto me. Even Just the
same common sort of Joy which seamen generally have, after they
are got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all m the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all
the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was, afterwards, on due
consideration, made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of
relief, or rospect of redemption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of
living, an that. I_should not starve and perish for hunger, all the
sense of m affliction wore off ; and I began .to be very easy, ap lied
myself to t 6 works proper for my preservation and sup 1y, an was
far enough from being afflicted at my .condition, as a J11 gment from
Heaven, or as the hand of God against me: these were thoughts
which very seldom entered my head. . _

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had,.at
first, some little influence upon me, and began to affect me.mth
seriousness, as long as I thought it had something miraculous in it;
but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed, all the
impressmn that was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its
nature .or more immediately directing to the invisible power which
alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the first fright over, but
the impression it had made went off also. I had no more sense of
God, or His Judgments--much less of the present aflliction of my
circumstances being from His hand--than if I had been in the most
prosperous condition of hfe. ' But now, when I began to be $10k, and
a leisurely View of. the misaies of death came to place itself before
me; when my spirits began to smk under the burden of a strong
distemper, and nature was exhausted Wltll the violence of the fever;
conscience, that had slept so long, began to awake, and I began to
reproach myself with my past hfe mowhich I had so evidently, by
uncommon Wickedness, provoked the Justice of Gpd to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal Wltll me in so vmdictive a manner.
These reflections oipressed me for the second or third day of my
distemper; and in t e violence, as well of the fever as of the dreadful
reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words .from me like
praying to God, though 1 cannot say they were either a prayer
attended with desires or with hopes. It was rather the voice of mere
fright and distress. My thoughts were confused, the convictions eat
upon my mind, and the horror of. dying in such a miserable concErtion
raised vapours into m head With the mere apprehension; and in
thesehurries of my so , I knew not what mitongue might express.
But it was rather exclamation, such as, " 0rd, what a miserable
creature am I! If I should be Sick, I shall certainly die for want of
help; and what Will become of me?" Then the tears burst out of
my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval,
the good advice of my father came to my mind, and presently his
predictionhwhich I mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz.
that if I did take this foohsh step, God would not bless me, and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. " Now "
said. I, aloud, "my ear father's words are come to pass, God's
Justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I
rejected the voice of .Prondence which had mercifully put me in a
gesture or station of life_wherem nnght have been hap y and easy;

ut I would neither see it myself, or learn to know the B essing o it
from my parents. I left them to mourn over my folly and now I am
left to mourn under the conseguences of it. I refused their help and
aSSistance, who would have ted me in the world, and would have
made everything easy to me. And now I have difficulties to struggle
With, too great for even nature itself to support, and no asSistance,
no hel , no comfort, no .adVice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my
hel , or I am in great distress." This was the first prayer, if I may
cal it so, that I had made for many years.

But to return to in Journal :--

June 28.----Havmg een somewhat refreshed with the sleep I .had
had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up - and though the fright
and terror of m dream was very great, yet I conSidered that the fit
of the ague we 6. return again the next day and now was m time
to et something to refresh and support myself when I should ill:
an the first thing I did I filled a large square case-bottle With water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of mv bed; and to take 03' the
chill or aguisb dispOSition of the water, I put about a quarter of a
pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece
of the cat's flesh and brOiled it on the coals, but could eat v
httle. walked about, but was very weak and withal very sad an
heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable .condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next da . At mght, I made my supper
of three of the turtle's eggs, which roasted in the ashes and eat,
as we call it, in the shell, and this was the first bit of meat I had eyer
asked God's blessmg to, that I could remember, in my whole hfe.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak, that I
could hardly carry a gun, for I never went out Without that, so I
went but a littleway, and sat down upon the ground, looking out
upon the sea, which was Just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thou hts as these occurred to me ;---what is
this earth and sea, of whichgl have seen so much? Whence is it
produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures, Wild and

r
tame, human and brutal? thnce are we? Sure we are all made
by some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky.
And who is that? Then it followed most naturally, it is God that
has made all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God has made
all these things, He guides and governs them all, and all tlnngs that
concern them; for the power that could make all things must
certainly have power to guide and direct them. If so, nothing can
ha )pen in the great circuit of His works, either Without His know-
le ge or appointment. .

And if nothing hap ens without Hisknowledge, He knows that I
am here, and am in t llS dreadful condition; and if nothing ha pens
without his appointment, 116 has appomted all this to lief me.
Nothing occurred to my thought, to contradict any of these conclu-
sions, and therefore it rested upon'me with the greater force, that it
must needs be that God had appointed all this to befal me; that I
was brought into this miserable Circumstance by His direction He
having the sole power, not of me only, but of everything that hap-
pened in the world. Immediately 1t followed,--Why has God done
this to me? What have I done to he thus used? My conscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as 1f I had blasphemed, and
methought it Spoke to me like a voice, " Wretch !. dost t/zqu ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misSpent life, and ask
thyself, what thou hast not done? Ask, why is 1t that thou wert not
long ago destroyed? Why wort thou .not drowned in Yarmouth
Roads; killed in the fight when the Slllp was taken by the. Sallee
man-of-war; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or
drowned lzere, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost Moat
ask, what have I done?" I was struck dumb with these reflections,
.as one astonished, and had not a word to say,--no, not to answer to
myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to m retreat, and
went up over my wall, as if I had been going to ed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no mclmation to sleep; so
I_sat down in my chair, and livhted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
1': ow, as the apprehension of fire return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to mv thought, that the Brazilians take no
physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece
(f a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and
some also that was green, and not uite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no oubt, for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I o ened the chest, and found what I
looked for, the tobacco- and as t e few books I had saved lav there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and which
to this time I had not found leisure or inclinatio to look into. I
say, I took it out, and brought both that and the to acco with me to
the table. What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, in my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no- but I tried several
experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way or
other. I first took a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which,
mdeed, at first, almost stuglfied my brain, the tobacco being green
and strong, and that I ha not been much used to. Then I took
some and steeped it an hour or two m some rum, and resolved to take
a dose of it when I lay down; and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan
of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as lono as I
could bear it, as well for the heat, as almost for suffocation. fn the
interval of this operation I took up the Bible, and began to read, but
my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading,
at least at that time- only, having opened the book casually the first
words that occurred to me were these. "Call on me in the day of
trouble, and I Will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These
words were very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as they
did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I
may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my a pre-
hension of things, that I began to say, as the children of Israe did
when they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in
the wilderness?" so I began to say, " Can God himself deliver me
from this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
afipeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, however,
t e words made a great impression u on me, ande mused upon them
very often. It orew now late, and t e tobacco had, as I said, dosed
my head so much that I mchned to sleep; so I left my lamp burmn
m the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and went to be .
But before I lay d0wn, I did what I never had donein all my life; I
kneeled down, and. prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if
I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After
my broken and imperfect prayer .was over, I drank the rum in which
I ad steeped the tobacco- which was so stronoand rank of the
tobacco, that I could scarcely get _1t down; Immediately upon this I
went to bed. I found resently it flew up mto m head violently;
but I fell into.a sound s eep, and waked no more t , by the sun, it
must necessarily be near three o'clock m the afternoon t e next day:
nay, to this hour I am partly of 0 won, that I slept all the next day
and night and till almost three t e day after; for pthemse, I know
not how I should lose a day out of m reckoning m the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after had done; for if I had lost it
by crossing and recrossmg the Line, I should have lost more than
one day; but certainl I lost a day in my account, and never knew
which way. Be that, _ owever, one way or the other when I awaked
I found myself exceedmgly refreshed, and my s iritslivel and cheer.
ful; when I got up, I was stronger thaanas t e day be ore, and my
stomach better, for I was hung ; and in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altere for the better. This was the 29th.

' he 30th was my well day, of course, and _I went abroad With my
gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two;
something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but was no
very forward to eat them; so I eat some more of the turtle's eogsi
which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicme, win;
I had su posed did me good the day before, the tobacco steeped 1n
rum; 0 y I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; however, I was not so well
the next da , which was the lst of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for I ad a little spice of thegcold fit, but it was not much.

I
July 23--1. renewed the medicine all the three ways; and dosed
myself With it as at first, and doubled the quantity whieh I drank.

Jul 3,--I missed the fit for good and all though I did not recover
my f1 strength for some weeks after. 'While Iwas thus gathering
strength my thoughts ran exeeedingly upon this scri ture, " I Wlfi
deliver thee ;" and the impossmility of my dehverance y much upon
my mind, in bar of my evcr_expect1n0' it; but as I was discour 0mg
myself with such thoughts, it oecurrezdto my mind that I pore so
much upon my deliveranceOfrom the main afflictien, that I disregarded
the deliverance I had received; and I was, as it. were, made to ask
myself such questions as these, viz.: Have I not been delivered and
wonderfull too, from Sickness? from the most distressed condition
that could e, and that was so frightful to me? and .what notice had
I taken of it? Had I done my part? God had dehvered me but I
had not glorified Him? that 13 to say, I had not owned and been
thankful for that .as a dehverance: and how could I expect greater
deliverance? This touched my heart very much; and immediately I
knelt down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
SIC ness.

July 4,--In the morning, I took the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposedupon m -
self to read awhile every mormng and every mght ' not tying myse
to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts shoul engage
me. It was not long after I set seriously to this work, till I found
my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the Wickedness of
my ast hfe. The impressmn of my dream revived; and the words,
" these things have not brought thee to repentance,'f ran seriously
in my thoughts. I was earnestly bewgmg of God to give me repent-
ance, when it happened providentialfy the very day that reading the
Scripture, I came to these words, "lie is exalted a fmce and a.
Saviour to give repentance and to give remissmn." I threw down
the boo ; and With my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heave
in aOkind of ecstasy of Joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son 0
David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repent-
ance l" This was the first time I could say, in the true sense of the
words, that I prayed in all my life; for new I prayed With a sense of
my condition, an With a true scripture View of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of Go ; and from this time, I may say, I
began to have hope that God would hear me.

I'Iow I be an to construe the_words mentioned above, " Call on me,
and I will de ver thee," in a different .sense from what I_ had ever
done before; for then I had no notion of anything being. called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was in; for
though I was indeed at large in the place, yetOthe island was certainly
a rison to me and that in the worst sense in the world. But now
I earned to take it in another sense: now I looked back upon my
past life With such horror and my sins appeared so dreadf that my
soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the 10a of guilt
that bow down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it; it was all of no cons1deration, in comparison to this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it that whenever
they come to a true sense of things, they w111 find deliverance from
sin a much greater blessmg than deliverance from affliction.

But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal :-

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my
way of hvmg, yet much easier to m mnid: and my thoughts being
directed, by a constant reading the cm ture and raying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great cal of com ort within, which
till now, I knew nothing of ; also, my health and strength returned, I
bestirred myself to furmsh myself With everything that I wanted, and
make my way of 11m" as regular as I could.

. From the _4th of J ifiyto the 14th, I was chiefiynemployed in walk-
ing about With my gun in my hand, a little and a httle at a time, as a
man that was gat ering up his strength after a fit of Sickness: for it
is hardly to be 1m crined how low I was, and to what weakness I was
reduced. The appl'cation which I made use of was perfectly new
and perha s who had never cured an ague before; neither can

recommen it to any one to practise, by this experiment : and though
it did ca off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening .me;
for I had requent convulsmns in my nerves and limbs for some .time;
I learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especiallty in those rains which came attended with storms and
hurricanes 0 wind; for as the rain which came in the dry season was
almost always accompanied With such storms, so I found that rain
gas ranch more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and

c 0 er.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months; all
possibility of dehverance from this. condition seemed to be entire'li
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape h
every set foot 11 on that place. Havmg now secured my habitation,
as I thought, f y to my mind, I had a great deSire to make a more
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions I
mideght find, which I yet knew nothm of. .

It was on the 15th of July that I egan to take a more articular
surve of the island itself. I went tip the creek first, w ere, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. found afterI came about two
miles u , that the tide did not flow any higher- and that it was no
more t an a little brook of running water, very fresh. and good: but
this being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some arts of
it; at least, not enough to run in an} stream, so as it could e per-
ceived. On the banks of this brook, found many pleasant savannahs
or meadows, plain, smooth and covered With grass - and on the rising
Barts of them, next to the higher girounds where the water, as might

e supposed, neyer overflowed, found a great deal of tobacco,
green, and growmg to a freat and very strong stalk; there were
'vers other plants, which .had no notion of or understanding about
that might, perha s, have Virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched or the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of, but 1 could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar.70 110131st): cnnson.

canes but wild, and for want of cultivation, iin erfect. I contented
myself With these discoveries. for this time, an came back, musin'g
with myself what course I might take to know the virtue and goo -
ness of any of the fruits or tplants which I should discover; but could
bring 113.130 no conclusion; or, in short I had made so httle observa-
tion while I was in the Brasfls, that I knew little of the plants in the
field; at least, very little that might serve me to any purpose now
in my distress. .
The next day, the 16th, I went 3.? the same way again- and after
fining something further than I h gone the da oefore, Ifound the
rook and savannahs cease, and the country . ecame more woody
than before. In this part, 1 found different fruits, and articularly
found melons upon the ound, in great abundance, an grapes upon
the trees; the vines h spread indeed over the trees and the clusters
of grapes were Just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was
a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of them- but I was
warned by my experience to eat 3 aringly of them, rem_em enng that
when I was ashore in Barbary, t e eating of grapes killedscveral of
our Enghshmen, who were slaves there, by throwmg them into fluxes
and fevers. But I found an excellent use for these grapes _; and that
was, to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raisms are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were,
wholesome and agreeable to eat, when no grapes could be had. .

I_ spent all that evemnE there, and went not back to my habitation,
which, b the way, was t e first night, as I might say, I had lain from
home. the mght, I took my first contnvance, and got up into a
tree, where I sle _t well; and the next morning, proceeded upon in
discovery trave g nearly four miles as I might gludge by_the lengt
of the valley, keeping still due nort , With a. ri ge of hills on the
south and north side of me. At the end of this march, I came to an
opening,_where the country seemed to descend to the west; and a
httle spring of fresh water, which i5sued out of the side of the hill by
me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
fresh, so 1green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure
or jiouns of spring, that it looked like aplanted garden. I descende
a_little on the Slde of that delicious vale, surveying it with a secret
kind of pleasure, though mixed with my other afflicting thoughts, to
think that this was allamg own; that I was king and. lord of all this
country. mdefeaSIbly, an .had a right of possession - and, if Icould
convey it, I mi ht have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of
a manor in En<r _d. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange,
and lemon, and citron trees; but all wild, and very few bearing any
fruit, at least, not then. However, the green limes that I at iered
were .not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and mixed
their Juice afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome and
veg; cool and refreshing. I found now I had busmess enough to
ga er and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as hmes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a
great heap of gra .es in one place, a lesser hea in another place, and
a great parcel of mes and lemons in another 1) e; and taking a few1031x503 causon. 71

of each with me, I travelled homewards: and resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to. carry the rest
home. Accordingly, having spent three days in this Journey, I came
home (so I must now call mi? tent and. my cave ; but beforeI got
thither the grapes were spo ed; the richness o the fruit, and the
weight of the Juice, having broken them .and bruised them, they were
good for little or' nothing: as to the hmes, they were good, but I
could bring but a few. .

The next da , bemo' the 19th I went back havmg made me two
small bags to nng home my harvest; butI was surprised, when
coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I

thered them, I ound them all spread about, trod to pieces, and
aged about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and
devoured. By this I concluded there was some wild creatures there-
abouts, which had done this; but what they were, I knew not. How-
ever, as I vfound there was no laying them up on heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack but that one way they would be
destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own
weight, I took another course - for I gathered a large quantit of the
gra es, and hung them 11 on the out ranches of the trees, t at the
m1g_t cure and dry in t e sun; and as for the Incas and lemons,
carried as many back as I could well stand under. .

When I camehome from this Journey, I contem lated w1th .eat
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the p easantness o the
situation; the securitiv from storms on that Slde the water, and the
wood: and conclude that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode, which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the
whole, I began to consider of removmg my habitation; and ookmg
out for a place equally safe as where now I was srtuate, if possible, in
that pleasant, fruitful part of the island. .

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding fond of it
for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when
I came to a nearer view of it, I consxdered that I. was now by the sea-
side, where it was at least poss1ble that somethmg mioht hap _en to
thy advantage; and, by the same 111 fate that brought me ither
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the .same place; and
though it was scarce probable that any such thm should ever
hap en, et to enclose myself among the hills and w s in the centre
of t e is and, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an
afi'air not only improbable, but impossible- and that therefore I on ht
not by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured of t is
place, that I spent much of m time there for the whole of the
remaining art of the month 0 July; and though, upon second
thoughts, resolved not to remove, yet I built me a httle kind of
a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a
double hedge, as ngh as I could reach, well staked, an filled between
with brushwood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
mghts together; always going over it With a ladder; so that I fancied
now I had my country house and my sea-coast house; and this work
took me up to the beginning of August. .

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to-engoymylabom;
when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habita-
tion; for though I had made me a tent like the other, Wlth a. me of a
sail, and sprea it very well, yet_I had not the shelter of a h to keep
me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains
were extraordinary. . '

About the beginning of Au t, as I said, I had finished my
bower, and began to enyoy in se : The 3rd of August, I found the
grapes I had hung up perfect y dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began_to take them down from the trees
and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which followe
would have sKoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my wmter
food; for I ad above two hundred largebunches of them. No
sooner had I taken them all down, and camed most of them home
to my cave, but it began to rain; and from hence, which was the
14th of August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of
October; and sometimes so violently, that I coul not stir out of my
cave forseveral days. . . _

In this season, I was much surprised With the increase of my
family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats who ran
:away from me, or as I thought, had been dead, and I hear no more
tidings of her, tillhto m astonishment, she came home about the end
-of August With t ree ittens. This was the more strange to me,
:because thoughI had killed awild cat, as I called it, with my gun, get
I thought it was a quite different kind from our European cats; ut
the ioung cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one;

.and 0th my cats being females, I thought it very strange. But from
these three cats, Iafterwards came to e so. estered With cats, that
I was forced to kill them hke vermin, or d beasts, and to drive
- them from my house as much as possible. . .

From the 14th of August to the 26th incessant rain, so that I
. could not stir, and was now very carefuI not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I be . to be straitened for food: but venturing
-out twice, I one day ed a goat; and .the last day, which was
the 26th, found a very large tortorse, which was atreat to me, and
.my food was regulated thus :--I eat a bunch of raisins for my break-

fast a piece of the goat's. flesh, or of the turtle, for m dinner,
lbroiled; for, to my great imsfortune, I had no vessel to bo or stew
.an hing; and two or three of the turtle's eggs for _my supper.

this confinement in my cover by t e rain, I worked daily
two or t e hours atenlargmg my cave, and b degrees worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outSide o the hill, and made
a door or way out which camo beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open; for, as I had managed in self before, I was in a perfect enclo-
sure; whereas now, I thought la exposed, and 0 en for anything
to come in upon me; and yet I co d not perceive t at there was any
hvmg thin to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon
the island ing a goat. .

Sept. 30.-I was now come to the unhappy anmversary of my
landin . I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had been on
shore three hundred and Sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, settin it apart for religious exercise, . prostrating myself on
the groun With the most serious humiliation, confessing m sins
to God, acknowledging his righteous udgments upon me, an ray-
mg. to him to have mercy on me t rough Jesus Christ; an not
having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the
gomg down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all
this time observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distin-
guish the weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary for the

abbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were;
but now, hawng cast up the days as above, I found I had been there
a year, so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day
for a Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I had lost
a day or two in my reckomng. A httle after this, my ink began to
fail me and so I contented myself to use it more 3 _aringly and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my e, Without con-
tinuing a. daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to ap ear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to prov1de for t em accord-
ingly; but I bought all my experience. before I had it, and this I am
gouiig to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that I
ma e.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice,
which I had so surprismgly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and I beheve there were abouttbirty stalks of rice, and about
twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it, after
the rains, the sun being in its southern pos1tion, om from me.
Accordingly I du up apiece .of ground as well as co d with my
wooden spade, an . dmdmo it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but
as I was. sowmg, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would
not sow it all at first, because I d1d_ not know when was .the roper
time for it, so I sowed about twoothirds of the seed, leavmv a out'a
handful of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one grain of what Isowed this time came to anything ; for
the dry months following, the earth havmg had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no mmsture to assmt its growth, and. never came
up at all till the wet season had come a , and then it grew as if
it had been but newly sown. Finding mf' t seed did not grow,.wh1ch
I easxliv imagined was by the drought sought for a master piece of
groun to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near
my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, ahttle
before the vernal equinox; and this havmg the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprun up verly pleasantly, and eldeda
very d emf- but havino part of t e seed .ett only, and not daring to
sow that had, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crap
not amounting to above half a peek of each kind. But by this expen-
ment I was made master of in business, and knew exactly wheh the
pro er season was to sow, an that I might expect two seed-times,
an two harvests every year. . , ,

While this corn was growing, I made a httle discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month ot l\ovember,

I made a. Visit ug the country to my bower, .where, though I had not
been some mont 3, yet I found all things Just as I left them. The
circle or double hedoe that I had made was not only firm and entlre,
but the stakes whic I had cut out of.some trees that grew there-
abouts, were all shot out, and grown w1th long branches, as much as
a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I
could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
Iwas sur rised, and yet very well pleased, to see the younftrees
w: and) I pruned them, an led them up to grow as much afhke as
could; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they rew
into in three years; so that though the edge made a circle of a out
twentyofive yards m diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now
call them soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sutfieient to
lodge under all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some
more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a semi-circle round
my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and placing
the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards distance
from my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a fine
cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also, as
I shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter, as in Euro m, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were generaily thus :--

The half of February, the whole of March. and the half of April---
ramv, the sun being then on or near the equinox.

The half of April, the whole of May, June, and J ulv and the half of
Auoust--dry, the sun being then to the north of the 'Iiine.

The half of Auaust, the whole of September, and the half of October
---rainy, the suntbeing then come bac .

The half of October, the whole of November, December, and J anu-
ary, and the half of February--dry, the sun being then to the south of
the Line.

The ramy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds
ha pened to blow, but this was the general observation I made. After
I adfound, by experience, the ill consequences of being abroad in
the ram, I took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I might rot be obliged to go out, and I sat within doors as much
as possible duringothe wet months. This time I found much employ-
ment, and very suitable also to the time, for I found great occasion
for many things which I had no way to furnish m self with but by
hard labour and constant apphcation; particularly {tried many ways
to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of excel-

ent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used to take
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's, in the town where my
ather lived, to see them make their Wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very ofiicious to help, and a great observer of the manner
In wlnch they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I
had by these means full knowledge of the methods of it, and I wanted
nothing but the materials when it came into my mind that the
twigs of that tree from w ence I cut my stakes that grew might
posmbly be as tough as the sallows WlllOWS, and osmrs m England,
and I resolved to :3. According , the next day I went to my
count -house, as I led it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I foun them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon
I came the next time prepared With a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for t ere was great pileuty of them. These I set
up to dr withm my circle or hedge, an when they were fit for use,
I came them to mmave; and here dunng the next season, I em-
loi'led myself in m ' g, as well as I could a great many baskets,
at to carr earth or to carry or lay up anythmg as I had occasion;
and though did not finish them very handsomel 51th I made them
sufficiently serv1ceab1e for my purpose; and thus, terwards, I took
care never to be .without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I
made more especially strong dee baskets to place myporn m, mstead
of sacks, when I should come to ave any guantity of 1t. .
. Having mastered this difficulty, and emp oyed a world of tune about
it, I bestlrred myself to see, if possrble, how to supply two wants. I
had no vessel to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles,--some of the
common size, and others which were case-bottles, square, for the
holding of waters, spmts, &c. I had not so much as a pot to bail
anything, except a tgreat kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and
whlch was too big or such use as I desrred 1t, v12., to make roth,
and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I fam would have
had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was 1mposs1b1c to me to make one -
however, I found a contrivance for that, too, at last: I employed
myself In lanting my second rows of stakes or piles and in this Wicker-
workmg all the summer or dry season, when another busmess took me
up more time than it could be unagmed I could spare. .

I mentioned before that I had a great mmd to see the whole island,
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my
bower, and where I had an opemng quite to the sea, on the other srde
of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore
on that srde; so, takmo m gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantlty of owder an s ot than usual, w1th two biscuit-cakes and
9. eat bunc of ra1s1ns in my ouch for my store, Ibegan my Journey.
V _he_n I had passed the vale w ere my bower stood, as above, I came
mthm View of the sea to the west, and it bemg a very clear day, I
fairly descried land,---;whether an Island or a contment I could not
tell; but it lay very hlgh, extendmg from the W. to the W.S.W. at a
very great distance; by my guess, 1t could not be less than fifteen or
twenty leagues ofl". . ' ,

I could not tell what art of the world this might be, othermse
than that I knew it must e part of America, and as .I concluded, by
all my observations, must be near the Spamsh dommlons and r-
haps was all inhabited by savages, where, If I had landed, .I
been in a worse condition than I was now - and therefore I acqmesced
in the dispositions of Providence, which Ibegan nowfio own and to
believe ordered everything for the best; I say I quieted my mmd
33th this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being
ere.

Besides, after some thought u on this afi'air I considered that if
this land was the Spamsh coast, should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast between the Spanish country and Brasils, where
are found the worst of sav 0was; for they are canmbalg or men-eaters,
and fail not to murder and evour all the human bodies that fall mto
their hands. .

With these considerations, I walked very leisurel forward; I
found that side of the island where I now was much p easanter than
mine,---the 0 en or savannah fields sweet, adorned Wlth flowers and
gals and f l of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and

' I would have caught one, if possrble, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to s eak to me. I did, 'after some painstaking, catch a
young parrot, for knocked it down With a stick, and havmo recovered
1t, I brought it home; but it was some years before I could make him
speak; however, at last, I taught him to call me by my name ve.
familiarlii. But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, w
be very verting in its place. ' ' _ .

I was exceedmglly diverted With this Journey. I found in the low
grounds hares as thought them to be) and foxes; but they differed
greatl from the other kinds 1 had met With, nor could I satisfy
myse to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to be
venturous, for I_ had no want of food, and of that which was very
good, too, especially these three sorts, v12., goats, Bigeons, and turtle, or
tortoxse, which, added to my apes,. Leade market could not
have furmshed a table better t an I, in proportion to the companfy;
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause or
thankfulness that I was not.dr.1ven to any extremities for food, but
had rather plenty, even to damties. _ . .

I never trave ed in tins Journey above two miles outnght m a day,
or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns to see what
discoveries I could make that I came weary enough to the lace where
I resolved to s1t down all night ; and then I either repose. myself In
a tree, or surrounded myselfwrth a row of stakes set upright in the
ground, either from. one tree _to another, or so as no wild creature
could come at me Without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst s1de of the island, for here, mdeed,
the shore was covered w1th mnumerable turtles, whereas on the
other s1de I had found but three in a year and a half. ere was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had
seen and some which I had not seen before, and many of them ve
good meat, but such as I knew not the names of, except those calle
pengums.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of m
powder and shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if
could, which I could better feed on; and though there were man
goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with muc
more difficulty that I could come near them, the country being flat
Bin]: even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine;
but yet 'I had not the least inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in
my habitation it became natural .to me, and I seemed all the while I
was here to be as it were upon a ourney, and from home. However,
I travelled along the shore of t e sea towards the east, I supfiose
about twelve miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the s ore
for a mark, I concluded I would go home again, and that the next
Journey I took should be on the other Side of the island east from my
dwellmv, and so round till I came to my post again. . .

I took .another wayl te come back than that I went, thinking I
could easily keep all t e island so much in my view, that I could not
miss finding my first dwelhng by viewmg the country; but I found
myself mistaken, for, being come about two or three miles I found
melf descended. into a very large valley, but so surrmmded with

, and those hills. covered With wood that I could not see which
was my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless
I knew very well the matron of the sun at that time of the day. It
happened, to my further misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in the valley, and not being able to see
the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged
to find the sea-Side, look for my post and come back the same we I
went; and then, by easy Journeys, I turned homeward, the weat er
being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammumtion, hatchet, and other
things very heavy. . . _

In this Journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it,
and I, runmng in to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it ahve from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if 1 could, for Ihad
often been musing whether it might not be pos51ble to eta kid or
two, and so raise a breed of tame Seats, which might supp y me when
my powder and shot should be spent. I made a. collar for this
little creature, and fluid] a string, which} made of some rope-yarn,
which I always carried about me, I led him along, though.w1th some
difficulty till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him and left
him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month. . . . .

I cannot ex ress what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my
old hutch, an lie down in my hammock-bed. This httle wandering
journey, Without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a 1pielrfect settle-
ment to me comggred to that- and it rendered everyt g about me
so comfortable, t t I resolved I would never go a great way from it
again, while it should be my lot to stay on the islan .

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my
long journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the
weighty afi'air of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a
mere domestic, and to be well acquainted with me. . iI'hen .I began to
think of the cor kid which I had pennedan within mv httle Circle,
and resolved and fetch it home or give. it some food. accord-
mgly I went, an found it where I left it, or indeed it could not get78 , nosmsox CRUSOE.

out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs
of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw it
over, and havmgfed it,.I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but
it was so tame With being hungry, that I had no need to have had
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the
creature became so loving so gentle and so fond that it became
from that time one of my domestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I
kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before,
being the anniversarv of my landing on the island, having now been
there two years, and no more prospect of being delivered than the
first day I came there. I s ent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of t e many wonderful mercies which. my
solitary condition was attended with, and without which it might
have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty
thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me, that it was
possible I mightlie more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in the hberty oi society, and in all the pleasures of
the world: that he could fully make up to me the deficrencies of in
solitary state, and the want of human society, by his presence, .
the communications of his grace to my soul ;. supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his prondence here, and hope for
his eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly_to feel how much more happy
this hfe I now led was, Wltll all its miserable circumstances, than c
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now I changed both my sorrows and my 3055; m5 ve desrres
altered my affections changed their gusts, an my ehg ts were
perfectly new from what they were at my first coming, or, indeed for
the two years ast. _ . . .

Before, as walked about, either on my hunting, or for Viewug
the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition.would.bre
out upon me on a sudden, and my very] heart would die within me,
to think ofthe woods the mountains, t e deserts I was in, and how
I was a prisoner, locked up. With the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited Wilderness, Without redemption. In the
midst of the greatest composure of my. mind, this would break out
upon me hke a_ storm, and make me wring my hands and weep hke
a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle 0 my work, and
I would immediately Sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for
an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me, for if I could
burst out. into tears, or yent myself b words, it would go off, and the
grief having exhausted itself would a ate. .

But now I be an to exercxse myself with new thoughts; I daily
read the word 0 God, and applied all the comforts of rt to _my
present state. One mommg, emg very sad, I Opened the Bible
ppon these words, "IWiJl never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee :"
immediately it occurred. that these words were to me; why else
should they be directed in such a manner, just at the moment when

I was mourmng over my condition, as one forsaken of God and
man? "Well, then," said I, "if God does not forsake me of what
ill consetiuence can it be, or what matters it, though the world should
all forsa'e me, seeing on the other hand if Iahad all the world,
and should lose the favour and blessing oi God, there would be no
comparison in the loss?"

From this moment, I began to conclude in my mind, that it was
pOSSible for me to be more iappy m this forsaken, solitary condition,
than it was probable I should ever have been in any other particular
state in the world; and With this thought I was going to give thanks
to Godfor brinoing me to his place. I know not what it was, but
something shodked my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak
the words. " How canst thou become such a hypocrite," said I,
even audibly, "to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which,
however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray heartilv to be delivered from?" So I stogped there
but though I could not sav I thanked God for being t ere, yet I
Sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever
afflicting providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn or my wickedness, and repent. I never opened. thejBible,
or shut it but my very soul within me blessed God for directing my
friend in *ngland, without any order of mine, to pack it u amono
in goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of t e wrec
o the ship. _

Thus, and in this disposition of mind I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the trouble 0 so particular an
account of my works this year as the first; yet. in general it may be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, but havmg regularly dmded
my time according to the several daily em loyments that were before
me, such as, first, my duty to God, and e reading the Scriptures,
which 'I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day; secondly,
the gomg abroad with my gun for food, which general] took me up
three hours in every morning when .it did not rain; thir y, the order-
ing, cutting, preserving, and cooking, what I had killed_or. caught
for in supply: these took up great art of the day ' also, it is .to be
-consi ere , that in the middle of t e day, when the sun was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup osed
to work in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed my ours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short_ time allowed for labour, I desire maybe added the
exceeding laboriousness of my work - the many hours which for want
of tools, want of help, and want of s ' , ever hing I did took up out
of in time: for example, I was full two an forty days in making a
boar for a long shelf, which I wanted in mfiave; whereas, two saw-
yers, with their tools and a saw-pit, would ve cut Six of them out
of the same tree in half a day. .

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad .one. This tree I was
three .days in cuttmg down, and two more cutting off the obou ha, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpreSSiblc acking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips till it began to
be light enough to move; then I turned it, and made one side of_ it
smooth and flat as aboard from end to end; then taming that Side
downward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge
the labour of my hands in such a piece of work, but labour and
patience carried me through that, and many other things; I only
observe this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my
time went away with so little work, viz., that what might be a little
to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour and required
a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding
this, with patience and labour I got through everything that my
circumstances made necessary to me to do, as will appear by what
follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured and dug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop b
sowing in the dry season: but now my crop promised very we ,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep from
it; as, first the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as
it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no time to shoot up
into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it
with ahedge; which I did with a great deal of toil, and the more,
because it required 5 eed. However, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, got it totally well fenced, in about three weeks'
time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-time, I set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a little time, the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade,
so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear;
for going along by the place to see how it throvc, I saw my little
crop surrounded with fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood,
as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them, for I (aways had my gun with me. I had no sooner
shot, but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at
all, from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they
would devour all my hopes; that I should he starred, and never be
able to raise a crop at all, and what to do I could not tell- however,
I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though i shouid watch it
night and day. In the first place, I went among it, to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal
of it; but that as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so
great, bait that the remainder was likely to be a good crop, if it could

6 save .nomnsox 0311802. 81

I stayed by it _to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sltting upon all the trees about me, as if they
only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so;
for as I walked ofi', as If I was gene, I was no sooner out of their
Sight, than they dr0pt down one y one .mto the corn again. I was
so provoked, that I could not have patience to stay till more came
on, knowmo that every gram that they eat now was, as it might be
said, a peck-loaf to me 1n the consequence- but coming up to the
hedge, fired 0am, and lulled three of them. This was what I
Wished for;. so _ took them up, and served them as we serve
notorious thieves .in England--hanged them in chains, for a terror
to others. It IS 1mposs1ble to imagine that this should have such
an effect as it had, for the fowls would not onl not come at the
corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part 0 the island, and I
could never see a bll'd near the place as long as my scarecrows hung
there. This I was ver glad of, you maybe sure, and about the latter
end of December, who was our second harvest of the year, I reaped
my com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down, and
all I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out of one of the
broad-swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
filliill). However, as my first crop was but small, I had no eat

culty to cut it down; m short, I reaped it my way, for out
nothino off but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket
whichI had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the
end of all my harvestmg, I found that out of my half- eck of seed I
had near two. bushels of rice, and about two bushe and a half of
barley; that IS to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that
time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I foresaw
that, in time, it would lease God to su ply me With bread: and
yet here I was perplexe again, for I ncn icr knew how to grind, or
ma e meal of my corn, or indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if
made into meal, how to make bread of 1t- and if how to make it, yet
I knew not how to bake 1t; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in the meantime, to em loy all In
study and hours of working to accomplish this great wor ' of provr -
innr myself With corn and bread. '

It might be trul said, that now I worked for my bread. I believe
few people have.t ought much upon the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the provrdmg producmg, curing, dressmg, makmg,
and finishing this one article of bread. .

I that was reduced to a mere state of nature found this to my
daily discouragement, and was made more sensible of it every hour,
even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn, wind], as I have
said, came up unex ectedly, and mdecd to a surprise.

First, I had no ough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making me a wooden spade, as
I observed before, but this did my work but in awooden manner; and

u82 aormsos cncsca.

though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet for want of iron,
it not only were out soon, but made my work. the harder, and made
it be performed much worse. However, this 1 bore with, and was
content to work it out with patience, and bear with the badnees of
the performance. When "the corn was sown, 1 had no barrow, but
was forced to go over it .myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a
tree over it to scratch it, as it may be called rather than rake or
harrow it. When it was growmg, and grown, I have observed already
how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it mow or reap it, cure
and carry it home, thrash, part it from the ch , and save it. Then i
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves .to dress it, yeast and saltto make it
into bread, and an oven to bake it, but all these things I did Without,
as shall be observed; and yet the 'corn was. an inestimableocomfort
and advan 0e to me, too. All this, as I said, made everything labo-
rious and te bus to me, but that there was no help for; neither was
my time so much less to me, because, as I had divided it a certain
part of it was every dav appomted to these works; and as 1 had
resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had aegfreater quan-
tity by me .I had the next six months to apply mys wholly, by
labour and invention, to furnish myself With utensfls proper for the

erforming all the operations necessary for making the corn, when I

ad it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I. had .now seed enough
to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's
work at least to make me a spade, which, when it was done, was but a
sorry one indeed, and very heavg, and required double labour to work
with it. However, I got throng that, and sowed my seed intwo large
flat ieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to m
min and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of whic
were all cut off that wooa which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one car's time, I. knew I should have a quick or

' g hedge, that wo d want but little repair. This work did not
take me up less than three months, because a cat part of that time
was the wet season, when I could not go abroa . Vi ithin doors, that
is, when it rained, and I CO'lld not go out, I found employment in
the following occu ations,---a'ways observmg, that all the while I was
at work, I diverte myself w th talking to my parrot, and teachin
him to speak; and I quickly taught him to know his own name, an
at last to speak it out rett 'oud, Poll, which was the first word I
ever heard spoken in t e is ml by any month but my own. This,
therefore, was not my work, but. an assistance to in work for now
as I said, 1 had a great employment upon my han , as follows: I
had long studied to make, by some means or other, some earthen
vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come
at them. However conmdermg the heat of the chmate, I did not
doubt but. if I could find out any clay I might make some pots that
might, being dried in the sun, be 'iar enough and strong enough to
bear handlin , and to hold anythin that was dry, and required to be

kept so; an as this was neces in the preparm corn, meal, &c.,
which was the thing I was doing resolved to make some as largeaonmsox 01111303. 83

astI elould, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put
in o em.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this aste - what odd, mis-
shapen, ugly things I made; how many of t em fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stitf enough to bear its own weight;
how man cracked by the overoviolent heat _of the sun, being set out
too hast y; and how many fell in pieces With only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and in a word, how, after having
laboured hard to. find the clay--to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it--I could not make above two large earthen ugly
things (I cannot call them afirs) in about two months' labour.

However, as the sun b 'ed these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on pur ose for them that they might not
break; and as between the pot an the basket there was a 1i e room
to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw - and these two
pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised. '

Though I miscarried'so much in my des1gn for large pots, yet I
made several smaller things With better suceess'; such as httle round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers and pi kins and any things my hand
turned to; and the heat of the sun aked them quite har .

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
pot to hold what was llquld, and bear. the fire; which none of these
could do. It happened after some time, making a pret large fire
for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after had done
With it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile: I was
agreeably Slllc'iprlsed to see it, and said to myself, that certamly they
might be ma e to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots: I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in,
or of glazm0' hem With lead, hough I had some lead t9 do it With;
out I placecf three large (inpkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one
upon another, and place my firewood all round it With a great heap
o embers under them. I plied the fire With fresh fuel_round the
outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the mSide red-hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when}
saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or 811
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed Wlth the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had one on '
so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate the red
colour, and watching them. all night, that 1 might not let the fire
abate too fast, in the mommg I had three very good (I Will not say
handsome) pipkms, and two other earthen ots, as. hard burnt."
cerfild be gesired, and one of them perfectly g ed With the runmng
o e san .

After this experiment, I need ngot say that I wanted no sort of

G

-.-zrm-fiv~<<\wn-'.~'~ .r'. w . A.-. _....
earthenware for my use; but I must needs say as to the shapes of
them, they were very mdifl'erent, as an one may suppose, when I had
no way of making them, but as the children make dirt pics, or as a
woman would make pics that never learned to raise paste. .

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine,
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would hear the fire;
and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
on the fire again, With some water in it, to bed me some meat, which
it did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I madesomeyery
good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients
re uisite to make it as good as I would have had it been.

y next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp .or beat
some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arrivmg at
that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To suggly this want, I
was at a great loss; for, of all the trades in the wor , I was as er-
fectly un ualified for a stone--cutter, as for any whatever; neither ad
I any too 5 to go about it With. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone big enou h to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and
could find none at. , except what was in the solid rock, and which
I had no way to dig or. cutout; nor indeed were the rocks in the
island of hardness sufficmnt, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone
which neither would bear .the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would
break the corn w1thout fiilhng it with sand; so, after a great deal of
time lost in searchin for a stone, I gave itover, and resolved to look
out for a cat .bloc ' of hard wood, which I found indeed much
easier; an getting one as big as .I had strength to stir, I rounded it,
and formed it on the outside With my axe and hatchet, and then,
with the help of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazfl make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called the iron-wood; and this
I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, which I
pro osed to myself to grind, or rather pound, into meal, to make bread.

ll y next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce, to dress mv
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk; without which I
did not see it pOSSible I could have any bread. This was a most
difficult thing, even to think on, for to be sure I had nothing like the
necessary thmg to make it; 1 mean fine thin canvas, or stuff, to
scarce the meal through. And here I was at a full sto for many
months; nor did I really know what to do. Linen I had none left,
but what was mere rags; I had goats'-hair but neither knew how to
weave it or spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that at last I did
remember I had, among the seamcn's clothes which were saved out
of the ship some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some
pieces of these I made three small sieves, proper enough for the
work and thus I made shift for some years: how I did afterwards,
I shall show in its place. .

The baking part was the next tlnng to be considered, and how I
should make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no
yeast; as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not
concern myself much about it. But for an oven, Iwas indeed in great
pain. At length, I found out an experiment for that also which was
this: I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is
to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep;
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon m hearth
which I had aved with some 5 uare tiles, of my own b 'deg g and
burning also; at I should not c them square.

When the fire-wood was burned firetty much into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon t is hearth, so as to cover it all
over, and there I let them lie till the heaith was very hot; then
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all
round the outSIde of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked mv barley-
loaves, and became, in little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain;
for I'madc myself several cakes and puddings of the rice; but I made
no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing I had,
except the flesh either of fowls or goats. '

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up most
part 01' the-third vear of my abode here- for, it is to be observed,
that in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest and hus-
bandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried
it home as well as I could, and laid it u in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub it out, for had no floor to thrash it
on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasinO', I .reallywanted to
build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to day it up in, for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the barle
about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more, msomuc
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread _had been
quite gone a great while , also I resolved to see what quantity would
be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a year. .

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to
sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully provrde me with bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you m_a be sure my thoughts
ran many times upon the prospect of land wluc I had seen from the
other side of the island and I was not without secret Wishes that
1 were on shore there, fancying that, seeing the mam land, and an
inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey myself
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such
an undertaking, and how I might fall into. the hands of sav es, and
perhaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than t e hons
and tigers of Africa; that if I once came in their power .I should
run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being killed, and
perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Canb-

ean coast were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I knew by the latitude
that I could not be far from that shore. Then, supposmg they were
not cannibals, yet they might kill me, as many Europeans who had
fallen into their hands had been served, even when they had been ten
or twenty tooether--much more I, that was but one, and could make
little or no defence; all these things, I say, which I ought to have
consrdered well, and did come into my thoughts afterwards, yet gave
me no apprehensions at first, and my hea ran mightily upon the
thought ot getting over to the shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain: then I thought I would
go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were first cast
away. She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite; and
was turned, by the force of the waves and the winds, almost bottom
upward, against a high ridge of beachy, rough sand, but no water
about her. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough;
but I might have foreseen that .I could no more turn her and set ier
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island- however,
I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to
the boat, resolving to try what I could do; suggesting to myself, that
if I could but turn her down, I might repair the damage she had
received, and she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in
her very easdy. . . _ . _

I flared no pains, indeed, in thzs piece of fruitless toil, and spent,
I thi j, three or four weeks about it- at last, finding it impossmle to
heave it up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand
to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of woo
to thrust and uide it right in the fall.

But when had done this, 1 was unable to stir it up again, or to
get under it, much less to move it forward towards the water; so I
was forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of
the boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible
to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those
climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands,
of the tnmk of a great tree. This 1 not only thought possible, but
easv, and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it,
and with my having much more convenience for it than any _of the
Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering the articular incon-
vemences which I lay under more than the Indians 1d, viz., want of
hands to move it, when it was made, into the water--a difficulty
much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want
of tools could be to them; for whatwas 1b to me, if when I had
chosen a vast tree in the woods, and With much trouble cut it down,
if I had been able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the

roper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the mside to make it
liollow, so to make a boat of it--if, alter all this, I must leave it just
there where I found it, and not be able to launch it into the water?

One would have thought I could not have had the least reflection
upon mv mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, but
I should have immediatelythought how I should get it into the sea;
but my thoughts were so Intent u on my voyage over the sea in it

that I never once'eonsidered how should get it off of the land: and
it was really, in Its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over
forty-five miles in sea, than about forty-five fathoms of land, where it
lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
desrgn, without determining whether I was ever able to undertake it;
not but that the diliiculty of launching my boat came often into my
head; but I put a stop to my inquiries into it, by this foolish answer
which I gave myself: " Let me first make it; I warrant I will find
some way or other to get it along when it is done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of mv
fancy prevailed, and to work 1 went. I telled a cedar tree, and I
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building-
of the Temple of Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for awhile, and
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labour that
I felled this tree; I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the

bottom; I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and
' the vast spreading head cut oil', which I hacked and liewcd through
with axe and hatchet, wnh inexpressrble labour: after this, it cost
me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to something
like the bottom of a boat, that it might swnn upright as it ought to
do. It cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and work
it out so as to make an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed, without
fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big enough to
have earned me and all my cargo. .

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted
with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe
or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life. Manyaweary
stroke it had cost, you ma be sure: and had I gotten it into the
water, I make no question _ ut I should have begun the maddest
voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was
undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though they
cost me infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards trom the.
water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up hill.
towards the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I
resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a dechvrtK:
this I begun, and it cost me a prodigious deal ot pains (but w .0
grudge ains that have their deliverance in view P); but when this
was wor 'ed through, and this ditficulty managed, it was still much
the same, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the other
boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut
a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work;
and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how dee it was to
be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I ound that,
by the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have
been ten or twelve ears before I could have (gone through With it;
for the shore lay so igh, that at the upper an it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though With great reluctancy, I
gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly
of beomning a work before we count the cost, and before we Judge
r1 htfy of our own strength to go through with it. . .

the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept my anniversary With the same devotion, and With as much
comfort as ever before; for, by a constant study and serious applica-
tion to the Word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained
a different knowledge from what I had before. I entertained differ-
ent notions of thinrrs. I looked now upon the world as a tlnnry
remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, an ,
indeed, no desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do wrth
at, nor was ever likely to have; so I thought it looked, as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter, VlZ., as a place I had lived in, but_was
come out of it; and well might I say, as Father Abraham to Dives,
" Between me and thee is a great gult fixed." _

Inthe first lace, I was removed from all the wrckedness of the

world here; 1 ad neither the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of the eye,
- or the pride of life. I.had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was
now capable of en'oying- I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I
pleased I might c myself king or emperor over the whole country
which I had (possession of; there were no rivals; I had no compe-
titor, none to ispute sovereimty or command with me: I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as httle
grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or turtle
enough but _now and then one was as much as I could put to an

ruse: Iliad timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and I ha

grapes enough to have made wme, or to have cured into raisms, to

ave loaded that fleet when it had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable: I had
enough to eat and sup 1y my wants, and what was all the rest to
me? If I killed more esh then I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
vermin; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be s oiled -
the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ound; could
make no more use of them but for fuel, and that I ha no occasion for
but to dress mg food. .

In aword, t e nature and experience of things dictated to me u on
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no fart er
good to us than they are for_our.use; and that, whatevbr we may

eap up to give others, we enjoy Just as much as we can use and no
more. The most coovetous, gnpmg miser in the world would have
been cured of the V106 of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for
I possessed infimtely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for desrre, except it was of things which I had not, and they
were but trifles, though indeed, of great use to me. I had, as I
hinted before, aparcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-
six pounds sterhng. Alas! there the sorry, uselessstufl' hi}; I had
no manner of busmess for it; and I often thought With myse. , that I
would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes- or
fora hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given It all or a
a srxpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England, or for a
handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As 1t was, .I had not
the least advantage b it or benefit from it; but there it lay in a
drawer, and grew moul y with the dam of the cave in the wet seasons;
and if I had had the drawer full of amonds, it had been the same
case, they had been of no manner of value to me, because ofno use.

. I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in Itself than
1t was at first, and much easier to my mind, as well as to my body]. I
frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness, and admired the and
of God's providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilder--
ness. I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather
than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret com-
forts, that I cannot express them; and which I take notice _of here,
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who caimot enjoy com-
fortably what God has given them, because they see and covet some-
thing that he has not given them. All our diseontents about what we
want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for
what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would be
so to any one that should faill into such distress as mme was; and
this was, to compare my present condition with what I at first
expected it would be; nay, with what it would certme have been,
if the good providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the sh1p
to be cast up nearer to the shore, where I not only could come _at her
but could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for m ' rehef and
comfort; without which, I had wanted for tools to wor ', weapons
for defence, and gimpowder and shot for orettmg my food. _

I spent whole hours I may say whorle days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted if I had got
nothing out of the ship. How I could not have so much as got any
food, except fish and turtles;.and that, as it was lonC/r before found
any of them, I must have perished first - that I should have hved, if I
had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had killed a goat or a
fowl, by any contrivance 1 had no way to flay or open 1t, or part the
flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it
wrth my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast. .

These reflections made me V81? sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful or my present condition, Wlth all its
hardships and misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but recom-
mend to the reflection of those who are apt, intheir misery, to say,
" Is any aflliction like mine?" Let them consrder how much worse
the cases of some people are, and their case might have been, if
Providence had thought fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind
with hopes; and this was comparing my present situation with what
I had deserved and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of
Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well instructed by father
and mother; neither had they been wantmgto me, in their early
endeavours to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a sense
of my duty, and what the nature and end of _my being required of me.
But, alas! falling early into the seafaring hfe, which, of all lives, is
the most destitute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always
before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea>>-
farmg company, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained
was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened despising of
dangers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to me; by my
long absence from all manner of Opportunities to converse with any-'
thing but what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or
tended towards it. .

So v01d was I of everything that was good, or of the least sense of
what I was, or was to he, that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed
---such as my escape from Sailee; my being taken up by the Portu-
guese master of the ship ; my being planted so well in the Bi'azils; my
receiving the cargo from England, and ,the like--I never had once
the words, "Thank God," so much as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor
in the greatest distress had I so much as a thought to pray to him, or
so muc as to say, "Lord, have mercy u on me!" no, nor to mention
the name of .God, unless it was to swear y, and blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for manflonths as I have
already; observed, on account of my wicked and dened life past;
and w en I looked about me, and co'nSIdered what particular provi-
denees had attended me. since my coming into this place and how God
had dealt bountifully With me-- had not only punished me less than
my iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully prov1ded for me--this
gave me great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had vet mercy in store for me.

With these reflections, I worked my mind up, not only to a resig-
nation to the Will of God in the present dis osition of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness or in condition; and
that I, who was yet a livmg man, ought not to com ain, seeing I had
not the due punishment of my sms; that'I enjoye so many mercies
which I had no reason to have expected in that place- that I ought
never more to re me at my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily
thanks for that ally bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders
could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been fed even by
a miracle, even as great as that of feedin' Elijah by ravens; nay, by a
long series of miracles: and that I coul hardly have named a place
in the uninliabitable part of the world where I could .have been cast
more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no society, which was
my affliction. on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious
wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or

isons, which I might feed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and

evourme. In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so_ it
was a hfe of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life
of comfort, but to.be able to make my sense of God's goodness to me,
and care overme 1_n this condition, be my daily consolation; and after
I did make a Just 1m rovement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad. I h now been here so long, that many things which
I brou ht on shore for my help were either qmte gone, or very much
waste , and near s ent. _

. My ink, as I 0 served, had been me some time all but avery

ttlehwhich I eked out wrth water, a ittle and a little, till it was so
pale, 1t scare left any appearance of black upon the paper. As 1%
as it lasted, I made use of it to mmute down the days of the mo_
on which any remarkable thing hap ened to me: and, first, by casting
up times 1past, I remembered that t. ere was a strange concurrence of
days in t e various provrdences which befel me, and which if I had
been an erstitiously mchned to observe days as fatal or fortunate,
I mightt ve had reason to have looked upon wrth a great deal of
cunosr y.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away from
my father any friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to o to se
the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-o -war,. an
made a slave; the same day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year afterwards
I made my escape from Sallee in a boat; the same day of the year I
was born on, m., the 30th of September, that same day I had my
hfe so miraculously saved twenty-51x years after, when I was cast on
shore in this island; so that my Wicked hfe and my sohtary life
beoan both on a day.

5The next thing to m ink being wasted, was that of my bread, I
mean the biscuit which brought out of the ship; this I had husbanded
to the last degree allowing myselfbut one cake of bread a day for
above a year; and yet I was qu1te Without bread for near a year before
I got any corn of my own; and great reason I had to be thankful that
1 ad any at all, the getting it emg, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous. ,

My clothes, too, began to decay; .as to linen, I had. had none 3
good while, except some chequered s 1rts which I found in the chests
of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved; because many
times I could bear no other clothes on but a shut; and it was a very
great help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes of the sin ,
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several thic
watch-coats of the seamen's which were left, but they. were too hot to
wear: and though it is true that the weather was so Violently hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked--no,
though I had been inclined to it, which I was not ;--nor could I abide
the t ought of it, though Iwas alone. The reason wh I could not go
naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well w en qmte naked
asynth some clothes on; nay, the veryoheat frequently bhstered my
skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than Without it. No
more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun With-
out a cap or a hat - the heat of the sun, beating wrth such violence as
it does it that place, would give me the head-ache presently, by
darting so directly on my head, without a cap _or hat on, so that 1
could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go

awa .

[Ipon these views, I began to consider about 1putting the few rags I
had, which I called clothes, into some order; had worn out all the
waistcoats I had, and my busmess was .now to if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had . y me, and with such
other materials asI had; so I set to work, tailoring or rather, indeed,
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I ho ed would serve
me a great while; as for hreeches or drawers, I made at avery sorry
shift indeed till afterwards. .

_I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I
killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had them hung up stretched out
with sticks in the sun, by which means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit for little, but others were very useful. The
first thing I. made of these was a great ca for my head, with the hair
on the outsrde, to shoot off the ran; an this I performed so well,
that after, I'made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins,---that is
to say, a waistcoat, and hreeches open at the knees, and both loose,
for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm.
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for
if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were
such as I made ve good shift With, and when I was .out, if it
happened to rain, t e hair of my waistcoat and cap being outer-
mOSt, I was keft very dry. .

After this, spent a. great deal of time and pains to make an
umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind to
make one - I had seen them made in the Brazfls, where they are very
useful in the great heats there, and I felt the heats eve jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox; besi es, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for lt'he rains as the heats. 1 took a world of ains Wlth it, and was a
great while before I could make anything like y to hold: nay, after I
thought 'I had hit the wa , I spelled two or three before I made one
to my imnd: but at last made one that answered indifi'erently well;
the main difficultyi I found was to make it let down. I could make it
spread, but if it (1 not let down too, and draw in, it was not portable
for me any way but Just over my head, which would not do. .How-
ever, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and. covered it with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like apent-liouse,
and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the
hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest, and when I had no need of it, could close it, and carry it
under my arm. . _

Thus I_hved mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com osed
by reSIgning myse to.the will of God, and throwmg .myself w olly
upon the disposal of His providence. This made in hfe better than
sociable, for when I began to regret the want 0 conversation, I
would ask in self, whether thus eonversin mutual! With my own
thoughts, an (as I hope I may say) wit even d himself, by
ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world? .

I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I hved on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, as before; the chief things I was employed in, be31des
my yearly labour .of flantmg my barley and rice, and curing my
mm, 0 both which always kept up Just enough to have sufficient
stock of one year's promion beforehand; I say, besxdes this yearly
labour, and my daily pursuit. of gomg out .Wltll my gun, I had one
labour to make a canoe, which at last I finished: so that, by digging
a canal to it of Six feet Wide and four feet dee , I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. .As_for the first, w 'ch was so vastly big,
for I made it Without considenng beforehand, as I ought to do, how
I should beable to launch it, so, never hem able to brimr it into the
water, or brino the water to it, I was oblige to let it.he wlliere it was,
as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time : indeed, the
next time, though I could not get a tree _proper for it, and was in a
place where _I could not get the water to it at any less distance than,
as I have said, near half a mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable at
last, I never gave it over: and though I was near two years about it,
yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of haying a boat to go off to
sea at last. .

However, though In httle periagua was finished, get the size of it
was not at all answera le to the .deSign which I ha in view when I
made the first ; I mean of venturing over to the term firma where it
was above forty miles broad; aceordmgl , the smallness of my boat
assmted to put an end to that design, an now I thought no more of
it. As I had a beat my next deSIgn was. to make a cruise round the
island; for as I had been on the other Side in one place, crossmg, as
I have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that httle Journey made me very eager to see other parts of the
coast- and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round
the island. . _ . _

For this purpose, that I .might do everything With discretion and
conSIderation, I fitted up a httle mast in my boat, and made a sail too
out of some of the pieces of the shi 's sails which lay in store, and _of
which I had a great stock by me. avmg fitted m mast and sail,
and tried the boat, I found she would sail very we : then I. made
httle lockers, or bones, at each end of my boat, to put provisions,
necessaries, ammumtion, &e., into, to be kept dry, either from rain or
the spra of the sea; and a httle long, hollow place I cut in the
inside 0 the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it, to kee it dry: _

I fixed my umbre 3. also in a step at the ste likga mast, to stand
over my head, and keep the heat of the sun 0 me, hke an awmng;
and thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea :
but never went far out, nor far from the httle creek. At last. being
eager to view the circumference of m httle kingdom, I resolved upon
my cruise; and accordingly I victu ed my ship for the voy e, put-
ting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should rather call them) 0 barle
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (3. food I ate a great d
of), a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for killing
more, and two large watchcoats, of those which, as I mentione
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover me In the mght. .

It was the 6th of November in the Sixth year of my reign, or In
captivity, which you please that I set out on this voyage, and
found it much longer than expected; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east Slde of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea some
above water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obhged to go a great way out to
sea to double the pomt. . .

When first I discovered them, I was gomg to give over in enter-
prise, and come back agam, not knowmg how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea; and, above all doubting how I should get back
again: so I came to an anchor ;. for I had made a kind of an anchor
with a piece of a broken grafphng which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up ahill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the
full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hlll where I stood, I perceive a
strong and, mdeed, a most furious current, which ran to the east, 6.
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there nnght be some danger, that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to sea.by the strength of it, and not be able .to
make the island again: and, mdeed, had fnot got first upon this hill,
I believe it would have been so- for there was the same current on
the other side the island, only that it set off at a farther distance, and
I saw there was a strong ed y under the shore; so I had nothing to
dgdbut to get out of the first current, and I should presently be in an
e y.

I lay here. however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fresh at E.S.E. and that heme Just. contrary to the current, made a
great breach of the sea upon the pomt; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off,
because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm, and I ventured: but I am a warning to all rash
and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even m boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in
a great depth 0 water, and a current like the sluice of a mill: it car-
ried my boat along With it with such violence that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hur-
ried me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on my left
hand. There was no wmd stirring to be] me, and all_I could do with
my addles Sigmfied nothing: and now began to give mvself over
for ost; for as the current was on both sides of the island, I knew in
a few leagues distance they must join again, and then I was irrecove-
rably gone; nor did-I see an possrbility of avoiding it; so that I had
no prospect before me but 9 perishing, not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starvmg from hunger. I had, mdeed, found a
tortoise on the shore as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it
into the boat ; and fhad a great yet of fresh water, that .13 to say, one
of my earthen pets; but what was all this to bemg driven mto the
vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no mam land or
island for a thousand leagues at least? .

And now I saw how easy it was for the prov1dence of God to make
even the most miserable codition of mankmd worse. Now I looked
back upon my desolate, solitary island, as the most pleasant place in
the world, and all the happmess my heart could wisn for was to be
but there agam. I stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes:
"0 happy desert!" said I "Ishall never see thee more. 0 misera-
ble creature! whither am I gomg ?" Then 1 re roached myself with
maunthankful tem er, and that I had repine at my solitary con-
dition; and now w at would I. give to be. on shore there again!
Thus, we. never scethe true state of our condition till it is illustrated
to us by its contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but b
the want of 1t. . It ls_scarcely possxble to im. 0me the consternation I
was now 1n, bemg driven from my beloved IS and (for so it appeared
to me now tobe) into the Wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the
utmost despair of ever recovermg 1t again. However, I worked hard
till indeed my strength was almost exhausted and kept my boat as
much to the northward, that 18 towards the Side of the current which
the eddy lay on,_as plosSibly I could; when about noon, as the sun

assed the meridian, thought I felt a little breeze of Wind in m
ace, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered m heart a httle, an
as ecially when, m about half an hour more .it lew a pretty gentle
g 6. By this time, I had got at a fnghtful distance from the island,
and had the least cloudy or hazy weather mtervened, I had been
undone another way, too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the island, if I had
but once lost Slgllt of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up mv mast agam, and spread m sail, standing away

to the north as muc as possible, to get out of t e current.

Just as I had set m mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even b t e clearness of the water some alteration of the
current was near ;_ or where the current was so strong the water was
foul; but erceivmg the water clear, I found the current abate; and
presently found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks 5 these rocks I found caused the current to part
again, and as the mam stress of it ran away more southerly, leavmg
the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of
the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back agam to the
north-west, With a very sharp stream. .

Thev who know what it 15 have a refineve brought. to them upon
the ladder, or to be rescued from t ieves Just gomg to murder
them, or who have been in such extremities may guess what my
present su rise of Joy was, and how ladly I put my boat mto the
stream of t 's eddy; and the wind 0 freshemng, how ladl I
spread m sail to it, running cheerquy before the wmd, an w1t a
strong t1 e or eddy under foot. . . ,

This eddy earned me about a league 1n my way back again, directly
towards the islandhbut about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when_I came
near the island, I found myself 01%? to the northern shore. of it, that
is zofisgy, the other end of the is d, opposite to that which I went
on m.

When I had made something more than a league of way by the
help of this current or edd , I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I foun that beinor between two great currents,
viz. that on the south Slde, which had burned me away, and that
on the north, which lay about a league on the other Side; I say,
between these two,_in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least still, and runmng no way; and hamg still a breeze of wmd fair
for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not making
such fresh way as I did before. . . '

About four o'clock in the evemng, being then within a1 orue oi
the island, I found the pomt of the rocks which occaSione this
disaster, stretching out, as is described before, to the southward,
and casting off the current more southerly, had, of course, made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but
almost full north. However, haying a fresh gale, I stretched
across this eddy, slanting north-west ; .and.in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon
got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on mv knees, and gave God thanks for
my deliverance, resolvintr to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance
by {in boat; and refreshing myself With such 131111108 as I had, I
broug t my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had Spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage. .

I was now at a great loss which way to get home With my boat; I
had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the case, to think of
attempting it by the way I went out; and what might be at the
other side (I mean the west Slde) I knew not, nor had I any mind to
run any more ventures: so I resolved on the next morning to make
m way westward along the shore, and to see if there was no creek
w ere I might lay up my frigate in_ safety, so as to have her again,
if I wanted her. In about three miles or thereabouts, coasting the
shore, I came .to a very good mlet or_ a , about a mile over which
narrowed till it came to a very httle ri et or brook, where I found
a very conyenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she
had been in a httle dock made on p ose for her. Here I put in,
and having stowed my boat very sate, went on shore to look about
me and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had
been. before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; ' so taking
nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was ex-
ceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was comfortable enouoh
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached m did
bower in the evening, where I found every thing standing as left
it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my
country house. .

. I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my
hmbs, for I was very weary, and fell aslee ; but judge you, if you
can, that read my story, w at a surprise must be in, when I was
awaked out of mlyosleep by a voice, calling me by my name several
times, "Robin, bin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where
are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued Wltll irowm ,. or

paddling as it is called, the first part of the day, and with w g
the latter part, that I dld not wake thoroughly; but dozm between
sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebod spo 'e to me;
but as t e v01ce continued to repeat " Robin Crusoe, bin Crusoe "
at. last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frightened, and started u in the utmost consternation; but no
sooner were my eyes open, ut I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge; and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for
gust m. such bemoaning lan uage I had used to talk to him, and
teach him; and he had learne it so perfectly that he would Sit upon
my finger, and lay 111$ bill close to my face, and cry, "Poor Robm
Crusoe! W here are you? Where have you been? How came you
here?" and such things as I had taught him. .
. However, even though I knew it was the arrot, and that mdeed
it could be nobody else, it was a good while efore I could com se
myself. First I was amazed how the creature got thither- and t en,
how he should 'ust keep about the place, and nowhere else; butas
I was well satis ed it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over 1 i
and holding out my hand, and callm him by his name, " Poll,'
the sociable creature came to me, an sat upon my thumb, as he
used to do, and continued talking to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been?" Just as if he had
bear: overjoyed to see me again; and so I carned him home along
vn me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time and had
enough to do for many da 3, to sit still, and reflect upon the danger
I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my boat
again on my side of the island; but I new not how 1t was prac-
ticable to get it about. As to the east Slde of the island, which I -_
had gone round, I knew well. enough there was no ventunn that .
way; my very heart would shrmk, and my very blood run 0 but 1
to think of it- and as to the other aide of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposmg the current ran With the same
force against the shore at the. east as it fassed by it on the other, I
might run the same risk of bemg driven. own the stream, and carried
by the island as I had been before of hem camed away from 1t; so
With these thoughts I contented myse to be mthout any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' labour to make
it, and of so many more to get it into the sea. .

. In this government of m .temper, I remained near a year; and
hved a very sedate, retired e, as you may well suppose; and my

11'
thoughts bein .very much composed, as to. my. condition, and
fully comforte 1n resrgmno myself to. the d18p0SS1t10n3 of var-
dtence, Itthoug t I hved really very happily in all things, except that
0 score y. . . ' .

I improved myself in this time m all the mechanic exercrses which
my necessities put me upon a plying myself to; and I beheye I
should, upon occasion, have ma e a. very good carpenter, especrally
consrdering how few tools I had. . .

Besides thlS, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely; easier and Lbetter; .because I made things round
and sha ed, whic before were filthy things indeed to look on. . But
I think was never more vam of my own performance, or more Joyful
for anything I found out, than for my bemg able to make a tobacco-
gipe; and though it was a. very ugly, clumsy thing when it was

one, and only burned red, hke other earthenware, yet as it was hard
and firm and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
with it, for I had been always used to smoke; and there were pipes
in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinking that there was
tobacco in the islan ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship
again, I could not come at any pipes.

In my wickerware, also, I improved much, and made abundance of
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not
very handsome, yet they .were such .as were very handy and conve-
nient for laying things up m, or fetching thmgs home. For example,
if I killed a goat abroad I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it,
and cut 11: m reces, and brmo' 1t home in a basket- and the hke by a
turtle: I co . (1 cut it up, take out the eggs, an a piece or two of
the flesh, wluch was enough for me, and brmg them home inabasket,
and .leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep baskets were the
receivers of m corn which I always rubbed out as soon as it was
drv, and cure , and kept it in great baskets. .

I began now to percerye my owder abated consrderably; this was
a want which it was 1mposs1 le for me to suplp'liy, and I began
senously to consrder what I must do when I sho have no more
powder; that is to say, how I should kill an goats. I had, as is
observed, in the third gear of my bemg here, .ept a oung kld, and
bred her up tame, an I was in. hopes of getting a e--goat: but I
could not by any means brmor ."5 to pass, till m_ kid grew an old

cat; and as I could never find m my heart to her, she died at

t of mere age. . .

But bemg now m the eleventh year of my res1dence, and, as I have
881d, my ammumtron growmg low, I set In self to study some art to
trap and snare the goats, to see whether could not catch some of
them alive; and particularly, I wanted a she-goat great wrth Iyoung.
For this purpose, I made snares to hamper t em; and I do elicve
they were more than. once taken in them; but my tackle was not
good, for I had no we, and I always found them broken, and my

art devoured. . At length, I resolved to try a filtfall: so I dug
several large its in the earth, in places where I ad observed the
goats used to eed, and ever those pits I placed hurdles, of my own
makin too, with a great weight upon them; and several times I put
ears 0 barley and dry rice, Without setting the trap; and I could
easily (perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for
I coul see the marks of them feet" At length I set three tra sin
one mght, andcgomg the next morning, I found them all stan ' g,
and yet the bait eaten and gone: thls was very discouraging. . How-
ever, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble. you with articulars,
gom one mormng to see m tra. s, I found 1n one of t em a large
gld a'le-goat; and m one of t e ot ers, three kids, a male and two
em es.

As to the old one, I knew not what .to do with him; he was. so
fierce, I durst not 9 mto the PS113 to him; that is to say, to hm
him away ahve, w ch was w at I wanted- I. could have kille
him but that .was not my busmess, nor wouid 1t answer myl end:
so Ieven let him out, and he ran away as if he had been fnf tened
out of his wrts._ But I did not then know what I afterwards earned,
that hunger W111 tame a hon. If I had let him stay there three or
four days without food, and then have carried him some water to
drink, and then a httle corn, he would have been as tame as one of
the kids; for their are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where
the are well use . . .

. owever, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that
time: then I'went to the three kids, and,_ takmg them one b one, I
tied them With strings together, and wrth some difficulty rought
them all home. ,

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwmg them
some sweet com, 11} tempted them, and they began to.be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply .myself wrth goats' flesh,
when I had no powder or shot left, breedmg some up tame was my
onl way when, erha s, I might have them about my house hke a
floc of sheep. . ut, t en, it occurred to me that I must keep the
tame from the Wild, or else they would always run w11d when they
grew up; and the on] way for this was to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fence either with hedge or ale, to keep them in so
gfi'efiually, that those Wlthln might not bre ' out, or those Without

re m.

This was a eat undertaking for one pair of hands; yet, as I saw
there was an a. solute necessrty for domg 1t, m . first wor was to find
out a proper piece of ground, where there was ely to be herbage for
them to eat, water for them to drmk, and cover to keep them from the

sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had ve httle
contrivance, when I pitched upon a lace very pro er for these
(beluga plain open piece of meadow d or sav , as our people
call it in the western colomes), wh1ch had two or three httle drills of
fresh water in 1t, and at one end was very woody,--I say they Will
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began by en osm this
PS1806 of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale must ve

een at least two miles about. Nor was the madnesspf it so great as

to the com ass, for if it was ten miles about, I was hke to have time

enough to o it in; but I did not cognsrder that my goats would be as
n
wild in so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and I
shrould have so much room to chase them in that I should never catch
em.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards
when this thought occurred to me; so I presentl stopped short, and
for the beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece 0 about one hundre
and fifty yards in length, and one hundred 'ards in breadth, which,
as it would maintain as many as I should ave In any reasonable
time, so, as my stock increased, I could add more ground to my
enclosure. .

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work With
cour e. I was about three months hedging 1n the first piece 5 and
till I ad done it, I tethered the three kids in the best art of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make t rem familiar;
and very often I would go and carry them some cars of barley, or a
handful of rice and feed them out of my hand; so that, after my
enclosure was inished, and I let them loose, they would follow me up
and down, bleating after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a flock
of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more I had three-
and-forty, besrdes several that I took and killed for my food. After
that, I enclosedfive several pieces of ground to feed them 111, with
little pens to dnve them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out
of one piece of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which, indeed, m the begin-
ning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came mto .my
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise, for now I set up my: dairy,
and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk m a day. And as I\ature,
who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally
how to make use of 1t, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made only when I was a boy, after a
great many essays and miscarriages, made both butter and cheese at

ast also salt (though I found it artly made to my hand by the heat
of the sun upon some of the rec 's of the sea), and never wanted it
afterwards. How. merciftu can our Creator treat His creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in
destruction! How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and
give us cause to raise Him for dungeons and pnsons! What a table
was here spread or me in the wilderness, where I saw nothing at first
but to perish for hunger. .

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family at down to. dinner. There was my mailesty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of 1. my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away, and no rebels among all my subjects. Then, to see how like
a klfilfil dined, too, all alone, attended by my servants! Poll, as if
he been my favounte, was the only person permitted to talk to
me. My dog, who was .now grown very old and crazy, and .had
found no species to multiply his kind u on, sat always at my right
hand, and two cats, one on one Slde o the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour. .

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first,
for_tlieg were both of them dead, and had been interred near m habi-
tation y my own hand; but one of them having multiplied by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame - whereas the rest run Wlld in the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last, for they wouldpfteu come into my house
and plunder me, too, till at last I was obhged to shoot them, and did
kill a great many; at length they left .me. With this attendance
and in tlus plentiful manner I hved; neither could I be said to want
anything but society; and of that, some time after this, I was likely
to have much. . . .

I was sometlinig impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of
my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and therefore
sometnnes I sat contrivmg ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough without her. But 1
had a strange uneasmcss in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where, as I have said in my last ramble, I went u the hill to
see how the shore lay, and_how the current set, that I mig t see what
I had to do; this Inclination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by land, followmg the edge of the
shore: I did so- but had an one in .England met such a man as I
was, it must either have frig tened him, or raised a great deal of
laughter; and as I frequently stood still .to look at myself .1 could
not but smile at the notion of my travelhng through Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch
of my figure, as follows :-- .

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap
hanging down behindtas well to keep tlie_sun from me as to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing bemo so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clot es.

I had a short Jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about
the middle of the thighs, and a fan of open-kneed breeches of the
same; the breeches were made 0 the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either aide, that, hke Bantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I ad none but
had made me a air of somethings, I scarce know what to call them,
like buskms, to ap over my legs, and lace on either Side hke spatter-
dashclas,1but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my 0 0t es.

.1 had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
Wlth two thongs of the same instead of buckles, and in a kind of a frog
on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hnn a httle saw
and a hatchet, one on one Slde and one on the other. I d another
belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder, and at the end. of it, under in .left arm, hung two
pouches, both made of goat's skin too, in one of w ch hung my dpowder,
in the other my shot. At my back I earned my basket, an on my
shoulder my and over m head a great clumsy, ugly, .at's skin
umb-nlla, but w 'ch, after was the most necessary 3 I had ,
about me next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really
not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all careful
of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard
I had once sufi'ered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient I had eut it pretty
short, except what grew on in upper lip, which I had trimmed mto a
large pair of Mahometan whis 'ers, such as I had seen worn by 50325
Turks at Sallee, for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did; of these moustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were lon
enough to hang my hat upon them, but the were of a length an
shape monstrous enough, and such as in Eng and would have passed
for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few to
observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence, so I sa no more
of that. In this kind of dress I went my new journey .an was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor to get upon the
rocks; and having no boat now to take care of, I went over the land
a nearer way to the same height that I was upon before, when, look-
in forward to the points of the rocks which lay out, and which Iwas
ob 'ged to double with my boat, as is said. above, I was summed to
see the sea all smooth and quiet,----no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more there than in any other places. I was at a strange loss to
understand this, and resolved to s end some time in the pbserving 1t,
to see if nothing from the sets of t e tide had occasioned 1t; but Iwas
presently convmeed how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb setting from
the west, and joming with the current of waters from some great
river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current, and that,
according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west or from the
north, this current came nearer, or went farther from the shore; for
waiting thereabouts till. evemng, I went up to the rock again, and
then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league from the
shore, whereas 1n my case. it set. close upon the shore, and hurried me
and my canoe along w1tl11t, which at another time it would not have

one.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to
observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very
easily brmg my boat about the island again; but when I began to
think of putting it in tpractice, I had such terror upon my 5 irits
at the remembrance o the danger I had been in, that I eoul not

think of it again with any patience, but on the contrary I teok up
another resolution which was more safe, though more aborious,----

and this was that I would build, or rather make, me another pcrigua
oehcanoe, and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the
0 er.

Xou are to understand, that now I had, as I'may call it, two lan--
tations m the island,----one my little fortification or tent, wit the
wall about it under the rock, With the cave behind me, which by
this .time I had enlarged mto several 8 artments, or caves, one
Within another. One of these, WlllCh was t e driest and largest, and
had a door out beyond my wall or fortification,--that is to say be 0nd
where my wall Jomed to the rock, was all filled up with the arge
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen
or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provismns, especially mv corn, some in the
iar,(fut 011' short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my

an .

.As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
spread'so verv much, that there was not the least appearance, to any
one's View, of any_habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a httle farther within the land, and
upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land, which I kept duly
cultivated and sowed, and which dnly yielded me their harvest in its
season; and whenever I had occasmn for more com, I had more land
ad oming as fit as that.

eSides this, I had my countr seat, and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also; for first, had my httle bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair--that is to. say, I kept the hedoe, which en-
crrcled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing
always in the inside. I kept the trees, which at first were no more
than stakes, but were now grown yery firm and tall, always cut, so
that they might Spread and grow thick and Wild, and make the more
agreeable shade, wluch they did effectually to _my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail
spread over poles, setup for that purpose, and which never wanted
any repair or renewing; and under this I had made me a squab or
couch, _w1th the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other
soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved; and a great watch-coat to cover me.
And here, whenever I had occasron to be absent from my chief seat,
1 took up my count habitation. .

Adjoining to this, had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say,
my goats; and I had taken an inconceivable deal. of pains to fence
and enclose this ound. I was so annous to see it he t entire, lest
the goats should reak through, that I never left off hlf With infinite
labour, I had stuck the outSide of: the hedge so full of small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge,
and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them;
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
nfiiny season made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger

an any w .

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no
pains to brmo to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable
support, for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures
thus at my band would be a livmg magazme of flesh,'milk, butter,
and cheese for me as long as I hved m the place, if it were to be
forty years; and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely
upon my erfectmg my enclosures to such a degree, that .1 mi ht
be sure 0 keeping them together; which, by this method, mdee I
so effectually secured, that when these httle stakes began to grow, I
had plantedothem so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of
them up again. . .

In this place also I. had my grapes. grown)", which I prmcrpally
depended on fer my wmter store of raisms, and wluch I never_ tailed
to preserve very carefully, as the best and most ereeable damty or
my whole diet ; and indeed they were not on y agreeable, but
medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half-wav between my other habitation and
the place where I had laid u my boat I generally stand and lav here
in my way thither, for I use frequently to visit my boat; and I kept
all things about, or belonging to her, in very good order. Sometimes
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, scarcely ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore,
I was so apprehensrve of being burned out of my knowledge agam by
the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a
new scene of my life. .

It happened one day, about noon, gomg towards my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised Wltll the print of a man's naked foot_on the
shore which was very plain to be seen on the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I hstened, I
looked round me, but I could hear nothmcr, nor see anything; I went
up to a rising ground, to look fartherfI went up the shore, and
down the shore, but it was all one: I could see no other impressmn
but that one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a foot--toes, heel, and every

art of afoot. How it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
manperfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to
the last degree, looking behind me at every two or three ste s, mis-
taking every bush and tree, and fancyinfr every stump at a istanee
to be a man. Nor is it possible to descri e how many various shapes
my afl'righted imagination represented things to me in, how many
Wild ideas were found every moment 1n my fancy, and what strange,
unaccountable whimseys came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came .to my castle (for so I thmk I called it ever after
this), I fled into it like one pursued. Whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot remember- no, nor could I remember
the next mormng, for nevenfrightened hare fled to cover, or .fox to
earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

_I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my
fright, the greater my apprehensions were, which is something
contrary to t e nature of such thmgs and especially to the usual
practice of all creatures in fear; but was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing that I formed nothing but dismal
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a. great way off.
Sometimes I fancied. it must be the devil, and reason JOIDQd in with
me in this supposition, for how should any other thing in human
shape come into the place?- Where was the vessel that brought
them? What marks were there of any other footstep? And how
was it possible a man should come there? But then, to think that
Satan should take human shape npon him in such a place, where
there could be no manner of occaSion for it, but to leave the print of
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too for he could
not be_ sure I should see it,--this was an amusement the other way.
I consulered that'the devrl might have found out abundance of other
wavs _to haveterrificd me than this of the single print of a foot; that
as I hved quite on the other Side of the island, he would never have
been so snnple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand
too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have
defaced entirely. .All this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself,
and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all
anprehcnsmns of its being the deVil; and I presently concluded then,
t iat it must be some more dangerous creature, viz. that it must be some
of the savages of the main-land opposite, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes, and either driven by the currents or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone
away .gain to sea. being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this
desolate island as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to be there-
abouts at that time or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps. have searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts
racked my imagination about their having found out my boat, and
that there were people here; and that, if so I should certainly have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it
should hap on that they should not find me, yet they would find my
enclosure, destroy all m corn, and carry away all my flock of tame
goats, and I should peris i at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful expe-
rience as I had had of His goodness;.as if He that had fed'mc b miracle
hitherto could not preserve, b His power, the prOViSion w ieh He
had made for me by His goo ncss. I reproached myself With.my
laziness, that would not sow any more corn one year than would Just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was u ion the ound; and this I
thought so just a reproof, that I resolve for the uture to have two
or three years' corn beforehand; so that, whatever might come, I
might not perish for want of bread. . . .

How strange a chequer-work of Prowdence is_ the Me of man!
and b what secret different springs are the affections hurried about,
as di erent circumstances present! To-day we love what to-morrew
we hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we deSire
what tomorrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehenSions of.
This was exemplified in me at this time, in the most hvely manner
imaginable, for I, whose only affliction was that I seemed banished
from human society, that I was alone, circumsciibed by the boundless
ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned to what I called Silent
life; that I was one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be
numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of his
creatures; that to have seen one of my own species would have
seemed to me a raisin me from deat to life, and the greatest
blessmg that Heaven itse , next to the supreme blessing of salvation,
could bestow. .I say, that I should now tremble at the very ap re-
hensmns of seeing aman, and was ready to sink into the groun at
but the shadow or Silent appearance of a man having set his foot in
the island. .

Such is the uneven state of human hfe; and it afi'orded me a great
man curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered
my ' st surprise. I considered that this was the station of life the
mfimtel wise and good providence of God had_ determined for me;
that as could not foresee what the ends of divmc wisdom might be
in all this so I was not to dispute his sovereignty; who, as I was his
creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to govern and dispose
of me absolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I was a creature that
had ofi'ended him had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to
what punishment he thought fit; and that it was my part to submit
to hear his indignation, because I had sinned against him. I then
reflected, that as God, who was not only righteous, but omnipotent,
had thought fit thus to punish and afllict me, so he was able to deliver
me: that if he did not think fit to do so, it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his W111; and, on the
other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of his daily provrdence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say
weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogitations on this
occaSion I cannot omit. One morning early, lying in my bed, and
filled With thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages,
I found. it discomposed me very much '; upon which these words of
the Scripture came mto my thoughts: ' Call upon me in the dfiy of
trouble, and 1 will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." pon
this, rising cheerfull out of my bed, my heart was not on] com-
forted, but I was gm ed and encouraged to pray earnestly to ed for
dehverance: when I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and
opemno it to read, the first words that resented to me were, " Wait
on the Iiord, and he of cod cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart;
wait, I say, on the Lor ." It is im ossible to express the comfort
this gave me. In answer, I thankfu y laid down the book, and was
no more sad, at least on that occasion.

. In themiddle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print of my own
foot, when I came on shore from my boat; this cheered _me u a
little, too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusron; t at
it was nothing elseliut my own foot; and why might I not come that
:vayfrom the boat as well as 1 was oing that way to the boat?
Again I cons1dered also, that I could Iiy no means tell, for certain.
where 1 had trod, and where I had not; and that if, at last this was

only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools
who try to make stones of spectres and appantrons, and then are
frightened at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I be an
to starve for provismns; for I had httle or nothing w1thin doors at
somebarley-cakesand water: then I knew that my goats wanted to
be milked too, which usually was my evening diversron; and the poor
creatures were in great 3am and inconvenience for want of 1t; and,
indeed, It almost spoile some of them, and almost dried up then
milk: Encouraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing. but the print of one of my own feet, and that I might be
truly said to start at m own shadow, I began to go abroad again,
and went to my country- ouse to milk m flock: but to see w1th what
fear I went forward, how often I looked ehind me, how I was ready,
eve now and then, to la down my basket, and run for my hfe,1t
wou d have made an one ave thought I was haunted with an evfl
conscIence, or that I ad been latel most terribly fnghtened ' and so
mdeed, I had. However, I went own thus two or three days, and
havmg seen nothing, Ibegan to be a httle bolder, and to thmk there
was really nothino in it but Iilly own imagination; but I could not
persuade myself flilly of this t' I should no down to the shore 0am,
and see this rmt of a foot, and measure itl) my own, and see if t ere
was any s1m tude or fitness that I might be assured it was my own
foot: but when I came to the place--first, it appeared ewdentlg to
me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not posmbly be on s ore
any where thereabouts: secondly, when I came to measure the mark
w1th my own foot, I found m foot not _so large; by a great deal.
Both these things filled my hea With new imaginations, and gave me
the vapours again to the highest degree, so. that I shook w1th cold
hke one in an ague; and I went home agam, filled With the behef
that some man or men had been on shore there - or, 1n short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be. surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for_my security I knew not. .

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed w1th fear!
It de nves them of the use of those means which reason offers for their
relic . The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn $1 my tame cattle wild mto the woods, lest the
enemy should find them, and then frequent thensland in prospect of
the same or the like booty: then the Simple thing of digging u my
two com-fields lest they should find such a am .there, and st be .
prompted to frequent the island: then to emohsh_my bower and
tent, that they might not see any vestlges of habitation, and. be
prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons mhabitmg.

These were the suflect of the first mght's cogitations after I was
come home again, w e the a prehensmns which had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, an my head was full .ofyapours. Thus,
fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger
Itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anne
greater, by much, than the evil which we are annous about: anwhat was worse than all this, I had not that relief inthis trouble that,

from the liiination I used to practise, I hoped to have. I'looked,
I thought, . e Saul, who complained not only that the I'hflistines
were upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for .I did not now
take due ways to compose my mind, b crying to God in my distress,
and resting upon his providence as I ad done before, for my defence
and deliverance; wluch, if I had done, I had at least been more cheer-
fully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through
it with more resolution.

This confusmn of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but inthe
morning .I fell aslee ; and hawng, by the amusement of my mind,
been, as it were tire , and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly
and wakeu much better composed than I had ever been before. And
now I began to think sedatey; and, upon debate With myself I con-
cluded that this island (which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful,
and no farther from the main. land than as I had seen was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagme; that although t ere were no
stated inhabitants who hved on the spot, vet that there might some-
times come boats off from the shore who, either With design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven liy cross winds, might come to this
place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had _not met with
the least shadow or figure of_ any people yet; and that, if at any time
they should be driven here,.it was proba le the went away again as
soon as ever they could, seeing they had never t ought fit to fix here
upon any occasion; that. the most I could suggest any danger from
was, from any casual accidental landing of stragghng ople from the
main, who,' as it was hkely, if they were driven hit er were here

st their Wills, so they made no stay here, but went ofl' again With
pOSSible speed; seldom staying one nivht on shore, lest they should
not have the help of the tides and daylioht back again; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in
case I should see any savages land upon the s t.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had ug my cave so large as
to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond
where my fortification Jomed to the rock: upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the
same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where
I had Elanted a double row of trees about twelve ears before, of
which made mention: these trees having been p anted so thick
before, they wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
they might be thicker and stronger and my wall would be soon
finished. 89 that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall was
thickened With pieces of timber, old. cables, and everything I could
think of, to make it strong; having in it seven little holes, about as
big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually brmagfig earth out
of my cave, and layingit at the foot of the wall, and w g upon it -
and through the .seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of
which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the shi -
these I planted hke my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that held

them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time; this wall I was .many a weary month in finishing, and
yet never thought myself safe till it was done.

When thls was done, I stuck all the mid without my wall, for a
great length every way, as full w1th sta es or sticks of the osier-like
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; inso-
mueh, that I beheve I might set 111 near twenty thousand of them,
leavmg a pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the
young trees, If they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus, in two algears' time, I had a thick grove; .and in five or six
years' time I h a wood before m dwelling, growmg so monstrously
thick and strong that it was mdee perfectly impassable: and no men,
of what. kind soever, could ever imagine that there was anything
beyond 1t, much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was b setting two
ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and t en broke in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to me
Without domg himself mischief ; and if they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took. all the measures human prudence could suggest for my
own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not
altogether Without just reason; thouoh I foresaw nothmg at that
time more than my mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of In other
affairs; for 1 had a great concern upon me for my little .herdo oats:
they were not only a ready supply1 to me on every oceasmn, and eian
to be sufficient for me, Without t e expense of powder and shot ut
also without the fatigue of hunting after the Wild ones; and was
loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again. . . .

For this purpose, after long consrderation, I could thinlc of but two
ways to preserve them: one was, to find another convement lace to
dig a cave under grmmd, and to drive them into it every mg t; and
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from
one another, and as much concealed as I could, where. I might keep
about half a dozen young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster
happened to the flock in general, 1 might be able to raise them again
with httle trouble and time: and Hiis, though 1t would require
3 good deal of time and labour, I thought was the most rational

esign. .

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired arts of
the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, in eed, as
my heart could wish for: it was a httle damp piece of ground, In the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as 1s observed, 1 almost
lost myself once before, endeavourmg to come back that wa from
the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear plece 0 land,
near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an
enclosure by nature - at least, it did not want near so much labour to
make it so .as the ot er tpiece of ground Ihad worked so hard at. .

I immediately went 0 work with this piece of ground; and, m
less than amonth's time, I had so fenced it round. that my flock or
herd, call it which you please, who were not so Wild now as at first
the might be supposed to he, were well enough secured in it: so,
wit out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two
he- ats, to this piece- and when they were t ere I continued to
e ect the fence, till I had made. it as secure as the other; which,
owever, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great
deal" All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my appre-
hensions on the account of the print of a man's foot; for, as et, I
had never seen any human creature come near the island; and had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indee made. m
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be we imagine
by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of
man. And this I must observe, With grief, too, that the discomposure
of my mind had great impressmn also u on the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread and terror of fal me into the hands of sav es
and cannibals lay so u on my spirits, that I seldom found mysel in
a due temper for app ication to my Maker; at least, not With the
sedate calmness and res1gnation of souhwhich I was wont to do : I
rather prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of mind,
surrounded with danger, and in expectation every night of being mur-
dered and devoured before mommg; and I must testify, from.my
experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and affection,
is much the more roper frame for prayer than that of terror and (118--
composure; and t iat under the dread of mischief impending, a man
is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to
God, than he is for a repentance on a sick bed; for these discompo-
sures affect the mind, as the others do the body; and the discompo-
sure of the mind must necessarily be as eat a disability as that of
the body and much O'reater; praying to d being properly an act of
the mind: not of the body]. .
But to go on: after I ad thus secured one part of my little hving
stock, I went about the whole island, searching for another private
place to make such another deposit; when, wanderinrr more to the
west oint of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to
sea, thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I. had
found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I
saved out 0 our ship, but I had it not about me; and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer: whether it was
a boat or not, I'do not know, but as I descended rom the hill I could
see no more of it, so [gave it over; only I resolved to o no more
out without a perspective tglass in m pocket. When was come
down the hill to the end 0 the islan , where, indeed, I had never
been before, I was presently convmced that the seeing theOprint of a
man's foot was not such a'strange thing in the island as I im o'ined :
and but that it was a s coial prov1dence that I was cast upon .t e side
of the island where t e sav a'es never came I should easrly have
known that, nothing was more requent than for the canoes from the
main, when they haspened to_ be a httle too far. out. at sea, to
shoot over to that s1 e of the island for harbour: license, as they
often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where according to
their dreadful customs being all canmbals, they would kill and eat
them; of which here er. .

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being
the SJV. pomt of the island, I was perfectly confoundedoand amazed;
nor is it posmble for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore s read with skulls, hands, feet and other bones of human
bodies; an paitieularly, I observed a place where there had been a
fire made, and a circle ug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I sup-
posed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings
upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

'I was so astonished With the Sight of these things that I. enter-
tained no notions of any danger to in self from it fora long while: all
my apprehensions were buried in t e thoughts of such a itch of
inhuman, hellish brutalitly, and the horror of the degeneracfi 0 human
nature, which, though I ad heard of it often yet fnever ad .so near
a View of before ; in short,. I turned away my ace from the horrid spec-
tacle; my stomach grew Sick, and I was Just at the pomt of fainting,
when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach; and having
vomited With uncommon Violence, I was a little reheved, but could
net bear to stay in the place a moment; so 1 got up the hill again
{Vitth all the speed I could, and walked on towards my own habi-

a ion.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked up With the
utmost affection of my soul, and, With a flood of tears in my eyes gave
God thanks, that had cast in first lot in a part of the wor d where I
was distinguished from suc dreadful creatures as these; and that,
though I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet
given me so man comforts in it.that I had still more to give thanks
for than to comp ain of: and this, above all, that I had, even in this
miserable condition, been comforted With the knowledge of Himself,
and the hope_ of His blessmg :. which .was a fehCity more than
sgciently equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered, or could
8 er.

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle, and began
to be much cam now, as to the safety of my Circumstances, t an
ever I was before: for I observed that these wretches never came to
this island in search of what they could get; (perhaps not seeking, not
wanting, or not expecting, an hing here; an havmg pften, no . oubt,
been up in the covered, woo y art of it, Without finding anything to
their purpose. I knew I had een here now almost eigelliteen years,
and never saw the. least footsteps of humancreature t ere before;
and I nuvht he eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I did not discoyer myself to them, which I had no manner of
occasion to do; it being my only busmess to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort of creatures than
canmbals to make myself known to. Yet I entertained such an abhor-
rence of the savage wretches that .I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued pensive and sad, and he t close within my own
circle, for almost two years after this : when say my own crrcle, I
mean b it mdy three plantations, viz., my castle, my country seat
(which e my bower , and my enclosure in the woods: nor did I
look after this for any ot er use than as an enclosure for my goats;
for the aversron which nature gave me to these hellish wretch'es was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the. devil him-
self. I did not so much as go to look after my boat all this time, but
began rather to think of making another; for I could not think of
ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round the
island. to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures at sea:
in which case if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.

Tune, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger
of bemv discovered by these people, began to wear 011' my uneasmess
about them; and I befien to live Just in the same composed manner
as before, only with t is difference, that I used more caution, and
ke t my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should happen
to. e seen by any of them- and particularly, I was more cautious of
firing. my gun, lest any of them, being on the island, should hap en to
hear it. t w

. as, therefore, a very good providence to me that had
furnished myself with a tame bree of goats, and that I had no need

to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did
catch any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done
before: so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired my
gun once off, though I never went out without it; and, what was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out With me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-
skm belt. I also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
out of the ship, and made me a belt to 11am' it on also; so that .I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you
add to the former descri tion of myself, the particular of two istols,
and a great broad-swor hanging at my side in a belt, but wrt out a
scabbard. . .

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time I seemed,
exceptingthese cautions, to be reduced to my former calm, sedate
way of hvmg. All these things tended to show me, more and more,
how far my condition was from being miserable, compared to some
others - nay to many other particulars of life, which it might have
leased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how

'ttleorepimng there would be among mankind .at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition With those that
were worse, inorder to be thankful, than be always comparing them
Withfihose which are better, to assist their murmunngs and com-
plammgs. . . .

As in my present condition there were not reallv many things which
I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the fri hts I had been in about
these sav a'e wretches, and t e concern I h been in for my own pre.
servation, ad taken off the edge of my invention for my own convem-
ences; and I had dropped a 0Food design, which .I had once bent my
thoughts too much upon, an that was to try if I could not make
some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a.whims10al thought, and I reproved myself often for
the simplicity of it: for I presently saw there would be the want of
several. things necessary to the making my beer, that it would be
imposmble for me to supply- as, first, casks to preserve it in, which
was a thing that, as I have 0 served already, I could never com ass:
no, though I spent not only manglla s, but weeks nay mont s. in
attempting it, but to no purpose: t e next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make It. work, no copper or kettle'to make
it bofl; and yet With all these things wanting, 1 verily beheve, had
not the frights and terrors I was in about the savages intervened, I
had undertaken it, and erhaps brought it to pass, too; for I seldom
gave aniything over mt out accomphshnig it, when once I had it in
my hea to begin it. But my inventionnow ran quite another way;
for, night and day, I could thing of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these monsters. in their cruel bloody entertainment; and, if
poss1ble, save the Victim they should brin'r hither to destroy It
would take up a larger volumethan this whole work is mten ed to
be, to set down all the contrivances.I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in_ my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them _so as to revent their coming hither any more: but
all this was abortive; not mg could he posmblc to take effect, unless
I was to be there to do it myself: and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together
With their darts, or their bows andarrows, With which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could With my gun?

Sometimm I thought of digomg a hole under the place where they
made their fire and uttingm ve or Six pounds of gunpowder, which,
when they kindled t eir fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I should bemiwil-
ling to waste so much powder upon them, m store bemgOnow within
the quantity of one barre1,.so neither could be sure of its gomg off
at any certain time, when it might surprise them; and, at best, that
it would do little more than Just blow the fire about their ears and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the lace: so I
lai it aside; and then proposed that I would place myse in ambush
in some convement place, With my three guns all double loaded and
in the middle of their blood ceremony let fly at them, when 1 should
he sure to kill or wound er ps two or three at every shot - and'then
falling in upon them wit my three pistols and m '2word, mane no
doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should them all. This
fancy pleased my thouO'hts for someweeks and I was so full of it,
that I often dreamed ofP it and sometimes, that I was_Just_gomg to let
fly at them in my sleep. I went so far With it in my 1m "mation, that
I em loyed myself several da 3 to find out roper p es to at
myse 'in ambuscade, as I sai to watch for t em, and I.went
quentl to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar to me -
but while my mind was thus filled With thoughts of revenge and
a bloody puttin twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call
it, the horror Iliad at the place, and at the Signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length

I
I found a place in the side of the hill, where I. was satisfied I might
securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming ; and might then,
even before they would be ready to come on shore, convey mvself
unseen into some thickets of trees, in one of which_there.was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely ; and there 1 might st and observe
all their blood doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
they were so 0 ose together as that it would be next to impossxble that
I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of
them at the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to fulfil my
design; and accordingly, I repared two muskets and my ordinary
fowhng-piece. The two mus 'ets I loaded with a brace of slugs each
and four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; and
the fowliug-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of the
larvest size; I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each -
an , in this posture, well provided with ammunition for a. second an
third charge, I repared myself for my expedition.

After I had t us laid the scheme of my design, and in my imagina-
tion put it in ractice, I continually made my tour every morning to
the top of the ill, which was from my castle, as I called it about three
miles, or mole, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea,
coming near the island, or standing over towards it; but I began to
tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three months constantly
kept my watch, but came always back without any discovery; there
having not, in all that time, been the least appearance, not only on or
near the shore, but on the whole ocean, so tar as my eyes or glass
could reach every way. .

As long as I kept my daily tour to the lull to look out so long also
I kept up the Vioour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the
while m a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the killing
twenty or tlnrty naked savages, for an offence which I had not at all
entered into any discussion of in my thoughts,_anv farther than my
passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural
custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had been
suffered by Providence, in His wise disposxtion of the world, to have
no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated pas-
sions; and, consequently, were left and perhaps had been so for some
ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful customs, as
nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But now, when
as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I.
had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my 0 inion of
the action itself =began to alter; and_I began, with cooler an calmm
thoughts to consider what I was gomg to' engage in; what authority
or call I had to pretend to be udge and executioner upon these men
as criminals, whom Heaven h thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer,
ungumshed, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of His
Ju gments one upon another- how far these peo le were offenders

0'ainst me and what right I had to engage in t e quarrel of that
b god which they shed promiscuouslliv upon one another. I debated
this very often With myself thus : "_ ow do I know what God himself
Judges in this particular case? It is certam these people do not com.
mit this as a crime; it. is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their light reproachin them ; they do not know it to be an offence,
and then conim1t it in . efiance of divme justice, as we do in almost
all the sins we commit. The think it no more a criine to kill a
captive taken in war, than we 0 to kill an ex; or to eat human flesh,
than we do to eat mutton."

When I conSidered this a. little, it followed necessarilf' that I was
certainly in the wrong; that these people were not mur erers in the
sense that I had. before condemned them in my thoughts, any more
than those Christians were murderers who often put to death the
prisoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions,
put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving uarter,
though they threw down their arms, and submitted. In t e next
place, it occurred to me, that although the us are they/llgave one
another was thus brutisli and inhuman, yet it was re y not 'ng to me:
these people had done me no injury: that if the? attempted, or I saw
it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to all upon them, some-
thing might be said for it : but that I was yet out of their dpower, and
they really had no knowledge of me, and consequently no esign u on
me; and, therefore it could not be just for .me to fall 11 on them; t t
tlus would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all t eir barbarities
practised in America, where they destroyed millions of these peopledeg
who, however they were idolatcrs and barbarians, and had seve
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human
bodies to their idols, were yet as to the Spaniards, very innocent
peo 1e; and that the rooting them out of the country is spoken of
wit the utmost abhorrence and detestation. by even.the.S amards
themselves, at this time, and by all other Christian nations in urope,
as a mere butcherv, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjusti-
fiable either to God or man; and for which the very name of a Spamard
is reckoned to be frightful .and terrible to all people of humanity or of
Christian com assron- as if the kingdom of Spain were Earticularly
eminent for t e pro ace of a race of men, who were Wit out princi-
ples of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity .to the miserable,
which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind.

These conSiderations reallyiput me to a pause, and to a kind of a
full stop; and I be an, by ttle and httle, to be off my deSign, and
to cone ude I had t en wrong measuresm my resolution to attack
the savages; and that it was not my business to meddle with them,
unless they first attacked inc; andth it was in business, if possrble
to prevent: but that, if I were discovered an attacked by them I
knew my duty. On the other hand, I aroued Wlth.m self, that t
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entire y to rum and
destro myself. for, unless I was sure to kill every one that not only
shoul be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on shore
afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people
what had ha pened, they would come over agam 1:5 thousands to
revenge the death of their fellows, and I should 0 y bring upon
myself a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of
occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded that I ought, neither in
principle nor in policy, one way or2 other, to concern myself in this

I
afi'air: that my business was, by all possible means, to conceal myself
from them, and not to leave the least sign _for them to guess by that
there were any living creatures upon the island---I mean of human
shape. Religion joined in with this prudential resolution; and I was
convinced now, many ways, that I was pcrfectlv out of my duty when
I was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent
creatures--I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were
guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them 0 they
were national, and Iought to leave them to the justice of Go , who
is the Governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments,
to make a just retribution for national otl'ences, and to bring public
'udgments u on those who ofl'eiid iii a public manner, by such ways as
est please Iim. This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered to
do a thing which I now saw so much reason to believe would have
been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it -
and I gave most humble thanks, on my knees, to God, that He ha
thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to orrant me
the rotection of His Providence, that I might not fall into the iands of
the arbarians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I
had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
In this dis osition I continued for near a year after this; and so far
was I from esiring an occasion for falling upon these wretchcs, that
in all that time I never once went up the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of
my eontrivances against them, or be provoked by any advantage that
might present itself, to fall upon them: only this I did; I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into
a little cove, which 1 found under some high rocks, and where I knew,
by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not,
come With their boats upon any account whatever. With my boat I
carried away everything that I had left there belonging to her, though
not necessary for the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail which I had
made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which indeed could not
be called. either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the best I could
make of its kind :. all these I removed, that there might not be the
least shadow for discovery, or appearance of any boat, or of any human
habitation upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell except upon my
constant employment, to milk my she-goats, and manage my little
flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other part of the
island, was out of dancerafor certain it is that these savage people,
who sometimes haunte this island, never came with an v' thoughts of
finding an hing here, and consequently never wandered off from the
coast, an I doubt not but they might have been several times on
shore after my agprehensmns of them had made me cautious, as well
as before. Indee ,. I looked back With some horror upon the thoughts
of what m . condition would have been, if I had chopped upon t em
and been covered before that; when, naked, and unarmed, except
with one gun, and that loaded often only}' with small shot, I walked
everywhere, peeping and peering about t e island to see what I could
get; what a surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty
savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their
running, no possmihty of my escaping them! The thoughts of this
sometimes sunk my very soul witlnn me, and distressed my mind so
much that I could not soon recover it, to think what I should have done,
and how I should not only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to do whatI might
have done; much less what now, after so much consideration and
preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of
these things, I would be very melancholy, and, sometimes, it would
last a great while; but I resolved it all, at last, into thankfulness to that
Providence which had delivered me from so many unseen dancers, and
had kept me from those mischiefs which I could have no way'been the
agent 1n delivering myself from, because I had not the least notion of
any such thing depending, or the least supposition of its being possi-
ble. This renewed a contemplation which often had come mto my
thoughts in former times, when first I began to see the merciful dispo-
sitions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through 1n this hfe; how
wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing of it; how, when
we are in a quandary (as we call it , a doubt or hesitatlon whether to
go this way or that way, a secret int shall direct us this way, when
we intended to go that wav: nay, when sense, our own mclination, and
perhaps business, has called us to go the other way, yet a strange
impression upon the mind, from we know not what springs, and by we
know not what power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall
afterwards appear, that had we gone that way wlnch we should have
"one, and even to our imagination ought to have gone, weshould have
Been ruined and lost. Upon these, and many hke reflections, I after-
wards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found these
secret hints or pressings of mind, to domg or not domfr anythmg that
presented, or going this way or that way, I never.fai ed to obey the
secret dictate; though I knew no other reason for it than that such a.
pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my hfe, but
more es ecially in the latter part of .my mhabitmv this .unhappy
island; esides many occasions which it is very likely I nnght have
taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I see With
new. But it is never too late to be wise; andI cannot but advise all
considering men, whose lives are attended With such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even .thoueh not so extraordinary, not to _shght
such secret intimations of Providence, let them come from what mvisi-
ble intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss and perhaps
cannot account for; but certainly they are a roof of the converse of
Spirits, and a secret communication between t ose embodied and those
unembodied, and such a proof as can never bew1thstood ; of which I
shall have occasion to give some very remarkable mstances m the
remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place. .

I believe the reader of this Wlll not thing it strange, if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern
that was now upon me, put an end to all mventron, and to all the
contrivances that I had la1d for my future accommodations and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon hands than that of
my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now for
fear the noise I might make should be heard: much less would Ifire
a gun for the same reason: and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at
making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a crreat distance in
the day, should betray me. For this reason, I removed that part of my
business which required fire, such as burnmg of pots and ipcs, 830.,
into in new apartment in the woods; where, after I had been some
time, found to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in
the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage,
had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture m-
nor indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted
nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where,
by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant reason to
ascribe all such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on I must
observe the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus: I
was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before;
and yet I could not zlive there without aking my bread, cooking my
meat, &c.-, so I contrived to burn some wood mm, as I had seen
done in England, under turf, till it became ehark or dry coal: and
then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and
perform the other services for which fire was wanting, without danger
of smoke. But this is by the bye. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that, behind a very thick branch of low brush-
wood or_underwood, there was a kind of hollow place: I was curious
to look in 1t; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it I found
it was pretty large, that IS to say, sufficient for me to stand upright
in 1t, and perhaps another with me: but I must confess to you that I
made more haste out than I did in, when, looking farther into the
place, and winch was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of
some creature, whether devrl or man I knew not, which twinkled like
two stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly in
and making the reflection. However, after some pause, I recovere
myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that
he that was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty years in
an island all alone; and that I might well think there was nothing in
this cave that was more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking
up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and m I rushed again with the
stick flaming in my hand: 1 had not gone three steps in, before I was
almost as much frightened as before; for I heard a very loud sigh,
like that of a man in some am, and it was followed by a broken noise
as of words half ex resse , and then a deep sigh again. I steppe
back, and was indee struck wrth such a surprise that it put me into a
cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for
it that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still lacking up my
spirit: as well as fcould, and encouraging myself a ttle with con-
sidering that the power and (presence of God was everywhere and was
able to protect .me, I steppe . forward again, and by the light of the
firebrand, holding it up a httle over my head, I saw lying on the
ground a monstrous, frightful, old he-goat just makin'r his will, as we
say, and aspmg for hfe, and dying, indee , of mere old age. I stirred
him a litt e to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get u ,
but was not able to raise himself; andI thought with myself he mig t
even lie there,--for if he. had frightened me, so he would certainly
fright any of the savages, if any one of them should be so hardy as to
come in there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small,--that is to say it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neit ier
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was a place at
the farther side of it that went in further, but was so low that it
required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not; so, havmg no candle, I gave it over for
that time, but resolved to come again the next day provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wildfire in the pan. ' _

Accordingly, the next day I came provided With 51:: large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goats' tallow,
but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-yarn,
and sometimes the dried rind of a weed like nettles); and omg into
this low place I was obliged to creep ufmn all-fours, as I ave said
almost ten yards,--which, by the way, thought was a venture bold
enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go, nor what
was beyond it. When I had got through the strait, I found the root
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look round
the sides and roof of this vault or cave --the wall reflected a hundred
thousand li0hts to me from my two candles. W hat it was in the rock
--whether diamonds or anv other premous stones or gold--whichI
rather su posed it to be--I knew not. The place I was in was amost
delightfu cavity, or grotto, though erfectly dark; the floor was dry
andlevel, and had a sort of a small oose gravel upon it so that there
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there
any damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only difficulty in it was the
entrance,----which, however, as it was a place of. security, and such a
retreat as I wanted, I thought was a convenience,--so that I was
really rejoiced at the discovery and resolved, Without any delay, to
bring some of those things which I wasomost armous about to this
place; particularly, I resolved to bring hithermy maoazme of owder,
and all m spare arms,----viz., two fowling- IQCCS'T or 1 had t ee in
all--and t rec muskets--for of them I ha eight in all; so I kept in
my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon
on m outmost fence, and were ready also to take out PDOII any
expe ition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammumtion I hap-
pened to open the barrel of powder which 1deg took up out of the sea,
and which had been wet, defound that the water had penetrated about
three. or four inches into the powder on every side, which caking and
growmg hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel m the shell, so
that I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask. This was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or threepounds of

powder with me in my castle for fear of a surprise of any kind; I also
carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I. fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said
to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come at them;
for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five hundred savages
were to hunt me, they could never find me out--or if they did, they
would not venture to attack me here. The old goat whom I found
expiring died in the mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and I found it much _easrer to dig a. great hole there, and
throw him in and cover bun with earth, than to drag lum out; so I
interred him there, to prevent_oil'ence to my nose. _ .

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island,
and was so naturalized to the place and the manner of living. that,
could I but have enjoyed the certamt that no savages would come to
the place to disturb me I could have een content to have capitulated
for s ending the rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till I
had and me down and died, hke the old goat in the cave. I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements, which made the
time ass a great deal more pleasantly With me than it did before ;-;--
first, had taught my Poll, as Inamed before, to speak ;.and he Chd.
it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very
pleasant to me, for Ibelieve no bird ever spoke plainer,--and he hved
with me no less than srx-and-twenty years; how long he might have
hved. afterwards I know not, though I know they have a notion in the
Brasrls that they hve a hundred years. My dog was a pleasant and
lovm0'_compamon to me for no less than sixteen years of .m time and
then died of mere old age. As for my cats, they multiphe , as I ave
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several of them
at first, to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but, at length,
when the_two old ones I brought With me were gone, and after some
time continually drivmg them_ from me, and letting them have no provi-
sion with me the all ran wrld into the woods, except two or three
favourites which kept tame, and whose ounw, when they had any,
I always drowned; and these were part piy m family. Besides these
I alwavs kept two or three household kids a out me, whom I taught
to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked
guy well, and would all call " Robin Crusoe," but none hke my

t; nor, indeed, did I take the pains w1th any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew
not, that I cauoht u on the shore, and cut their wings; and the little
stakes which Ihad p anted before my castle-wall bemg now grown up
to a good thick grove, these fowls all hved among these low trees
and bred there, which was very agreeable .to me,-7so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented With the hfeI led, if I could
have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was otherwise

directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with
my story to make this just observation from it :--how frequentl , in
the course of our lives, the cm which .m itself we seek most to 5 un,
and which, when we are fallen into is the .most dreadful to us, is
oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by which alone
we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could

ve. many examples of this in the course of m unaccountable life,--

ut in nothing was it more particularly'remarlra le than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary reSidence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
tlnrd ear; and this,_ being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot
call it , was the particular time of my harvest, and re uired me to be
pretty much abroad in the fields when, gomg out ear y in the mom-
ing, even before it was thorough dayhght, I was surprised with seeing
alight of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two
miles, toward that part of the island where I had observed some
savages had been, as before, and not on. the other side,--but, to my
great affliction, it was on my Side of the island.

.I was indeed tembly surprised at the Sight, and stopped short
Within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I moht be sur rised; and
yet I had no more peace within, from the apgrehensmns had that if
these. savages, in rambhng over the islan , should find my corn
standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would
immediately conclude that there were people in the place, and would
then never rest till they had found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to m castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and made
all things Without ook as Wild and natural as I could.

Then I regared myself Within, uttino- myself in a posture of
defence; I oa ed all my cannon, as called them,--that is to sa my
muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and my
pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp,--not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divme protection and earnestly
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians._ I
continued in this posture about two hours, and began to be impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After sitting
awhile longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was not
able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder
to the Side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the" ladder after me, I set it up again, and
mounted the top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective- lass,
wluch I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my be {on
the ground, and began to look for the place. I presently found t ere
were no less than me naked savages, Sitting round a small fire they
had made, not to warm them, for they had no need of that, the wea-
ther being extremely hot, but as Isupposed, to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flesh wluch they had brought With them,
whether alive or dead I could not tell. .

They had two canoes Wltll them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to mete wait
for the return of the flood to go away again" It is net easyto imagine
what. confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on
my Slde of the island, and so near to me ; but whenI conSidered their
coming must be always with the. current of the ebb, I began after-
wards to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the flood of tide, if they were not
on shore before; and having made this observation, I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more composure. .

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat and row (or paddle, as we call it)
away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before they
went off they were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glass. I could not perceive, by my nicest ohser~
yation, but that they were stark naked, and had not the least cover-
Ing upon them; but whether they were men or women I could not
distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my
shoulders, and two istols in my girdle, and my great sword by my
side without a scab ard and With all the speed I was able to make
went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of
all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not In less than two
hours (for I could not go quickly, being so loaded with arms as I
was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of the savages at
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea toge-
ther, making over for the main. This was a dreadful Sight to me,

especiallias, fioing down to the shore I could see the" marks of
horror w ich t e dismal work they had been about had left behind

it, viz., the blood, the bones, and art of the flesh of human bodies
eaten and devoured bv those wretc res with merriment and sport. I
was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I now began to pre-
meditate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be
whom or how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits
which they made thus to this island were not very frequent, for it
was above fifteen months before any more of them came on shore
there agam,--that is to say, I neither saw them nor any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons, then
thfl are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far; yet all this
w e I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant ap rehen-
s10ns of their coming upon me by surprise; from whence 1 o serve,
that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering, espe-
cially if there is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
ap rehensxons. . .

uring all this time 1 was in the murdering humour, and spent
most of my hours, which should have been better employed, in con-
trivinn' how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I
should see them,--espeeially if they should be divided, as thev were
the last time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all that if I killed
one party--suipfise ten or a dozen--1 was still the next day, or week,
or month, to another, and so another, even ad infim'tmn, till 1
should be, at length, no less a murderer than they were in being man-
eaters,---and erhaps much more so. Ispent m days now in great
perplexity an anxiety of mind, expecting that should one day or
otherfall into the hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at
any time venture abroad, 11: was not Without looking round me with
the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to In
great comfort, how happy it was that I had prov1ded a tame flock or herd
of goats; for I durst not 11 on any account fire my gun, es ecially
near that srde ot the islan where they usually came, lest should
alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to
have them come again wrth erha 3 two or three hundred canoes
with them in a few days, andt en I new what to expect. However,
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw an more
of the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon 0 serve.
It is true they might have been there once or twice; but either they
made no stay, or at least I did not see them; but, in the month of
May, as near as I could calculate, and. in my four-and-twentieth
yfaar, ,I had a very strange encounter With them; of which 1n its
p ce.

The erturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months'
interv , was very great; I slept unquietly, dreamed alwavs frightful
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night. In the day
great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night, I dreame
often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might ustify
doing it. But to wave all this for a while--It was in the m1 dle of
May, on the sixteenth day I think, as well as my poor wooden
calendar would reckon, for marked all u on the post still; I say, it
was on the sixteenth of Mav that it b ew a very reat storm of
wmd all day, with a great deal of lightning and thun er, and a very
foul night it was after it. I knew not what was the articular occasion
of it ; but as I was reading in the Bible, and ta en up with verfvl'
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised Wlt
the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure,
a surprise quite of a different nature from any I had met wrth before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable- and, in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and
mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which,
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and by the sound, knew
that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven down the
current in m boat. I immediate] considered that this must be
some ship in istress and that they led some comrade, or some other
ship in com any, and fired these for signals of distress, and to obtam
help. I ha the presence of mind, at that minute, to think, that
though I could not help them, it might be they might help me; so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and, making
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was
dry, and blazed freely; and, though the Wind blew very hard, yet it
burned fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt they dld; for as soon
as ever m fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, aJI from the same quarter. I plied my fire all mght long, till
daybreak: and when it was broad day and the air cleared up, I saw
something at a cat distance at sea, full east of the island, whether
a sail or a hull could not distinguish--no, not With my glass; the
distance was so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at
least, it was so out at sea. ~ . '
_I looked frequently at it all that day and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded thatjt was a ship at anchor;
and being e a'er, you ma be sure, to be satisfied, I took my; gun in
m hand an ran towar s the south side of the island, to t e rocks
w ere I had formerly been carried away _by the current ' and ettm
up there, the weat er by this time being perfectly clear, con]
1) ainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a Shl , cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I foun when I was out
in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occa-
sion of my recovering from the .most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever Ihad been in in all my life. Thus, what _is one man's safety
is another man's destruction~ for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholl under
water, had{3 been driven upon them in. the night, the wmd lowing
hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the Island as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must, as I thought have endeavoured to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat; but their
firing ofi' guns for help, especxally when they saw, as .I imagined, my
fire, filled me with many thoughts. First, I imagined. that upon
seeing my light, they might have ut themselves into their boat and
endeavoured to make the shore; ut that the sea .runiimg very high,
, they might have been cast away. Other times, I imagined that they
might have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways;
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many
times obli ed men to stave or take in pieces their boat, and. some-
times to t row it overboard with their own hands. Other times, I
imagined they had some other ship or shi s in company, who, upon
the signals of distress they made had t 'en them 11 , and carried
them off. Other times I fancied they were all gone 0 to seain their
boat, and bein<r hurrie away by the current that I had been formerly
m, were carried out into the great ocean, where there was noth_mg but
misery and perishmo: and_ that, perha 5, they might by this time
think of starvmg, an of being in a con tion to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition I
was in, I could do no more than look on upon the misery of the poor
men, and pity them; which had still this good effect 181311 my side
that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to (1, who .had
so haplpily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition;
and t at of two ships' com .ames, who were now east away upon this

art of the world, not one lfQShOllld be s ared but mine. I learned

ere again to observe .that it is_ very rare t at the EroVidenee of God
casts us into any condition of hfe so low, or an misery so great, but
we may see something or other to be thankful or, and may see others
in worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was the case
of these men, of whom I could not so much as. see room to sup se
any of them were saved- nothing could make it rationai so muc as
to wish or expectthat they did not all perish there, except the pos<<
sibility only 0 their being taken up by another ship in company ; ana
this was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or
appearance of any such thmg. I cannot ex lain, by any possible
energy of words, what a strange longing I fe t in my soul upon this
sight, breaking out sometimes thus :---' O that there had been but
one or two, nav, or but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have
escaped to me, that I might but have had one compamon, one fellow-
creature, to have spoken tome and to have conversed With ! " In
all the time of myosohtary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a
desue after the socrety of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at
the want of 1t. . _ .

There are some secret movmg springs .m the affections which,
when they are set a-gomg by some ob cct In View, or, though not in
new, yet rendered present to the min by the power of imagination,
that motion carries out the soul by Its 1mpetuosity, to. such violent,
eager embracmgs of the object that the absence of it is msupportable.
Such were these earnest wrshmgs that but one man had been saved.
I believe I repeated the words, "0 that it had been but one!" a
thousand times; and my desrrcs were so moved by 1t, that when I
spoke the words my hands would chnch together and my fingers
would press the palms of my hands, so that if I had had an soft
thing .in my hand, I would have crushed 1t involuntarily; an the
teeth in my head would strike together, and set against _one another
so strong, that for some tune I could not part them again. Let the
naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner of them.
All I can do is, to describe the fact, which was even surpnsmg tome,
when I found it, though I knew not from whence it proceeded; it
was doubtless, the effect of ardent Wishes, and of strong_1deas formed
in my mind realizing the comfort which the conversation of one of
my fellow_Christians would have been to me. But. it was not to be -
either their fate or mine or both, forbade it, for till the last year oi'
my being on this island,i never knew whether any were saved out of
that ship or no; and had only the affliction, some da 3 after, to see
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the en of the island
which was next the shipwreck. .He had no clothes on but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed lmen drawers, and a blue hnen shirt -
but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was 0 .
He had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco-
pi e--the last was to me of ten times more. value than the first._

Iit was now calm, and I had.a great mind to venture outm my
boat to this wreck, not doubtmg but I 1m<rht find somethmg on
board that might be useful to me. But that did not altogether press
me so much as the possibility that there mwht be yet some hvmg
creature on board, whose hfe I nught not only save, but .might, by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree 5 and this thought
clung so to my heart that I could not beoquiet mght or day, but I
must venture out in m boat on board thiswreck ;' and committing
the rest to God's provi ence, I thought the impression was so strong
upon my mind that it could not be res1sted that 1tnmust come from
saline invisible direction, and that I should be wantmg to myself if I

not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread a (meat
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum ( or I had
still a great deal of that left), and a basket of raisins; and thus,
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to_ my boat
got the water out of her, got her afloat, loaded all my cargo 1n her, an
then went home cam for more. My second cargo was a great bag
of rice, the umbre to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot of fresh water and about two dozen of small loaves, or
bar ey-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a
cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I carried to my
boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and
rowmg, or paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the
utmost oint of the island on the north-east srde. And now I was
to launc out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture.
I looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly. on both Sides of
the island at a distance, and which were very terrrble to me, from
the remembrance of the hazard I hadbeen m before, and my heart
began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of
those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps
out of my reach, or sight of the island again ; and that then, as my
boat was but small, if any little gale of Wind should me, I should be
inevitably lost. _ .

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over
my enterprise; and havmg hauled my boat into a little .creek on the
shore, I stepped out, and sat down upon ansmg bit of ground,
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desne, about my voyage;
when as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned,
and the flood come on; upon which my gomg was impracticable for
so many hours" Upon this, presentiy it occurred to me that I should
go u to the highest iece of ground I could find, an observe, if I
coul , how the sets 0 the tide, or currents, lay when the flood came
in, that I might Judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I mwht
not expect to be driven another way home, with the same ra idDity
of the currents. . This thought was no sooner in my head than cast
my eye 11 on a httle lull which sufficiently overlooked the sea both
ways, an from whence I had a cleanmew of the currents, or sets of
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here
I found that as the current of ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by the shore of the
north side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the north
side of the islandm my return, andI should do well enough.

Encour o"ed With this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to
set out wit the first of the tide; and, reposmg myself for the mght
in my canoe under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out.
I first made a little out _to sea, full north, till I .began to feel the
benefit of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me at
a. great rate; and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the south
si e had done before, so as to take from me all ovemment of the
boat; but, having a strong steerage with my pa dle, I went at a
great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours came
up to 1t. It was a dismal Sight to look at: the ship, which, by its
building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks:
all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the
sea' and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought by
the board, that is to sav, broken short ofi' ; but her bowsprit was
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. When I came close
to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me .coming, yelped
and cried; and, as soon as I called him, Jumped into the sea to
come to me: I took.1iim into the boat, but found him almost dead
with hunger'and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he
devoured it hke a ravenous wolf that had been starvmg a fortnight in
the snow: I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if Iwould have let him, he would have burst himself. After
this I went on board ; but the first Sight I met with was two men
drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle' of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed robable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea bro 'e so high, and so
continually over her, that the men were not able to bear it, and were
strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if
the hadobeen under water. BCSides the dog, there was nothing left
in t e shiiii that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what
were spo ed by the water. There were some casks of h uor whe-
ther wme or brandy, I knew not, winch la lower in the old, and
which, the water bemo ebbed out I eoul see; but they were too
big to meddle With. I saw several chests, which. I believe belonged
to some of the seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, With-
out examming what was in them. Had the stern of the 8th been
fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voy 0e; for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room
to suppose t e ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and, if I
may guess from the course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, 'm the south part of America,
beyond the BraSils to the Havannah, in the gulf of Memco, and so
perhaps to Spain. . She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of
no use, at that time, to anybody; but what became of the crew I
then knew not. . .

I found besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about
twenty gallons, which I. got into my boat with much difiiculty. There
were several muskets in the cabin, and a. great powder-hom, With
about four pounds of owder in it: as for the muskets, I had no
occasion for them, so I eft them, but took the powder-horn. I took
a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also _two httle
brass kettles, a co per pot to make chocolate, and a_gridiron; and
With this cargo, an the dog, I came away, the tide beginmng tomake
home vain: and the same evemng, about an hour Withm mght, I
reache the island again, weary and fatigued to the last de ee.
I reposed that night in the boat; and in the mormng _I reso ved
to harbour what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to
my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine the particulars. The cask of h_ uor I found to be
a kind'of rum, but not such as we had at the Bras ; and, maword.
not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me: for example I found in one a fine case
of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters,
fine and very good; the bottles held about three ints each, and were
tipped with silver. 1 found two pots of very goodpsuccades, or sweet-
meats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had not hurt
them; and two more of the same which the water had spelled. 1
found some very good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and
about a dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths; the former were also very welcome, being exceedingly
refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came
to the till in the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces-of-
eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapiped up in a apcr, six doubloons of gold, and some small
bars or we ges 0 gold; suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
In the other chest were some clothes, but of little value; but, by the
circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate; though
there was no owder m it, except two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three sm flasks, kept, 1 sup ose, for charging their towling-
pieces on occasion. Upon the who e, I got very little by this voyage
that was of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it - it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I_ greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for
many years. I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which I took
off the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I
found two pair more in one of the chests, which were very welcome
tome; but they were not like our English shoes, either for ease or
servrcc, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this
seaman's chest about fifty picces~of~eight, in rials, but no gold: I
suppose this belonged to a oorer man than the other, which seemed
to belong to some officer. Veil however, I luggcd this money home
to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which I had
brought from our own shi ; but it was a great pity, as I said, thatthe
other part of this ship ha not come to my share; for I am satisfied
I might have loaded my canoe several times over with money; and,
thought I, 1f I ever esca )e to England, it might lie here safe enough
till I come again and fete it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, 1
went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore
to her old harbour, where I laid her u , and made the best of my
way to my old habitation, where _I foun everything safe and quiet.
I began now to repose myself, hve after mv old fashion, and take
care of my family affairs; and for a while Ilived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than 1 used to be, looked out oftener, and
did not go abroad so much; and if, at any time, I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go
without so many precautions and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as I always carried wrth me if I went the other way. I lived
in this condition near two years more ; but my unlucky head, that
mm alwa s to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all t esc two0years filled with prejects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island: for, sometimes I
was for making another voyage to the wreck, though my reason told
me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of mv voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another: and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should
have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. I have
been, 1n all my Circumstances, a memento to those who are touched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one
half of their miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied with
the station wherein God and Nature hath placed them: for, not to
look back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of
my father, t re oppOSItion to which was, as I may call it, my original
82'>>, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of
mfgcommg into this miserable condition; for had that Providence,
w neh so happily seated me at the Brazrls as a planter, blessed me
with confined desires, and I could have been contented to have gone
on radually, I might have been by this time, I mean in the time of
my sing in this island, one of the most considerable planters in
the Brazils: nay, 1 am persuaded, that by the improvements I had
made in that little time I lived there, and the increase I should

robabl have made if I had remained, I might have been worth a

undre thousand moidores: and what busmess had I to leave a
settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing
to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and
time would have so increased our stock at home, that we could have
bouoht them at our own door from those whose business it was to
fetch them? and though it had cost us somethingmore, yet the
difference of that price was by no means worth saying at so great
a hazard. But as this is usually the fate of young heads, so reflec-
tion 11 on the folly of it is as commonly the excrerse of more years.
or of t to dear-bought experience of time : so it was with me now; and
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could
not satisfy myself in my station, but was continually poring upon the
means and possibility of my escape from tlns place: and that I may,
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining fiart
of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my rst
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and
how, and upon what foundation I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, as
usual. and my condition restored to what it was before: Ihad more
wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer; for
I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards came there. _

It was one of the nights in the rainy seasonan March, the tour.
and-twentieth year of my first setting feet In this island of sohtude
I was lying in my bed or hammock, awake, very well in health, had
no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, nor any uneasmess of
mind more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that

h
is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows :---It is im ssible to set down the innumerable crowd of
thoughts that wliir ed through that great thorou'rhfare of the brain
---the memory, om this night's time: 1 ran over the whole lustory of
my life in miniature, or b abridgment, as I may call it, to my
coming to this island, and also of that part of my life Since I came to
this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case smce 1 came
on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture oi my
affairs in the first years of my habitation here, with the life of
anxiety, fear, and care, which I had hvedOin ever since I had seen
the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did not beheve the savages
had frequented the island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on shore there; but I had. never
known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it; mv
satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same, and I
was as happv in not knowing my danger as if I had never really
been ex osed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many verv
profitablg reflections, and articularly this one: How infiintelv good
that Providence is which Ihas provided, in its government of man-
kind, such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things; and
though he walks in_ the midst of so man thousand dangers, the
Sight of which, if discovered to him, wo d distract his mind and
sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the events. of
things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which
surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, Icame
to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many
years .in this very island, and how I had walked about in the greatest
security and With all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps
nothingbut the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach
of mght, had been between me and the worst kind of destruction,
VIZ. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who
would have seized on me with the same view as I would on a goat or
a turtle ; and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me, than
I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I
should say 1 was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to
whose Singular rotection I acknowledged, with great humility, all
these unknown ehveranees were due, and without which I must
inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken
up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the
savages, and how it came to pass in the world, that the wise
Governor of all things should give up any of his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even brutality itself
as to devour its own kind: but as this ended in some (at that timej
fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to inguire, what part of the
world these wretches hved in? how far 0 the coast was from
whence they came? what they ventured over so far from home for?
wnat kind of boats they had? and why I might not order invself and

my business so, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they were
to come to me?
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do
with myself when I went thither; what would become of me if I fell
into the hands of the savages; or how I should escape them if the
attacked me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to reac
the coast and not be attacked by some or other of them, without
any (fOSSllJIht of dehverinv myself: .and if I should not fall into their
ban 5, what should do ibr proviSion, or whither I should bend my
course: none ot these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way;
but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in
my boat to the main land. I ooked upon my present condition as
the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able to
throw myself into anything but death, that could be called worse-
and if I reached the shore of the main, 1 might perhaps meet with
relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I
came to some inhabited country, and where I might find some
relief ; and,.after all, perhaps I might fall in with some Christian
ship that might take me in; and it the worst came to the worst,
I could but die, which .would ut an end to all these miseries at
once. Pray note all this was t e fruit of a disturbed mind, an impa-
tient tem er, made desperate, as it were, b the long continuance of
my troub es, and the disappomtments I h met in the wreck I had
been on board of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for, somebody to s eak to, and to learn some know-
ledge from them of the place where was, and of the probable means
of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts - all my
calm of mind, .in my resignation to Providence, and waiting t e issue
of the disposmons of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had,
as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the
proiect of a. voyage .to the main, who; came upon me With such
force; and such an impetuOSity of deSire, that it was not to be
was e .

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with
such Violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse
beat as if I beenin a fever, merel with the extraordina fervour of
my mind about it, Nature, as if had been fatigued an exhausted
With the very thoughts of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor
of anything relating to it: but I dreamed that as I was going out in
the morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages, coming to land, and that they brought
with them another sav rre, whom they were going to kill, in order to
eat him; when, on a su den, the savage that they were gomg to kill

umped away, and ran for.his life' and I thought, in mysleep, that
9 came running into my httle thiclc grove before my fortification to
hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceivmg that
the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling
upon him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
ray me to assist 1m; upon which I showed him my ladder, made
in go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant:
and that as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself "New 1
may ccrtamly venture to the main 12and, for this fellow Will serve me

I
as a pilot and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provi-
sions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and what to shun." I waked with this thought;
and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the rOSpeet
of my escape in my dream, that the disappointments wine I felt
upon commg to myself, and finding that it was no more than a dream,
were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits. . _

Ugon this, however, I made this conclusron; that my only way to
go at out to attempt an escape was, if possrble, to get a savage into
m possession; and, if posmble, it should be one 0 their prisoners,
w om they had condemned to be eaten, and should. bring hither to
kill. But these thoughts still were attended with this difliculty, that
it was im ossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, an killing them all; and this was not only a ver desperate
attem t and might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I ad greatly
scrup ed the lawfulness of it to miself ; and my heart trembled at
the thoughts of shedding so muc blood, though .It was for my
deliverance. I need not re eat the arguments which occurred to
me arainst this, they belng t 1c same mentioned before; but though
I his: other reasons to offer nowz viz. that those men were enemies to
my_life, and would devour me it thev could; that it was self-preser-
vation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a
hfe, and was acting in my own defence as much as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like- I say, though these things
argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my
de verance were verv terrible to me, and such as I could by no
means reconcile myself _to for a great while. However, at last, after
many secret disputes wrth myself, and after great perplemties about
1t (for all these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my
head a long tingi the eager prevailing desire of de iveranee at
length mastered the rest; and I resofved, if ossibe, to get one
of these savages into my hands, cost what it wo d. My next thing
was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to
resolve on; but as I could pltch upon no probable means for it, so I
resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came
on shore, and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures as
the opfiortumty should present, let what would be.

Wlt these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself 11 on the
scout as often as pos51ble, and mdeed so often, that I was eartily
tired of it; for 1t was above a year and a half that I waited; and for
great part of that time went out to the west end, and to the south-
west corner of the island ahnost every day, to look for canoes, but
none appeared. This was very discouraging and bemn to trouble
me much, though I cannot sa that it did in t 's case as it had done
some time before) wear off 1: e edge of my desrre to t e thing; but
the lone-er it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in a
word, fiwm not at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages,
and Dav01d being_ seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, .I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to
do whatever I should direct them. and to prevent their bein able
at an time to do me any hurt. It_was a great while that I p eased
myse With this afi'air; but nothing still presented itself; all my
fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me
for a great while.

About .a year and .3 half after I entertained these notions and by
long musmg had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, or want
of an occasion to put them into execution), I was surprisedD one morn-
ing by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my side
the island, and the people who belonged to them all landed and out of
my Sight. The number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so
many,_ and knowmg that the always came four or six, or sometimes
more in a boat, I could not te what to think of it, or how to take my
measures, to attack twentypr thirty men single-handed; so lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I put myself into
the same posrtion for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was
Just ready for action, if anything bad gresented. Havmg waited a
goodfvhile, listening to hear if they ma e any noise, at length, bein
very 1m atient, I set mvifiuns at the foot of my ladder and clambere
up to t e top of the h ,by my two stages, as usu_ ; standing so,
however, that my head did not appear above the bill, so that they
could not perceive me b any means. Here I observed, by the help
of my perspective glass, t at they were no less than thirty in number;
that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How
they-had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but they were all
dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures,
their own way, round the fire. . .

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective,
two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems they
were laid b , and _were now brelililght out for the slaughter. I per-
ceived one 0 them immediatelv f ; being knocked down, 1 su pose,
with a club, or wooden sword, for. that was .their.way; and we er
three others were at work immediately, cutting him'open fer their
cookery while the other Victim was left standing by himself, till they
should be ready for him. . In that very moment this poor wreteh,
seeing himself a httle at hberty, and unbound, Nature inspired him
With tho es of life, and he started away from them, and ran With
incredib e swiftness along the sands, directliatewards me; I mean,
towards that Earl? of the coast where my bitation wae. I was
dreadfully frig tened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived him
run my way; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the who e body- and now I effected. that art of my dream was
coming to (pass, and that he won] certainly t 'e shelter in my grove :
but I coul not depend, by any means, upon my dream, that the other
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there. However,
I kept my station, and my spirits bevan to recover when Ifound that
there was not above three men that Followed him; and still more was
I encouraged, when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly m
runmn , and gained ground on them - so that, if he could but hold out
for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly et awa from them all.

There was between them and my castle, t e cree ' which I men'
. tioned often in the first. part of my sto , where I landed my cargoes
out of the ship; and this I saw plainly e must necessarily sw1m over,
or the poor wretch would be taken there; but when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothino of it, thouvh the tide was
then u ; but, plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes, or
therea uts landed, and ran with exceeding strength and swrftness.
When the three persons came to the creek I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the other
side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon after
went softly back again; which, as it happened, was very well forhnn
m the end. I observed that the two w o swam were yet more than
tvnce as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled
from them. It came verv warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
Irresistibly, that now was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
compamon or assistant; and that I.was plainly called by Prowdence
to save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders
with all possmle expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting u again
with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards t e sea;
and having a very short cut, and all down mnfilaced myself in the
way between the uisuers and the pursued, h ooing aloud to him
that fled, who, loo ing back, was at first perhaps as much frightened
at me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed - then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
w1th the stock of my piece. 1 was loath to fire, because I would not
have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not have been
easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke, too they would not
have known what to make of it. Havino knocked this fellow down
the other who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and
I advanced towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived presently
he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me: so I was
then obhged to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the
first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his. enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so
frlfi tened wlth the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock
sti , and neither came forward, nor went backward, though he seemed
rather mchned still to fly than to come on. I halloocd again to him
and made Signs to come forward, which he easily understood, anc
came a little way; then stop ed again, and then a little farther, and
stolpped agam; and I could t en perceive that he stood trembling, as
if e had been taken risoner, and had just been to be killed, as his
two enemies were. I eckoned to him again to come to me, and are
him all the signs of encouraoement that I could think of ; an he
came nearer and nearer, knealng down every ten or twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saying his life. I smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length,
he came close to me- and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ound, and laid his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the
pot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in token of swear-
mg to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of him,Robinson Cmsoe rem-Hes Friday.
and encouraged .him all I could. But there was more work to do
vet; for I perceived the savage whom I had knocked down was not
killed, but stunned With the blow, and began to come to himself : so
I pointed to him, and showed lnm the savage, that he was not dead;
upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I could not under-
stand them, yet I thought they were leasant to hear; for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted,
for above twenty-five years. But there was no time for such reflec-
tions now; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so
far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began to be al'rald; but when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this, my savage, for
so I call hinrnow, made a motion to me to lend him my sword, which
hung naked 111 a_be1t by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it,
but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow, cut ofi his head so cleverly,
no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will even
cut off heads with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When
he had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and with abundance of gestures which I
did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the savage that he
had killed, just before me. But that which astonished him most, was
to know how I killed the other Indian so far off so pointing to him
he made signs to me to let him go to him; and I bade him no, as we
as I could. When he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking
at him, turning him first on one side, then on the other; looked at
the wound the bullet had made, which it seems was just in his breast
where it had made a hole. and no great quantity of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his
bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might
come after them. Upon this, he made signs to me that he should
bury them with sand, that they might not be seen bv the rest, if they
followed; and so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to
work; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand with his
hands, big enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it
and covered him; and did so by the other also; I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I
carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the far-
ther part of the island: so I did not let my dream come to passOm
that art, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him
breat and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of waternwhich I
found he was indeed in great distress for, from his running: and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and he down to
slee , showing him a place where I had laid some rice-straw, and a
blan {ct upon it, which I used to sleep upon myselt sometimes; so the
poor creature lay down, and went to sleep. .
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped; and, as I
reckon, about twenty-51x years of age. He had a very good counte-
nance, not a fierce and surly as ect, but seemed to have something
very manly in his face; and yet 6 had all the sweetness and softness
of. a European m his countenance too especially when he smiled.
His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very
high and large; and a meatwivacity and sparkling sharpness 1n his
eyes. The colour of 4ch skin was not quite black, but very tawny;
and yet not an uwly, yellow, nauseous_ tawny, as the Brazilians and
'Virg'imans, and other nativesof .America are, but of a brwht kind of
a dun olivecolour, that had in it sometlnng very agreeable, though
not very easy to describe. HIS face was rormd and plump; his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good mouth, thin hps, and his
fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again and came out of the cave to me- for I had been milking
my goats, w ieh I had m the enclosure ust by: when he espied me,
he came running to me, laying himself own again upon the ground,
with all the possible Signs of an humble, thankful dis osition making
:a great many antic gestures to show it. At last he ays his head flat
upon the ground close to my foot, and sets m ' other foot upon his
dread, as he had done before; and atter this, nia e all the signs to me
<<of subjection, servitude, and submissmn, inl (unable, to let me know
how he would serve me so long as he live . I understood him in
'many things and let him know I was very well pleased wrth him. In a
httle tmie, I began to speak to him, and teach hnn to s _cak to me;
and, first, I let him know his name should be FRIDAY, w ch was the
day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory of the time. I
likewise taught him to say Master; and then let him know that was
to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes and No and to
know the meaning of them. I 0'ave him some milk in an earthen pot
and let him see me dnnk it before him, and sop my bread in it; and
gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly com lied
with, and made signs that it was very good for him. I kept t ere
with him all that mght- but, as soon as it was day, I beckoned to him
to come wrth me, and let him know I would give him some clothes;
at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went
by the place where he had uried the two men, he pointed exactly to
the place, and showed me the marks that he had made to find them
again, making sio'ns to me that we should dig them up again and eat
them. At this, a peared ve an , expressed m abhorrence of
It, made as if .I won] vomit at t e. t oughts of it, an beckoned with
in hand to him to come away, which he did immediately, with great
su missron. I then led hnn up to the top of the hill, to see if his
enemies were gone; and, pulhnv out my glass, I looked, and saw
plainly the place where they had zbeen, but no appearance of them or
their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone and had left their
two comrades behind them, Without any search after them.

But I was not content wrth this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequentl .more cunos1ty, I took my man'li'riday with
me, gmng lnm the swor 1n his hand, wrth the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use ve dexterously, making him carry
one gun for me, and I two for myse ; and away _we marched to the
place where these creatures had been ; for I had a mmd now to get some
fuller intelhgence of them. When I came tothe place, m very blood
ran chill 1n my 'vems and my heart sunk within me, at t e horror of
the s ectacle;.mdeed, 1t was.a dreadful Sight at least it was so to
me, t ough Fnday made nothmgof 1t. .The place was covered with
human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of
flesh left here and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, m
short, all the tokens of the tr1umphant_feast they had been making
there, after a Victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four 1608 and feet, and abundance of
other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon - that three
of them were eaten up and that he pomtmg to lnmself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great battle between them and their
next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he had been one, and that they
had taken a great number of pnsoners- all which were carried to
several places, by those who had taken them in the fight, 1n order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they
brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together In a heap, and make a great fire
upon 1t, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a han-
kermg stomach after some of the flesh, and was Stlll a cannibal in has
nature; but I showed so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of. it, that he durst not discover 1t: for
Ifi'hAda lzy some means, let him know that I would kill him if he
0 ere 1 .

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man hiday; and first of all, I gave him a pan- of
linen drawers wh1ch I had out of the. poor gunner's chest ImentronedI
which I found in the wreck, and which, with a httle alteration, fitte
him ve well; and then I made him a Jerkm of goat's skin as well
as m s ' would allow for I was now grown a tolerably good, tailor);
and gave him a cap w eh I made of? hare's skin, very convement,
and fashionable enough: .and thus he was clothed, for the present,
tolerably well, and was might well pleased to see himself almost as
well clothed as has master. t is true, he went awkwardly in these
clothes at first: wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled lllS shoulders and the msrde of his
arms; but a little easmg them where he com lamed they hurt him,
and using himself to them, he took to them at ength very well.

The next day, after I came home to my hutch with lnm, I began .to
consrder where I should lodge him; and, that I might do well for him
and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a httle tent for him In the
vacant place between my two fortificatrons, 1n the msrde of the last,
and m the outside of the first. As there was a door or entrance there
mto my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, alittle wrthmthe entrance; and,
causing the door to open in the mside, I barred it up m the mght.
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come at me in
the mside of my innermost wall, without making so much noise in
gettmg over that it must needs awaken me; for my first wall had now
a complete .roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the Slde of the hill; w ich was again laid across with smaller
sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with
thence-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place
winch was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of
trap-door, which, it it had been attempted on the outside, would not
haye opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great
norse: as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But
I needed none of all this precaution: for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; Without passions,
sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affec-
tions were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare
say he would have sacrificed his life to save mine, it on any occasion
whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of his, put it out of
doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions for
my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder,
that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the
government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a part
of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties
and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed
upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same affections,
the same sentiments ot kindness and obligation, the same passions
and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, srncerity,
fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
He has given to us ; and that when He pleases to oll'er them occasions
of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them
to the right uses for which they were bestowed, than we are. This
made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several
occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even
though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of
instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His word
added to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so manv millions of souls, who, if I
might judge by this poor savage, would make a. much better use of
it than we did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to
invade the sovereignty of _1'rovidenee, and, as it were, arraign the
justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that
sight from some, and reveal it to others. and yet expect a like duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this
conclusion: first, That we did not know by what light and law these
should be condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the
nature of His being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be, but if
these creatures were all sentenced to absence from Himself, it was
on account of sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture says,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences
would acknowledge to be just. though the foundation was not dis-
covered to us; and, secondly, That still, as we all are the clay in the
band of the potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast thou
formed me thus?" .

But to return to In new compamon :--.--I was greatly delighted with
him, and made it my usmess to teach him everything that was roper
to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but es ecially to m e him
speak, and understand me when 1 s oke: an he was the aptest
scholar that ever was; and particular y was so merry, so constantly
diligent, and so pleased when he could but understand me or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him.
Now my hfe began to be so easy that I began to say to myself that
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if was
never to remove from the place where I hve .

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and
from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh; so I took him out With me one morning to the woods. I went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it .home
and dress it; but as I was geing, I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday;
---" Hold," said I, " stand still 3" and made signs to him not to stir:
immediately, I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids.
The poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the
savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine how it was
done, was sensibly surprised; trembled, and shook, and looked so
amazed that I thought he. would have sunk down. He did not see
the kid I shot at, or erceive I had killed it, but ripped up lns waist-
coat, to feel whether e was not wounded; and, as 1 found resently,
thought I was resolved to kill him : for he came and kneele down to
me, and embracing mv knees, said a great many things I did not
understand; but I could easily see the meanmg was, to pray me not
to kill him. ' .

I soon found a way to convmcc him that I would do him'no harm;
and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pomting to the
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did: and while he was wondering, and looking to see how the crea-
ture was killed I loaded my gun again. By-and-by, I saw a great
fowl, like a haw ', sitting upon a tree within shot; so, to .let Frrdav
understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again pomted
at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been
a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the
ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made
him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingl , I
fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the liparrot fall._ e
stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding a I had said to
him; and I found the was the more amazed, because he did not see
me put anything into the gun, but thought that there must be some
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast, bird, or anythinrr near or far off; and the astonishment
this created in him was such as could not wear off for along time;
and, I believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it
for several days after ; but he would speak to it and talk to it, as if
it had answered him, when he was by himself: which, as I afterwards
learned of him, was .to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his
astomshment was a httle over at this, I pointed to him to run and
fetch the bird I had shot, which he did but staid some time; for the
parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered away a ood distance from the

lace where she fell: however, he found her, too heru , and brought

er to me ; and as I had perceived his ignorance about t e n before,
I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not to et. him see
me do it, that I might be read ' for any other mark that might pre-
sent; but nothing more ofl'ere at that time: so I brought home the
kid and the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well
as I could . and having a pot fit for that purpose I bofled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of
it, and hked it very well; but that which was strangest to him was
to see me eat salt With 1 .. He made a sign-to me that the salt was
not good to eat; and putting a little into his own month, he seemed
tonauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
With fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took some meat into
mfy month without salt, and I pretended to s it and sputter for want
0 salt, as much as he had done at the salt; ut it would not do; he
would never care for salt Wltll his meat or in his broth; at least, not
for a great while, and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to
feasthim. the next day by roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by
harfing it before the fire on a string, as I had seen mwfiygieople do
in g and, setting two poles up, one on each Side of the , and one
across on the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the
meat turn contmually. This Friday admired very much; but when
he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well
he hked it, that I could not but understand him: and at last he told
me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh any more,
which I was very lad to 'hear. .

'I_'he next day, set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as 1 observed before- and he
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen
what the meamng of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for
after that, I let .him see me make m bread, and bake it too; and in
a little time, Friday was able to do the work for me, as well as I
could do it myself. . .

I began now to con31der, that having two months to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant alarger
quantity of corn than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the. same manner as before, in .which
Frida worked not onlme Willingly and very hard, but did it very
cheerfully: and I told what it was for; that it was for corn to
make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I_might
have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very senSible of
that part, and let me know that he thought 1 ad much more labour
upon me on his account, than I had for myself; and that he would
workthe harder for me, if I would tell him what to do. .

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this lace.
Friday began to talk pretty well and understand the names of a most
eyerything I had occasmn to call for, and of every place I had to send
him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed, I had veiiy httle
occasion for before. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, had a
Singular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his Simple unfeigned
honesty appeared to me more and more every day, and I egan really
to love the creature; and on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was ossible for him ever to love anything before. .

I ha a mind once to try if he had anv inclination for his own
country again; and having taught him Enolish so well that he
could answer me almost any question, I aslred him whether the
nation that he belonoed to never conquered in battle? At which he
smiled, and said, " es, yes, we always fight the better ;" that 18,.118
giant, always get the better in fight; and so we began the followmg

course :--

Maxim--You always fight the better; how came you to be taken
prisoner then Friday?

Friday--My nation beat much forall that.

Master.---How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you to
be taken? .

Friday--They more many than my nation, in the place where me
was; they take one two three, and me : my nation over-beat them in
the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thousand. .

Master.--But why did not your side recover you from the hands of
your enemies then? .

Friday.--They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go in the
canoe; my nation have no canoe that time. . .

Master.---Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the
$311? they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as these

Friday.--Yes, my nation eat mans too: eat all up.

Marten--Where do they carry them? .

Malay--Go to other place where they think.

Haste .---Do they come hither?

Friday--Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.

Hamlet--Have ou been here with them? ,

. Friday--Yes, have been here ( oints to the NW. Slde of the
island, which, it seems, was their side .

By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
amenm the savages who used to come on shore on the farther art of
the is and, on the same maneating occasmns he was now broug t for:
and, some time after, when I tool: the_ courage to carry him to that
aide, being the same I formerly mentioned, e presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once, when they eat up twenty men,
two women and one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, an pomtmg
to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows; that
after this discourse I had with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after
a httle way'out to sea there was a current and wind, always one way
in the mormng the other in the afternoon. This I understood to be
no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming m; but I
afterwards understood it was occasxoned by the great draft and reflux
of the miOhty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or ul h of which river,
as.I found afterwards our island la ; and that t 's and which I per-
ceived to the W. and NW. was t 1e great island 'I'rimdad on the
northpoint of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of
his SOrt of people, but could get no other name than Caribs: from
whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which our
maps place on the part of America which reaches from the mouth
of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He
told me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the
setting of. the moon which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and {fated to my great whis-
kers, which I mentioned before; and t t they had killed much
mans, that was 1118 word: by all which I understood he meant the
Spamards, whose cruelties 111 America had been spread over the
$1016 country, and were remembered by all the nations from father

son.

I inquired if he could _tell me how I might go from this island
and. get among those white men: he told me, ' Yes, yes, you may
go 1n two canoe," I could not understand what he meant or
make hnn describe to me what he meant by two canoe, till at
last, withgreat dlfiiculty, I found he meant it must be in a large
boat, as big as two canoes. ThlS part of Friday's discourse I began
to relish very well; and from. this time I entertained some hopes
that, one timebr other, I might find an opportunity to make my
Esclaple from tlus place, and that this poor savage might be a means

0 e p me.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wantino to
la a foundation of rehgious knowledge in his mind; particularly I
as 'ed him one tnne, who made him. The oor creature did not un--
derstand me at all, but thought I had asked) him who was his father:
but I took it up b another handle, and asked him, who made the sea,
the ground we w ed on and the hdls and woods. He told me, " It
was .one Benamuckee, that hved bevond all ;" he could describe
nothin of this great person, but that he was very old, "much older,"
he sat , "than the sea or the land, than the moon or the stars." I
asked him then, if this old erson had made all things, why did not
all things worship him? e looked very grave, an with a. erfeet
look of innocence . said, ".All thmgs say 0 to him." asked '11), if
the people who die in his country went away anywhere? He said,
"Yes; they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether
those they eat up went thither too? He said, " Yes."

Rom these things, I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the
true God: I told Inm that the great Maker of all things lived up
there, pointing up towards heaven; that He governed the world by
the same power and provrdence by which He made 1t; that He was
omnipotent and could do everything for us, give everything to us-
take everything from us; and thus, b degrees, I opened his eyes.
He listened wrth great attention, an received with pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and His bemg able to hear us, even in
heaven. He told me one day that if our God could hear us, up
beyond the sun, he must nee s be a greater God than their Bena--
muckee, who lived but a little way ofl", and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to s cal: to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? e said,
" No; they never went that were young men; none went thither but
the old men," whom he .called their Oowokakee; that is as I made
him ex lain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to
say 0 so he called saying rayers) and then came back and told them
what enamuckee said. y this I observed, that there is riestcraft
even among the most blinded, ignorant pagans 1n the worl ; and the
policy of making a secret of religion, in order to reserve the venera-
tion of the people to the clergy, is not only to be ound 1n the Roman,
but, .perha 3, among all religions in the world, even among the most
brutish an barbarous savages. . .

I endeavoured to clear 11 the fraud to my man Friday; and
told him that the pretence 0 their old men gomg up to the moun-
tains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat; and their
bringing word from thence what he said.was much more so; that
if they met with any answer, or spake wrth any one there it must
be with an evil spirit :- and then I entered into a long ' course
with him about the devrl, the origin of him, his rebellion <<rainst God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it .his setting himse up in the
dark parts of the world to be worshlpped instead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to
their ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions and to our
afi'ections, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as topause
us even to be our own tempters, and run upon our destruction by
our own choice. . . . ,

I found it was not so easy to imprint rioht notions in his mind
about the devil as it was about the being of? a God: nature assisted
all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessny of .a great
First Cause--an overruling, govermng Power--73 secret directing
Providence; and of the eqmt and justice of paying homage to Him
that made us, and the like; ut there appearednothing of. this kind
m the notion of an evil spirit; of his origin, his bemg, his nature;
and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so
too: and the or creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a
question mere y natural and innocent that I scarce knew what to sa
to.him. _I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of Go ,
His omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being a consuming fire to
the workers of imquity; how, as He had made us all He could
destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he listened with great
seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been telling him
how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his
mahce and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to rum
the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. "Well," says
Friday, "but you say God is so strong so great; is he not much
strong, much might as the devil?". " es, yes," savs I, "Friday;
God is stronger than the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore
we pray to God to tread him down under our feet, and enable us to resist
his temptations and quench his-fiery darts." " But," says he again,
"if God much stronger, much might as the wicked devil, why God no
kill the devil, so makehim no more do wicked?" I was strangelv
surprised at this question; and, after all though I was now an old
man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a casuist, or a
solver of difficulties ; and at first I could not tell what to say; so I
pretended not to hear him, and asked. him what he said ; but he was
too earnest for an answer, to forget his question, so that he repeated
it in the very same broken words as above. . By this time I had
recovered myself a little, and I said, " God Will at last punish him
severelallly; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
botto ess pit, to dwell with everlastmg fire." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, " ' Reserve at
last." me no understand: but why not kill the devil now; not kill
great ago?" "You may as well ask me," said I, "why God does
not kill you or me, when we do Wicked things here that offend him:
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned." He mused some time
on this: " Well, well," says he nnghtily affectionately, "that well:
so you, I, devil, all Wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all."
Here I was run down again by him to the last degree: and it was a
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though they will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a
worship or homage due to the. su reme being of God, as the conse-
quence of our nature yet nothing ut divine revelation can form the
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption purchased for us; of a
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool
of God's throne; I say, nothing but a revelation from heaven can
form these in the soul; and that, therefore, the ospel of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of Go ., and the Spirit of
God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving
knowledge of God, and the means of salvaticn.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man,
rising up hastily, as u on some sudden occaSion of gomg out; then
sending him for somet g a good waypfi' I seriously prayed to God
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage; asszst-
ing, by His Spirit, the heart of the. poor ignorant creature to receive
the hght of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to Him.
self, and would guideme to speak so to him from the Word of God
that hlS conscrence might be convmced, his eyes 0 ned and his so
saved. When he came atgam to me, I entered into a ong discourse with
him upon the subject 0. the redemption of man by the Saviour of the
world, and of the doctnne of the ospel preached from heaven, viz., of
repentance towards God, and fart in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then
explained to him as well as I could why our blessed Redeemer took not
on him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how,
for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in allthe methods
I took fornthis oor creature's instruction, and must acknowledge,
what I believe a that _act upon the same dprinciple will find, that in
laying things open to him I really informe and instructed myself in
many things that either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind 11 on searching into
them, for the mfprmation of .this poor savage; an I had more affec-
tion in my mqulr after things upon this occasron than ever I felt
before: so that, w rether this poor wild wretch was the better for me
arm, I had eat reason to be thankful that ever he came to me; my

et' sat hg ter upon me; my habitation grew. comfortable to me

ond measure : and when I reflected that in this sohtary life which
I ad been confined to, I had not only been moved to look up to
heaven myself, and to seek the hand that had brought me here, but
was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the
life, and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him
to the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine that
he might know Christ Jesus, in whom is hfe eternal; I say, when I
reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran throuah every part of
my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
place, which I had so often thought the most dreadful of all aflhc-
tions that could possiblv have befallen me. . .

I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of in tune'
and the conversation which employed the hours between Fri ay and
me was such as made the three years which we lived there together
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as complete happy,
ness can be formed in a sub unary state. This savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though 1 have reason to hope, and
bless God for it, that we were equally pemtent, and comforted
restored penitents. We. had. here the word of God to read, an
and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct, than if we had been in
England. I alwa s a plied myself, 1n reading the Scriptures, to let
him know as welfasI could, the meaning of what I read; and he
again, by his serious in uiries and questromngs, made me, as I said
before, a much better 50 olar 1n the Scripture knowledge than I should
ever have been by my own mere private reading. Another thing I can~
not refrain from observing here also, from experience m_ the retired
part of m life, viz., how infinite and inexpressrble a blessmfiit is that
the know edge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation y Chnst

Ia
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God, so easy to be
received and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made
me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the cat work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a aviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor, I mean human; so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bring-
ing him to be such a Christian as I have known few equal to him in

.. my life.

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention which have
happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines,
or schemes of church government, they were all perfectly useless to
us, and, for aught I can yet see, they have been so to the rest of the
world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of God:
and we had, blessed be Go , comfortable views of .the Spirit of God
teaching and instructing by His word, leading us into ' ltruth, and
making us both wilhno and obedient to the instruction of His word.
And I cannot see the feast use that the greatest knowledge of the dis-
puted points of religion, which have made such confusion in the world,
would have been to us, if we could have obtained it: but I must go on
with the historical part of things, and take every part in its order.

After Friday and became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and s eak pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I acquamte him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my comingto this
place; how I had hved there, and how long: I let him into the
mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him alrnite, which he was wonderfufly
dehghted with; and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon
in some cases, but much more useful u on other occasions.

I described to him the count of europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we live , how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all arts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had can on
board of, and showed him, asnear as I could, the place where she
lay: but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and which
I could not stir With my whole strength then; but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musmg a
great while and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon. At last, says he, " Me see such boat like come to lace at my
nation." I did not understand him a good while; but at ast, when I
had examined further into it, I understood by him, that a boat such
as that had been, camepn shore. upon the country where he lived:
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I
presently imagined that some European shi must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat mi ht get oose and drive ashore;
but was so dull that I never once thong tof men making their escape
from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come: so I only
in u1red after aodescriptron of the boat.

riday described the. boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth, "We
save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he
said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many. He
told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became of
them. He told me, " They hvc, they dwell at m nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for resently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the s 'p that was cast
away In the Sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the
slnp was struck on the rock and they saw her inentably lost, had
saved themselves In their boat and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. Upon this I inquired of him. more critically
what was become of them. He assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the savages left
them alone, and gave them victuals to hve on. I asked him how it
came to pass they did not lull them and eat them. He said "No,
they make brother wrth them ;" that is, as I understood him, a
truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but when make the
war fight ;." that re to say, they never eat any men but such as come
to fight wrth them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being u on the to
of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as have sai
I had, in a clear day discovered the mam or continent of America,
Friday, the weather being yery serene, .looks very earnestly towards
the main land, and, m a kmd of surprise, falls a Jumping and dan-
cing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from h1m. I
asked him what was the matter. ."0 Joy!" says he; "0 glad}
there see my country, there my'nation! " I observed an extraordi-
nary sense of pleasure appeared m his face, and his eyes spharkled, and
his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if be ad a mud
to be in his own country 0am. This observation of me put a great
many thoughts into me, w ich made me at first, not so easy about my
new man Friday as I was before; and .I made no doubt at that, If
Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would not only
forget all his religion, but all his obhgation to me, and would be for-
ward enough to 've his countrymen an account of me, and come
back, perhaps, wit a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me 'at which he might be as merry as he used to be With those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the
poor honest creature very much,.for which I was very sorry after.
war 3. However, as my Jealousy increased, andheld me some weeks,
I was a httle more circumspect, and not so familiar and kmd to him
as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong too; the honest,
grateful creature having no thought about 1t,.but what cons1stedw1th
the best principles both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful
friend' as appeared afterwards to m full satisfaction.

While my Jealousy of him laste , you maybe sure I was every
day pumping him, to see if he 2would discover any of the new

I.
thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he
said _was so honest and so innocent that I could find nothing to
nourish my sus icion; and,.in spite of all my uneasmess, he .made me
at last entirely s own again; nor did he in the least perceive that I
was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.

One da , walking 11 the same hill, but the weather beinohazy at

seaa so tiat we coul not see the continent, I called to him, and
am , "Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, your
own nation?" "Yes," he said "I be mueh_O fled to be at my own
nation." . "What would you do there?" said : "would you turn
Wlld again, eat men's flesh again, and be a sayage,.as you were
before. " He looked full of concern, and shaking lus head, said
" No, no, Friday tell them to live good; .tell them to pray God; tell
them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again."--
" Why, then," said I to him " they will kill you." He looked grave
at that, and then said, " o, no, they no kill me, they Wllllng love
learn." He meant by this, they would be Willing to .learn. He
added they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat.
Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that
and told me that he could not swim so far. I told him, I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he .would go, if I would go with
him. "I go!" says I; "why they Will eat me if I come there."
" No, no," sa 3 he, " me make the no eat you - me make the much
love you." e meant, he woul tell them how I had k ed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he. told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seven-
teen white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on
shore therein distress.
. From this time I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see
if I could possflgly Join with those bearded men, who I_ made no
doubt, were S amards and Portuguese; not doubting, but, if I could,
we might fin some method to escape from thence, being 11 on the
continent, anda good company toeet icr, better than I could rom an
island forty miles off the shore, a one, and without help. So, after
some days, I took 'Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and
told him I would give him a boat to go back.to his own nation; and,
accordiii 1y, I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other Side
of the is and, and having cleared it of water (for I always kept it
sunk. in water), I brought it out showed it him, and we both went
into it. I found he was a most dextcrous fellow at managing it, and
would make it .go almost as sw1ft gain as I could. So when he was
in I said to him " Well, now, 'Fl'l ay, shall we go to your nation?"
He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because
he thought the boat too small to go so far. I then told lum I had a
bigger: so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay
w'ich I had made, but which I could not et into the water. He
said that was big enough: but then, as I ha taken no care of it, and
it had lain two or three and twent years there, the sun had spht and
dried it that it was rotten. Fri ay told me such a boat would do
very well, and would carry " much enough Vittle, drink, bread ;" that
was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed ufion my desion of
going over With him to the continent, that I told im we would 0
and make one as big as that and he should go home in it. fie
answered not one word, but_looked veg grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter With him. 6 asked me again, "Why

ou angry mad Wltll Fnday ?--what me done?" I asked him what
he meant. I told him _I was not angry with him at all. "No
angry!" says he, repeating the words several times, "why send
Fnday home away to my nation?" "Why," sa 3 I, "Friday, did
not_ you say you Wished you were there?" " es, yes," says he,
" Wish we both there; no .Wlsll Friday there, no .master there." In
a word he would not think of going there Without me, "I go
there, Friday?" says I, "what shall I do there?" He turned very
quick upon me at this. " You do great deal much good," says he;
' you teach Wild mans be good, sober, tame mans- you tell them
know God, pray God, and live new life." "Alas, Friday!" says I,
"thou knowest not what thou saycst; I am but an ignorant man
myself."-" Yes, leves," sa s he, "you teachee me ood, you teaches
them good." " o, no, riday," says I, "you sha go Without me-
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He looke
confused again at that word; and running to one of_ thehatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastilyhand ves it to me.
"What must I do With this?" says I to him. "You take kill
Fnday," says he. "What must I kill you for?" said I agam. He
returns very uick-" What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday, no sen Friday away." This he slpoke so earnestly that I saw
tears stand in his eyes. In a word, so plainly discoyered the
utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I
told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay withme.' '

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection
to me, and that nothing could part him from me, so I found all the
foundation of his desu'e to go to his own count was laid in his
ardent affection to the eople, and his hopes of my 0mg them good;
a thing which, as I ha no notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought or intention, or desrre of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to attein ting my escape, founded on the sup.
Bosition gathered from the scourse, that there were seventeen

carded men there; and therefore, without any more delay, I went
to work with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell and make
a large periagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were
trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of penaguas
or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the main thing I
looked at was, to get one so near the water that we might launch it
when it was made. to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At
last, Friday PS2?th upon a tree; for I found he knew much better
than I what ' d of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I tell, to this day,
what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustic, or between that and the bicaragua wood, for
it was much of the same colour and smell. Fnday Wished to burn
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I
showed him how to cut it with tools - which, after I had showed him
how to use, .he dld very handily - 'and in about a month's hard labour,
we fimshed 1t and made it very handsome; especially, when, with our
axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the out-
side into the true shape of a boat. After this, however, .1'5 cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were,_ inch by mch, upon
great rollers into the water: but when she was m, she would have
carried twenty men with great ease. .

When she was in the water, though she was so big, It amazed me
to see With what dexterity, and how swift my man Friday could manage
her, turn her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and_1f
we might venture or er in her. " Yes," he said, " we venture over in
her very well, though great blow wind." However, I had a farther
design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a.
sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. 'As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree,
which I found near the place, and which there were great plent of
in the island, and I set Iriday to work to cut it down, and gave '
directions how to sha e and order it. But as to the sail, that was
my particular care. knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails enough- but as I had had them now srx-and-twenty years b me
and had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining t at I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but the
were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so. However,
found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with these I went
to work; and with a great deal of ains, and awkward stitching, you
may be sure, for want of needles, at length made a three-cornered
ugly thing like what we call in England a shoulder-of mutton sail, to
go wrth a boom at bottom, and a little short Sprit at the top, such as
usually our ships' long-boats sail With, and such as I best knew how
to manage, as it was such a one as I_had to the boat in which I made
mfiescape from Barbary, as related in the first part of mystery.

. was near two months performing tlns last work, v1z. rigging and
fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them _very com lete, making
a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it to assmt if we 5 ould turn to
Windward; and what was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her to steer w1th. I was but _a bunglin<r shi wright, yet as I knew
the usefulness, and even necessrty of such a t ' g, I applied myself
With so much pains to do it, that at last I brouoht it to pass; though
considering the many dull contrlvances I had for it that failed, I
think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what
belonged to the nav1gat10n of my boat; for, though he knew very
well how to saddle a canoe, he knew nothin of what belonged to a
seal and a ru der; and was the most amaze when he saw me work
the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amaaed. However, with a little use, I made all these things familiar
to him, and he became an expert sailor, except that of the com ass,
I could make him understand very httlc. On the other han , asthere was verv little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any.fogs in

those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the
stars were always to be seen by mght, and the shore by day, exce t
in the ramy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either gy
land or sea.

I was now entered on the scvenand-twentieth year of m cap-
tivity In this place; though the three last years that I had this
creature Wlth' me ought rather to be left out of the account my
habitation being qmte of another kind than in all the rest of the
time. I kept the anmversary of my landing here with the same ..
thankfulness to God for lllS merelcs as at first: and if I had such '
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having
such additional testimomcs of. the care of Providence over me, and
the trreat hopes Lhad of .bcmg effectually and speedily delivered;
for I had an 1nvmcible 1m ressmn upon my thoughts that my
deliverance was at hand, and t rat I should not be another year in this
place. I went on, however, wrth my husbandry; digging, planting
and fencmg, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did
every necessary thing as before. .

The rainy season was, m the mean tune, upon me, when I kept
more wrthm doors than at other times. We had stowed our new
vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where .
as I.sa1d m the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; an
hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark, I made my man.
Friday dig a.little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enouoh to float 1n; and then, when the-
tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out;.and so she. lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to
keep the ram off we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick that
she was as well thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the
months of November and December, in which I desrgned to make my
adventure. ' .

When the settled season began to come m, as the $3311" my
design returned Wlth the_fa1r weather, I was preparing. y for the
voyage. And the first thing I did was to lay by acertam quantity of
provisions, bemgIthe stores for our voyage- and mtended m a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one .mornmg upon something of this land, when I called to
Friday, and bid him to_ go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle or tort01se, a thlng which we generally at once a week, for the
sake of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday ad not been long gone
when he came runnm" back, and flew over my outer. wall, or fence
hke one that felt not tlie ground, or the steps he set his feet on; an
before I had time to speak to him, he cues out to me, "0 master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"--" What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "0 yonder there," says he, "one, two, three canoes; one,
two, three!" By this way of speaking I concluded there were an ;
but on inquiry I found there were but three. f' Well, Friday,"
says I, " do not be frightened." So I heartened him up as well as
I could" Howeveral saw the poor fellow was most tembly seared,
for nothmg ran in his head but that they were come to look for him,
and would cut him in pieces and eat him; andthe oor fellow
trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with him. comforted
him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would eat me as well as him. " But," says I,
"Frida ', we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday?"
"Me 5 oot," says he " but there come many eat number." "No
matter for that," said I, again; "our guns ' fright them that we
do not kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him,
he would defend me, and stand bv me, and do just as I bid him.
He said, " Me die, when you bid die, master." So I went and
fetched a good drain of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a
husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always
carried, and loaded ihem with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-
bullets. Then I took four inuskets, and loaded them with two slugs,
and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual, naked b
my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thus repare
myself, I took my pcrs motive-glass, and went up to the si e of the
hill, to see what I coul discover; and I found quickly by mv glass,
that there were one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be the triuin hant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast, in ecd!
but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual With them. I
observed also, that they had landed, not where they had done when
Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrencc of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came down again to
Friday and told him I was resolved to go down to them and kill
them a ; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now got
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I
had given him he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would
die' \ 'hen I bid die. .

In this fit of fury I divided the arms which I had charged, as before,
between us; I gave Friday one pistol toistick in his gir 1e, and three
guns upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol and the other three guns
myself; and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder
and bullets; and as to orders, I charged him to kee close behind me,
and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything till I bi him and in the
meantime not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to
get into the wood, so that I could come Within shot of them before

should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I
began to abate in resolution :--I do not mean that I entertained any
fear of their num er, for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is
certain I was superior to them--na , though I had been alone. But
it occurred to my thoughts what 0 , what .occasion, much less what
necess1ty I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done or intendeu me any wrong? who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster,
being in them a token, indeed, of God's having left them, with the
other nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such
inhuman courses, but did not call me_ to take upon me to be a judge
of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice,----that when-
ever He thought fit He would take the cause into His own hands,
and by national vengeance punish them as a pee )10 for national crimes,
but that, in the meantime, it was none of my usmess,--that it was
true Friday might Justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in
astate of war Wltll those very particular peo do, and it was lawful for
him to attack thein,--but I could not say t ie same With regard to
myself. These things were so warmly pressed upon in thoughts all
the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go an place myself
near them that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would
act then as God should direct; but that unless something offered that
arias more a call to me than yet I knew of I would not meddle With
em.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible wari-
ness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I
came to the skirt of the wood on the side which was next to them, onl
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I calle
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree which was Just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if
he could see. there plainly what they were doing. He did so and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might be Klbmly
viewed there,-_-that they were all about their fire eating the ash of
one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand a
little from them, whom he said they would kill next, and this fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to their country
in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming of the white-
bearded man; and gomg to the tree, I saw plainlvby m3; glass .3
white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea With his ian and his
feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an Euro-
pean, and had clothes on. . . .

There was another tree, and a httle thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where Icwas, which, by gomg a
httle way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered and that then
I should be Within half a shot of them; so I Withheld mypassmn,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree: and gomg back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree, and then came to a httle rising
grolilitnd. wldiich gave me a full view of them at the distance of about
61deg y ar s.

5I h now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat u on the ground all close huddled _together and bad
Just sent the ot er two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him
perhaps limb by limb to their fire, and theiy _were stoo mg down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to riday :-" ow, Friday,"
said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. " Then, Friday,"
says I, "do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." 801 set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and
Friday did the like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him to do the like; then. asking limi if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." " 'l'hen fire at them," said I; and at the same
moment I fired also. .

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the suit: that he
shot he killed two of them and wounded three more; and on my
side I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in
a dreadful consternation; and all of them that were not hurt Jumped
upgn their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run,_ or
w ch way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eves close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he
might observe what I did- so, as soon as the first shot was made _I
threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Ij'riday did
the like; he saw me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are

on ready, Friday?" said I. " Yes," says he. " Let fly, then," says
, 1n the name of God!" and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded Wltll
what I call swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only two drop ;
but so many were wounded, that they run about yelling and scream-
ing like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably
atoninded, whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite
ea .

".Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and
taking up the musket which was yet loaded, "follow me," which he
did With a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the
woodIand showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I
fierceived the saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday

0 so too, ant running as fast as I could, which by the way was not
very fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards
the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or shore,
between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers
who were Just going to .work with him had left him at the surprise of
our firstfire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
'umped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.

turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards and fire at them; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them; and I thought he had killed them
all, for I saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two
of them up again quickly; however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if
he had been dead. . .

While my man Friday fired at them, I ulled out my knife and cut
the. flaos that bound the poor yictim; and loosing his iaiids and feet,
I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what .he
was. He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint
that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my

ocket, and gave it him, making Signs that he should drink, which he

id; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked
him what countryman he was: and he said Espaginole; and being a
little recovered, let. me know, biy all the signs he could ossihly make
how'much he was in my debt or his dehverance. " eignior," sai
I, w1th as much Spamsh as I could make up, " we will talk afterwards.
but we must fieht now: if you have any strength left, take this pistol
and sword and lay about you." . He took them very thankfully; and
no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new
vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out
two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was
a eurprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened
With the nOise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no_ more power to attempt their own escape, than
their flesh had to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt
they received, so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had iven the Spaniard my pistol
and sword: so I called to Friday, and ade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that
had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then
givmg him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again,
and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading
these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Span-
iard and one of the savages, who made a him with one of their great
wooden swords, the wea on that was to have killed him before, if I
had not prevented it. 'he S auiard, who was as held and brave. as
could be imagined, though we ', had fought the Indian a good while,
and had out two great woundson his head; but the savage being a
stout, lusty fellow, closing in w1th him, had thrown him down, being
faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Span-
iard, though uudermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the (pistol
from his girdle, shot the savage through the body and kille him
upon 1Elie Spot, before I, who was running to help him, could come
near im.

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and w1th that he
des atched those three who, as I said before, were wounded at first
an fallen, and all the rest he could come up w1th: and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, w1th
which he pursued two of the sav "es, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they eth got from him into the wood,
where Friday ursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too mmb e .for him; and though he was. wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam With all his might off t9 those
two who were left in the canoe, which three.m the canoe, w1th one
wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that
esca ed our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as fo ows ;--three killed at our first shot from the tree - two killed at
the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday,
of those at first wounded; one killed by. Friday in the wood; three
killed bv the Spaniard; four killed. bemg' found dropped here and
there, of the wounds, or killed by Fnday in his chase of them; four
escafiied in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead--twenty-one
m a .

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot
and though Friday made two or three shots at them I did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes, and pursue them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about
their esea e, lest carrying the news home to their peo )le, they should
come bac perhaps with two or three hundred of t e canoes and
devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them b sea,
and runninv to one of their canoes, I jum ed 111, and bade I'riday
follow me; 1"but when _I was in the canoe was surprised to find
another poor creature he there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead wrth fear, not knowing what
was the matter; for he had not been able to look 11 ) over the side of
the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and mi been tied so
long, that he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound
him with, and would have helped him up ;. but he could not stand or
speak, but oaned most piteously behevmg, it seems, still, that he
was only an ound in order to be killed. When Friday came to him I
bade him speak to him, and tell him of lns deliverance; and pullin
out my bottle, made him give the poor nretch a dram; whie i, wit
the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up .in the
boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in us face
it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed
him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, 'umped
about, danced, sun"; then cried again, wrung his hands,_beat is own
face and head; and then sung and jumped about again, like a dis.
traeted creature. It was a good while belore 1 could make him s eak
to me or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a. litt e to
himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not eas for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filia affection had worked in this oor savage at the sight
of his father and of his being dehvered from eath; nor, indeed, can
I describe half the extravaganees of his affection after this; for he
went into the boat, and out .ot' the boat, a great many times : when he
went in to him, he would Sit _down by him, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to lns bosom for many minutes together to
nourish it; then he .took his arms and ankles, which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I, percelvmg what the case was, gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them With, which dld them a great deal of good.

This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happ for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so
hard all mght, and that from the north-west which was against them,
that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached their own coast.

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find m my heart to take him off for some time; but after I
thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme; then I
asked him if he had lven lus father any brea . He shook his head,
and said "None; ug y dog eat all up self." I then ve him a cake
of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; also gave him
a dram for himself, but e would not taste 1t, but carried It to his
father. I had in my pocket _two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave
him a handful of them for his father. He had no sooner given his
father these raisins but I saw him come out of the boat, and run
awa as if he had been bewrtched, for he was the swiftest fellow on
his _eet that. ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out
of Sight, as it were, in an mstant; and though I called, and hallooed
out too, after him, it was all one--away he went; and m a uarter of
an hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as e went;
and, as he came nearer, I found his pace slacker, because he had some-
thing in his hand. When_he came up to me, I found he had been
qmte home for an earthen Jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh
water, and that he had Got two more cakes or_ loaves of bread: the
bread he gave me, but the water he camed to his father; however, as
I was very tlnrstv too, I took a httle of it. 'I'he water rev1ved his
father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was
fainting with thirst. _ ,

When ills father had drank, I called 'to him to know if there was
any water left: he said " Yes ;" and I bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as Ills father; and I sent
one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too who was
indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself u on a green lace under
the shade of a tree: and whose hmbs were a so very St}. , and very
much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied With. When
I saw that upon Friday's coming to h1mw1th the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to hun and gave
him a handful of raisins: he looked up in my face with all the
tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear 1n any coun-
tenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted him-
self in the fight, that he could not stand up upon lus feet ' he tned
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were
so swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade him Slt still and caused
Feilday to rub his ankles, and bathe them wrth mm, as he had done hls
1a refs.

1 observed the poor affectionate creature every two minutes, or
fighaps less, all the while he was here, turn his head about, te see if

father was in the same place and posture as he. left him Slttlng ;
and at last he found he was not to be seen; at winch he started up,
and, without speaking a word, flew With that swrftness to him, that
one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went :
but when he came he only found he had laid himself down to case his
limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, 1f he could, and lead him to the
boat, and then he should carry him to our dwellmg, where I would
take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spa.
mard upon his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him
down softly upon the side or gunnel of the. canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it; and then lifting him quite in, he set him close to his
father; and presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and
Eaddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the mud
lew pretty hard too - so he brought them both safe mto our creek,
and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
tel me, " Go fetch more boat :" so away he went like the wmd, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe 1n
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over,
and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did;
but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew
not what to do. . . .

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Fri-
day to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon
made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them both up together upon it between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before for it was impossible to get them
over, and I was resolved not to brea ' it down, so I set to work again:
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made ave handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bong s of trees
being In the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made
them two beds of such things as I had, v1z., of good ricestraw, with
glaankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on each

e .

. My island was now peOpled, and I thought myself very rich in sub-
ects; and it was a merry reflection which I frequently made, how

'e a king I looked. First of al , the whole country was my own
property so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly subjected: I was absolutely lord and law-
giver :_ they all owed their hves to me, and were ready to lay down
their hves if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was remark-
able, too, I had but three subyeets, and they were of three different
rehgions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan
and a canmbal, and the Spamard was a Papist. However, I allowed
liberty of consolence throughout my domimons :--But this is by the
way.

_As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued risoners, and
given them shelter, and .a place to rest them upon, I )egan to think
of making .some provrsxon for _them: and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearhng goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my articular flock, to be ki led; when I cutoff the hinder-
quarter, an choppmg 1t mto small pieces, I set Friday to work to
boflmg and stewmg, and made them a very good dish, I assure you,
of flesh and broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no
firewithin my inner wall so I carried it all into the new tent, and
haying set a table therefor them, I sat down, and ate my own dinner
also With them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged
them. Friday was my mterpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the
savages pretty well.

Atter we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one
of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-arms,
which for want of time, we had left u ion the place of battle; and,
the next day, I ordered him to go an bury the dead bodies of the
savages, which lay open to the sun and would presently be offensive.
I also ordered him to bury the homd remains of their barbarous
feast, which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear
to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually performed,
and effaced the very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than
by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might expect a return of them, With a power too great for us to resist.
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but must, of
necessity, be drowned, or driven south to those other shores, where
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if the
were cast away: but, as to what they would do, if they came salle
on shore he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that the
were so readfully frightened with the manner of their being attacke ,
the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell the people
they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of
man; and that the two which appeared, Viz., Friday and I, were
two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them and
not men with weapons. This, he said he knew; because he heard
them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it was
impossible for them to conceive that a man. could dart fire, and speak
thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand as was
done now : and this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood
since by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the
island afterwards, they were so terrified With the accounts 'ven by
those four men (for it seems the did escape the sea), t at theg
believed whoever went to that enc anted island would be destroye
with fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and, therefore,
was under continual ap rehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon in guard, with a my army: for, as there werenow four of us,
I woul have ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open
field, at any time. .

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of
their coming were off; and I began to take.my former thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consideration; being hkewme assured by
Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage from t_ eir
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my_thoughts were a little
suspended when I had a serious discourse With the Spamard, and
when I understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen
and Portuguese, who having been cast away and made their escape
to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, With the savages, but were160 301313sz cnuson.

very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed for life. I asked him
all the particulars of their voy 0e, and found they were a Spanish
shi , bound from the Rio de la P ata to the Havanna, being directed
to gave their loading there, which was chieflg hides and Silver, and
to bring back what European goods they coul meet With there; that
they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned, when first
the ship was lost, and that these escaped through infinite dangers and
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where
flair? expected to have been devoured every moment. He told me they
h some arms with them, but they were .rfeetl useless, for that
they had neither powder nor ball, the was g o the sea havmg
spOiled all their owder, but a little, which they used at their first
landin , to provi e themselves some food.

I as ed him what he thought would become of them there, and if
the had formed any design of making their escape. He said they
be man censultations about it; but that having neither vessel, nor
tools to uild one nor prows1ons of any kind their councils alwa s
ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought they wo d
receive a proposal from me, which might tend towards an esca e;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be .done. I told '
with freedom, I feared mostly their treacherv and ill usage of me, if
I put my hfe in their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue
in the nature of man, nor did men always square-their deahiigs by the
obligations they had received, _so much as they did by the advantages
they expected. I told him It. would be ve hard that I should
be the instrument of_ their deliverance, and t at they should after.
wards make me their prisoner iii New Spain, where an Eiighshman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessit , or what accident
soever brought him thither; and that I had rat er be delivered up
to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless
claws of the_priests, and be carried into the Ingliliisition. I added
that, othermse, I was persuaded, if they were here, we might,
with so many hands, bui d a barque large enough to carryus all away,
either to the BraZils southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast,
northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when 1 had put
weapons into their hands, carrv me by force among their own people,
I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse
than it was before. .

He answeredhmth a great deal of candour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so nuserable and that they were so sensible
of it, that he beheved they would a hor the thought of using any
man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; and that,
if I pleased, he would 0 to them, with the old man and discourse
with them about it an return again, and bring me their answer;
that he would make conditions With them upon their solenm oath,
that they should be absolutely under my direction, as their comman-
der and ca tain: and they should swear ulion the holy sacraments and
gospel, to e true to me, and go to such C nstian country as I should
agree to, and no other; andto be directed wholly and absolutel by
my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I intended deg
and that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for
that urpose. Then he told me he would first swear to me himself,
that 10 would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him
orders; and that he would take my side to the last drop of lns blood,
if there should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen.
He told me they were all .of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the
savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own count -
and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they woad
live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possrblc, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. lint when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard lnmself started an objection, which had so much pmoence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice put off
the dehverance of lllS comrades for at least half a year. The case
was thus: he had been with us now about a month, during which.
time I had let him see m what manner I had provided, with the-
assistance of Providence for mv support; and he saw evidently what
stock of corn and rice I had laid up: which, though it was more
than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without good
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but much
less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he .said,
sixteen, still alive, should come over- and, least of all, would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one for a voyage to
any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he thought
it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and
that we should wait another harvest that we might have a supply of
corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for want might
be a tem tation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves deli-
vered, ot erwise than out of one difficulty into another. " You
know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first
for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God
himself, that delivered them, when they came to want bread mthe
Wilderness."

His caution was so seasonahle, and his advice so good, that I could
not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was
satisfied with his fidehty; so we fell to digging, all four of us as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and, m
about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had
got as much land cured and trunmed up as we sowed two and twentv

ushels of barle on, and Sixteen jars of, nce, which was, In short,

the seed we h to spare: indeed, we left ourselves barely sufficient
for our own food, for the six months that we had to expect our cro ;
that is to say, reckoning from the time .we set our seed aside or
sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is Six months m the ground in
that country. _ .

Havmg now society enough, and our number being sufficient to

M
at us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their num-

er had been very great we went freely all over the island, whenever
we found occasion; an as we had our escape or deliverance upon
our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of
it out of mine. For this purpose, I marked out several trees, which
I thought fit for our work, and I set Frida and his father to cut:
them down; and then I caused the Spaniar , to whom I itn )arted
my thoughts on that atl'air, to oversee and direct their work. I s owed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into
single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had made
about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet. broad, thirty-
tive feet long, and from two inches to _four inches thick: what
prodigious labour it took up, any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; and, for this )urposc, I made Friday and
the Spaniard go out one. day, and myse f with Friday the next day
(for We took our turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to hrecdoup with the rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, amt added them to our tloek. But, above
all, the season for curing tltc grapes connng on, I caused such a

rodigiousquantitv to be hungup 1n the sun, that, I believe, had we
been at Ahcant, where the raisins of the sun are cured. we could have
filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, formed a
great art of our food--very good livmg too, I assure you, for they are
excee 'ngnourishmg.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the
most lentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enougt to answer our end; for, from twenty-two bushels of barley,
we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels; and the like in proportion of the rice, which was store
enough for our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready
for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part ot the world, that is to say, any part of
America. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of
corn, we fell to work to make more wickerowarc, viz., great baskets, in
which we ke t 1t; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, an often blamed me that I did not make some things for
defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now havmg a lull supply of food for all the guests I expected
I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see what he could
do with those he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict
charge not to bring an man With him who would not first swear, in
the presence of lnmsef and the old savage that he would no we
in'ure, tight with, or attack the person he should find in the islan ,
w 0 was so kind as to send for them in order to their deliver.
ance; but that they would stand by him and defend him against
all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command; and that this should be put in
writing; and signed in their hands. How they were to have done
this, wnen I knew they had neither pen or ink. was a question which
we never asked. Undcrothese instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which
they might be said to come m, or rather Were brought in, when they
came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of
them a musket with afirelock on it, and about ei ht charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good hus ands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some da 3.

gave them provisions of bread, and of dried 9. es, sufficient or
themselves for many days, and sutlicient for al t ie Spaniards for
about eight days' time; and wishing them a good vovage, I saw them
go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out at their
return, by which I should know them again, when they came back,
at a distance, before they came on shore. 'l'hev went away, With a
fair gale, on the day that the moon was at fullhby my account in
the month of October; but as for an exact rcckomng of da 3, after I
had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I 'e t even
the number of vears so punctually as to be sure I was r1 ht; t rough
as it proved, when I . terwards examined my account, found I had
he t a true reckoning of years.

t was no less than eight days I had waited .for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the hke has not,
perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one
morning? when my man Friday came runnnig in to me, and called
aloud, ' Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I jumped
ulp, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could et my
cothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was y this
time grown to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I
went withont my arms, which was not my custom to do: but was
an used, when, turningl my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat
at a out a league and a al distance, standing in for the shore, vnth
a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the Wind blowmg pretty
fair to brin them in: also I observed, presently, that they did not
come from t at side which the shore la on, but from the southern-
most end of the island. Upon this 1 c ed Friday in, and bade him
he close, for these were not the people we looked for, and that we
might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the
next lace, I went in to fetch my 'Eerspective glass, to see what I
coul make of them 5 and, having t. en the ladder out, I chmbed up
to the top of the lull, as I used to do when I was apprehensrve of
an thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being discovered.
I ad scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly dis-
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two eagues and a half
distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half (rem the
shore. By my observation, it a cared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an n hsh ongboat. . .

I cannot express the confusion was .in, though the 30; of seeing

a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manne y my own

countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe;

but ye I had some secret doubts hieng about me--I cannot tell from
N
whence they came--bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world, since it was not the way to
or from any art of the world where the English had any traffic;
and I knew t ere had been no storms to.drive them 1n there, in
distress; and that if they were reall English, it was most probable
that they were here upon no good esrgu; and that I had better
clontinue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and mm"
erers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of dangcr'whieh
sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possxbility of
its being real. That such hints and notices are given us, Ibeheve
few that have made any observations of things can deny; that they
are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spmts,
we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to, warn
us of danger, why should we _not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the ques-
tion , and that they are given for our good? _ .

T e present question abundantly confirms me in the ustice of
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by t is secret
admonition, come it from whenCc it will, I had been undone ment-
ably and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see pre-
sently. I had not kept myself long in this posture, till I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust.
in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they dld not come
quite far enough they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed mv rafts but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for me; for
otherwrse they would have landed just at my door, as I may say,
and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have
plundered. me of all I bad. When they were on shore, I was fully
satisfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as
Ithought, bound; and when the first four or five of them were
jumped on shore, they took these three out of the boat, as prisoners :
one of the three I.could pCI'CClve using the most assionate gestures
of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kin of extravagance;
the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hand sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what
the meaning of 1t should be. Friday called out to me in English,
as well as lie could, " 0 master! you see English mans eat pri-

soner as well as savage mans."--" Why, Friday," says I, " do you
think they are gomg to eat them then?" ---- ' Yes," says Friday
" they Will eat them."--;" No no," says I, " Friday; I am afrai
thafinll murder them, mdeed ; but you may be sure they will not
ea em."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the Sight, expecting every moment

when the threeprisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass as the seaman call it, or
sword, to stri e one of the poor men - and ex ected to see him fall
every' moment; at which all the blood In my body seemed to run chill
in my VClllS. I Wished heartily now for the Spaniard, and the
savage that was one wrth them, or that I had. any way to have come
undiscovered wrt m shot of them, that I might have secured the
three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them; but it fell
out to my mind another way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, 1 observed the fe ows
run scattering about the 1sland, as if they wanted to see the country.
I observed that the three other men had hberty to go also Where
the pleased- but they sat down all three upon the ground, very
pensrve, and looked like men in despalr. This put me 1n mind of
the first tune when I came on shore, andbegan to look about me;
how I gave myself over.for lost; how Wildly I looked round me;
what dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged 1n the tree
all night, for fear of being devoured by Wild beasts. As I knew
nothing, that mght, of the supply I was to receive by the rovrden-
tlal driving of the ship nearer the land b the storms an tide, by
which I have since been so long nourishe and .SuP orted; so these
three poor desolate men knew nothing how certam o deliverance and
sup 1y they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and
rea y the were in a condition of safety, at the same time that they
thought t emselves lost, and their case desperate. So httle do we
see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend
cheerfufly upon the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst
circumstances, they have 'always somethmg to be. thankful for, and
sometimes are nearer dehverance than the 1magme~ nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means y which they seem to be
brought to their destruction.

It was just at high water when these people came on shore; and
while they rambled about .to see what kmd of a place they were 1n,
they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the water was
ebbed considerabl away, leavmg their boat aground. They had left
two men in the oat, who, as I found afterwards, havmg drank a
little too much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them wakmg a
little sooner than the other and finding the boat too fast aground
for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest who were. stragghng
about; upon which they all soon came to the boat: but it was past
all their strength to launch her, the boat bemg veryheavy, and
the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost hke a quick-
sand. In this c ndition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the
least of all m ' d given to forethought, they arave 1t over, and
away the strolled about the country a m; and I heard one of them
sa' aloudy to another, calling them of? mu: the boat, . Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide :" by wlnch I was fufilfi
confirmed in the main inqmry of what countrymen they were.
this while I kept myself very close, not once darmg to stir out of
my castle, an farther than to my place of observation, near the
top of the hill; and very glad I was to thmk how well it was for-
166 nonmsos causes.

tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could
float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at
more liberty to see their motions and to hear their discourse, if
they had any. In the mean time, I titted myself up for a battle as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do with anot or
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I
had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with
arms. I took myself two fowlingpicecs, and I gave him three
musket-s. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable
goat-skin coat on, with the great. cap 1 have. mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each
shoulder.

It was mv design, as I said above, not. to have made any attempt
till it was dark ; but. about two o'clock. being the heat. of the day, I
found that they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to sleep. The three. poor distressed men, too
anxious for their condition to get. any slec ), had, however, sat down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a (narter ot' a mile
from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any 0 the rest. Upon
this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of
their condition; immediately I marched as above, my man Friday at
a good distance behind me, as formidable. for his arms as I, but not
making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as 1 did. I came as
near them undiscovered as 1 could, and then, before any of them saw
me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that. 1 made. They made
no answer at all, but I thought 1 perceived them just going to tl
from me, when Ismke to them in English: " Gentlemen," said ,
"do not be surpriset at me 7, perhaps you may have a friend near, when
you did not expect it." " He must. be sent directly from Heaven
then," said one of them very gravely to me, turd pulling oti' his hat at
the same time to me; " for our condition is past the help of man."
" All help is from l-Ieaven, sir," said I: " but. can you put a stranger
in the way to help you? for you seem to be in some. great distress.
I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to make applica-
tion to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his
sword to kill you."

The oor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
lookedlikc one astonished, returned, "Am I talking to God, or man?
Is it a real man or an angel? "--" Be in no fear about that sir," said
I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better clothed, and armed after another warmer than you see me;
pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and dis-
posed to assist you; You see I have one servant only; we have at s
and ammunition; teli as freely, can we serve you? What is yo r
ease P" " Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us; but, In short, 811', I was commander of that
shi ; my men have mutinied amst me- they have been hardly pre-
v ' ed on not to murder me, an , at last, have set me on shore in this

desolate place, with these two men with me,--one my mate, the other
a passenger. where we expected to perish, believing the lace to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it." ' Vhere are
these brutes, your enemies?" said I ; " do you know where they are
gone P " " There they he, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees;
.' my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak;
if they have, they will certainly murder us all." "Have they any
firearms P " said I. llc answered, " They had only two pieces, one of
which they left in the boat." " W ell, then," said l, " leave the rest to
me ' I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but
shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any mercy
to ;_bnt it' thev were secured. he believed all the rest would return to
their duty. lasked him which they were? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders
in anything 1 would direct. " Well," says I, "let us retreat out of
their view or hearing, lest thev awake and we will resolve further."

So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered as from

them.

"Look you. sir." said I, " if I venture upon your deliverance are
you willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipate my
Broposals by telling me that both he aml the ship. it'reeovercd shoul

e wholly directed and commanded by me in eyerything; an if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me in what part
of the world soever 1 would send him; and the two other men said
the same. " Well." says 1, "my conditions are but two; lirst,--that
while you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here; and it' I put arms in your hands, you will, npon all
occasions. give them up to me, and do no pre'ndiee tome or mine it on
this island and in the meantime be governerl by my orders; seeon ly,
----that if t ie ship is or may he recovered, you will carry me and my
man to England iassage free." _

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could devise that he would comply with these most reasonable de-
mands, and besides would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it
upon all occasions as long as he lived. " Well, then " said I, "here
are three muskets for you, with powder and ball; tell me .nextavhat
'ou think is proper to be done." lle showed all the testimonies of
his "ratitnde that he was able. but oll'ered to be wholly guided by me.
I told him I thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best
method I could think of was to tire on them at once as they lay, and
if any were not killed at the first volley, and altered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's prov1dcnee to direct
the shot. He said, very modestly, that he was .loath to kill them, if
he could hel ) it; but that those two were incorrigible Villains, and had
been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and it they escaped, we
should be undone still, for they would go on board and bring the
whole ship's company, and destroy us_ all. " Well, then, says 1,
"necessity legitimates my advice, for it 18. the out way to save
our lives." However seeing him still cautious of s ieddmg blood
I told him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient. '
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and
soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him it' either of
them were the heads of the mutiny? He said, " No." " Well, then,"
said I, " rou may let them escape; and Providence seems to have
awakene them on purpose to save themselves. Now," says I, "if
the rest esca 8 you, it is your fault." Animated with this, he took
the musket had given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, with each a piece in his hand; the two
men who were wrth him going first made some noise, at which one of
the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming,
cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he
cried out they fired--I mean the two men, the ca taiu wisely reserv-
ing his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and
calledeagerly for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help he should call upon _God to
forgive his villany, and With that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in the company, and one of them was slightly wounded. By
this time _I was come; and when they saw their danger, and that it
was in vain to resrst, they begged for mercy. The captain told them
he would spare their lives if they would give him an assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him .in recovering the ship, and afterwards in
carrying her back to_ Jamaica, from whence they came. The gave
him all the protestations of their smcerity that could be desire ; and
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against only that I obliged hnn to keep them bound hand and foot
w ile they were on the island.

While this was domg, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the
boat With orders to secure her, and bring away the ears and sails,
which they did; and by-and-by three straggling men, that were (hap-
$1), for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns

ed ; and seeing the captain, who was before their prisoner, now
their con ueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our Victory
was comp ete. . .

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances. . I began first, and told him my whole his--
tory, which he heard With an attention even to amazement,--and
particularl at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with pro
visions an ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection
of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence
upon himself and. how I seemed to have been preserved there on puro
pose to save '5 hfe, the tears. ran down.his_ face, and he could not
speaka word more. After this commumcation was at an end, I car-
ried him and his two men into my apartment, leading them in 'ust
where I came out, viz., at the to ot the house, where I refreshed him
with such (provision as I had, an showed them all the contrivances I
had made uri g my long lonfr inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, alf I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but.
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat wrth a grove of trees, which, having been
now planted near twenty years and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a ttle wood, so thick that it was impas-
sable m any part of it but at that one side where I had reserved my
little winding passage mto 1t. I told him this was my castle and
my resxdence, but that I had a seat in the countrv, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasmn, a11dlworild show him
that too another time_-, but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the Slllp. He agreed with me as to that, but told me
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were
still six-and-twenty hands on board who, .havinm entered into acursed
cons iracy, b ' which they had all forfc1ted their lives to the law,
WO (1 be har ened in it now b des eration, and would carry it on,
knowing that if they were su clued) the would be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to Englan , or to any of the English
colonies, and that therefore there would be no attacking them Wit so
small a number as we were. .

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise as .to prevent their landing upon us,.and
destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to me that m .a
httle while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of their
comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat to look for them, and that then perhaps they might come
armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to_ do was to stave the
boat, which lay uplon the beach, so that they might not carry her off,
and taking everyt ing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swrm; accordinon we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there,---wh1ch
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscmteakes a
horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (t e
sugarwas five or six pounds); all which was verv welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for
man years. .

en we had carried allthese. things on shore (the cars mast, sail,
and rudder of the boat were carried away before), we knocked a great
hole 1n her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master us,
yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in
my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my new
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did not much nes-
tion to make her again fit to carry us to the Leeward Islandshan. call
Egon fixtir friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my

oug 3.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would
not float her off at high water mark, 8.113 besrdes, had broke a hole in
her bottom too bi toabe quickly sto pe and were set down musm
what we should 0, we heard the s p fire a gun, and make aw t
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat
stirred; and they fired several times, making other signals for the
boat. At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my

lasscs, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and we
ound, as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the cast of the other heat,
they rowed 11 under shore, to eomc to the same place where the
other had lau ed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I sav, we
had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and cha~
meters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said, there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this cons iracy
by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as or the
boatswain, who it; seems was the chief ollicer among them, and all
the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were
no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly appre-
hensive he was that they would be too powerful for us. I snnled
at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were past the
operation of fear- that seeing almost every condition that could be
was better than that which we were su posed to be in, we ought to
expect that the consequence, whether t oath or life, would be sure to
be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstances
of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for?
" And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my being preserved here
on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago?
For my part," said I, " there seems to be but one thing amiss in all
the prospect of it." "What is that?" says he. "Why," said I,
" It IS, that as you say there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared, had they been all of the wicked part
of the crew, I should have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands - for depend upon it every
man that comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they behave
to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I
found it greatly encouraged him; so we set. vigorously to our business.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the
ship, considered of se aratiug our )risoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them eti'eetna y. Two of them, of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote enough, and
out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way
out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here they
left them bound, but gave them provisions; and )romised them, If
they continued there quietly, to give them their iibertv in a day or
two- but that if they attempted their esca e, they should be put to
death without mercy. They promised fait ifull to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were verv thankf that they had such
good usage as to have Browsions an light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (suc as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance. .

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not able to trust them; but
the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's recom-
mendation, and upon their solemnly engagmg to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men we were seven men, well
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest men among them also. As soon as
they ot to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat
into t e beach and came all on shore, hauling the boat 11 after them,
which I was glad to see, for I was afraid they would rat er have left
the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some hands
in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first tliino they did, they ran all to their other
heat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her
bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, iallooing with all their might, to try if they could
make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volle of their small arms, which
indeed, we heard, and the echoes made t ie woods ring: but it was all
one: those in the cave we were sure, could not hear; and those in
our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on boar
again to their ship, and let them know that the men were all.mur-
dered and the ong-hoat staved- accordingly they immediately
launched their boat again, and got all of them on card. .

The captain was terribly amazed, and even eonfoundedh at .this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way. .

They had not been long put off with the boat, when we perceived
them all coming on shore again: but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, "2., to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look for their follows. This was a great disappomtment
to us, for now we were at a less what to do, as our seizmg those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat
esca e; because they would row away to the shi , and then the rest
of t em would be sure to weigh and set sail, an so our recovering
the ship would be lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait an
see what the issue of things might present. The seven men came on
shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her 011' to agood dis-
tance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that
it was imliliossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that
came on s ore kept close together, marching towards the top of. the
httle hill underwhieh my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We should have been very glad if
they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them,
or that they would have gone farther 011', that we might come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see
a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-
east lpart, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till t icy were weary: and not caring, 1t seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to consider it. Had the thought fit to have gone to sleep there as
the other part of them iad done, thev had done the job for us; but
they were too full'of apprehensrons of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear. '

The captain made a very Just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that perha s they would all fire a volle again, to
endeavour to make their fe ows hear and that we shou d all sall
upon them just at the J'uncture when their pieces were all discharge ,
and they would certainly yield, and we should have them without
bloodshed. I liked this preposal, Erovided it was done while we were
near enough to come up'to them efore they could load their pieces
again. But this event dld not happen; and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute .what course to take. At length, I told them there
would be nothmv done, in my opnnon, till night; and then if they
did not return to the boat, pcrha s we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so nng t use some stratagcm with them in
the boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though
very impatient for .their removing; and were very uneasy when,
after long consultation, we saw them all start up, and marcr down
towards the sea: it seems the had such dreadful ap rehensions of
the danger of the place, that t ey resolved to go on oard the ship
again, give their compamons over for lost, and so go on with their
intended voy we with the ship.

As soon as perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to
be as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were
going back again; and the captamhas soon as I told him my thoughts,
was ready to srnk at the apprehensrons of it: but I presently thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and .which answered my end
to a tittle. I ordered Frida and the captain's mate to go over the
httle creek westward, towar the place where the savages came on
shore when Frrday was rescucdaandso soon as they came to a little
rising around, at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out
as loud as they could, and wait till they found the seamen hear
them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, the
should return it again; and then kee ing out of sight, take a roun ,
always answering when the others h ooed to draw them as far into
the island, and among the woods, as sossrble, and then wheel about
again to me by such ways ,as I directe them.

They were just gomg mto the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they presently heard them, and, answering, ran along
the shore westward towards the vorce they heard, when they were
stopped by the cree , where, the water being up, they could not get
over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over ; as, indee , I
expected. When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a fiood way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour
within the lan , they took one of the three men out of her to go along
with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the
stump _of a httle tree on the shore. This was what I wished for : and
immediately leaving Friday and the ca tam's mate to their business, I
took the rest wrth me, and crossingt 1e creek out of their sinrht, we
surprised the two men before they were aware; one of them firing on
the shore and the other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was
between sleeping and waking, and going to start 11 ; the ca tain,
who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him own; and) then
called out to him in the boat to yield or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he
saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down: besides,
this was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the
mutiny as the rest of the crew . and, therefore, was easily ersuaded
not only to yield, _but afterwar s to .join very Sincerely Wit 1 us. In
the meantime, Friday and the ca tain's mate so well managed their
business with the rest, that they rew them, by hallooing and answer-
ing, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were very sure
they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves also, by the time they came back
0 us.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several
hours after Friday came back to me before they came back to their
boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before they
came quite up, calling to those belnnd to come along ' and could also
hear them answer, and complain. how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster: which was very welcome news to us. At
length they came up to the boat: but it is 1mpossrble to express
their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gene. We could hear them call to
one another in a most lamentable manner telling one another they
were got into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
m it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were dents and
spirits in it, and they should be all carried awa and devoured. They
hallooed again, and called their two comrades y their names a great
many times but no answer. After some time, we could see them, by
the httle light there was, run about, wringing their hands like men In
despair, and sometimes they would go and sit down m the boat to
rest themselves: then come ashore again, and walk about again, and
so the same thing over again. My men would fam have hadbme. .ve
them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was Willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few
of them as I could; and especiall I was nnwrllmg to hazard the
kilhng any of our men, knowing t e others were very well armed. I
resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuseade nearer, and ordered Fnday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the
ground as they could, that the might not be discovered, and get as
near them as they could possib y, before they offered to fire. .

They had not been Ions: in that posture, when the boatswaln, who

was the princrpalrmgleader of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
self the most delected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them, wrth two more of the crew; the captain was so eager
at haying this principal rog'ue so much in his power, that he could
hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him,
for they only heard his tongue bel'orefbut when they came nearer,
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot: the next man was shot in
the body, and fell just b lnm, thougi he did not die till an hour or
two after - and the thir ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I imme-
diately advanced with my whole army, which was now eight .men,
viz., myself, generalissimo - Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captam
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted
with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark so that they
could not see our number; and I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could
brine them to a parley, and so perhaps might reduce them to terms;
whidli fell out just as we desired: for indeed it was easy to think, as
their condition then was, they would be very willing to Capitulate. So
he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom
Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Robinson?"
for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay; for
God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men tlllS_ moment."--" Who must we yield to? "there are
they?" says Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men With lnm have been hunting; you these two
hours, the bostswain is kllled, ivni Fry is wounded, and I am a
prisoner ; and if you do not yield you are all lost."--" Will the ive
us quarter then?" says TomOSmith, " and we will yield."--"I"lPSl o
and ask, if you promise to yield," said Robinson: so he asked t e
captain; and the. captain himself then calls out, ." You, Smith you
know in vorce; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you sha have your lives, all but W ill Atkins."
Upon this, Will Atkins cried out. "For God's sake, captain, ive
me qluarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as :"
whic i, by the way, was not true; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of .the captain when they first mutinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying lns hands, and giving him injurious
language. However, the captain told lnm he must lay down his arms
at scretlon, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which he meant
me, for they all called me governor. In a word, they all laid down
their arms, and begged their hves; and I sent the man that had
parleyed With them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great army of fifty men, which, With those three were in all but eight,
came up and seized upon them, and upon their oat; only that I kept
myself and one more out of Slgllt for reasons of state.

Our next work was to'repair the boat,.and think of seizi the
ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley withnghcm,
he expostulated with them upon the villany of their practices with
him and upon the further Wickcdness of their design, and how cer-
tainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and per-
haps to the gallows. They all appeared verv penitent, and begged
hard for their lives. As for that, he. told them they were not his
risoners but the commander's of the island; that they thought the

had set him on shore in a barren uninhabited island;-but it h
pleased God so to direct them that it was inhabited, and that the

vernor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if
ie pleased - but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he
would send them to England, to be dealt with there as justice
required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor
to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the
morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired
effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercede
with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now_oecurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most casv thing to bring these fellows in to be
hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me; when I called, at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, "Ca -
tain, the commander calls or you ;" and presently the ca tam rephedl
" Tell his Excellency I am 'ust coming." This more pe ectl amaze
them, and thcyall be ievcdt rat the commanderwas inst by, wit .hisfifty
men. Upon the captain coming to me, I told iim my ro ect for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and reso ve to put
it in execution the next morning. But, in order to execute it With
more art, and to be secure of success I told him we must d1v1de the
prisoners, and that he should 0 and take Atkins, and two more of
the worst of them, and send t em pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two men who
came on shore with the captain. The conveyed them to the cave as to
a prison: and it was, indeed a disma place, especially to men in their
condition: The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which
I'have dgiven a full description: and as it was fenced in, and they
pinione , the place was secure enough, considering they were upon
their behaviour. .

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into a

arley with them; in aword. to try them, and tell me whether he
t ought they might be trusted or not to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had. ven them
quarter for their lives as to the resent action, yet that 1 they were
sent to England, they would all e hanged in chains ; but that if they
would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have
the governor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted
by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to the cap-
tain, and romised, with the deepest imprecations, that they would
be faithful, to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their
lives to him. and would go with him all over the world; that they
would own him as a father to them as long as they lived. " Well,"
says the captain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and
see whatl can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the tem )er he found them in, and that he verily believed
thev would be faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
told him he should go back again and choose out those five, and tell
them that they might see he did not want men, that. he would take
out those five to be his assistants, and that the. governor would keep
the other two. and the three. that. were sent prisoners to the castle
(my cave), as hostages for the fidelity ofthose five; and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the live hostages should be hanged
in chains alive on the shore. 'l'lns looked severe, and convinced them
that the governor was in earnest; however, they had no way left
them but to aece it. it; and it was now the business of the prisoners,
fistmuch as of t to captain, to persuade the other live to do their
11 y.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first, the
captain, his mate, and passenger: second, then the two prisoners of
the first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I
had given their liberty. and trusted them with arms: third, the other
two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned, lltll, on the cap-
tain's motion, had now released: fourth. these five released at last;
so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the
cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands
on board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did not think
it was prOpCr for us to stir, having seven men left behind: and it was
employment enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them
wit i vietuals, As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast, but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries: and I made the other two carry provisrons to a certain
distance, where Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain,
who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to look
after them; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should not
stir anvwhere but by my direct ion; that if they did, they would be
fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as governor, I now appeared as another or.
son, awl spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the 6,
upon all occasions.

The captain now had no diliiculty before him, but to furnish his'two
boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his passen-
ger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his mate, and
five more, went in the ot her; and they contrived their business very
well, for they came up to the Ship about midnight. As soon as the
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and te
them they had brought off the men and the boat, but that it wasla
long time before they had found them, and the hke; holding them 111
a chat till they eaneto the ship's side; when the ca tain and the
mate entering first, With their arms, immediately knoc ed down the
second .mate and 0 enter With the butt-end of their muskets, being
very faithfully secon ed b5 their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon the main an quartendecks, and began -to fasten the
hatches, to keep them down that were below; when the other heat
and their men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of
the slnp, and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room, makin
three men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, With three men to
break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, w 10
havmg taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy had
got fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate, with a crow, spht
open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly among the
and wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke lns arm, an
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate calhng
for help rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was,
and, With his pistol, shot the new captain through the head the bullet
entering at lns mouth, and came out again behind one of lns cars, so
that he never spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded, and
the ship was taken effectually without any more lives lost.

As soon as the shi was tius secured, the capta1n_ordercd seven.
guns to be fired, whic was the signal agreed upon wrth me to we
me notice of his success, which, you may be sure, I was very gla to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was sur riscd with the noise of a gun; and presently
starting up. I heau a man call me by the name of " Governor!
Governor!" and resently I knew the captain's yoree; when climbing
up to the t0p of t c hill, there he stood, and, pomtmg to the Ship, he-
cmbraeed me in his arms. " My dear friend and dehverer," says he,
"there's your ship for she is all yours, andso are we, and al that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the Ship, and there she rode
within little more than half a mile of the shore - for they had weighed
her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and, the weather
being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the
little creek; and, the tide being up, the captain had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I at first landed-my rafts, and so
anded just at my door. I was at first ready. to Sink down With the
surprise; for I saw m deliverance, indeed, v151bly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a lhrge ship just ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some t1me,I was not able to answer
him one word ; but as he had taken me in lns arms, _I held fast by him,
or I should have fallen to the ground" He erceived the surprise,
and immediately pulled a bottle out of IRS poc ct, and gave me a dram
of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had
drank it, I sat down upon the round - and though it brou ht me_ to
mvself, yet it was a good whilegbefore I could speak a wor to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstac .as I, only not
under any surprise as I was; and he said a thousand 'ind and tender

5.
things to me, to compose and bring me to myself: but such was the
flood of jo in my breast, that it dput all m spirits into confusion: at
last it bro e out into tears; an , in alitt e while after, I recovered
my speech. I then took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer,
and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man
sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the
world, and an evidence that the eye of an infinite )ower could search
into the remotest corner of the world, and send he i to the miserable
_ whenever lie pleased. I forgot not to lift up mv reart in thankful-
ness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had
not only in a miraculous manner provided for me in suchawilderncss,
and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledgvd to )rocced.

When we had talked a while t re captain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as the
wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of.
Upon this. he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the
things ashore that were for the governor ' and, indeed, it Was a pre-
sent as if I had been one that was not to be carried away with them
but as if 1 had been to dwell upon the island still. First, he had
brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each), two
pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
reef, and six pieces of pork, wrth a bag of peas, and about an hundred
weight of biscuit; he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance 0
other things. But besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to lllC..l|6 brought me six new clean shirts, six very good
neckcloths, two )air of gloves. one pair of shoes, a hat, and one air
of stockings, wit. 1 a very good suit of clothes of his own, which rad
been worn but very little: in a word, he clothed me from head to feet.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as anv one may imagine, to
one rungr Circumstances; but never was anything in the world of
that km so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear
such clothes at first. .

After these ceremomes were passed, and after all his good things
were brought into .my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done wrth'the prisoners we had; for it was worth con-
siderin whether we might veuture to take them away with us or no,
espec' y two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and re-
fractory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew they were
such rogues that there was no obliging them, and if he did carry
them away, it must be m irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over
to justice at the first English colony he could come to; and I found
that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon this, I
told him that, if he desired It, I would undertake to bring the two
men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says the
captain, "with all my heart." "Well." says I, "I Will send for
them up, and talk with them for yen." So 1 caused Friday and the
two hostages, _for they were now discharged, their comrades having
performed their promise; I say, I caused them to go to the cave
and bring 11 the five men, pinioncd as they were, to the bower, an
keep thcint iere tillI came. After some time, I came thither dressed
in my new habit; .andmow I was called governor again. Bein all
met, and the ca tain With me I caused the men to be brought be ore
me, and I tol them .I ha got a full account of their villanous
behavmur to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had eiisnared them in their own ways, and that the were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them now that by my
direction the ship had been seized- that she lay now in the road;
and they might. see by-and-by, that their new captain had received the
reward of his Villany, and that they would see him hangino at the yard-
arm; that, as to them, I wanted to know what they had to sa why
I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my
commissmn they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain ro-
miscd them their lives, and they humbly im lored my mercy. gut
I told them I knew not what _merc te show t cm; for as for myself,
I had resolved to quit the islan Wltll all my men, and had taken
fiassage with the captain to go for England; and as for the captain,

0 could not can them 'to England, other than_ as risoners, in
irons, to be tried or mutiny, and running away w1tht e shi ; the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the ows;
so that I could not tell. what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island. If they'desired. that as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives if they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said the would much rather venture to stay
there than be carried to Eng and to be hanged. So I left it on that
issue.

However, the captain seemed to make'some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this, I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be as
good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,.I
would set them at liberty, as I found them - and if he did not him it,
he might take them am if he could catch them. Upon this, they
ap cared very thankf , and I accordingly set them at hberty, and
ba e them retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and
I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammumtmon, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship; but told .the captain I
would stay that night to prepare my things and dealred him to go
on board in the mean time, and keep all right in the shi , and send
the boat on shore next day for me; ordenn him at events, to
cause the new captain, who. was killed, to be anged at the yard-arm,
that these men might see him. . a

x
When the captain was gone, I .sent (or the men up to me to my
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse With them on their
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain had carried them away they would certainly be
hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at the yaraoarm
of t e ship, and told them the had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declare their Willingnessto stav, I then told
themI would let them into the story of my hving there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them. Accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my conung to it; showed
them my fortifications the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; an , in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. told them the story also of the seventeen S aniards
that were to be expected, for whom.I left a letter, and ma e them
promise to treat them in common With themselves. Here it may be
noted that the captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that I never hit upon a way ot making ink of charcoal and water, or
of something else, as I had done t-hmgs much more difficult. .

I left them my firearms, wz. five muskets, three fowling--pieces,
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but httle and wasted none. I
gave them _a description of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tions to milk and atten them, and to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and told them
I should prevail With the captain to leave them two barrels of gun-

owder more, and some garden seeds, which I told them I would

ave been very glad of. PS150, 1 gave them the bag of peas which the
captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
mcrease them. _

Havmg done all tlus, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sad, but did not
weigh that iught. The next moraine early, two oi the five men
came swimming to the ship's side, and: making the most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship for
God 3 sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain to
take them on.board, though he h.iiged them immediately. Upon
this, the captain pretended to have no power without me; but after
some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amendment, the
were taken on board,_ and were, some time after, soundly whipped
tad pickled; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being
up, _Wlth the. things promised to the men; to which the captain, a:
my mtercessron, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which
they took, and were ve thankful ior. I also encouraged them, by'
telling them, that if it ay in my power to send any vessel to take
them in, I would not forget. them. .

When I took leave of tlus island, I carried on board, for reli ues,
the great oat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one o in
parrots; soI forgot not to take the money I formerly mentione ,
which had lain b me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and coal hardly pass for Silver till it had een a little rubbed
and handled, as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish
ship. And thus I left the Island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1636, after I had been upon it
e1 lit-and-twent . years, two months, and nineteen days- bein
de vered from t is second captivity the same day of the month that
first made my escape in the long-boat, from among the Moors of
Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the
11th of June, in the car 1687, havmg een thirty-five years absent.

When I came to nvland, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I hadnever lbeen known there. My benefactor and faith-
ful steward, whom I had left my monev in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assurin" her I would give her no trouble; but,
on the contrary, in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to
me, I relieved her as my little stock would afford; which at that
time would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her: but I assured
her I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did_I
forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be. observed in
its proper place. 1 went down afterwards into Yorkslnre; but my
father was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except
that I found two sisters, and two of _the children of one of my
brothers ; and as I had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provision made for me; so that, in a word I found nothing
to relieve or assist me - and that the little money I had would not do
much for me as to settling in the world. . .

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was that the master of the shi , whom I had so
happily delivered, and by the same means saved t ie 5111 and cargo,
havmrr given a ver handsome account to the owners 0 the manner
how f had saved the lives of the men, and the Shdp, they mVited me
to meet them and some other merchants concei'ne , and .all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a
present of almost PS200 sterling. .

But after making several reflections upon the Circumstances of
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the
world, I resolved to o to Lisbon, and see-if I might not come at
some information of t e state of my plantation in the Brazrls, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With tins. VleW, I took
shipiping for Lisbon, where I arrived in A r11 followmg -. my man
Fm ay accompanying me very honestl m al these ramb ngs, and

roving a most faithful servant upon i 0008810118.. When I came to

' bon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction
my old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took me u at amp
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had 1e t of gomg
to sea, having put his son, who wasOfar from a young man, into his
ship, and who still used the Braz11_trade. The old man did not
know me; and indeed Ihardly knew him. ButI soon brought him to
m remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
w en I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you ma be sure, after my plantation and mv partner.
The old man told me e had not been m the Brazds for about nine
years; but that he could assure me, that when he came away my
partner was hvmg; but the trustees, whom I had joined wrth hmi to
take cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of the improvement of the
plantation; for that, upon the general belief of my being castaway
and drowned. my trustees had given in the account of the produce of
my part of'thc plantation to the proeurator-tiseal. who had appro-
priated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the 'ing,
and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex ended for
the benefit of the won and for the conversion of the ndians to
the Catholic faith: at that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to
claim the inheritance it would be restored; only that the improve-
ment or annual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
could not be restored: but he assured me that the steward of the
king's revenue from lands, and the providore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that is
to say, my partner, gave every vear a faithful account of the produce,
of winch the had duly received my moiety. I asked lnm if to knew
to what heig it of improvement he had brought the plantation, and
whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether, on
my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction to my )ossess-
ing my just rightin the moiety. He told me he could not tel exactly
to what degree the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying lns part of
it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems. granted away to some
other monastery or religious house, amounted to abovetwo hundred
moidores a year: that as to my being restored to a quiet possession
of it, there was no question to be made of that my partner_ being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in the
register of the country; also he told me that the survivors of my two
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; turd he
believed I would not only have their assistance for putting me in

ossession, but would find a very considerable sum of money in their

ands for my account, being the_produce of the farm while their
fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as above; which,
as he remembered,] was for about twelve years.

I showed m sef a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired o the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dis ose of my effects, when he knew that I had made
filly well, and h made hun, the Portuguese captain, my umversal

err c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
bein dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
sho (1 come of my death; and, besrdes, he was not wrlhng to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote: that it was true he had registered my
will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account of
my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
ta en possessxon of the mgenlo (so they call the sugar-house) and
have given his son, who was now at he Brazils, orders to do it.
" But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news to tell you,
which perhaps may not be so acce table to you as the rest; and that
is, believing you were lost and al the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did oti'er to account with me, in your name, for
the first six or eight years' profits, which I received There being
at that time great disbursements for increasing the works, building
an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as
afterwards it produce : however," says the old man, "I shall give
you a true account of what 1 have received in all, and how I have
disgosed of it."

fter a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my lantatlon,
signed by my partner and the merchant-trustees, being a ways deli-
vered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum
molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found
by this account, that every year the income considerably increased -,
but, as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at first was
small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me
four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of
su r, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship:
heIilaving been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon about eleven years
after my leaving the place. The good man then began to complain
of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship.
"However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not want a suppl in
your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall be ully
satisfied." Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives meone
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and givmg the writings
of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils m, of
which he was quarter-part owner, and his son another, he puts them
both into my hands for security of the rest. .

I was too much moved with the honesty and kmdness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now
to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me;
therefore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to s are so
much mone at that time, and if it would not straiten him? 6 told
me he coul not say but it might straiten him a little; but, however
it was my money, and I might want it more than he"

Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one hundred
of the moidores, and called for a en and mk to fiye him a receipt
for them: then I returned him the rest, and told m 1f.ever I had
possession of the lantation I would return the other to him. also (as,
indeed, I afterwar'ds did) - and that as to the blll of sale of his part in

his son's ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him. .

When this was passed, the old man asked me If he should put me
into a method to malge my claim to my lantation. I. told him I
thouOht to 0 over to it myself. He said might do so if Ipleased -
but that, if did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appro riate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of _ isbon Just ready to go away to Brazil, he made
me enter m name in a public register, with his affidavit, atlirmm ,
upon oath, t at I was alive, and that Iwas the same person who too
up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This being
regularly attested b a notary, and a procuration allixed, he directed
me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his
acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.

Never was anything .more honourable than the roeecdinos upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months freccivcda a large
packet from the survivers of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

First, there was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with
my old Portugal ea tam, being for six years; the balance appeared
if; he one thousan one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my

vour.

Secondly, there was .the account of four years more, while they
kept. the elfcets in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as bemo- the elfects of a person not to be found, which
they called. cml deat ; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation .mcreasmg, amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred
and forty-Six crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and
fort mordorcs. .

Tiirdly there was the Prior of St. Augustine's account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to account
for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestl declared he
had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distri uted, which
hetaleknowledged to my account: as to the king's part, that refunded
no mg.

. There was a lettenof my partner's, congratulating me very affec-
tionately upon my being alive, givm" me an account how the estate
was improved, and what it produced a year; with the particulars of
the number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were u on it :_ and making two-and-twentv crosses
for blessmgsttold me be ad said so many Ave Marius to thank the
Blessed Virgin that I was. ahve ; mvrtmg me verv passionately to
come over and take possessron of my own; and, in the mean time, to
give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not
come miself- concluding With a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of 1.3 family; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he ad, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship that he had sent thither, and which, it seems, had made a better
voyage than 1. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetineats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncomed, not quite so large as meidores.
By the same fleet, my two merchant-trustees shifiped me one thousand
two hundred chests of sugar, eideght hundred re s of tobacco, and the
rest of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was
better than the begimiing. It is impossible to ex rcss the flutterin
of my very heart when .I found all my wealth a out me; foras t 8
Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and
grew sick; and, had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I

elievc the sudden surtprise of Joly had overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay, a ter that, continued ver ill, and was so some
hours, till a ph sieian being sent for and something of the real cause
of my illness icing known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which I had relief, and .grcwavell: but I verily believe, if I had not
been eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, 1 should
have died.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England: and, in a word, I was in a condition which I
scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for .the
enjoyment of it. The first thing I did was to reeom ense my on
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been st charitab e to
me in my distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me
at the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I toldohim
that, next to the fitOVldche of Heaven, which disposed all things,
it was owing to km and that it now lay on me to reward him,
which I would do a hundred fold: so I first returned to him the
hundred moidores I had received of himo then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from the
four hundred and seventy meidores, which he had acknowledged
he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible. ' After which,
1 caused a firoeuration to be drawn, empowering him to be the
receiver of t e annual profits of my plantation; and agpomtmg m
Eartner to_ account Wit him, and make the returns, y the us

eets, to him in my name; and by a clause in the end, made a. t
of one hundred moidores a year to. him durino his life,.ou_t o the
effects, and fift moidores a year to his son after '11), for his life: and
thus I requite my old man.

I had now to COIISldel' which way to steer m course next, and
what to do with the estate that Providence ha thus put into 1:15
hands; and indeed, I had more care upon my head now than I h
in my Silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but
what I had, and had nothing but what .I wanted- whereas had
now a great charge upon me, and my busmess was how to secure it.
I .had not a cave now to hide in money in, or a place where it
might he without lock or key, t it grew mouldy and tarnished
before anybody would meddle with it- on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the cap-
tain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had. In the
next place. my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon mc_tlnther ~
but now I could not tell how to think of going tlnther till I had
settled my affairs and left my effects in some safe hands behind me.
At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but

ear, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt ; so that in a word, I
radl no way but to go back to England myself, and take my effects
Wit. 1 me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and,
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully. and to his satis-
faction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think of
the poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor, and
she, while it was in her )OWt'l', my faithful steward and instructor.
So, the first thing I did, get a merchant in Lisbon to write to his
correspondent in London, not only to my a bill. but to go find her
out and earrv her, in money, a hundred pounds from me, and to talk
with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
if I lived. have a further supply: at the same time, I sent my two
sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being, though not
in want, yet not in ver ' good circumstances; one having been married
and left a widow; am the other having a husband not so kind to her
as he should be. But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not vet iiteh upon one to whom I dnrst commit the gross of
my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe
behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have. gone to the Brazils, and have settled
myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to the lace; but I
had some little scruple in my mind about religion, whicr insensibly
drew me back. llowcver, it was not religion that kept me from going
there for the present; and as I had made no seruple of being openly
of the religion of the country all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; only that, now and then, having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of living and dying
among them, I began to regret my having professed myself a Papist,
and thought it might not. be the best religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kc t me from

ing to the Brazils, but that really I did not know wit whom to

cave my effects behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or
find some relations, that would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I
pre ared to go to England with all my wealth.

11 order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil
fleet being just gomg away) resolved to give answers suitable to the
just and faithful account of things 1 had from thence; and, first, to
the Prior of St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for his Just
dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores
which were undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five hun-
dred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the
r, as the prior should direct; desiring the good padre's prayers
or me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two
trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honesty called for: as for sending them anv present, they were far
above raving any occasion .for 1t. Lastly, I wrote to my partner,
acknowledging his industry In the improvmg the plantation, and his
integritv m increasmg the stock of the works - giving him instructions
for his future government of my part, according to the powers I had
left wrth my old patron. to whom I desired him to send whatever
became due to me, till he should hear from me more particularly;
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To this I added a
very handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife and two
daughters, for such the captain's son informed me he had - with two
pieces of fine English broa( cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five
pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and tumed_ all my
efl'ects into good bills of exchange, my next dilliculty was which way
to go to England: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
I had a strange aversxon to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though _I had once shipped my baggage in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times. .

It IS true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be
one of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his
own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the shi s which I had
smgled out to go in, I mean more particularly single out than any
other, having put my things on board one of them, and in the
other to have agreed with the captain; I say, two of these shlps
miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Algerines and the other was
cast away on the Start, near Torbav, and all t 1e eeplc drowned,
except three; so that in either of those vessels I Pha been made
miserable. .

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old- pilot, to whom
I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go by
sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of
Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and sate Journe
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madri
and so all the way by land. through France. In a word, I was so
repossessed against my gomg bv sea at all, except from Calais to
over, that I resolved to travel all the way by land; wlncb, as I was
not in haste, and dld not value the charge, was by much the
fileasanter we. : and to make it more so, my old ca .tam brought an

nolish gent eman, the son of a merchant m isbon, who was

' 'ng to travel with me; after which we picked up two more English
merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen the last gomg
to Paris only; so that in all, there were six of us, an five servants :
the two merchants and the two Portuguese contentmg themselves With
one servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got

an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the
place of a servant on the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company bein very
well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me
the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man,
as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the
whole 'ourney.

As have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures
thatt happened to us in this tedious and diilicult journey I must not
omi ,,

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the court of S min, and what
was worth observing; but, it being the latter part of the summer, we
hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of Octo-
ber; but when we came to the edge of N avarrc, we were alarmed, at
several towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several travellers
were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted at
an extreme hazard to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to
me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable:
nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm,
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the l'yrenean
mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
endanger benumbing and perishing of our lingers and toes.

Poor Friday was reallv frightened when he saw the mountains all
covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or
felt before in his life. To mend the matter, when we came to Pam-
peluna it continued snowing with so much violence and so long,
that the people said winter was come before its time; and the
roads, which were difficult before, were now quite impassable; for,
in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel,
and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive
every step. We stayed no less than twenty days at I'ampeluna; when,
SSseeing the wmter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better,

or it was the severest wmtcr all over Europe that had been known
in the memory of man) I proposed that we should go away to
Fontarabia, and there take. shipping for Bourdeaux, which was a
very little voyage. But, while I was considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the French
side of the passes, as we were on the Spanisr had found out a

'de, who, traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had
gmught them over the mountains by such ways that they were not
much ineommoded with the snow; for where they met wrth snow
in any quantity, the sand it was frozen hard enough to hear them
and their horses. Ve sent for this guide, who told us he would
undertake to carry us the same way, With no hazard from the snow,
provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild
easts; for he said, in these reat snows, it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at t e foot of the mountains being made
ravenous for want of food the ground being covered with snow.
We told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as
they were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which we are told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
french Slde of the moutains. He satisfied us that there was no
\langer of that kind in the way that we were to go; so we readily
agreed to follow him as did also twelve other entlemen with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as said, had attempted
to go, and were obhged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when, having passed two
livers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate . 0am, where the country was pleasant, and no snow
to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, he a roached the
mountains another way; and though it is true the h s and preci-
pices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains without being much encumbered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful
provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flourishing,
tliougli_,uindeed, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to
pass sti .

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a niGht so fast that we could not travel; but he bid us
be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, de ending 11 on our guide, we went on.

It was zfiiout two iours before night, when, our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushcrl three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, from a hollow way ad'oining to a thick
wood: two of the wolves made at the uide, and, ad he been far
before us, he would have been devoured eforc we could have he] ed
him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other attac :83
the man with such violence, that he had not time or presence of mind
enough to draw his istol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Fri ay being next me, I bade hnn ride up, and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the man,
he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 master ! f' but,
like a bold fellow, rode directl up to the 1poor man, and Wlth his
pistol shot the wolf that attache him in the cad. _

It was happy for the poor man that itwas my man Friday; for,
having been used to such creatures in his country, he had no fear
upon '11), but went close 11 to him and shot lnm; whereas any other
otus would have fired at a arther distance, and have perhaps either
missed the wolf, or endangered shootin the man.

But it was enough tothave terrific a holder man than I: and,190 ROBINSON 030803.

indeed, it alarmed all our com any, when, with the noise of Friday's
pistol, we heard on both Sides t e most dismal howhng of wolves; and
the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains, ap cared to us as
if there had been a prodigious number of them; an perhaps there
was not such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension: how-
ever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon
the horse left him immediatclv. and fled without doing him any
damage. having happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of
the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the man was most hurt; for
the raging creature had hit him twice, once in the arm, and the other
time ahttle above his knee; and though he had made some defence,
he was just tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday
came up and shot the wolf. . .

It is easy to suppose that at the muse of Friday's pistol we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to_ see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor
guide, though we did not presently discern what kind of creature it
was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardilv, and in such a surprising
manner, as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which

ve us all, though at first we were sur rised and afraid for him,

e greatest diverSion imaginable. As the ear is a heavv, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so
he has two particular qualities, which enerally are the rule of his
actions: first, as to men, who are not his pro )er prey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attae him, unless he he
excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the

nod being covered with snow), if you do not meddle with him,
6 will not meddle With you; but then you must take care to be
very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentle-
man; he will not go a step out of his way for a irinee; nay, if you
arereally afraid, your best way is to look another way and kee
going on ; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadZ
astly at him, he takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss any-
thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big
as our finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all. other business
aside to pursue his revenge, .and 'will have satisfaction in oint of
honour ;--this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once routed,
he will never leave you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but fol-
lows at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to
him, 1e was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt
and frightened, when on a sudden we es ied the bear come out of
the wood, and a monstrous one it was, t 0 biggest by. far that ever
I saw. We wereall a little surprised when we saw him; but when
Friday saw him, it was easy to see Joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance: ' O, O, Q l" says, Friday, three times, inting to
him; " 0 master! (you give me to leave, me shakes te han with him;
me makee you goo laug ."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: " You fool,"
says I, " he will eat you up."--" Eateeme up. eatee me up!" says
I"riday, twice over vain; ' me eatee him up; me makee you good
laugh; on all stay icre, _me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, an gets off his boots in a moment and uts on a pair of pumps
(as we call the flat shoes they wear, and whiei he had in his oeket),
gives my other_servant his horse, and with his gun away e flew,
swift like the wmd.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with
nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him, " ark ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me
5 cakee with you." We followed at a distance, for now being come

own on the Gascony side of the mountains, we were entered a vast
forest, where the country was plain and pretty 0 en, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. hi ay, who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took 11 a.
great stone, and threw it at him and hit him just on the head, ut
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it a ainst a wall; but it
answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so voi of fear that he did
it urely to make the bear follow him, and show us some lauo'h, as he
ca ed it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw himjie turns
about, and comes after him, taking very long strides, and shuffling
on at a strange rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling
gallOp: away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards
us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and
deliver my man; though 1 was angry at him heartily for bringing
the bear )ack upon us, when he was gomg about his own business
another way: and especially I was angry that he had turned the
bear upon us, and then run away; and I called out, " You dog! is
this your making us laugh? Come away and take your horse, that
we may shoot the creature." He heard me, and cried out, " No
shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you get much lauOliz" and as the
nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a
sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree 'fit for his pur-
pose, he beckoned to us to follow; and doubhng his pace, he got
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about
five or Six yards from the bottom of the tree. The bear sooneame
to the tree, and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did he
stopped at the gun, smelled at it, but let it lie, and up he scramhles
into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was
amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my
life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree,
we all rode near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Fridafifigt out to the small
end of a large branch, and the bear got about . way to him. As
soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,--" Ha!" says he to us, 'now you see me teachee the bear
dance:" so he began jumpin and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stoo still, and began to look behind him to
see how he should get back; then indeed, we did laugh heartily. lint
Friday hsl not done with him by a great deal; when seeing him
stand still, he called out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
could speak Enohsh, "What, you come no farther? (prey on come
farther ;" so he'left Jumping and shaking the tree an the car, Just
as if he understood what he said, did come a little farther; then he
began Jum mg again and the bear stopfiied again. We thought now
was a goo time to noel; him in the cad, and called to Friday to
stand still, and we would shoot the bear: but he cried out earnestly,
" O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then :"_he would have
said by-and-by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced so
much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do: for first we
thought he depended upon shaking the hear of ; and we found the
hear was too cunning for that too; for he would not go out far
enough to be thrown down, but clung fast With his eat broad claws
and feet, so that we could not imagine what woul be the end of it,
and what the Jest would be at last. But Ifh'iday ut us out of doubt
quickly: for seeing the bear cling fast to the ough, and that he
would not be persuaded to come any farther, "Well, well," says
Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no come to me, me come
to you ;" and. upon this he went out to the smaller end of the
bough where It. would bend with his weight, and gently let himself
down by it, sliding down the hough till he came near enough to jam
down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stoo
still. " Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" ~" No shoot," says Friday, " no yet;
me shoot now, me no kill; me star, give you one more laugh :" and,
indeed, so he did; for when the hear saw his .enemy gone, he came
back from the bough where he stood, but did it ver cautiously,
looking behind him every step, and coming backward till he got into
the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot
at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could
set his hind foot on the. ground,_ Friday stepped up close to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and when
he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he began to laugh ve loud.
" So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. " So you kill t em?"
says I; " why, you have no guns."----" No," says he " no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a Wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves ran much
in my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore
of .Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any.
thing that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saying; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left lnm,
and went forward on our journeg. .

The ground was still covers With snow, though not so deep and
dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we
heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain country
pressed by hunger to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country people,
killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some people too.
IV e had one dangerous place to pass, and our 'de told us, If there
were more wolves in the country we should fin them there; and this
was a small plain surrounded with woods on every side, and a long
narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood:
and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge. It
was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the lain: we met with nothing
in the first wood, except that in a little p ain within the wood, which
was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross the
road, full speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were
gone out of sight in a few moments. U on this, our guide, who by
the way was but a faint-hearted fellow, id us keep in a ready peso
ture, for he believed there were more wolves accoming. We kept our
arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till
we came through that wood, which was near half a league, and entered
the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough
to look about us: the first object we met wrth was a dead horse,that is
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed andat least a dozen
of them at work, we could not say eating him, but picking his bones
rather; for they had eaten up all the flesh before. Ve d1 not think
fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they take much notice of
us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him
by any means; for I found we were like to have more busmess upon
our hands than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the
plain when we began to hear the wolves bowl in the wood on our left
in a rightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a
line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I
scarce knew in what manner to receive them, but found to draw
ourselves in a close line was the only way 5 so we formed in a moment:
but that we might not have too much interval, I ordered that onl

every other man should fire, and that the others, who had not fire

should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately If they
continued to advance upon us - and then that those who had fired at first,
should not pretend to lead their fusees gain, but stand ready, every
one with a pistol, for we were all arme With a fusee and a pair of
filStOlS each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire srx_ volleys,

alf of us at a time: however, at present we had no neeessrty; .for
upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full sto , bemgtemfied
as well with the noise as with the fire; four of t em beingb shot
in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went leed-
mg off, as we could see by the snow. I found they sto ped but
did not immediately retreat; whereupon, rememberm t at I had
been told that the fiercest creatures were temfied at t e voxce of a
man, I caused all the compan to halloo as loud as we could; and I
found the notion not altoget er mistaken; for upon our shout they
0
began to retire and turn about. I then ordered a second volley to be
fired in their rear which put them to the gallop, and away they went
to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and
that we might lose no time, we kept going: but we had but little
more than loaded our fusecs, and put ourselves in readiness. when
we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left, only that it
was farther onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was commar on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we Could easily
perceive that itwas the howling and yelling of thosehcllish creatures;
and, on asudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one
on our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed
to be surrounded with them : however, as thev did not fall upon us.
we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this
manner, we came in view of the entrance of a wood, through which
we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing iust at the entrance. On a sudden, at.
another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and look-
ing that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him
flymg like the wind, and Sixteen or seventeen wolves alter lnm full
speed: the horse had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that
he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get
up with him at last: no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we found the carcases of another horse and
of two men2 devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men
was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a
gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head and the 11 )per

art of his body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, an we
now not what course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and l veril
believe there were three lnmdred of them. It hap cued, very mucr
to our advant 0e, that at the entrance into the woo , but a little way
from it, there ay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my
little troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping that
tree before us tor a hreastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well we
did; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made
upon us in this place. They came on with a growling kind of noise,
and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breast-
work, as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and this fury of
theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure that they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessity to keep a
continual firing, for they came on like devils, those behind pushing
on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fusees,-we thought they
stopped a little, and I heped they would have gone ofi', but it was but
a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two volleys of
our pistols; and I beheve in these four firings we had killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twrce as many, yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not
my man Eriday, for he was better employed, for with the eatest
dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own w ile we
were engt ored,--hut, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him
a horn of iowder, I bade him lay _a train all alomr the piece of timber,
and let it )0 a large train. He did so, and had but just time to get
away, when the wolves came 11 to it, and some got upon it, when I,
snapping an uncharged istol c ose to the powder, set it on fire; those
that were upon the tim or were scorched with it, and six or seven of
them tell, or rather jum ed in among us with the force and fright of
the fire: we. des atehe these in an mstant, and the rest were so
frightened wrth t e light, which the night--for it was now ve near
dzu'k--made more terrible, that they drew back a little- upon w ich I
ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and alter that we
gave a shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallicd imme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the
ground, and fell to cutting them with our swords, which answered
our expectation for the crying and howling they made was better
understood by their fellows - so that they all fled and left us. _

We had, first and last,.killed about three-score of them, and had 1t
been daylight we had killed many more. The field of battle being
thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had still near a league to
go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl andnyell 1n the woods as
we went several times, and sometimes we fancied we .saw some of
them; but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. In_about
an hour more we came to the town where we wereto lodge, which we
found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; .for, it seems, the night
before the wolves and some bears had broke into the nflege,_and put
them in such terror, that theylwere obliged to lgeep guar mght and
day, but especially m the mg t, to preserve their cattle, and indeed
their people. . . .

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the ranklintfi of his two wounds, that he could go no
farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to
Thoulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant
eoun , and no snow, no wolves, nor an thing like them; but when
we to] our story at 'lhoulouse, they tol us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, eSpe.
eially when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired. much
what kind of a guide we had got, who would'venture to bring us
that way in such a severe season, and told us it was sur nsmg we
were not all devoured. When we told them how we. place ourselves
and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us
it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight
of the horses which made the wolves so famous, seem their; prey, and
that at other times they are really thfraid of a gun,-- at being exces-

0 SS
sively hungry, and raging on that account the eagerness to come at
the horses rad made them senseless of anger,-and that if wehad
not by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train of
powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that we had been
torn to pieces - whereas, had we been content to have sat still on
horseback, and fired as horsemen they would not have taken the
horses so much for their own, when men were on their backs, as
otherwise; and, withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood
all together, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to
have devoured them, that we might have come off safe, especially
having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so seusrble of danger in my life,---for
seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed
to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave
myself over for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to
cross those mountains again; 1 think I would much rather go a
thousind leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once
a wee .

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France--nothing but what other travellers have "W011 an account of
with much more advantage than I can. I travellhd from 'I'houlouse
to Paris and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and landed
safe at Dover the 14th of January, after having a severe cold season
to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of m travels, and had in a little
time all my new-discovered estate safe a out me, the bills of exchange
which I brought with me having been ver currently paid.

My principal guide and pnvy-counse lor was my good, ancient
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no
gains too much nor care too great to employ for me; and I trusted

er so entirely wrth everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects; and, indeed, I was very happy from the begin.
ning and now to the end, in the unspottcd integrity of this good
gent ewoman.

And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils,
I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having offered it to the two
merchants the surv1vors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they
accepted the otfer, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces-of-eight
to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

Inreturn, I Signed the instrument of sale in the form which they
sent from Lisbon and sent it to mg old man, who sent me the bills
of exchange for thirty-two thousan eight hundred pieces-of~eight for
the estate, reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year to
him Ethe old man) during lus life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his
son or his life, wlnchI had promised them, and which the plan-
tation was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a hfe of fortune and adventure, ----a life of Provi-
dence's chequer-work, and of avariety which the world will seldom be
able to show the hke of ;-- begmmng foohshly, but closing much
{here ihappily than any part of It ever gave me leave so much as to

ope or.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated ood fortune
I was past running any more hazards,--and so, indeed, I ad been, if
other circumstances had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations; 1101', however rich, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the
Brazds, yet I could not keep that country out of my head, and had a
great mindto be uiion the wmg again; esgccially I could not resist the
strong inclination had to see my islaii , and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly
dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she revented my running abroad, during which time I
took in two ncp icws, the children of one of my) brothers, into my
care; t ie eldest haying something of his own, I red up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after
my decease. The other I. placed With the captain of a'ship; and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprismg young
fellow,I ut him into a good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young
fellovi'f terwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures
myse .

In.the mean time I in part settled myself here; for, first .of all, I
married, and-that not either to m disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and
had three children, two sons an one daughter; but my Wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with (good success from a vpyage to
Spain, my inclination to. go abroad an his importunit prevailed, and
engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to t e East Indies :
this was in the year 1694. . .

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,--saw my suc-
cessors the bpaniards --had the whole story of their hves and of the
villains I left there,-- ow at first they iusu ted the poor S amards,--
how the afterwards agreed disagreed, united, separate , and how
at last t e Spaniards were obliged to use Violence With them,--.how
they were sub'ected to the Spaniards,--how honest] the Spamards
used them; a istory, if it were entered into, as ful of variety and
wonderful accidents as my own art,--particula_rly, also, as to their
battles with the Caribbeans, who anded scveralotimesupon the island,
and as to the improvement they made upon the island itself,--and how
five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought away
eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at my coming, Ifound
about twenty young children on the island. .

Here I stayed about twenty days,--left them supplies of all neces-
sary things, and articularly of arms, owder, shot, clothes, tools, and
two workmen, w ich I brought from Pngland With me,--Viz., a car-
penter and a smith. . .

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts With them, reserved to
myself the property of the whole, but gave them 'such parts respec-
tively as they agreed on ; and having settled all things With them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I'left them there.

Erom thence I touched at the BraZils from whence I sent a bark,
which I bought there, with more people to the island; and in it
beSides other supplies I sent seven women, being such as I foun
proper for service, or for wives to such as would take them. As to
the E lishmen, I promised them to send them some women from
Englan , With agood cargo of necessaries, if they would a ply them-
selves to planting,-- hich I afterwards could not pe arm. The
fellows proved very honest and diligent after the were mastered,
and had their. properties set apart for them. sent them, also,
from the Brazfls five cows, three of them being big With calf some
sheep, and some hogs, which when I came again were consuierably
increased. .

But all these. things with an account how three hundred Carib-
bees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how
the fought with that whole number twice, and were at first defeatedg
an one of them killed; but, at last a storm destroying their enemies
canoes, they famished or destroyed 'almost all the restnand renewed
and recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived upon
the island. . .

All these things, With some very surprising incxdents in some new
adventurespf my own, for ten years more, I shall give a farther
account of in the second part of my history.PART II.

'l'na'r homely proverb, used on so many occasions in England, viz.,
"That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh," was
never more verified than in the story. of my hfe. Any one would
think that after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of unhapp
Circumstances, which few men, if anv, ever went through before, an
after near seven years of Beace and enjoyment 1n the fulness of all
things, grown .old, and w en, if ever, it might be allowed me.to
have had ex erience of every state of middle hfe, and to know which
was most a apted to make a man completely happy; I say, after all
this any one would have thought that the nat1ve_propensity to
rambhng, which I gavc an account of in my first setting out in the
world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be
worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con-
densed, and I might, at sixty-one years of are, have been a httle
inclined to stay at home, and have done ventunng hie and fortune
anv more.

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken
away in me, for I had no fortune to make; I had nothing to seek:
if I had aincd ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer; for I
had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
what I had was visibly increasing; for, having no great famfly, I
could not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for _
anexpenswe way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage,
gaiety, and the like, whic l were thinns 1 had no notion of. or 1nelma~
tron to; so that I had nothing, indeed, to do but to Sit still, and fully
enJo what I had got, and see it increase daily 11 on my hands. Yet
all} ese things had no effect upon me, or at east .not enou hto
resrst the strong inclination I had to go abroad agamhwhichnung
about me like a chronical distem er. In artlcular, tne desu'e of .
seeing my new lantation in the is and, an the colony I left there,
ran 1_n my hea continuall . I dreamed of it all night, and my
imagmation ran uiion it all da _deg it was uppermost in all my thoughts '
and my fanc wor ed so stea and strongly upon 1t, that I talked
9f1t in my 5 eep; in short, not ing could remove it out of my mind:
it even broke so violent] mto all my discourses that 1t made my con-
versation tiresome, for Iy could talk of nothing else; all my discourse
ran into it, even to impertinence; and I saw it myself. .

I have often heard persons of good Judgment say, that all the stu-
people make in the world about ghosts and a paritions is owing to
the strength of imagination, and the powerf operation of fancy in
their minds; that there is no such thing as a Spll'lt appearing, or a
ghost walking; that. pc0ple's poring atl'cctionately upon the past con-
versation of their deceased friends, so realizes it to them, that they
are capable of fanc 'ing, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, tall; to them, and are answered by them, when, in
truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they
really know nothing of the matter. .

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such
things as real apparitions, spectrcs or walking of people after they
are dead; or whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of
that kind more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and wander-
ing fancies: but this I know, that my imagination worked up to
such a height, and brought me into such excess of vapours, or what
else 1 may call it, that 1 actually supposed myself often upon the
s t, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw my old Spaniard,

'day's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon the island; nay
I fancied I talked with them, and looked at them steadily. though I
was broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this I did till I
often frightened myself with the images my fanc represented to me.
One time, in my slee ), I had the villany of the t, iree pirate sailors so
lively related to me 1by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it
was surprising. they told me how they barbarously attempted to
murder all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions the
had laidu , on purpose to distress and starve them; things that
had neverlheard of, and that, indeed, were never all of them true in
fact: but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realized to me,
that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it
was, or_would be, true: also how I resented it, when the S aniard
complained to me; and how I brought them to justice, trie them,
and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there was really in
this shall be seen in its place: for however I came to form such
thin in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits injected it
yet t ere was I sniff, much of it true. I own that this dream ha
nothing m it liter y and specifically true; but the encral part was
so true,--the base vrllanous behaviour of these three lardened rogues
was such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe, that
the dream had too much snnilitudc ot' the fact- and as I would after.
wards have punished them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I
had been much in the right, and even should have been justified both
by the laws of God and man. But to return to my story: In this
kind of tem er I lived some years; I had no enjoyment of my life,
no pleasant ours, no agreeable diversion, but what had something or
other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind wholly bent
upon it, told me ver seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret power 111 impulse of l'rov1dence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing hin-
dered my going, but my bemg engaged to a wrfe and children. She
told me that it was true she could not think of artin" with me: but
as she was assured that if she was dead it no (1 be the first thing I
wou.d do; so. as it seemed to her that the thing was determined
above, she would not be the only obstruction; for, if I thought fit
and resolved to {to--[Here she found me very intent upon her
words, and that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a httle dis-
ordered her, aiid she stopped. I asked her whv she did not go on,
and say out what she was going to say ?. But I perceived that her
heart was too full, and scan: tears stood in her eyes.) " Speak out,
my dear," said I; " are you willing 1 should "0 ?"--' No," says she
very affectionately " I am far from willing; but if you are resolved
to go," says she, ' rather than I would be the only hinderance, I will
go With you : for though I think it a most preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it must be," raid she,
again weeping, "I would not leave you; for, if it be of Heaven, on
must do it; there is no resisting it: and if Heaven make it your dirty
to go, He will also make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose
of me, that 1 may not obstruct it."

This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little out
of the vapours, and I began to consider what 1 was doin ; I cor-
rected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with mysel scdately
what business I had after three-score years, and after such a life of
tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a
manner: I say, what business had I to rush into new iazards, and
pin niyself upon adventures fit only for youth and poverty to run
in 0.

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I had
a Wife, one child born, and my wife then great with cluld of another:
that I had all the world could <<give me, and had no need to seek
hazard for gain; that I was declining in years, and ought to think
rather of leaving what I had. gained than of seeking to increase it;
that as to what my wife had said of its being an impulse from Heaven,
and that it should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that- so,
after many of these eogitations, I stnigoled .w1th the power of my
imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I beheve people may always
do iner cases if they will: and, in a word, I conqueredit~ com-
posed myself with suc i arguments as occurred to myothoughts, and
which my present condition furnished me plentifully with; and arti-
cularly as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert myse With
other things, and to engage in some business that might effectually
tie me up from any more excursrons of this kind- for I found that
thing return upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do
nor anything of moment immediate] before me. To this purpose, I
bought a little farm in the county of edford, and resolved to remove
myself thither. I had a little convenient house upon it; and the land
about it, I found, was capable .of great improvement ; and it was
many ways suited to m inclination, which dehghtcd in cultivating,
managin , planting an iniprovmffr of land; and particularly, be
an: an country, I was removed rom conversmg among sailors, an
things relatin to the remote parts of the world. .

In a word, went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
ploughs, barrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, and sheep, and,
setting seriously to work, became in one half-year a more country
gentleman: my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing mv
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, &c.; and I
hved, as.I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was cagable
of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was eapa 1e of
retreating to. .

I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was limited
b no articles; I could pull up meat down as I pleased :. what I
Ii anted was for myself, and what I improved was for mv fannly; and

avmg thus left off the thoughts of wzuidering, I had not the least
discomfort in any part of life as to this world. Low 1 thought indeed
that I emoved the middle state of life which my father so earnestly
recommended to .me and lived a kind of heavenly life, some-
thing hke what is eseribcd by the poet, upon the subject of a
country life :-

--" Free from vices. free from care.
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen Pro-
vidence unhinged me at once; and not only made a breach upon me
inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its consequences, into a
deep relapse of the wandering disposition, which, as l. may say, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me. : and, like the
returns of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon
me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not my business here
to write an elegy upon my wife, give a character at her particular
virtues, and make my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral
sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my attains, the
centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her prudence, reduced
me to that happy com ass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous project that ti ed my head, and did more to guide my ram-
bling genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's
counsel, or all my own reasoning powers could do. 1 was happy in
listening to her, and in being moved by her entreaties; and to the
last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I
was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except for the
assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to
think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me; one part
labouring for bread, another part squandering in vile excesses, or
em tv )leasures, equally miserable, because the end they proposed

' fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day surl'eited of
their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and the
men of labour spent their strength in daily struggling for bread to
maintain the vital strength they laboured with: 80 living in a daily
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live, as
if daily bread were the onlv end of wearisome life, and a wearisome
life the only occasion of dai y bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island ; where I suffered no more com to grow, because I did not
want 1t: and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for
them: where the money 1a in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and
had scarce the favour to he ooked u on in twent years.

All these thinrrshhad I 1m roved t em as I on lit to have done, and
as reason and reIlgion had ctated to me, woul have taught me to
search farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity; and that
there .was something which certainly was the reason and end of life, '
su error to all these things,_ and which was either to he possessed, or
at east hoped for, on this s1de the grave. .

But my sage counsellor was fione; I was like a ship without a
pilot, that could onlyr run afore t c wmd : .my thoughts ran all away
again into the old affair; my head was quite turned with the whim-
seys of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, Innocent amusements
of in farm, my garden, my cattle, and my family, which before
entire y possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were
like musrc to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste:
in a word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and
return to London; and m a few months after did so.

When Icame to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I
had no rehsh for the place, no employment m it, nothing to do but
to saunter ahoutdrke an idle person, of whom it may be said he 13
perfectly useless in God's creation, and It is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my
aversion. who had been all my days used to an active life- and
would often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very dregs of
'life:" and, indeed, I thought I was much more suitably employed
when I was twenty-Six days making a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and
mad made him commander of a Skill, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he ad made. He came to me, and
told me that some merchants of his ac uaintance had been proposmg
to him to go a voyage for them to the *ast Indies, and to China, as
private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if you W111; go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation ,m the
island- for we are to touch at the Brazils."

Nothing can he a greater demonstration of a future state, and of
the existence of an invisrble world, than the concurrence of second
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly
reserved, and not commumcated to any in the.world. .

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemfier of wandering
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of w at he had m his
thought to say, when that very mormng, before he came,to me, I
had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolvmg every
part of my circumstances in my mind come to this resolution, that .
would go to Lisbon, and consult With my old sea-captam; and fat
was rational and practicable, I would 0 and see the island again,
and what was become of my people t ere. I had pleased myself
Wlth the thoughts of peopling the 1place, and_ carrymg mbabitants
from hence, getting a atent for t e possessron, and I knew not
what; when, in the mi die of all this, in comes my nephew, as I
have said, with his project of carrying me thither in his way to the
East Indies. _ . .

IJiaused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him, " "That
dev' ," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My iie hew
stared as if he had been frightened, at first; but perceivmg 1. mt I
was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered himself.
"I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; " I dare
say you. would be pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned Wltll more felicity than most of your brother monarchs
in the world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to
say, the re ossession 1 was under, and of which I have said so much
that I to (1 im in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him: but I told him I would not promise to go any
farther than my own island. " Why Sir," says he, " you don't want
to be left there again 1 hope?" " Why," said I, " can you not take
me up again on your return?" He told me it would not be possible
to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to come that
way with a laden shi) of such value, it being a month's sail out of
lns way, and might be three or four. "Besides, sir, if I should
miscarrv," said he, "and not return at all, then you would be just
reduced to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a. remedy for it;
which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might by the help of
some carpenters whom we agreed to carry With us, he set up again
in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in a few days.

I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the imfiortunities of m
nephew joined so effectually with my. inclination, t at nothing coul
o pose me; on the other hand, my Wife being dead, nobody concerned

emselves so much for me as to persuade me to one way or the other
except my ancient good friend the widow, who earnestly struggle
With me to conSider my years, my easy circumstances, and the need--
less hazards of a long voyage; and, above all, my young children.
But it was all to no pur ose; I had an irresistible desire for the
voyage; and I told her I t iought there was something so uncommon
in the 1m ressions Iliad upon my mind, that it would be a kind of
resisting rov1dence if I should attempt to stay at home: after which
she ceased her expostulatious, and Joined with me, not only in making
provision for my voyage but also in settling my family affairs for my
absence and prov1ding for the education of my children.

In order to do this, I made my Will and settled the estate I had
in such a. manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I
was perfectly easy and satisfied they1 would have justice done them,
whatever might befal me: and for t eir education I left it wholly to
the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care: all
which she richly deserved; for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better: and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. .

My nephew was ready to sail about the begmning of January,
1694-5; and I, With my man Friday, went on board, in the Downs,
the 8th: having, besides that sloo , which I mentioned above, a very
conSiderable cargo of all kinds 0' necessary things for my colony;
which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried With me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon my
account, while I stayed, and either to leave them there or carry them
forward, as they. should appear willing; particular] I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fe low who was a
cooper by trade, and was also a general mechanic; for he was dex-
terous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good
turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything that was proper
to make of earth or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack-of-
all-trades. With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to
go a passenger to the East Indies with my ne hew, but afterwards
consented to stay on our new ilantatioii- an who proved a most
necessary, handylellow, as coul be deSired in many other businesses
beSides that of us trade; for, as I observed former , necessity arms
us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as I_ can recollect, for I have not ke t account
of the particulars, conSisted of a sufficient quantity of ' en, and
some English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected
to find there; and enough of them, as, by my calculation, might
comfortablv supply them for seven years: if I remember right, the
materials I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes,
stockings and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above two hundred ounds, including. some beds,
bedding, and household stuff, partic arly kitchen utensds with pots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred poun more in
iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every
necessary thing I could think of.

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets and fusees; besides
some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four
tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew
not what time and what extremities I was proViding for, I carried a
hundred barrels of powder beSides swords, cutlasses, and the iron
part of some aplikes and halberts; so that, in short, we had alarge
magazme of sorts of stores: and I made my nephew carry two
small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave
behind if there was occasion; that when we came there we mi ht
build a fort, and man it a'ainst all sorts of enemies: and, mdee , I
at first thought there we (1 he need enough for all and much more,
if we hoged to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in t e course of that story.is

1 had not such bad luck in t voyage as I had been used to meet
with; and, therefore, shall have the less oecasmn to interrupt the
reader, who perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters went
With my co ony: yet some odd accidents, cross Winds, and bad
weather, ha ened on this first setting out, which made the voyage
longer thanpf'exggited it at first; 'an I, who. had never made. but
one voy e, my t voyage to Guinea, in which I mi ht be said to
come bac again, as the voyage was at first deSigned, egan to think
the same ill. fate attended me; and that I was born to he never
contented With being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at
sea.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged
to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two--and-
twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that
provisions were here exceeding chea , and in the utmost lenty; so
that while we lay here, we never tone ed the ship's stores, ut rather
added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows
with their calves; which I resolved if 1 had a good passage, to put
{lln shore in my island; but we l'oun occaSion to dispose otherWise of

em.

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As 1 remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house and told us he saw .a flash of fire,
and heard a gun fired; and while ie was telling usof it, a boy came
in, and told us the hoatswain heard another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing ; but
in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was
some very terrible fireat a distance: immediately we had recourse to
our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could be no land
that way inwhich the fire showed itself, no, not for five hundred
leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. U )on this, we concluded it
must be some ship on fire at sea; and as, y our hearing the noise of

a 5:115 Just before, we concluded that it could not be far olt', we stood

. _ ectly towards it, and were resently satisfied we should discover
it, because the farther we sa ed, the reater thcilight a peared;
though the weather bein hazy, we con] not perceive anyt iing but
the light for a while. 11 about half an hour's sailing, the mud
being fair for us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing up
a little we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire, in
the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons eng 'red in it:_ I presently reeolleeted
my former circumstances, and in w iat condition I was in when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more de lorable the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that s p must be
if the_ had no other ship in company with them. Upon this, l
imme ately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after

. another; that, if possmlc, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flames of the
311% yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us. . .

e layby some tmie upon this, only driving as the burmng ship
drove waiting for dayhght; when, on a sudden, to our greatterror
though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air; an

immediately, that is to sav, in a few minutes, all the firewas out,

. that is to say, the restpf the shi sunk. This was a temble, and

indeed, an afflictmg s1 ht, for t e sake of the poor men; who, 1'.

concluded, must be eit er all destroyed in the ship, or be in the

l
l
utmost distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean; which, at
present, as it was dark, 1 could not see. However, to direct them
as well as I could, I caused lights. to be hung out in all the parts of
the ship where we could, and which we had lanterns for, and kept
firing guns all the night long; letting them know by this, that there
was a ship not far off. .

About eight o'clock in the momin , we discovered the ship's
boats hy the help of our perspective g asses; and found there were
two of them; both throngedmth people, and deep in the water. We
perceived thcyrowed, the Wind being against them; that they saw
our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a watt out, as a Signal for them to come on board;
and then made more sail, standin" directly to them. In little more
than half an hour, we came up with them; and, in a word,_took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

U on inquiry, we found it was aFreneh merchant ship of three
hun red tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the stecrage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entire]
put out; but they soon found that. some sparks of the first fire ha
got into some part of the 51in so difficult to come atothat they could
not effectually guench it; and afterwards gettmg in between the
timbers, and Within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the
hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were able

oexe .

' They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to
their great comfort, were pretty large; being their long-boat, and a
great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no great service to
them, other than to net some fresh water and pronsions into her,

.after they had secure their lives from the fire. They had, indeed,

small hope of their lives b getting into these boats, at that distance
from an land; only, as t iey said that they thus esca ed from the
fire, an there was a possibility that some ship might appen to be
at sea, and might take them in. They had sails, cars, and a compass;
and were pre aring to make the best of their way back to Newfound-

land, the W111 blowmg retty fair; for it blew an easy gale at 8.13.
by E. They had as muc i provision and water, as, with sparing it so
as to be neizt door to starvmg, might support them about twelve
days; in which if they had no bad weather and no contrary Winds,
the captain said he hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfound-
land, and mi ht perhaps take some fish, to sustain them till they
might go on s ore. But there were so many chances against themm
all these cases, such as storms to overset and ioundenthem; rains
and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary Winds, to keep
them out and starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous
if they had escaped. . ,

In the midst of their consternation, every one being he eless and
ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, tol me they
were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a n fire, and
after that four more: these were the five guns which Iggaused to be
fired at first seeing the light. This revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I desired it should, that there was
a ship at hand for their help. It was 11 on the hearing of these
guns that they took down their masts and sails: the sound coming
from the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time
after this, hearing no more guns, they tired three muskets, one a
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being contrary,
we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeablv sur-
prised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which, as I have
said I caused to be. tired all the rest of the night: this set them to
work with their ears, to keep their boats ahead, at least, that we
might the sooner come up with them ; and, at last, to their inexpressible
joy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange
ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered peo le
ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a ge-
liverance. Grief and fear are easil described; sighs, tears, groans
and a very few motions of the hea and hands, make up the sum
its variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagances in it. There were some in tears; some raging and
tearing themselves as if they had been in the greatest agornes of
sorrow; some star ' raving and downright lunatic; some ran about
the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands: some
were dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crvmg; many
quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them either; there might be many that were
thankful afterwards; but the passion was too strong tor them at
first, and they were not. able to master it; they were thrown into
ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that were
composed and serious in their Joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from the
articular circumstance of that nation they belonged to; I mean the
rench, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate,

and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in other nations.
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause; but nothing
I had ever seen before came up to it. The ccstasies poor Friday,
my trusty savage, was in, when no found his father in the boat, came
the nearest to it; and the surprise of the master and his two com-
panions, whom I delivered from the villains_that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing was to
fiompare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my

e.

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show
themselves in that different manner I have mentioned, in different
persons only; but all the variety would appear, in a short succession
of moments, in one and the same person. A man that we saw this
minute .dumb and, as it were, stupid and confounded, would the
next minute be .dancmg and halloomg like an antic; and the next
moment be tearm his hair, or ulling his clothes to pieces, and
stamping them un er 1113 feet li 'e a madman; in a few moments
after that, we would have him all in tears then sick, swooning, and,
had not immediate help been had, he would in a few moments have
been dead - and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty,
but With the greatest art of them; and, if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to et blood of about thirty of them.

There were two priests among them: one an old man, and the
other a young man; and that which was strangest was, the oldest
man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship,
and saw himself .safe, he dropped down stone dead to all appearance;
not the least 51"" of life could be perceived in him: our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not (lead. At length, he
opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed the part, so
as to warm it as much as p0551b e. Upon this, the blood, which only
dropped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes after the man opened
his eyes; and a quarter of an hour after that he s )oke, grew better,
and in a little time, rate well. After the blood was stop ed, he
walked about, told us no was perfectlv well, took a dram o cordial
which the surgeon gave him. and had come to himself. About a
quarter of an hour after this, they came running into the cabin to the
sur eon, who was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and
tOlL him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and again this put
him into an ecstasy of joy. llis spirits whirled about faster than the
vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish ; and the
man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it. The
surgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him
something to doze and )ut him to sleep; which, after some time
op<iratel(ll upon him, and lie awoke next morning perfectly composed
am we .

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions,
and was really an example of a serious, well-governed mind. At his
first coming on board the sbi , he threw himself flat on his face
prostrating himself in thankfu 11055 for his deliverance in which If
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had
been in a swoon; but he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he was
giving God thanks for his deliverance; begged me to leave him a
1:;le moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks

so.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him,
but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued m that
posture about three minutes or little more, after I left lum then
came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great deal of
seriousness and affection, but with tears 1n his eyes, thanked me,

that had, under God, given him and so many miserable creatures

their lives. I told him I had no need to tell him to thank God for
it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that already;
1'
but I added. that it was nothing but what reason and humanity
dictated to all men. and that we had as much reason as he. to give
thanks to God. who had blessed us so far as to make us the
histruments of his mercy to so many of his creatures.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his countrymen;
laboured to com )ose, them; persuaded. eutreated, argued, reasoned
with them, and id his utmost to keep them within the. exercise of
their reason: and with some he had success, though others were for
a time out of all government of themselves.

I cannot. help committing this to writina', as, perhaps. it may be
useful to those into whose hands it. may fall. for guiding themselves
in the extravagauecs of their passions; for it' an excess of joy can
carry men out to such a. length beyond the reach of their reason.
what will not the extravagances of anger. rage, and a provoked mind.
earrv us to? And, indeed. here l saw reason for keeping an ex-
ceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy
and satisfaet ion, as those. of sorrow and anger.

We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among: our
new guests, for the first day: but after they had retired to lodgings

rovided for them as well as our ship would allow. and they had slept
heartily--as most of them did, being fatigued and frightened--they
were uite another sort of people the next. day.

Not ring of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French. it is known. are
naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of
the priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me
and my ne hew; the commander began to consult. with us what
should be (one with them; and. first. thev told us we had saved
their lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for
that kindness received. The. captain said they had saved some
money and some. things of value in their boats, cmtgrht hastily out of
the flames, and it we. would accept it, thev were ordered to make an
ofi'er of it all to us : they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where. it' possible. they might: get a passage to France.
Mv nephew wished to accept their moncv at first word. and to con-
sider what to do with them afterwards: hat 1 overruled him in that.
part, for I knew what it was to he set on shore in a strange country:
and it the Portuguese captain that. took me up at sea had served me
so, and taken all I had for my deliverance. 1 must have. starved. or
have been as much a slave at the Brands as I had been at .Itarhary,
the more. being: sold to a Mahometau excepted: and perhaps a
Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, it' not, in some
cases, much worse.

1 therefore told the French captain that we. had taken them up
in their distress, it. was true, but that. it was our duty to do so. as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to he so delivered. it' we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but. what we believed they would have done for us, it' we
and been in their case, and they in ours; but that. we. took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would he a most bar-
barous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out
of the fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this
would be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowninf, and abandon them to starving - and, there-
fore, 1 would not let tie least thing be taken from them. As to
settin them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceedi
ditlicu ty to us, for. that the ship was bound to the East Indies; an
though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great
way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for their
deliverance, yet it was nupossrble for us wilfully to change our voyage
on their particular account ; nor could my ne drew, the captain, answer
it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter to pursue his
voyage by the wa of Brazil; and all I knew we could do for them
was, to put curse ves in the wav of meeting with other ships home-
ward bound from the West Indies, and get them a passage, if
possible, to England or France.

The hrst part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could notbut be very thankful for it; but they were in very great
consternation. esieeially the passengers, at the notion ot be
carried away tot 10 East Indies; they then entreatcd me, that as
was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I would,
at least, keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfoundland,
where it wasprobable I might meet with some ship or sloop that
they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they
came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to . {*ree to it; for, indeed, I considered that to
carr this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
into erable severity upon. the ioor people, but would be ruining our
whole vovagc, by devouring all our provisions; so I thought It no
breach of chartenpaity, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were
to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that we
should refuse to take up two boats full of poo 10 in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing, as wel respecting ourselves
as the poor pee ile, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their ddliveranee. Sol consented that we would carry them
to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit; and If not,
that I would carry them to Martinieo, in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather rctty ood;
and as the winds had continued in the points between :19. an SE.
a long.r time, we missed several oppm'tnnities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
heating up against the wind that they durst take in no passen em,
for fear oi wanting provisions for the voyage, as well tor themse ves
as for those the should take in; so we were ohhged to 0 on. It
was about a wee ' after this that we made the Banks of ewfound-
land; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French people on
ooard a bark. which thev hired at sea there, to put them on shore,
and afterwards to carry them to France, 11 they could get provisions

to' vietual themselves with. Whegn I say all the French went on
P
shore, I should remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing
we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage wrth us,
and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; whrc 1 I readily
agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very 'ood reason,
as will afipear afterwards; also four of the seamen entere themselves
on our s 1p, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the 19th
day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail our course SE. and by
S. : we soon erceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to
us, but coul not at first know what to make of her, till, after coming
a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and
bows rit; and presentlv she fired a gun. as a signal of distress; the
weat ier was pretty ood, wmd at N.N.W. a fresh gale, and we soon
came to speak wit 1 wt.

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, but;
had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before she
was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief
mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides the terror of the
storm, they were in an indifferent case for good artists to brinO' the
shi home. They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had, met
wit another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, which had
blown them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in
which thev lost their masts. They told us they expected to have
seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the
south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew
now: and having no sails to work the ship with but a maincoursc,
and akind of square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had set
up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand
away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all. was, that thev were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone :
their bread and llesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left in
the ship, and had had none for eleven days. The only relief they had
was their water was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel
of flour left; they had sugar enough; some sueeades, or sweetmeats,
they had at first, but they were all. devoured; and they had seven
casks of rum.

There was a youth, and his mother, and a maid-servant on board,
who were passengers, and thinking the shi was ready to sail, unhap-
Bfly' came on board the evening before t )0 hurricane began; and

avmg no provisions of their own left, they were m a more deplorable
condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to such an
extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure,
for the poor passengers ~ and they were, mdeed, in such a condition
that their misery is very hard to describe.

_ I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me
(the weather bemg fair, and the wand abated) to go on board the ship.
The second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship, and he told me they had three assengers in
the great cabin, that were in a deplorable condition: " ay," says he,
" I believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above
two days : and I was afraid to inquire after them," said he, "for I had
nothing to relieve them with."

We immediately..(pplicd ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, in ccd, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that. 1 would have victiiallcd them, though we had no
away .to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to ave
sugplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

at now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid of eating
too much even of that little we gave them. The mate, or com-
mander, brought six men with him in his boat ; but these poor
wretchcs looked like skeletons, and were so weak that they could
hardly Sit to their oars. The niatc himself was very ill, and half-
starvcd; for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate. _

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immedi-
ately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick and out of order- so he stop ed awhile, and our surgeon mixed
him u something with some brot i, which he said would be to him
both cod and pliysic; and after he had. taken it he grew better" In
the mean time, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be given
them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it: they were
so exceeding hungry that they were in a manner ravenous, and had
no command of themselves; and two of them ate With so much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next mormng.

The sight of these cople's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what had a terrible pros ect of at my first com
on shore in my island, where I had never t 10 least mouthful of foo
or any prospect of procuring any; besides the hourly ap rehensmns
I had of being made the foo of other creatures. But al the while
the mate was thus relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's
com any, I could not put out of my thought the story he had told me
of t c three poor creatures in the great cabin v1z., the mother, her
son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of for two
or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess they. had wholly
neglected, their own extremities being so great: b which I under-
stood, that they had really oivcn them no food at al , and that there-
fore they must be perished: and be all lying dead, perhaps, on the
floor or deck of the cabin. ,

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called capta1n,_on
board with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starvm
crew that were left on board: but ordered my own boat to go on boar
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of
oread, and four or five pieces of beef _to b01._ Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be bailed while they stayed, an to
keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to eat raw,
or taking it out of the ot before it was well belled, an then to give
every man but a very 'ttle at a time: and by this caution he pre
served the men. who would otherwise have killed themselves with
that very food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they were
alive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was )roper:
and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the pre-
pared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this: but, as I said above, having a great
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with
me and went myself, a little after. in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it. was ready; but my mate observed
his orders, and he t a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he laced here, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, 'ept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which they called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that he
was obliged to give them but little at a time. But it was all in vain;
and had I not come on board, and their own commander and otlicers
with me, and with good words, and some threats also of giving them
no more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-room by
force, and tom the meat out of the furnace; for words are indeed of
very small force to a hungry belly: however, we paeiticd them, and
fed them gradually and eautiousl for the first, and the next time gave
them more, and at last tilled their ellies, and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of anot or
nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first the ship's company had
so little for themselves, it was but too true t rat they had at ill'St kept
them very low, and at last totally neglected them: so that for six or
seven da 3 it might be said they had really no food at all, and
for sever days befhre very little. The poor mother, who as the men
reported, was a woman ot sense and good breeding, had spared all
she could so afi'ectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk
under it; and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the
floor or deck, with her back up against the sides, between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a
cor se, though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive
an encourage her, and with a spoon ut some broth into her mouth.
She opened her 1i 5, and lifted u ) one rand, but could not speak: vet
she understood w at he said, an made signs to him, intimatin<r that
it was too late for her, but pomted to her child, as it she would have
said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who was
exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth, and, as he said, not two or three spoonfuls
down; though I question whether he could be sure of it or not: but
it was too late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most atl'ectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one

stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an

old glove in his mouth, having eaten u the rest of it : however, being

young, and having more strengh than iis mother, the mate 0t some-

thing down his throat, and he began sensibly to revive; t ough by

eiviiig him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary,
e was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid : shc lav all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an ill)0])lCX}', and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted;
one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard that we could not easily make her let it go: her
other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay Just like one in
the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified
with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was,
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three
davs before, and whom she loved most tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl: for when our sur-
geon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, had,
with great application, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
hands still; for she was little less than distracted for a conSidcrable
time after.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must he desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the countrv, where
sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our business
was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not he by for them;
and though they were willing to steer the same course with us for
some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep mm with a shi that
had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to hel im to
set up a iiiain-tOpmast, and a kind of a topuiast to his 'nry- oremast,
we did, as it were, lie by him for three or tour days; an then, haying
given him live barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two ho sheads of bis-
cuit, and a proportion of pease, flour, and what other t iings we could
spare ; and taking three easks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces-
oteight from them for satisfaction, we left them; taking .on board
tvhith us, alt their own earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all

eir gooi s.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a retty, well-
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with t e loss of his
mother, and, as it seems, he had lost his father but afew months
before, at Barbadoes: he begged of the surgeon to s )eak to me to
take him out of the ship; for he said the cruel fellows ad murdered
his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passwely; for
they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless WldOW,
that might have preserved her life, though itnhad been but Just enough
to keep her alive: but hunger knows no friend, no relation no 3113--
tice,.no right; and, therefore, is remorseless and capable o no com'
passmn. . -

The surgeon told him how far we were gomg, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends and at him, perhaps, in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found him in, that is to say, starv-
ing in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he
was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was among; that the
captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of my
nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt him; and
as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very
thankful for it, let us cairy them where we would. The surgeon
represented the case so all'eetionatcly to me that I yielded, and we
took them both on hoard, with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
lieads of sugar which could not be removed or come at; and as the
youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a
writing, obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one
Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the voutli said he was related,
and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he
had belonoing to the deceased widow; which I suppose was not done,
for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is
most probable, lost at sea; being in so disabled a condition, and so far
from any land, that I am of opinion the first storm she met with after-
wards, s_he might founder iii the sea; for she was leaky, and had
damage in her hold, when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of 1'.) degrees 32 minutes, and had hitherto
a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first the winds had been
contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind,
weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our vo age; but, to shorten my
story, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the island, on
the 0th of April, 1695. It was with no small dilliculty that 1 found
the place; for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south
and east side of the island, coming from the Brazils, so now, coming
in between the main and the island, and having no chart for the
coast nor any land-mark, 1 did not know it when I saw it, or know
whether I saw it or not.

We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oronooquc, but none for my
purpose; only this Ilearned by my coasting the shore, that I was
under one great mistake before, viz., that the continent which I
thought I saw from the island I lived in, was really no continent,
but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to
the other side of the extended mouth of that great river; and that
the savages who came to my island were not properly those which we
call Cari bees, but islanders, .and other barbarians of the same kind,
who inhabited nearer to our Sldc than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no urpose- some
I found were inhabited, and some were not: on one 0 them I found
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but, 5 cakin
with them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hardI) , an
came thither to make salt, and to catch some pearl-mussels if, they
could; but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
farther north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees: .

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship,
sometimes With the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had found a con-
venient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will, at

length 1 came fair on the south side of my island, and presently

knew the very countenance of the Place: so I brought the ship

side to an anchor, broadside with the ittlc creek where my old l1ab1ta~
on was.

As soon as I saw the lace, I called for Fridav, and asked him if he
knew where he was? le looked about a little, and presently clap-
ping his hands, cried, "0 es, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there!" pointing to
our old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow '
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to 3mm
ashore to the lace.

" Well, Fri ay," says I, " do you think we shall find anybody here or
no P and do you think we shall see your father?" The fellow stood
mute as a stock a good while; but when I named his father, the poor
affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears run
down his face vcry plentifully. " What is the matter, Friday?" sfiys
I; "are you troubled because you may see your father?"--" 0,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see him more: no never more
see him again." "Why so," said 1, "Friday? how do you know
that? "--" 0 no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long ago die, long ago; he
much old man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday, you don't know:
but shall we see any one else then?" The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points to the hill just above my old house; and,
trough we lay half a league off, he cries out, " We see, we see yes.
yes, we see much man there, and there, and there." I looked, but I
saw nobody, no, not with a ierspcctive-glass, which was, I suppose,
because 1 could not hit the place; for the fellow was riglit,.as I found
upon inquiry the next day; and there were five or sun men .all
gigctlicr, who stood to look at the ship, not knowmg what to think

us.

As soon as Fridav told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancrent to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after, we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek: so _I immediater
ordered the boat out, takimr Friday with me; and hanging out awhlte
flag, or a flag of truce, went directly on shore taking With me
the young friar I mentioned, to whom Iliad told the story of m
living there and the mamrer of it, and every particular, both of myse
and those I left there, and who was, on that account, extremel
desirous to go with me. We had, besides, about Sixteen men wel
armed, if we had found an new guests there which we did not know
of ; but we had no need 0 weapons. ,

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek - and the first man I fixed my eye upon
was the Spaniard whose life I had saved and whom I knew by his
face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I
ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself; but there was no
keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had spied his
father at a distance, a good way off the Spamards, where, indeed, I
saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he would
have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew
away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would have made
any man shed tears, in spite of the tirmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this )Otll' fellow's joy when he came to his father:
how he embraced him, 'issed him, stroked his face, took him up in
his arms, set him down upon a tree. and lay down by him; then stood
and looked at him, as any one would look at a strange picture, for a
quarter of an hour together; then lay down on t he ground, and st roked
his legs, and kissed them. and then got up again, and stared at him;
one would have thought the fellow hewitehed. But it. would have
made a dog laugh the next day to see how his passion ran out another
way: in the morning, he walked along the shore, with his father,
several hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had been a
lady; and every now and then he. would come to the boat to fetch
something or other for him. either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit
cake, or something or other that was good. in the afternoon, his
frolics rant another way ; for then he would set the old man down upon
the ground and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures
and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would be talking to
him, and telling him one story or other of his travels, and of what had
happened to him abroad, to divert him. ln short, if the same filial
affection was to be found in Christians to their parents, in our part of
the world, one would be tempted to say, there would hardly have been
anv need of the fifth commandment.

But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It. would be
needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I
knew very well, was he whose life 1 had saved; he came towards the
boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag of trace also; and he
not only did not know me at first, hut he had no thoughts, no notion
of its being me that was come, till 1 Spoke to him. " Seignior," said
I, in Portuguese, "do you not know me ? " At which he spoke not a
word, but giving his musket to the man that was with him, threw his
arms abroad, saying something in Spanish that 1 did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable
not to know that face again that he had once seen as if an angel
from Heaven, sent to save his life: he said abundance of very hand-
some things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then
beckoning to the person that attended him bade him go and call out
his comrades. no then asked me a 1 would walk to my old habit a-
tion, where he would give me possession of my own house again.
and where I should see they had made but mean improvements: so I
walked alonn' with him; but, alas! I could no more find the place
than if 1 had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posmon, so thick and close to one another,
and in ten years' time they were grown so big, that in short, the
place was inaccessible, except by such windings mid blind ways as
they themselves onlv, who made them, could find.

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was need enough of it,'when they had
given me an account how they had assed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after t ey had the misfortune to find
that I was gone. He told me he could not but have some satisfac-
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good
ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong
persuasion that one time or other he should see me again: but
nothing that ever hefel him in his life, he said, was so sur rising and
atllicting to him at first as the disa ipointmcnt he was unc er when he
came back to the island and found i was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their nuuiber was so small: " and," says he, " had they been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory-" and with
that he crossed himself on the breast. " But, sir," says he, " I hope
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by neces-
sity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, and
make them our subjects as ther would not be content with being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered:
I was afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing troubled me at
my artiug from the island but that they were not come back that I
1mg it have put them in possession of everything first, and left the
others in a state of subjection, as they deserved; but if they had
reduced them to it, 1 was very glad, and should be very far from find-
ing any fault with it: for I knew they were a parcel of refractory,
ungovcrned villains, and were tit for any manner of mischief.

While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven more. In the dress they were in it was
impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all clear,
both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and pomting to
them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe them
lives to you; " and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who 1 was; upon which they all came up, one by one, not
as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and the hke, but
really as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch
or (great conqueror: their behaviour was, to the last degree obhoino'
an courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravrty, which
very well became them; and, in short, they had somuchmore man-
ners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their eivrhties, much
less how to return them in kind. .

The history of their coming to and conduct in, the island, after mg
going away, is so very remarkabfe, and has so many incidents, wmc
the former part of my relation will help to understand, and which
will, in most of the particulars, refer to the account I have already
g1ven,that I cannot but commit them, with great dehght, to the
reading of those that come after me. . ,

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relatlon 1n the firstIper;
son, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand "said _s,
and " said he's" and " he told me's," and " I told lum's," and the hke;
but I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can ather them
out of my memory, from what they related to me, and rom what I
met with in my conversing with them, and With the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as mtelhgibly as I can, I must
go back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and in which
the persons were of whom I am to speak. And first, it is necessary
to repeat that I had sent away Friday's father and. the Spaniard (the
two whose lives I had rescued from the savages) in a large canoe to
the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spamard's com-
panions that he left behind him, in order to save them from the hke
calamity that he had been in, and in order to succour them for the
present: and that, if possible, we might together find some way for
our deliverance afterwards.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the
least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had
twenty years before ---much less had I any foreknowledge of what
afterwards happened, 1 mean, of an English ship coming on shore
there to fetch me off; and it could not be but a verv great surprise
to them, when they came back, not only to find that l was gone but
to find three strangers left on the Spot, possessed of all that Ihad
left behind me, which would otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired the Spaniard
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his coun-
trymen with the boat, when Isent him to fetch them over. He told me
there was little variety in that art, for nothing remarkable liap encd
to them on the way, having ha very calm weather, and a smoot 1 sea.
As for his countrymen it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man among
them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in haying
been dead some time) : they were, he said, the more surprised to see
him, because they knew tiat he was fallen into the hands of the
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all
the. rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the story of his
deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying them
away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonishment he said,
was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who
he was, and the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when
he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and provisions, that
he brought them for. their Journey or voyage, they were restored to
themselves, took a gust share of the joy of their deliverance, and
immediately repared to come away with him.

Their first usmess was to get canoes : and in this they were obliged
not_ to stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon
their friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas,
on pretence of gomg out.a fishing, or for p easure. In these they
came away the next morning. It seems they wanted no time to get
themselves ready; for they had no bagg cre, neither clothes, nor pro-
vismns, nor anything in the world but what they had on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.

They were in all three_weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occaSion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in
the other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of the
most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable Villains behind
me, that any man could desire to meet with; to the poor Spaniards'
great grief and disappomtment, you may be sure. .

The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them promions,
and other relief, as _I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long paper of directions which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for managing every part of m
life there; the way I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted
my corn; howl cured my Opes, made in pots, and, in a word,
everything I did; all this emg written. own they gave to the
Spaniards (two of them understood Enghsh well enougi): nor did
they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards With anything else, for
they agreed very well for some time. They ve them an equal
admissmn into the house, or. cave, and they egan to live very
sociabl ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen retty much of my
metho s, and Friday's father together, managed their affairs; but
as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island,
shoot parrots, and catch. tortOises; and when they came home at
night, the Spaniards rov1ded their suppers for them.

The Spamards wou d have been satisfied With this, had the others
but let them alone- which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long; but, hke the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let _the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth
relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began with
all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined,----without reason,
without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common
sense: and though, it is true, the first relation of it came from the
Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet when I
came to examine the fellows, theypould not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this art, I must supply
a defect in my fonner relation; and this was, I orgot to set down,
among the rest- that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board of our ship, which Iwas
once afraid would have turned to a second mutiny; .nor was it
appeased till the captain, rousmg up his courage, and taking us all to
his assistance, parted them by force, and, making two of the most
refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to Eng-
land, and have them hanged there for niutiny,_and runmng away
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship ;. and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest, that the captam only gave them good
words for the present, till they should come to some Enghsh port,
and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for_ their
lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us With it;
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed .for a great man
among them, should go down with the. mate, and satisfy the men, and
tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had done for the time past should be pardoned.
So I went, and after passing my honour's word to them, they
appeared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men that were
in irons to be released and forgiven. .

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling calm next morning we found that our two men
who had been laid in irons, had stolen each of them a musket, and
some other wea ons (whatpowder or shot they had we knew not)
and had taken t ie ship'spmnace, which was not yet haled up, an
run away with her to their companions in roguery on shore. As soon
as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve men
and the mate, and away they went to seek the rogues; .but they could
neither find them or any of the. rest, for they all fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in 'ustiee to their roguery, to have destroyed their lante-
tions, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and left t em to
shift without it; but havingno orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he fonnd it, and, bringing the pinnace away, came on board
without them. .These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than they, that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned the two
new comers out. of doors to shiit for themselves, and would have
nothing to do With them; nor could they, for a. good while, be per-
suaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not
yet come. . _

When the Spamards came first on shore, the busmess began to
go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English

rutes to have taken in their countrymen again, that, as they said,
they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it: so the
two poor fellows. lived by themselves; and finding nothing but
industry and application would make them live comfortablv, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little more
to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always landed on
the east arts of the island.

Here t iey built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazmes and stores in; and the Spaniards having 0riven
them some corn for seed, and some of the peas which 1 had left t em,
they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I had set for them
all, and began to live Pl'Ftt-V well. Their first crop of corn was on
the ground; and thong i it was but a. little bit of land which they had
dug up at first,liav1ng had but a little time, yet it was enough to
reheve them, and find them mth bread and other eat bles; an one
of the fellows bemgthe cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at
making 501$: puddings. and such other preparations as the rice,
andi the m' ", and such little flesh as they got, furnished him
to 0.

They were going on in this little thriving position when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour and to
insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs: that the governor, meamng me, had given them the os-
session of it, and nobody else had any right to it ; and that t ey
should build no h0uses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent
or t em.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent thev demanded- and one of
them merrily said, it they were the ground-landlords, he hoped if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, the
would, accordmg to the custom of landlords grant a long lease: an
desired they would get_a scrivener to draw the wntings. One of the
three, cursmg and raging, told them they should see they were not
injest; and gomg to a little PS13.03 at a distance, where the honest
men had made a fire to dress t err v1ctuals, he takes a_ firebrand, and
claps it to the outSIde of their hut, and. very fairly set it on fire; and
it would have been all burned down in a few minutes, if one of the
two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away and trod the fire out
with his feet, and that not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at_the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon him, wrth a pole he had in his hand: and
had not the man avoided the blow overy mmbly, and run into the hut,
he had ended his days at once. HIS comrade, seemg the danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both out
with their muskets, and the man that was first struckat with the
pole, knocked the fellow down that began the quarrel With the stock
of his musket, and that before the other two could come to help
him; and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood together,
and reisfentmg the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
stan o . '

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two honest
men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot, they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seemg him so resolute, it brought
them to a tiarley, and they consented to take their wounded man wrth
them and e one: and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
sufficiently wit ) the blow. However thev were much in the wrong,
since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm them effec-
tually, as they might have done, and have gone immediately to the
Spamards, and given them an account how the rogues had treated
them; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every
dav gave them some intimation that they did so.

But not. to crowd th1s&)art with an account of the lesser part of
the roguenes, such as trea ing down their corn; shootmo three young
kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up tame for
their store; and, in a word, plaguing them night and dagm this
manner- it forced the two men to such. a desperation, t_ at they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair op or-
tumtv. In order to do this, they resolved to go to the castle, as t ey
called it (that was my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play: so they got

, up 1n the morning before day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen by their names telling a Spaniard, that answered, that
the wanted to speak With t em. .

It, happened that the day before, two of the Spamards, having been
in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for distinc-
tion, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint to
the Spaniards of the barbarous us o'e they had met With from their
three countrymen, and how the ad ruined their plantation, and
destil'gfied their corn that the ha. laboured so hard to brma forward
and ' ed the mileli-goat an their three kids, which was all they had
provided for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, mean.
mg the Spaniards, did not assxst them again they should be starved.
When the Spaniards came home at mght, and they were all at supper,
one of them took the freedom to reprove the three Enolishmen,
thouOh in very gentle and. mannerl terms, and. asked them how they
could be so cruel, they being ha ess, inofi'enswe fellows: that they
were utting themselves in a way to subSISt. by their labour, and that
it h cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfec<<
tion as they were then in. .

One of the Envhshmen returned very briskly, " What had they to
do there? that they came on shore without leave; and that they
should not lant or build upon . the island; it was none of their
ground." " Vhy," says the Spaniard very calmly " Seignior Inolese,
they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a rough-them)
tarpauling, " They might starve, they should not plant nor build in that
place." " But what must they do then, seignior '2' " said the Spamard.
Another of the brutes returned, " Do? they should be servants, and
work for them." " But how can youoexpect that of them?" says
the Spamard; "they are not bought With your money: you have no
rioht to make them servants." The Englishman answered, " The
island was theirs; the governor had given it to them, and no man
had anything to do there but themselves ;" and With that swore by
his Maker that they would go and burn all their new uts; they
should build none upon their land. " Why, seignior," says the
Spaniard, " by the same rule, we must be your servants too." "Ay,"
says the bold dog, " and so you shall too, before we have done with
vou ;" mizgin'r two or three oaths int c pro er intervals of his speech.
The Spamard onlysmilcd at that, and ma c him no answer. How-
ever, this httlc discourse had heated them; and starting up,.one
says to the other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins)
" Come Jack, let's go, and have t'othcr brush with them; we'll
demolish their castle, l'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony

in our dominions." .

Upon this, they went all trooping away, with every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when
opportunity ofl'ercd; but the Sfamards, it seems, did not so er-
i'ectly understand them as to 'now all the articulars, only t rat,
in general, they threatened them hard for t ' g the two English-
men's part. . . .
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evemng

the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wander
about the countrycelpart of the ni ht, and then lying down in the film
which I used to my bower, t ey were weary, and overslept t em-
selves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midni ht,
and so to take the two 320; men when they were aslee , and as t ey
acknowledged afterwar , mtended to set fire to their uts while they
were in them, and either burn them there, or murder them as they
came out. As malice seldom sleep: very sound, it was very strange
thev should not have been kept awa e. .

However. as the two men ad also a desrgn uponthem, as I have
said, .though a much fairer one .than that of burmng and murder-
ing it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up
lint gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their

11 3.

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade, " Ida, Jack,
here's the nest, but the birds are flown." They mused awhile, to
think what should be the occasion of their being one abroad so soon,
and suggested presently that the Spamards ha given them notice
of 1t; and With that they shook hands, and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as the had made
this bloody bargain, the fell to work With the poor men's abltation;
they did not set fire in eed, to anything, but they pulled down both
their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb that the left not the
least stick standing, or scarce any sr on the groun. where the
stood; they tore all their little collecte household stufi' 1n pieces, an
threw everythmo about in such a manner, that the poor men afterwards
found some of their things a mile off their habitation. When they
had done this, they dpulled up all the young trees winch the poor men
had planted; pulle up an mclosure they had made to secure their
cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and dplundered everything
as completely as a horde of .Tartars would have one.

The two men were, at this Juncture gone to find them out, and had
resolved to fight them wherever they ad been, though they were but
two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them: for they were all very stout, resolute fellows,
to give them their due.

ut Provrdence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another,
when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, ._
when the two went back to find them, the three were come to the
old habitation again: we shall see their different conduct resently.
When the three came back like furious creatures, fiushe _w1th the
rage which the work they had been about had put them mto, they
came 11 to the Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of see and bravado; and one of them steppmg up to one of the
Spamards, as if they had been a con leof boys at play, takes hold of
his hat as it was upon his head, an gmng it a tw1rl about, fleermafi
1n his face, says to bu? " And you, Seigmor Jack Spaniard, sh
have the same sauce ' you do not mend your manners." The
Spamard, who, thou h a quiet, civil man, was as brave a .man as
could be, and, wrt a strong, well-made man, looked at hnn for a

Q
good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand, step ed gravely
up to him, and, With one blow of his fist, knocked him own, as an
ex is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the _rogues, as inso-
lent as the first, fired lns pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he
missed his body, indeed for the bullets went through his hair, but
one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in
a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the mzui who had fired at him, when the
rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling to him
not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their
arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began
to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their
arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was between
them and the other two Englishmen. and that it would be the best
method they could take to keep them from killing one another, told them
they would do them no harm; and if they would live peaceably, they
would be very willing to assist and associate with them as they did
before; but that they could not think of giving them their arms again,
while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their own
cormtrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them their
servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmcn, threatening what they would do, though
they had no tire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they oti'ered any in'ury to
their plantation or cattle, for it' they did, they would shoot t em as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. How-
ever, this was t'ar from cooling them, but away they went, raging
and swearing like t'urics of he . As soon as they were gone, the
two men came back, in )assion and rage enough also, though of
another kind; for having cen at their plantation, and finding it all
demolished and destrovcd, as above, it will easily be supposed they
had provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs; 'and it was
strange enough to find that three men should thus bully mneteen, and
receive no punishment at all. .

.The S aniards, indeed, despised them, and es ecially, having thus.
disarme them, made light ofthelr threatenings; ut the two English--
men resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it
cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and
told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps
kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their. overnor,
" we. Will endeavour to make them do you Justice, if you \ leave it
to us: for there is no doubt but they will cometo us again, when
their passion is over, being not able to subSist Without our assistance :'
we promise you to make no peace With them, without havmg a. full.
satisfaction for you; and, _upon this condition, we hope you Will pro-
mise to use no violence With them,.other than in our own defence."
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwar , and with eat
reluctance; but the Spaniards protested that they did it on] to ee
them from bloodshed, and to make them all easy at last. " 'or," sad
they, " we are not so many of us; here is room enough for us all, and
it is a great pity that we should not beall good friends." At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue. of the thing, living for'
some davs with the Spaniards; for their own habitation was
destroyed. . _

In about five da '5' time, the three vagrants, tired mtll wandering",
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefl lived on turtles' eggs.
allthat while, came back to the grove; an finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have .said, was the governor, and two more mtli him,.
walking by the Side of the creek, they came up in a ycry submiss1_ve,._
humble manner, and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so-.
unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very grossly to them (the
Spaniards), that the could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Eng ishmen and the rest; but, however, they would
go to them and discourse about it, and they should know in half an
heur. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they. begged
they would send them out some bread in the mean time, which they
did; sending, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
bOIlthparl'Ot, which they ate very heartily, for they Were hungry
enoug .

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long;
debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them with the ruin-
ot all their labour, and a design to murder t icm; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole.
theSpauiards acted the moderators between them; and as they had'
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were"
nakednnd unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their lellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of larger'
dimcnsmns than they were before; to fence their ground again where-
they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those-
pal-ed up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had"
smiled it, and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state as
they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the
season tor the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not being
posmble to be recovered. ' .

Well, they submitted to all this- and as they had plen of '
prov1sions given them all the while, they grew ve orderl , an the
whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeab y toget er again-'
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, '
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased: however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if ' they

Q2
would but live sociably and friendlg' together, and study the good of

the whole plantation, they would e content to work for them, and

let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased: and thus, haying

lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave

{him arms again, and gave them hberty to go abroad With them as
e ore.

It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, before the ungrateful creatures began to be as msolent and
troublesome as ever: Dbut, however, an accident lfifipened resently
upon this, which endangered the safety of them ; and t ey were
0 hge_d to lay by all private resentments, and look to the preservation

of their lives. . .

It happened one night that theOSpamsh governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose hve I had saved, who was now the
captamhor leader, or vemor of the rest, found himself very uneasy
1n the moht, and coul b{ no means get any sleep: he was perfectly
well in body, as he to d me the story, only found his thoughts
tumultuous - his mind ran u on men fighting and kilhng one anotlier,
but he was broad awake, an could not by any means get any sleep;
in short, he lay _a great while; but growmg more and more uneasy,
he_resolved to use. As they lay, being so many of them, on at-
skms laid thick upon such couches and ads as the .made for t em-
selves, and not in hammocks and ship eds as I d, who was but
one, so they had httle to do when they were Willin to rise, but to

t.upon their feet, and, perhaps, ut on a coat, sue as it was, and

_ 't eir ps, and they were rea y for going an way that their
jthoug ts guided them. Being thus gout up, he ooked out; but,
being dark, he could see httle or not g; and, besides, the trees

'Whlell I had planted, as in my former account is described, and which
'- were now own tall, intercepted his Sight so that he could only

look 11 , an see that it was a clear starhght night, and, hearing no

nmse e returned and laid him down again: but it was allpne; he
could not sleep, nor could he com ose himself to anything hke rest;
bllllt ins thoughts were to the last egree uneasy, and he knew not for

w a .

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, oing
out, and coming in, another of them walked, and, calling aske who
it was that was up. The governor told him how it had been With
him. "_ Say ou so 1"" says the other. Spaniard; " such things are not
to be shghte , I assure you- there is certain] some mischief work-
ing near us :" and presently lie asked him, " ere are the English.
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough." It
seems the Spamards had kept possessron of the main apartment, and
had made a place for the three Enihshmen, who since their last
mutiny, were alwa s quartered by t. emselves, and could not come
at the rest. " We ," says the Spaniard, "there is something in it,
I am ersuaded, from my own experience. . I am satisfied our spmts
embodied have a converse with, .and receive. intelligence from, the
spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the irmSible world; and this
friendly notice is ven for our advantage, if we knew how to make

use of it. Come, ' says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if
we find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, ["11 tell you a
story to the purpose, that shall 00an you of the Justice of my
proposmg i .'

In a word, they went eut, to go up to the top of the hill, where
I used to go; but they hemg strong, and a good company not alone
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it u after them, to go up a second stage to the t0p, but were
going roun. thronih the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when they
were surprised wit seeing. a hght as of fire, a very little way off from
them, and hearing the v01ces of men--not of one or two, but of a
great number. . .

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landino on the
island, it was my constant care to_ prevent them making the least
discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any woman they came to know it, they felt it so effectually that
they that got away were scarceable to give any account of it; for
we disappeared as soon as posSible; nor did ever any that had seen
me escape to tell any. one else, exce t it was the three savages in our
last encounter who Jum ed into t e boat; of whom, I mentioned,
I was afraid they shoul go home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence of the escape of those men that so eat a
number came now together, or whether they came imorant y, and
by acc1dent, on their usual bloody errand, he Spamards could not, it
seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have conceale themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much. less to have let the savages have seen that there were any
inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen upon them so effectually as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only have
beeub getting in between them_ and their boats: but this presence
of mm was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity
for a great while. .

We neednot doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised With this Sight, ran baek immediately and raised their fellows

'ving them an aceount of the imminent danger they were all in, and
t ey again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close Within where they were, but they must all
run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough and they had
ogmrtumty enough, for some hours, to view them by the hght of
t ee fires they had made at a distance from one another; what they
were domg they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not.
For, first, the enemy were_too many; and, secondly, the did not
keep together, but were div1ded into several parties, an were on
shore in several places. . . .

The Spamards were in no small consternation at this sight; an as
the found that the fellows ran stragghng all over the shore, ey
ma. e no .doubt but, first or last, some of them would cho in upon
their habitation, or upon some other place where they wo d see the
tokenpf inhabitants; and they were in great enigleinty also for fear
of their flock of goats, which would have been t e less thanstarvmg
them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first thing they
resolved upon was to despateh three men away before it was light,
two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away. to
the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to dnve
them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages
all together in one body and at a distance from their canoes, they
resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them; but that could not be obtained; for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards, were
of two difi'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating their brains in considering their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something concern-
ing them,--as what they came for, what they intended to do, and the
like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping himself quite
naked, as most of the savages were, away he went. After he had
been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he had been among
them undiscovered-that he found they were two parties, and of
two several nations, who had war with one another, and had a great
battle in their own country; and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by more chance, landed all on
the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and making merry,
but their coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their
mirth,--that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so
near, that he believed they would light again as soon as daylight
began to appear; but he did not )Cl'CClVC that. they had anv notion
of anybody being on the island at themselves. He had hardly
made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, b the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were engage in a
bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but he still, and the
saw ges would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
wo d go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible
to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity was so
importunatc upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see
the battle; however, they used some caution, too; they did not
go eienly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther into the
woo s, and placed themselves to advantage, where they might
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen
by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall find
hereafter.

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe the Englishmen,
one of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of
great bravery, of mvmcrble spirits, and of great pohey in guiding the

ht. The battle they said, eld two hours before they could guess
w 'eh party would be eaten; but then that party which was nearest
our people's habitation began to appear weakest, and after some time
more, some of them began to fly; and this put our men again into a
great consternation, lest any one of those that fled should run into
the grove betore their dwellincr for shelter, and thereby involuntarily
discover the place; and that. by consequence, the pursuers would do
the like in searchof them. Upon this, they resolved that they would
stand armed Within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they
resolved to sally out over the wall and kill them, so that, if possible,
not one should return to give an account of it; they ordered also that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with
the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of
raising an alarm by the noise.

As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army fled for life,
and crossing'the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least
knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood for
shelter. The scent they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz., that
the conquerorsliad not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone; upon this, the Sfianiard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to kill t e three fugitives, but sending three men out
by the to of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, an surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes and got off to
sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts,
which they sup osed was by way of triumph--and so the fight ended;
and the same ay, about three o'clock iii the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had the island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
say (res for several years after. .

A ter they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and
viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty men dead
on the spot; some were killed with great long arrows, some of which
were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were killed
with great wooden swords, Sixteen or seventeen of which they found
in the field of battle, and as many bows, mtli a great many arrows.
These swords were strange, great unwieldy things, and they must be
veri stronc' men that used them ; most of those men that were killed
Wit them iad their heads mashed to )ieces, as we may say, or, as we
call it in English, their brains knocked out, and several their arms and
legs broken; so that it is evident they fight With lnCXpI'CSSlblc rage
and fury. We found not one man that was not stone dead, --
for either they stay by their enemy till they have killed him, .or
ghey carry all the wounded men that are not quite dead away With

em. .

This deliverance tamed ourEnglislimen fora great while; the Sight had
filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared temble to the
last degree, especially u on supposing that some time or other flllrilvl
should fall into the han s of those creatures, who would not only
them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle; and
they professed to me that the thoughts of being eatennp like beef
or mutton, thou h it was supposed. it was not to be till they were
dead, had something in it so horrible that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and filled their
minds with such unusual terror, that they were not themselves for
some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of; and for a eat while after they
were tractable, and went about the common usmess of the whole
society_well enough,~--planted, sowed, reape and began to be all
naturalised to the country. But some time ter this they fell into
Eighmsimple measures again, as brought them into a great deal of

ii e.

The had taken three risoners, as I observed; and these three
boing usty, stout young fe ows, they made them_ servants, and tau ht
them to work for them; and as slaves they did well enough; ut
they did not take their measures With them as I did by my man
Frida , viz., to begin with them upon the principle of haying saved
their 'ves, and then instruct them in the rational princi les of hfe,
much less of rehgion, -- civilismg and reducmg them by ind usage
and affectionate _ar ments; but as they ave them their food eve
day so they gave t em their worktop, an kept them fully emploge
in drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that the never (1
them to assist them and fight for them as I had my man day, who
was as true to me as the very flesh ugen. my bones. .

But to come to the family part. emg all now good friends, for
common danger, as 1_sa1d above,.had effectually reconciled them, they
began to cons1der_ their. general circumstances; and the first thing that
came under conSidei-ation was whether, seeing the savages particularl
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote an
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of hvmg and mani-
festly to their advantage, they should not rather move their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place for their safety, and espe-
Cially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after. long debate, it was concluded that they would not
remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, the
thought they might hear from their governor again, meaning me - an
if I s ould send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct
them to that Side, where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone,
and so our supply would go too. But as to their com and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there
was land enough- however, upon second thoughts, they altered one
part of their resolution too, and resolved onl to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn tliere; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved, And one part of prudence
they used, which it was ve well they .did,--that they never trusted
those three savages which t 8 had risoners with knowing anything
of the plantation they had m e in t at valley or of any cattle they
had there, much less of the cave there, whic they kept, in case of
necess1ty as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the two
barrels 0 powder which I had sent them at my coming away. But,
however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they
agreed, that as I_ had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortifica-
tion, and then With a grove of trees. so seeing their safety consisted
entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now fully con-
vmced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more
effectually than before. .For thisaleurpose, as I planted trees, or rather
thrust in stakes, which in time grew up to be trees, for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartments they went on in the
same manner, and filled up the rest of that. whole space of ground
from the trees I had set quite down to the Side of the creek, where,
ae I said, I landed my floats and even into the very ooze where the
tide flowed, not so much. as leavmg any place to land, or any sign that
there had been any landing thereabouts,--these stakes also being of
a wood very forward to grow, as I have noted formerl , they took care
to have them generally much larger and taller than t ose which I had
planted; and as they ew apace, so they planted them so very thick
and close together, t at when. the had been three or four years
grown, there was no piercing With t e eye any cons1derable way into
the plantation; and as for that art which I had planted, the trees
were grown as thick as a man's t. gh, and emong them they placed so
many other short ones, and so thick, that, in a word, It. stood'like a
palisado a quarter of a mile thick, and it.was next to impossrble to
penetrate it, but with a little army to cut it all down,--for a little dog
could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for thes did the same by all the ground to the
right hand and to the left, an round even to the Side of the hill,
leavmo no way, not so much as for themselves to come out but b
the ladder placed up to the Side of the hill, and then lifted lie, an
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the adder
was taken down, nothing but what had wm or Witchcraft to assist
it could come at them. This was excellent y well contrived; nor was
it less than what the afterwards found common for, which served to
convince me that as human prudence. has the authority of Prondence
to justify it, so it has doubtless the directionof Providence to set it to
work ; and if we listened carefully to the veice of it, I am persuaded
we imght prevent many of the disasters which our lives are now, by
our own negligence, subjected to.. . .

I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more Visits from the savages. They had,
indeed, an alarm given them one mormng, which. put them into a
great consternation; for, some of the Spaniards being out earl one
morning on the west side, or rather end,.of the island (whic was
that end where I never went, for fear of bemv diseovered), they were
surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of? Indians ust coming on
shore. The made the best of their way home in urarfi enough;
and giving t e alarm to their comrades, they kept close that day
and the next, going out only at night to make their observation;
but the had the good luck to be mistaken ;. for wherever the savages
went, they did not land that time on the island, but pursued some
other deSign. . . ,

And now they had another had with .the three Enghshmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three
slaves, whom I mentioned they had take because the fellowhad not
done something right which he bid him 0, and seemed a little un-
'tmcteblevin his showing him, drew a hatchet out of afrog~belt, in which
he wore It byhis side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to .correct
:him, but'to klll him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him

've the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at

' head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut
the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and entreatmo' him not to
murder the poor man, placed himself between him and the savage to
prevent the mischief. The fellow being enraged the more at this,
struck at the S aniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve
him as he inten ed to serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiv-
ing, avorded the blow, and wrth a shovel which he had in his hand (for
they were all working in the field-about their corn land) knocked the
brute down. Another of the Englishmen, running at the same tune to
help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards
more came in to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon
them. They had none of them any fire-arms or any other wea ons
but hatchets and other tools, except this third Englishman; he ha one
of my rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards,
.and wounded themboth. This frav set the whole family in an uproar,
and more help coming in, they took the three Englishmen risoners.
The next questionwas, what should be done with them? hey had
been so often mutmous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal,_they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and cared not what hurt
gay did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live wrth

em.

The S aniard who was governor told them, in so many words,
that if t ey had been of his own country, he would have hanged
them; for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and
those who were dangerous to the society ought to be ex elled out of
it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to t 1c generous
=km_dness of an Englishman that they all owed their prescrvat ion and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and would
leaye them to the Judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
then countrymen. _

Qne ot the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they
desn'ed it might not be left to them --" For," says he, "I am sure
we ought to sentence them to the gallows; " and with that he gives
an account how thl Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have
all the five Englishmen 30m together, and murder all the Spaniards
when they were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins,
"How, Seigmor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to sav to that?" The hardened Villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true, and swore .they would do it still before the
had done With them. "W ell, but Sexgnior Atkins," says the Spaniar
"what have we done to you that you will kill us? And what would
you get by killing us? And whatmust we do to prevent your killing
us? Must we kill you, or you kill .us? Why will you put us to
the necessrty of .thls, Seigmor Atkins ? " says the Spamard very
calmly, and smiling. Seigmor Atkins was in such a rage at theJOBINBON 03118013. 235

.Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapon near lum, it was thought he would
have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the mid e of all the
company. This hair-brain carriage obhrred them to consider seriously
what was to be done; the two zillnglisthen, and the S aniard who
saved the poor savage, were of the opmion that they shorfid hang one
of the three, for an example to the rest, and that particularly it s ould
be he that had twrce attempted to commit murder with his hatchet;
and, indeed, there was some reason to believe he had done it, for the
poor savage was In such a miserable condition with the wound he had
received that 1t was thought he could not live. But the governor
Spaniard still said no; it was an Englishman that had saved all their
lives, and he would never consent to put an Englishman to death,
though he had murdered half of them,----nay, he said if he had been
kille hnnself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak, it should
be that they should pardon him. _

This was so posxtively insrsted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gaiusaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
1t; but then it was to be considered .what should be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they deSIgned; for all agreed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving the seeiety from
danger. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society an
left to live where they would and how they would .b themselves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or Englis , should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anything to do With
them: that the should be forbid to come wrthin a certain distance
of the. place w 161'0 the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, bum, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they
could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sen-
tence, considered a little upon it; and turning to the two honest
Englishmen, said, "Hold; on must reflect that it will be long ere
they can raise com and eatt e of their own, and they must not starve;
we must therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be
added, that they should have a proportion of corn given them to last
them eight months, and for seed to sow, bv which time they nnght
be supposed to raise some of their 0 ' that they should have six
much-goats, four he-goats, and six kids given t em, as well for
present subsistence as for a store; and that they should have tools
given them for their work in the fields, such as srx hatchets, an adzo,
a saw, and the like; but they should have none of these tools or
growsions, unless they would swear solemnly that they would not
Eurt 11211; injure any of the Spaniards wrth them, or of their fellow

no men.

ffhus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory. as
neither content to . away nor to stay; but, as there was no remegjv
they went, preten g to go and choose a place. where they wo d
settle themselves; and some prov1s10ns were given them, but no
weapons. .

A at four or five days after, they came in for some Victuals,
and gave the overnor an account where they ad pitched their tents,
and marked-t emselves out a habitation and plantation; and it was a
very convement Rhee, indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N.E.,
much about the p e where I prOVidentially landed in my first voyage,
when I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows whither, in my foohsh
attempt to sail round the island.

Here they built themselves .two handsome huts, and contrived them
in a manner hke my first habitation, being close under the side of a
hill, having some trees growmg already on three Sides of it so that
by planting others, it would be very easily covered from the sight,
unless narrowly searched_for. They desued some dried goat-skms,
for beds and covering, which were iiven them; andupon givino their
words that they would not distur the rest, or injure any of their
plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could
spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowmg; and, in a word,
anvthmg the wanted, except arms and ammunition.

They live in this separate condition about Six months, and had
got in their first harvest thouOh .the quantity was but small, the
parcel .of land they had plantedbbemg but little- for, indeed, having
all their plantation to form, they had a great de of work upon their
hands; and when they came to_make boards and pots, and such
things, they were quite put of their element, and coul make nothing
of it: and when the rainy season came on, for 'want of a cave in the
earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger
of s 011mg; and this humbled them muc : so the came and begged
the paniards to help them, which the very rea y did; and in four
days worked .a great hole in the side 0 the hill for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things from therain; but it was a cor

lace at best, compared to mine, and especially as mine was t en,
or the Spamards had greatly enlarged it, and made several new
apartments in it. . .

About three quarters of a year after this separation a new frolic
took these rogues, which together with the former vilian they had
committed, _brought mischief enough upon them, and ha ve near
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new assoc1ates eg
it seems, to beweary 9f the laborious hfe they led, and that without
hope of bettering their circumstances: and a whim took them that
they would make a v9 a e to the continent, from whence the savages -
came, and wouldtry t _ey could seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and brmw them home, so as to make them do the
laborious part of the work or them.

The pro pot was not so preposterous, if they had one no farther.
But the .d nothing, andfproposed nothing, but ha either mischief
in the eSign, or mischie in the event. And if I may give my
opinion, they seemed to be under a blast .from Heaven; for if we
W111 not allow a VISIble curse to nursue VlSlble crimes. how shall we
reconcile the events of things with .the Divine justice? Itowas cer.
tainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as the
piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave because he did
not, or erhaps could not, understand to. do what he directed. and to
wound ' in such a manner as madehim a on ple all his life, and
in a place where .no surgeon or medicme could e had for his cure ;
and what was .5111]. worse, the murderous intent, or, to do justice to
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was; as was
afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder the Spamards
in cold blood, and in their 5 eep.

But I leave observmg and return to the story :--The three
fellows came down to the Spamards one mcmmg, and in ve humble
terms desued to be adimtted to speak With them. The .pamards
very readilyheard what they had to say, which was this :---that
they were tired of hving 1n the manner they did: and that thei
were not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, an
that having no help, they found they should be starved; but if the
Spamards would give them leave to take one of the canoes which
they came over in, and give them arms and ammunition groportioned
to their defence, they would go over to the main an seek their
fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them
with an other rOVisions. .

The pamar were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly. represented to them the certain destruction they were
runmng into; told them they had suffered such hardslnps upon that
very spot that they could, Without any sgmt of prophecy tell them
theTyilwould be starved or murdered; and ade them conSider cf it.

e men rephed audacmusly, they should be starved if they
stayed here, for the could not work, and would not work, and they
could but be starve abroad; and if they were murdered, there was
an end of them ;.the had no Wives or children to cry after them;
and, in short, msrste importunately upon their demand; declaring
the ' would go, whether they gave them any arms or no. .

he Spamards told them, With great kindness, that if they.were
resolved to , they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to efend themselves; and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man
a hatchet, which theSS thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the 0 er; and havmg baked :bread enough to serve
them a_ month, and given them as much goats'tflesh as they could
eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of
fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the canoe for
a vogage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.

T. e boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well. have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather toc big for
them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood-tide with
them, tail did well enough. They had madca mast of a long pole,
and a of four large goat~skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enough. The Spaniards
called after them, " Ban eeyajo ,- " and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more. _

The S anrards were often saying to one anotherhand to the two
honest nghshmen who remamed behind, how quietly and com--
fortably they hved, now these three turbulent fellows were gone. As
for their coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
that could be imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days'
absence, one of theinglishmen, being abroad upon his planting work,
sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, with guns
upon their shoulders. .

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes

frightened and amazed to the governor Spamard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were strangers upon the island, but could
not tell who they were. The Spamard pausmg a while, says to him,
"How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages, to
be sure." " No, no," says the Englishman; "_they are men in clothes,
With arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard, "why are you so
concerned? If they arenot savages, tiey must be friends; for
there is no Christian nation upon earth but Will do us good rather
than harm." _
~ While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them.
They presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another question :--what
could be the matter, and what made them come back again?

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyC/ 0e in a few words ;---that they
reached the land in two days, or something less; but finding the
people alarmed at their coming, and reparing with bows and arrows
to fioht them, they durst not go on 8 mm, but sailed on to the north-
ward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which
they perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the
main, but an island; upon entering that Opening of the sea, they saw
another island on the right hand, north, and several more west - and
being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands
which lay west, and went boldlv on shore: that they found the
people very courteous and friendly to them; and that they gave
several roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and
the women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply them
with anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them
a great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days; and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by Signs, what nations were this wav, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who, as they made known bv signs to them, used to
eat men; but as for themselves, they said, they never ate men or
women, except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they
owned, they made a great. feast, and ate their risoners.

The Enghshmen inquired when they ha had a feast of that
kind; and they told them about two moons ago, poin ' . to the
moon and to two fingers - and that their great king had two undredr
prisoners now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feedifi
them to make them fat. for the next feast. The Enghshmeneeem '
mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking:
them, thought they were desrrous to have some of them to .-
away for their own eating. So they beckonedto them, pointing
to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which was to
signify that the next morning at sunrismg they would bring same:
for them; and, accordingly, the next morning they brought down
five women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen,tm
carry with them on their voyage, Just as we would bring. so many cows:
and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest alfront to the,-
savagc gentry that could be offered them, and what to do with them.
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to accept
of them ; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought them:
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their.
bullets; which, though they did not understand their use, they.
seemed particularly pleased with; and then tying the cor creatures'
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into t e boat for our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they hadi
them, or else they that gave them this noble present would cert '
have expected that they should have gone to work With them, have
killed two or three of them the next mommg, and, perhaps, have:
invited the donors to dinner. But having taken their eave, with all:
the respect and thanks that could well pass between pen 1e, where,
on either side, they understood not one word they coul say, they,
put off with their boat, and came back towards .the first island;
where, when they arrived they set eight of their pnsoners at liberty,
there being too many of them for their occasion. .

"In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them understand;
anything. Nothing they could say to them, or give them or do for
them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They first of.
all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that, espe-
c1aliv the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their throats ;-
for they umnediately concluded they were unbound on purpose to be-
kdled. If they gave them anything to eat, 1t was the same thmg-;.
they then concluded it was for fear they should smk 1n flesh, and so
not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more par-
tlcularly, the party presently concluded it was to see whether he-or.
she was .fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after they had brought
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well,,
Still they expected every day to make a dinner or- supper for their:
new masters. ' . .

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
er Journal of their voyage, the Spamard asked them- where that
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on

shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come 11 to beg

some Victuals for them, they the S aniards) and the ot er two

Englishmen, that is to say, the w ole co ony, resolved to go all down

tth the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's lather With
em.

When they came into the hut, there they sat, all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not take the boat and make their escape; there,
say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men,
lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair hmbs, about
thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two
might be from thirty to forty two more not above four or five-and-
twenty; and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about Sixteen or
seventeen. The women were wellofavoured, agreeable persons, both
in shape and features only tawndy - and two of3 them, had they been

erfect white would have passe for very handsome women, even in

ondon itself, haying pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very
modest behaviour; especially when_ they came afterwards to be
clothed and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was very
mdifi'erent it must he confessed. _

'The Slollt, you maybe sure, was _somethmg uncouth to our Spa.
mards, w 0 were, to give them a ust character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, se ate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met With; and, in particular, of the most
modesty; I say, the s1ght was very uncouth, tosee three naked men
and five naked women, all together bound, and in the most miserable
circumstances that human nature could be supposed to be viz., to be
expecting every moment to be dragged .out, and have their brains
afiked out, and then to be eaten up hke a calf that is killed for a

y.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then if
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came '
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither coul
any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could make,
except one of the women. However, this was enough to answer the
end, which was to satisfythem that the men into whose hands they
were fallen were Christians - that they abhorred eating men or
women; and that they might be sure they would not be killed. As
soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a Joy, and by
such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe; for it
seems they were of several nations. '

The woman who was their .mterpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were Willing to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away to save their lives; at which the
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking u this, and
another that, anything _that lay next, to carry on their 5 oulders, to
intimate they were wfihng to work.

The governor, who found that the having women amo them
would presently be attended With some moonvenience, an might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they intended to do With these women, and how the intended to use
them, whether as servants or_ as Wives? One 0 the Englishmen
answered very boldly and readily, that they would use them as both;
to which the governor said, " I am not gomg to restrain ou from it;
you are your own masters as to that; but this I think is ut just, for
avoidmg disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for
that reason only, v1z.:---That you Will all enoa e, that if any of you
take any of these women as a Wife, that he SSha take but one- and
that havmg taken one, none else shall touch her; for though we
cannot marry; any one of you yet it is but reasonable that, while you
stay here, t e woman any of you takes shall be maintained by the
man that takes her and should be his wrfe; I mean," says he,
" while he continues here, and that none else shall have anything to
do with her." All this appeared so Just, that every one agreed to it
without any difficulty.

Then the Englishman asked the S aniards if they designed to take
any of them? But every one _of t em answered ." N 0:" some of
them said they had wives m S am, and the others did not like women
that were not Christians; an all together declared that they would
not touch one of them: which was an instance of such virtue as I
have not met with in all my travels. On the other hand, to be short,
the five Englishmen took them every one a wife, that'is to say a
temporary Wife; and so they set up a new form of livmggfor the
Spaniards and Friday's father llved In my old habitation, which they
had enlarged exceedingly Within. The three servants which were
taken in the last battle of the savages lived with them: and these
carried on the main part of theeolony, supphed all the rest with
food, and as51sted them m anything as they could, or as they found
necessity required.

But the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not choose the same woman, especially seeing two or
three of them were, Without comparison, more agreeable than the
others: but they took a good way enough to prevent uarrellmg
among themselves; for they set the five women b themse ves in one
of their huts, and the went all into the other ut, and drew lots
among them who sho (1 choose first. .

He that drew to choose first went away b himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetc ed out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first. took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spamards laughed at 1t: but
the fellow considered better than any of them, that 1t was application
andbusmess they were to expectassrstance m, as much as m anythmg
else- and she proved the best wrfe of all the parcel. 4

When the poor women saw themselves set 1.11. a row thus, and
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their conditmn returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now gomg to be
devoure . Accordingly, when the Enghsh sailor came m and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung

n242 3031me causes.

about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affection
as would have rieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was it
possible for the nglishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's father,
who immediately let them know that the five men, who were to fetch
them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives. . .

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a httle
over, the men went to work, and the . Spaniards came and hel ed
them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new ut
or tent for their lodging apart - for those they had already were
crowded with their tools, househo d stuff, and prowsmns. The three
wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer
but both on the north shore of the island, so that.they continued
separated as before; and thus my island was peopled in three places;
and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be built.

And here it is very well worth observmg, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the Wise ends of God's prowdence are in such a
disposition of_ things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the
two worst Wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth
hangin", that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do
themse yes good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful,
and ingenious Wives; not that the first two were bad wives, as_ to
their temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet,
passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives ;. but
my meaning is, the were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious,
or ahke cleanly an neat. ' _

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
afiphcation on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent
i e temper .on the other, that when I came to the place, and new
the severalimprovemcnts, plantings, and management of the several
httle colomes, the two men had so far outgone the three, that there
was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as much ground
laid out for corn as they/wanted, and the reason was, because, accord-
ing to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more
com than they wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the
Elanting, of thefences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to

e seen at first View. .

The two men had innumerable goung trees hlhnted about their
huts, so that, when you came to t e place, not gwas to be seen
but a wood: and though they had tWice had their plantation demo-
lished once by their own countrymen, and once h the enemy, as
shall be shown in. its place, yet they had restore all again, . and
everything was thrivmg and flourishing about them: they had gra es
planted in order, and managed hke a vineyard, though they {ad
themselves never seen anything of that kind ~ and, by their ood
ordering their Vines, their grapes were as good agames any 9 the
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest
gait of the woods: where, though there was not a natural cave, as I

found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they secured
their Wives and children so as they could never be found; they
having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood which,
as 1 said, grew so readily, made the grove un assable except in
some places, where they climbed up to get over t c outside part, and
then went on by ways of their own .leavmg.

As to the three re rebates, as I Justly call them, though they were
much civflized by t on settlement compared to what they were
before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same oppor-
tunity; yet one of the certain compamons of a profligatc mind never
left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted corn
and made fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, " 1 went by the Vineyard of the slothful, and it was all
overgrown Wltll thorns ;"deg for when the Spaniards came to view their
crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge had
several ga s in it, where the Wild goats had got in and eaten up the
corn; per aps here and there a'dcad bush was crammed in, to stop
them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-door
after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the colony
of the other two, there was the very face 0 industry and success
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn
or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other hand verified
Solomon's words in another place, f' that the diliwent hand maketh
rich ;" for evei 'thing grew and thrived, and they had plenty within
and without; t ey ha more tame cattle than the others, more
utensils and necessaries Withm doors, and yet more pleasure and
diverSion too.

.It.is true, the wives of the three were .vcry handy and cleanly
Within doors; and havmg learned the English ways of dressmg an
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, _was a
cook's mat-e on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
ver nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought to
un erstand it; but then the husband, who as I say, had been cook's
mate, did it himself. But as for the hus ands of the three wives,
they lmtered about, fetched turtles' eggs and caught fish and birds;
in _a word, anything but labour; an they fared accordinvly. The
dihgent lived well and. comfortablv, and the slothful hard and
beggeirly: and so, I beheve, generally speaking, it is all over the
wor .

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or to me; and the origin of the story was
thug--Early one morning, there came on shore five or 511; canoes of
Indians or savages, call fiiem which you lease, and there is no room
to doubt they came upon the old errand o feeding upon their slaves;
but that part was now so familiar to the Spamards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did: but
having been made sens1b1e. by their _ex enence, that their only
busmess was to lie concealed, and that if tiey were not seen by any
of the sav es, they would go off vain quietly, when their busmess
was done, aving, as yet, not the east notion of there any
inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made sens1ble 0 this,
the had nothing to do but give notice to all the three plantations
to eep ~w1thin doors, and not sgow themselves, only placing a

n.
scout in a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea
agam.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that. there
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end the desolation of
almost the whole .colony. After the canoes with the savages were

one 0112, the Spamards eeped abroad again; and some of t em had
t e curiosity to go to t ie place where they had been, to see what
they had been domg. Here, to their eat surprise, they found three
savages left behind, and lying fast as eep upon the. ground. It was
supposed they had either been so gorged With their inhuman feast,
that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep, and would not stirwhen
the others went, or they had wandered into the woods, and did not
come back in time to be taken in. . . .

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this Sight and perfectly
at a loss what to .do. The Spamsh governor, as it ha pened, was
with them, and his adVice was asked, but he rofessed e knew not
what to do. As for slaves, they had enough ready; and as to kill-
ing them, there were none of them inclmed to do. that: the Spaniard
governor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent. blood -
or as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and thepthought they had no just quarrel
agamst them, to take away their ives. And here I must, .m Justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spamsh cruelty
in Mexico and .Pem be what they Will, I never met wrth seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign countr , who were so
umversally modest, temperate, Virtuous, so very good- iumoured, and
so courteous, as these Spamards: and. as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very nature : no mhumamty, no barbarity, no outrageous
passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their
temper and calmness had a peared in their hearing the insufferable
usage of the three Englis men; and their justice and humanity
appeared now in the case of the savages as above. After some con-
s tation, they resolved upon tlus; that they would lie still a while
longer, till, if ossrble these three men might be gone. But then
the governor pamard recollected that the three savages had no
boat; and if they were left to rove about the island, they
would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it - and so
the? should be undone that way. Upon this, they went bac ' again,
an there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to
awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor
fellows were strangely frightened when they were seized upon and
bound; and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered
and eaten: for it seems, those people think all the world does as they
do, eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and
away they carried them. .

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to
their castle, mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the com, 850.; and after-
ward they carried them to the habitation of the two Enghshmen.
Here they were set to work, though it .was not much they had for
them to do - and whether it was by neghgence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one ofthem ran away, and taking to the woods, they could.
never hear of him any more. .

They had good reason to beheve he got home again soon after in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrymv on their revels as usual,
went off in two days' time. This thong .t terrified them exceed-
ingly; for. theyl concluded and that not Without good cause indeedi
that if this fe ow came home safe among his comrades, he woul
certainly 've them an account that there were eople in the
island, an also how few and weak they were; for t s savage, as
observed before, had never been told, and it.was very baggy he had
not, how many1 there were, or where they hved; nor h he ever
seen or heard t e. fire of any of their guns, much less had they shown
him any of their other retired places- such as the cave in the.
leinlik or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and.-
t e e.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence.
of them was, that about two months after this, 511: canoes of savages,
wrth about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowm along
the north Side of the island, where they never used. to come fore,
andlanded, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient lace, about
a mile from the habitation of the two Enghshmen, where t . escaped
man had been kept. As the Spamard governor said had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
them would have escaped: but the case differed now very much,.for two
men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happiness to
discover them about a league off, so that it was above an hour before
they landed; and as they landed a mile from their huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now, havmg . eat reason to
believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they id was to bind
the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought With the women who, it seems, proved very faithful
to them), to lead them, with t cir two Wives, and whatever they
could carry away With them, to their retired places in the woods,
which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two fellows
hand and foot, till they heard farther.

In the next lace, seeing the savages were all come on shore and
that they had cut their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where the milch-cows were kept, and drove t em all out;
leavmg their goats to smgle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that the savages might t ' they were all bred Wild - but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for the went directly to the place. . .

When the two 1poor rightened men had secured their Wives and

oods, they sent t e other slave they had of the three who came With
t e women,_ and who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spamards with all speed, to glive them the alarm, and desrre speedy
help, and, in the meantime, t ey took their arms, and what ammumo
tion they had, and retreated towards the place in the wood where
their Wives. were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might
see if possrble, which way the savages took. _

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their habita-

on and, .m a moment more, could. see all their huts and household
stuff flamm up together, to their great grief and mortification;
for they h a ve great loss, to them irretrievable at least for
some time. The ept their station for a while, till they found the
savages, hke Wll beasts, Spread themselves all over the place, rum-
magmg every way,. and every place they could tlnnk of, msearch of
prey; and in $101113! for t e people, of whom, now, it plainly
apfiared they . intelligence. ' . _

e two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it. was likely some of the Wlld peo le might
come that way, and they might come too many together, t rought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther - believing,
asit afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer
wouldObe together. . .

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part
of .-the woods, and where an _old trunk of a tree stood, which was
hollow andyastly large ' and in this. tree they both toOk their stand-
ing, resolvmo to see there what might offer. They had not stood
there long before two of the savages appeared running directly that
way, as 1t they already had notice where they stood, an_ were coming
up to attack them; and a httle way farther they espied three more
vcommg after then}, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way; besrdes which, they .saw seven or eight more at a distance,
.runmng another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, hke sports-
- men heating for their game._

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a very short debate
With themselves they cons1dered, that if the savages ranged the
-country_thus before helg came, they might perhaps find out their
retreat in the woods, an. then all would be lost; so they resolved to
:stand them there; and if thev were too many to deal with, then they
would get u to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not
'to defend t cmselves, fire excepted, as lontr as their ammunition
lasted, though all the savages that were lande , which was near fifty,
were to attack them. .

Havmg resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle
part , by winch the two and the five that followed would be sepa-
rate ; at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, unless
'they should Spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. The
first two savages confirmed them also in this regulation, b turn-
mg a httle from them towards another part of .t 6 wood: ut the
three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come
so straight towards them, they resolved to take them in a line as
they came: and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps theaoamsox CRUSOB. 247'?

first shot might hit them all three - for which urpose the man who
was to fire ut three. or four small bullets into llS piece; and havin '
a fair loop- ole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he too
a sure aim without being seen, waiting tlll they were within about
thirtv ards of the tree, so that he could not 'miss.

Wh' e they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, 1f possrble, he should. not escape, though they should both fire:
so the other stood ready w1th his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to_miss 1113 am; for as the sav o'es kept near one
another, a little behind in a line, he. fired, and lit two of them
directly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head;
the second which was the runawa Indian, was shot through the
body and fell, but was not quite ead; and the third had a little
scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through
the body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened, though i
not so much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaimng and yelhng
1n a hldeous manner. . . . .

The five that were behind more frightened wrth the nmse than
sensrble of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes ratthng
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all iarts, scream-
ing, and. every sort makmo' a different norse, accor mg to then:
kind; just as 1t was when f fired the first gun that perhaps was
ever shot off in the island. _ _

However, all being silent again, .and they not knowmtr what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till .they came to the place where
their companions lay in a condition miserable enough: .and here the
poor ignorant creatures not senSIble that they were Wltllln reach of
the same mischief, stood all together over the wounded man, talking,
and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him, how he came to be hurt:
and who it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash of. fire
first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, had killed
those two and wounded him - this, I say, is rational; for nothing] 1s
more certain than that as t ev saw no man near them, so they ad
never heard a gun 1n all their lives nor so much as heard of a gun;
neither knew they anything of killing and woundin<r at a. distance
with fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasonahlv believe they
would not have stood so unconcerned to view the fate of their fellows,
without some apprehensrons of their own. . ,

Our two men though, as they confessed to me, 1t gnevedthem to
be obliged to kill so many poor creatures who at the same tlme, had:
no notion of their danger; get, having them all thus m their ower,
and the first having loade his piece again, resolved to let y both
together among them; and sinvlmg out, by agreement, which to aim
at, they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded, four.of
them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt, fell With
the rest- so that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they

'

had killed them all.
The belief that the sav es were all killed made our two men come
boldly out from the tree efore they had charged their guns, which
was a wrong step; and they were under some surpnse when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of them ahve, and of
them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obhged them to
fall upon them With the stocks of their muskets; and first the made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of allt e mis-
chief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put them out of
their pain: then the man that was not hurt at all, came. and kneeled
down to them, with hlS two hands heldupifand made iteous means
to them, b gestures and signs, for lus e, but co d not say one
word to t em that they could understand. However, they made
signs. to him to.sit down at the foot of a tree hard by; and one of the
Enghshmen, wrth a piece of rope twmed, which he had by great
chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there they
left him; and with what speed they; could, made after the other two
which were gone before, tearing t .ey, or any more of them, should
find the way to their covered lace m the woods, where their Wives,
and the few goods they had le t lay. They came once in si ht of the
twocmen, but it was at agreat distance; however, they h the satis-
faction to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, uite the
contrary way from that which led to their retreat, which t ey were
afraid of; and being satisfied With that, they went back to the tree
where they left their firisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered
by 1118 comrades, for e was .gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn,
With which they had bound him, lay Just at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what number;
so they resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough to be sure; for though. the savages were their own country-
men, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the
more for the knowledge they had of them.

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very_ near that place, but had not found it; for it was
mdeed maccessible, from the trees standing so thick, unless the
persons seekmg it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not; the found, therefore, everything very safe, on] the
women in a terrib e fright. Whilethey were here, they ha the
comfort to have. seven of the Spamards come to their assistance;
the other ten, Wltll' their servants, and old Friday (I mean Friday's
father), were gone in a body to defend their bower and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, 1n case the savages should have roved over '
to that Side of the country; but they did not spread so far. With
the seven Spamards came one of the three sav <<res, who, as I said,
were their risoners formerly ; and with them a 0 came the savage
whom the glishman had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for
it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them - where, how-
ever, they were obliged to hm him again, as they had the two others
who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them ;_ and the were
so afraid of their escapmg, that they were once resolvmg to k1 them
all, believmg they were under an absolute necessity to do so for their
own preservation. However, the Spamard governor would not con-
sent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out
of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two
S aniards to guard them; and give them food for their subsrstence,
w 'ch was done; and they were bound there hand and foot for that

ni ht.

izW'hen the Spaniards came, the two En lishmen were so encou-
raged, that they could not satisfy themse ves to stay any longer
there; but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four
muskets and a. pistol amono them, and two stout quarter staves,
away they went 1n uest of the savages. And first they came to the
tree where the men ay that had been killed; but it was easy to see
that some more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted
to carry their dead men away and had dragged two of them a good
way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced to the first
rlsmg ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed,
and where they had the mortificatlon still to see some of the smoke;
but neither could they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward towards
their ruined plantation; but a httle before they came thither, coming
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarke
again in their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry at first,
that there was no way to come at them, to give them a partino blow;
but upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of them.

The poor Enghshmen being now twice rmned, and all their 1m-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to
rebuild, and assist them with needful supplies. Their three .coun-
trymen, who were not yet noted for hay-mg the least inclination to
do any ood, yet as soon as they heard of it for they, hvmg remote
eastwar knew nothing of the matter till was over), came and
offered t eir help and assistance and did, very friendly, work for
several days to restore their ha itatlon, and make necessanes for
them. And thus, in a little time the were set upon theirlegs again.

About two days after this, hey ad the farther satisfaction of
seemg three of t e savages' canoes come driving on shore, and at
some distance from them, two drowned men: by which theyl had
reason to beheve that they had met with a storm at sea, whlc had
overtsetfisome of them; for it had blown very hard the mght after they
wen o .

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand enough
of them esca ed to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what ha happened to them, and to whet. them on to another
enterpnse 9f the same nature; which they, 1t seems, resolved to
attem t, wrth sufficient force to carry all before them: for exce 1;
what t e first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say htt e
of it of then own knowled , for they never saw one man; and the

fellow being killed that h affirmed it, they had no other witness to
confirm it to them. '
It. was five or sinmonths after this before they heard any more of
the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less
than. eight and twenty canoes, full of savages armed With bows and
arrows, great. clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines. of war;
andthey brought such numbers with them, that, in short, 1t put all
our peOple into the utmost consternation. .

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost Side of
the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
wastheir only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies would be so great, they _therefore
resolved, first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the
two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; because
they supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it
was day, to play the old game over again, though they did not now
land Within two leagues of it. In the next place, they drove awayall
the flocks of goats they had at the old bower, as 1 called it, which
belonged 'to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants anywhere as was osmble: and the next monnng early
they posted themselves, with a their force, at the plantation of the
two men, to wait for their connng. As they guessed, so it happened:
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island,
came ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to the
number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge.
Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse, they
had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account, it
seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five English-
men. old Friday (or Friday's father), the three slaves taken with the
women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who lived
with the Spaniards. T_o arm these, they had eleven muskets, five
plstols, three fowling-pleces, five muskets, or fowling-pieces, which
were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two
swords, and three old halberts.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but
they had eacha halbcrt, or a long stafl', like a quarter-staff, with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
hatchet: also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two of the
women could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the
fight, and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken
from the savages when the first action happened, which I have
spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another: and the
women had hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded the
whole: and. Will Atkins, who though a dreadful fellow for wicked-
ness, was a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The
savages came foward like lions; and our men, which was the worst of
their fate, had no advantage in their Situation; only that Will Atkins
who now roved ,a most useful fellow, with six men, was lanted
Just behin a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guar , with
orders to let the first of them pass by and their fire .into the
middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimbl as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in
behind tie Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees
before them. _

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in
heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty of
them ass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick thron ,
he or ers three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets wit
six or seven bullets a-piece about as big as large pistol bullets. How
many they .killed or wounded they knew not, but the consternation
and surprise was inexpreSSible among the savages; 'they were
frightened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful neise, and see
their men killed, and others hurt but see nobody that did it; when,
in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fiy
again among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute the first
three beinvloaded again, gave them a third volley.

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they
had fired, as they were ordered to do, or hadthe rest of the body been
at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had
been effectually routed; for the terror that was among them came
principally from tlus, that they were killed by the gods with thunder
and lightning, and eould see nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins,
staying to load again, discovered the cheat: some of the sav 0'es who
were at a distance spying them, came upon them behind; an though
Ath and his men fired at them also, two or three times, and killed
above twenty, .retirmg as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as
they did afterwards one S award, and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women. his slave was a most gallant follow and
fought most desperately, killing five of them with his own hand,
havmg no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men .killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; for
their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that though
above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many wounded, et
they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and s ot
their arrows hke a cloud; and it was observed that their wounded
men, who were not uite disabled, were made outrageous by their
wounds, and fought 1' e madmen. ,

W hen our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the Enghsh-
men that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they 03.1118
up _to them killed them over again in a wretched manner, breaking
their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like
true savages; but finding our men were gone, they. did not seem to
pursue them but drew themseles up in a ringawhich 18, it seems, their
custom, an shouted twice, in token of their victory; after which,
they had the mortification to see several of their wounded men fall,
dying With the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march an charge again all together at once: but the
Spamard re hed --" Seigmor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight- et them alone till mormng - all the wounded men Will
be stiff an sore With their wounds, and faint with the. loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good:
but Will Atkins re lied merrily, "That is true, Selgmor, and so
shall I too deg and t at is the reason I would go on while I am
warm."--"Well, Seionior Atkins," says the _Spaniard, " you have
behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you If on
cannot? come on; but I think it best to stay till mormng:" so t ey
war e .

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in_great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
norse and hurry among them where the lay they afterwards resolved
to fall upon them in the mght - especi v. 1 they could come to give
them but one volle before t e were discovered, which they had .a.
fair opfiortunity to o: for one o the Englishmen in whose quarter it
was w ere the fight began, led them round between the woods and
the sea-Side westward, and then turning short south, they came
so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were seen. or
heard, eight of them fired in upon them, and did dreadful executlon
upon them; in half a minute more, eight .others fired after them,
Eounng in their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were

filed and wounded; and all this while they were not able to see who
hurt them, or which way to fly. . .

. The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expeditionnand then
dmded themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall 1n among
them all together. They had in each body ei~ht ersons, that is to
say, twenty-two men .and the two women, w o, y the way, fought
des erately. The; divided the fire-arms equally m each party, aswell
as t e halberts an staves. They would have had the women he t
back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husban .
Havmg thus formed their little army they marched out from among
the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and balloo-
mg as loud as they could; the savages stood all together, but were 1n
the utmost confuswn, hearing the noise of our men shouting from
three quarters together: they would have fought if they had seen us;
for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor old Fnday' was wounded, though not dangerously;
but our men gave them no time,.but, running up to them fired among
them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-ends of their muskets,
their swords, armed staves, andhatchets, and laid about them so well,
that, m a word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to
save their hves which way soever they could.

Our men were tired Wlth the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in _the two fights about one hundred and eightgrof them;
the rest, bemg frightened. out of their wits, scoure t ough the
woods and over theuhills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could
help them to; and as we dld not trouble ourselves much to pursue
them, they got all together to the sea-side where they landed, and
where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet;
for it blew a temble storm of wmd that evening from the sea, so that
it was impossible for them to go off ; nay, the storm continuing all
night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of themdriven
by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it required infinite
toil to get them off ; andsome of them were even dashed to pieces
against the beach, or against one another. .

Our men, though glad of their Victory, yet got httle rest that night '
but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, hey resolved
to march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the
Sign creatures not qmte dead, and. yet past recovering hfe; a sight

agreeable enough to generous nnnds deg for a truly great man, though
obliged by the law of battle to destroy lus enemy, takes no delight in
his misery. However, there was no need to 'give any orders in this
case; for their own sav "es, who were their servants, despatched
these poor creatures with t eir hatchets. .

At length, they came in view of the place where the more miserable
remains of the savages' army lay, where. there appeared about a hun-
dred still: their posture was generally Sitting upon the ound, with
their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put etween the
two hands, leaning down upon the knees.

.When our men came Within two musket-shots of them, the Spa-
niard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, Without ball, to alarm
them: this he did, that by their countenance he might know what to
expect, whether they were still _m heart to fioht, or were so heartily
beatenas to be dlSpll'ited and discouraged, and so he might manage
accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as the sav o*es heard
the. first gun, and saw the flash of the second, they starte up upon
their feet in the greatest consternation imaginable; and as our men
advanced swiftly towards them, they all.ran screaming and yelling
away With a kind of howling noise, which our men did not under-
stand, and had never heard Before; and thus they ran up the hills
into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then conSiderthat
this might probably have been the occasion of their coming agam m
such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many
and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them.
Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstandino his wound, ke t always
with them, proved the best counsellor in thiscase: his a Vice was
to take the advant we that offered, and step in between them and
their boats, and so e rive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the is and. . ,

They consulted long about this; and some were against it for fear
of makmo the wretches fly to the woods and hve there des crate, and
so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be_ raid to stir
out about their business, and have their lantations continually rifled?

0

all their tame goats destroyed, and. in s ort, be reduced. to a hfe
continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to dowith a hundred
men than With a hundred nations: that as they must destroy their
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed
themselves. Inaword, he showed them the necessngy of it .so plainly,
that they all came into it; so they went to work immediate y With
the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried to set some of them on fire, but they were so wet that they
would not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper part that it
soon made them unfit for swmiming in the sea as boats. When the
Indians saw what they were about, some of them came running out of
the woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled
down and cried, " 0a, 0a, 'Waramokoa," and some other words of
their languageawhich none of the others understopd anything of; but
as they made pitiful gestures and strange nOises, it was easy to under-
stand they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be

one, and never come there again. But our men were now satisfied
t at they had no way to preserve themselves or to save their colony,
but effectually .to prevent any of these people from ever going home:
again: depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them got
back into their country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so
that, letting them know that they should not have an mercy, they
fell to work With their canoes, and destroyed every one t at the storm
had not destroyed before; at .the sight of which, the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our peo le heard plain enough, after
which they ran about the island hke stracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know what at first to do with them.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that while
they made those pe0ple thus desperate, they ought to have kept a
good guard at the same time upon their plantations - for though, it is
true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find
out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave
in the .valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and
pulled it all to ieces, and all the fences and planting about it; trod
all the corn un erfoot, tore up the vines and grapesfliemg just then
ahnost ripe, and did_ our men an inestimable damage, though to them-
selves not one farthing's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down:
for as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they found them
single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers. The best was, they had no weapons;
for though they had bows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials
to make any ; .nor had they any edge-tool or weapon among them.

. The extreimty and distress they were reduced to was great, and
indeed deplorable: but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances .by them: for though their retreats were
preserved, get their prOViSion was destroyed, and their harvest
SpOlled; an what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew
not. The only refuge they had now, was the stock of cattle they had
in the valley y the cave, and some httle corn which grew there, and
the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades,
who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed 'by-anarmw,
which struck 111111 on the Side 0f;h1$ head, yust under'rthe' tern les,-so
that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable that t is'was
the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave with his
hatcgliset, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the' Spa-
mar .

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time,~than- mine
was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and'rice,
and got into the manner of planting and raismg my corn, and my tame
cattle; foronow the had, as I mafiay, a hundred wolves upon the
island; which woul devour everyt 3 they could come at, yet could
be hardly come at themselves. .

When they saw what their circumstances were, the firstithing they
concluded was, that they would, if poss1ble, drive them up' to the
farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more savagescame
on shore they might not find oneanother; then,' that they - would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them-as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could at last
tame them, and bring them to anything, they would; give them corn,
and teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily- labour.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrrfied' them with
their uns, that in a few days, if any of them fired am at an Indian,
if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear ;'- and so dread-
fully frightened they were that theykept out of sight farther and far-
ther; til], at last, our men followmg them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow tplaces so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery for
want 0 food- and many were afterwards found dead' in the woods,
Without any hurt, absolute] starved to death. .

When our men found t is it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the epaniard governor, who-was the, most
' _entleman-hke, generous-minded man that I ever metwvith in mg

ife; and he pro osed, if posmble, to take one of- them- alive, an
bring him to un erstand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that might be depended upon; to save their hves
and do us no harm. .

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being

weak and half-starved, one of them was at last suiprised and madea

risoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither eat' nor drink;

ut finding himself kmdly used, and victuals given to him, and no no-
lence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and cameto himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked oftenxwrth him,- and told
lnm how kind the others would be to them all ;.that thev;would not
only save their lives, but give them part of the island toolive in, pro-
vided they would give satisfaction that they would; keep in their own
bounds, and not come beyond it to mine or prejudice others; and
that they should have corn given them to plant and make it- grow for
their bread, and some bread given them for their present subsistence :
and old Friday bade the fellow . go and talk with the rest of his
countrymen, and seewhat they sai to it ; assuring them that, if they
did not agree immediately, they should be all destroyed. .

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; 11 on which, twelve Spamards
an two Englishmen, well armed, With t ee Indian slaves and old
Friday, mardhed to the place where they were. The three Indian .
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice bOiled up to
cakes and dried in the. sun, andthree live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the Side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to ,
their words that could be thought of ; for, except when they came to
bee victuals and. directions they never came out of their bounds; ,
$11113 there they hved when I came to the island, and I went to see -

em.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make. bread, breed tame
goats and milk them : they wanted nothing but wives, and the soon
would have been a nation. They were confined to a. neck 0 land,
surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lyingoplain towards the
sea before them, on the south--east corner of the island. They had
land enough, and it was very good.and fruitful; about a mile and a
half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for i_
myself, and gave among them twelve hatehets and three or four ;
knives; and there they lived, the most subJeeted, innocent creatures ;'
that ever were heard of. . . _ .4

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity, with respect
to the sav oes, till I came to revisit them, which was about two years
after; not iit that, now and then some canoes of savages came on
shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts; but as they were of several ..,
nations, and perhagis had never heard of those that_eame before, or the ;
reason of it, they (1 not make any search or inquiry after their own 1,;
gymen ;t and if they had, it would have been very hard to have found '

em ou .

Thus I think, I have given a full account of all that ha pened to -
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The fndians or 3.
savages were wonderfull ciVilised b them, and they frequently went "
amogig them; but forbi , on pain 0 death, any one of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their settlement betrayed .-
again. One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they taught the
savages to make Wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon outdid their
masters: for the made abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-
work particular y of all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-c ores, cup-
boards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couc es, and
abundance of other things; being very ingenious at such work, when
they were once put in the wa of it.

My coming was a artic ar. relief to these peohle, because we
furnished them With mves, scissors, s ades, shove s, iekaxes and
all things of that kmd which the co d want. Wit the help .of
those tools, they were so very han y that they came at last to build
up their hats or houses, very handsomely. raddling or working it up
like basket~work all the way round; which was a very extraordinari
piece of incenuity, and looked very odd, but was an. exceeding goo
fence as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men
were so taken With it, that they got the Wlld savages to come and do
the like for them- so that when I came'to see the two Englishmen's
colonies, they looked, at a distance, as it they all lived like bees in a.
hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow, he had madelnmself such a tent of basket-
work as, I believe, was never seen; it was one hundred and twenty
paces round on the outSIde, as I. measured by my steps; the walls
were as close worked as a. basket, _m panels or squares of thirty-two in
number, and verv strong, standing about seven feet high; in the
middle was another not'above twenty-two paces. round, but built
stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eioht corners stood
eight very strong posts; round the top of which he laid strong pieces
inned together With wooden pins, from which he raised a yramid
for a roof of eioht rafters very handsome, I assure you, an JOined
together very we , though he had no nails, and only a few iron s ikes,
which he made himself too, out of the old iron that I had left t ere-
and, indeed, his fellow showed abundance of mgenuit in several
things which he had no knowledge of: he made him a orge, with a
flair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for

'5 work; and he formed out of the iron crows a middling good anvil
to hammer upon: in this manner he made many things, but especially
hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts, and hinges. But to return to the
house: after he had pitched the roof of lns innermost tent, he worked
it up between the rafters wrth basket-work, so firm, and thatched
that over again so ingemously with rice-straw, and over that a large
leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his house was as dry
as if it had been tiled or slated. .Indeed, he owned that the savages
had made the basket-work for him. The outer circuit was covered
as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay
from the thirty-two angles. to the to posts of the inner house,
being about twenty feet distant, so t at there was a. space like a.
Fahk Wethm the outer wicker-wall and without the inner, near twenty

ee m e.

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, but
much fairer, and dmded into six apartments, so that he had Six
rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these there was a door;
first mtp the entry or coming into the main tent, another door into
the mam tent, and another door into the space or walk that was
round it; so that walk was also divided into Six equal parts, which
served not on] for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries which
the family ha occasion for. These six spaces not taking up the
whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had were
thus ordered :---As soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
Eon had a short passage straight before you. to the door of the inner

ouse: but on either side was a Wicker partition, and a door in it, by

which you went first into a large room, or storehouse, twenty feet

Wide and about thirty feet long, and through that into another not
I
quite so long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms,
31: of which were on] to be come at through the apartments of the
inner tent, and serve as closets or retiring rooms to the respective
chambers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or barns, or
what on lease to call them, which went throu h one another, two
on eit er iand of the passage, that led through t e outer door to the
_- inner tent. . '

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world,
nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this

cat beeohive hved the three families, that is to say, Will Atkins and

deg companion: the third was killed, but his wife remained With three
children, for she was, it seems big with child when he died: and the
other two were not at all backward to 've the widow her full share
of everyt ' g, I mean as to their corn, ' , grapes, &c., and when the
killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived we 1
enough; though, it was true, they were not so industrious as the
other two, as as been observed already.

One thing, however cannot be omitted, viz., that as for religion,
I do not know that there was anything of that kind among them;
they often, indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by
the_very common method of seamen, swearing by his name : nor were
their poor ignorant savage Wives much better for having been married
to Christians, as we must call them: for as they knew very little of
God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into any
discourse With. their Wives about a God, or to talk anything to them

oncermng rehgion. .

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had
made from them was, that they had tau ht them to speak English
pretty well; and most of their children, w 0 were near twenty in all,
were tau lit to speak English too, from their first learning to speak,
though t ey at first spoke it in a very broken manner, like their
mothers. _ There was none of these children above six years old when
I came thither, for it was not much above seven years since they had
fetched these five savage ladies over; but they had all been pretty fruit-
{gill for they had all children, more or less: I think the cook's mate's

e was big of her sixth child; and the mothers were all a good sort

of well-governed, gmet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful
to one another, mighty observant and subject to their masters (I can-
not call them. husbands), and wanted not g but to be well instructed
in the Christian rehgion, and to be legally married; both which were
happily brought about afterwards by my means, or at least in conse-
. quence. of my coming among them.
' Havmg thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my runagate Enghsh I must say something of the Spaniards,
who were the main body of the family, and in whose story there are
some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses With them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their ap lication or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserab e, dejected handful of people-
that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so abandone
themselves to des' air, and so sunk under the weight of their misfor-
tune, that they t ought of nothing but starving. One of them a
grave and sensible man, told me he'was convinced they were in the
wrong; that it was not the part of Wise men to give themselves up to
their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which reason offered,
as well for resent support as for future dehverance :- he told me that
grief was t ie most senseless, inSignificant passmn in the world, for
that it regarded only thingsdpast, which were generally imposs1ble to
be recalled, or to be remedie but had no VleWS of things to come, and
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but rather
added to the affliction than 31311130 osed a remedy; and upon .thlS he
repeated a Spanish proverb, .w. c , though I cannot repeat in Just the
same words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it into an
English proverb of my own, thus :--

In trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my sohtude; my unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition, which in its circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more hap y than theirs
was, even now when. they were all together. He to d_ me.it was
remarkable that Enghshmen had a eater presence of mind, in their
distress, than any people that ever ie met With; that their unha py
nation and the .Portuguese were the .worst men in the worl to
struggle With misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after
the common efforts were over, was to deSpair, he down under it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

I told him their case and mine differed .exceedmgl ; that they were
cast upon the shore Without necessaries, Without supp. y of food, or re-
sent sustenance till they could pronde for it: that, it was true, 1 ad
this disadvantage anddiscomfort, that I was alone; but then the sup-
glriies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected

vmg of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have encouraged
an creature in the world to have applied himself as I had done.
" eigiiior " says the S amard, " had we poor Spaniards been in. your
case, we s ould never ve got half those things out of the shifi, as
you did: nay," says he, " we should never have found means to ave
got a raft to carry them, or to have ot the raft on shore Without boat
or sail; and how much less shoul we have fdone If. any of us had
been. one 1". Well, I desired him to abate his comghments, and 0
on With the history of their coming on shore, where t ey landed. e
told me they unhappily landed at a place where there where people
Without proviSions - whereas, had they had the .common sense to at
off to sea again, and gone to another island a httle farther, the ad
found provisions though without people; there being an islan that
way, as they had been told, where there were provismns though no
geople; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently
.een there, and had filled the island With goats and hogs at several
times, where they had bred in such multitudes, and wheretnrtle and
sea-fowls were in such plenty, that2they could have been in no want

a
of flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas, here, they were
only sustained With a few roots and herbs, which they understood
not, and which had no substance irhlthem, and which the mhabitants
gave them sparingly enough; andt ey could treat them no better,
unless they would turn canmbals, and eat men's flesh, which was the
great dainty of their country. . . .

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to ci_v1lise
thesavages the were with, and to teach them rational customs in the
ordinary way 0 living, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon
them, as unjust, that they, who came there for aSSistance and suhport,
should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave them ood;
mtimatmg, it seems, that none should set up for the instructors of
others but those who could live Without them. . . .

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many days Without any food at all,. the
island the were upon being inhabited y a sort of. savages that hved
more indo cut and for that reason were less su plied with the neces-
saries of life than they had reason to believe ot ers were in the same
part of the world: and yet they found that these savages were less
ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of food.
Also they added, they could not but see with what demonstrations of
Wisdom and. goodness the govermng provrdence of God directs the
eyents of things in this world: which, they said, appeared in their
circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and
the barrenness of. the. country where they were, they had searched
after abetter to hve in, they had then been out of the way of the
rehef that happened to them by my means.

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to go out with them into their wars; and it was
true, that as they had fire-arms wrth them, had they not had the disaster
to lose their ammumtion, they could have been serviceable not only to
their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to friends and
enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition
that they could not in reason deny to go out with their landlords to
their wars ; so when they came into the field of battle, they. were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves, for they had neither bows
nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave them; so they
could do nothing but standstill and be woun ed with arrows till the
came 11 to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the three hall:
herds t. ey had were of use to. them; and they would often drive a
whole htt e army before them With those halberds, and sharpened sticks
put into the muzzles of their muskets: but that, for all this, they were
sometimes surrounded With multitudes, and in great danger from
tHeir arrows, till at last they found the way to make themselves large
targets of wood, which they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose
names they knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages: that notWithstanding these, they were sometimes in eat
danger; and five of them were once knocked down together wit the
clubs of . the savages, which was the time when one of them was
taken nsoner, that is to sa , the ijfiamard whom I relieved: that at
first t ey thought he had een' ed; but when they afterwards
heard he was taken prisoner they were under the. greatest 'ef
imaginable, and would wrlhngiy have all ventured their lives to ve
rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fightin till they

were come to themselves, all but him. who the thou ht ad been
dead; and then they made their way With their halberdgs and pieces
standing close to ether m a hne, through a body of above a thousan
savages, beating own all that came 1n their way, got the victory over
their enemies but to their eat sorrow, because. 1t was with the loss
of their friend, whom the ot er party findmg ahve, carried Off, With
some others, as I gave an account he ore.

They described, mostafl'ectionately, how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and compamon m misery, who thei
thought had been devoured by Wild beasts of the worst kind wrl
men; and yet, how more. and more they were surprised With the
account he gave them of his errand; and that there was a Christian
in any place near --much more one that was able, and had humamty
enough, to contribute to their dehverange. . _

They described how they were astomshed at the eight of the rehef
I sent them, and at. the appearance of loaves of bread, things theyhad
not seen smcc their commg to that miserable place; how often they
crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what a
revmn cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things had sent forotheir supply: and, after all, they would have told
me something of the Joy they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots,
to carry them away to the person and slace from whence all these
new comforts came; but it was-impossib e to express it by words, for
their excessrve Joy naturallgdnvmg them to unbegommg extravagances
they had no way .to descn e them, but by telhng me. they border
upon lunacy, havmg no way to give vent to their passions smtable to
the sense that was ugon them; that in some 1t worked one way and
in some another: an that some of them, through a surprise of JO ,
would burst into tears, others be stark mad, an others immediatei
faint. This discourse extremely affected me and called to my mm
Fnda s ecstasy when he met hJS father, and the poor peoglefs ecstasy
when took them up at sea after their shig was on fire - t 6 Joy of the
mate of the ship when he found himself ehvered m the place where
he expected to Eerish; and my own joy, when, after twenty-eight
years' captivity found a good ship ready to can? me to my own
country. All these things made me more sensible o the relation of
these poor men, and more affected With it. .

Having thus given a view of the state of thmgs as I found them, I
must relate the heads of what I did for. thesepeople and the condi-
tion m which I left them. It was their opimon, and mine too, that
they would be troubled no more with the savages, or 1f they were,
they would be able to cut them off, 1f they were twrce as many as
before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered mto a
serious discourse with the S aniard, whom I call governor about
their stay in the island ; for aspI was not come to carry any of them of,
so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others, who, per.
haps would be unwillin to stay if their stren h was diminished.
On the other hand, I tol them I came to esta hsh them there, not
to remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought With
me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great
chargeto supply t. em With all thin s necessary, as well for their
convenience as their defence; and t t I had such andsuch ar-
ticular persons With me, as well to increase and recruit their num er,
asby the. articular necessary emfiloymeiits which they were bred to,
bemgart cars, to asset them int ose things inwhich at present they
were in want.

They were all to ether when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them t :e stores I had brouoht, I askedthempne by one
if they had entirely for _0t and bnned t e first.ammos.ities that had
been among them, an. would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union. of interest, that so there
mi ht be no more misunaerstandin s and JealouSIes. .

V111 Atkins, with abundance of ess and cod humour, said
they had met With affliction enou 11 to make t iem all sober, an
enemies'enough to make them friends; that, for his part, .he
would hve and die Wltl]. them - and was so far from des1gning
suit-fine against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perha s worse, .m their case; and that .he
would ask them pardon, if deSired it, for thefoohsh and _brutish
things _he had done to them, and was very Willing and demons of
livmg m'teims of entire friendship and union With them, and would
doanythmg that lay in his power to convmce them of it; and as for
gomg to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty
years.

The S aniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and excluded
Will At ' s and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as they had
let me know, and the ap\r{e_aled to me for the necesSi they were
under to do so; but t at Till Atkins had behaved himse so bravely
in the great fight they had With the savages, and on several occasions
smcc, and had showed himself so faithf to, and concerned for, the
general mtei'est of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
passed, and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms and
supplied. With necessaries as any. of them; and they had testified their
satisfaction in him, by committing the command to him next to the
governor himself- and as the had entire confidence in him and all his
countrymen, so they acknow edged they had merited that confidence
by all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued and
trusted; and they most heartil embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they woul never have any interest separate from
one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed

the next day to dine all together; andifiisndeed, we made a splendid
feast. I caused the shi 's cook and mate to come on shore and

dress our dinner, and t ie old cook's mate we had on shore assisted.
We brought on shore Six pieces of good beef, and four pieces of
pork, out of the ship's pmVisions, With our punchbowl, and materials
to fill it: and in particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret.
and ten bottles of Enghsh beer; things that neither. the Spaniards
nor the Enghsh had tasted for many years, and which it may be sup-
posed they were very glad of. The bpaniards added to our feast five
whole kids, wlnch the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent,
covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, that they might
feasbt ondfresh meat from on shore, as we did With their salt meat from
on car .

After this feast at which we were very innocently merry, I brought
m_y_cargo of goo ; wherein, that there nnght be no dispute about
dJVldlng, I showed them that there was a sufiieienc for them all,
desiring that they might all take an equal uantity o the goods that
were for wearing; that is to say equal w en made up. As, first I
distributed hnen' sufficient to make every one of them four shirts,
and, at the Spamard's request, afterwards made them up six; these
were exceeding comfortable to them, havmg been what the had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them. I otted
the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned before, to make every one
a hght coat like a frock, which I (fudged fittest for the heat of the
season, cool and loose; and ordere that whenever they decayed, they
should make more, as they thought fit; the hke for pumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, &c. _ _

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how well I hadfurmshed them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that havmg such a correspondent as I was
in so remote a art of the world, it would make them forget that they
were left in a esolate place ; and they all voluntarily engaged to me
not to leave the place Without my consent. .

. Then I resented to them the eogle I had brought With me, par-
ticularly t 16 tailor, the smith, an t e two carpenters, all of em
most necessary people; but, above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name anything that was more useful to them: and th_--
tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately, aria.
w1th my leave, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he did
and, what was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew
and stitch, and use the needle, but made them aSSist to make the
shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were:
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made clever
convement tables, stools, bedsteads cu boards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kin . ut to let them see how nature
made art1hcers at first, I. carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins'
basket-house, as I called it; and the both owned they never saw an
instance of such natural ingenuity efore, nor anything so regular
and so handily built, at least of its kind; and one of them, when he
saw it, after musmg a good while, tummg about to me, .I am sure,"
snays 1he, " that man has no need of us; you need do nothing but give

m 00 ."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and ve every
man a diggmg-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no arrows or
plough; and to every separate place a pickaxe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw; always a omting, that as often as any were broken or
worn out, they sho be supplied, without grudging, out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, seissors and all sorts of iron-work, they had Without
reserve, as they reguir . ; for no man would take more than he wanted,
and he must be a 001 that would waste or s 0]] them on any account
whatever; and for the use of the smith, I le two tons of unwrought
iron for a supply. .

My magazme of owder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to rofusion, t at they could not but reJmce at them; for now
the co d march as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder,
if t ere was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of Situation, which also they could
not miss, if they had occasmn.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated,
rehgious youn woman, and behaved so motfensivel that every one
gave her agoo word; she had, indeed an unhap y 11.6 with us, there

eing no woman in the ship but herself, but she ore it With patience.
After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of
thrivmg upon my 15 and, and conSIdering that they had neither busi-
ness nor acquaintance iii the East Indies, or reason for taking so long
a voyage, both of them came to me and desrred I would we them
leave to remain on the island, and be entered amono' my amily, as
they called it. I agreed to this readily~ and they had a httle plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up,
surrounded with a basket-work, palhsadoed like Atkins's, adjoinino
to his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had eac
of them a room a art to lodge in, and a Huddle tent like a great
storehouse, to lay t. eir goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now
the other two Enghshmen removed their habitation to the same place;
and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz.,
the Spamards, With old Enday and the first servants, at my old habi-
tation under the hill, which was, in aword, the capital city, and where
they had_ so enlarged. and extended their works, as well under as on
the outSide of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed
yet full. at large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, an
so hid, in an part of the world - for I verily believe that a thousand
men miOht ave ranged the island a month, and, if they had not
known there was such a thing, and looked on pui'glose for it, they
would not have found it; for the trees stood so t 'ck and so close,
and grew so fast wovenpne into another, that nothinv but cutting
them down first could discover the place, except the cal two narrow
entrances where they went in and out could be found, w 'ch was not
very easv; one of them was close down at the water's edge, on the
Side of the creek and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to
the place 2. and the other was up a ladder at twice as I have already
described it ; _and they _had also a large wood, thickly planted, on the
top of the hill, containing above an acre, which grew space, and
concealed the place from all discovery there, with only one narrow
pillacc bdetween two trees, not easily to be discovered, to enter on
t at si e.

The onlv colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Envhshmen, I mean those 1 had left there, with their
wives and children deg three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Ilnghshman that was killed; the oung man and
the maid and, by the way, we made a Wife of her efore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the' tailor, whom I
brought With me forthem; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especrally as a smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I c ed J ack-of-all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingemous fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away
we married .him to the honest maid that came With the youth in the
shanI mentioned before. .

. (1 now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say some-
thing of the French ecclesmstic that I had brought with me out of
the ship's crew whom I took. up at sea. It is true this man was a
Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave
anything extraordinary upon record of a man whom, before I begin,
I must to set him out in Just colours) represent in terms very much
to his advantage, in the account of .Protestants: as first, that he
was.a Papist ; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a" French
Popish priest. But Justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must say, he was. a grave, sober, ious, and most
rehgious person; exact in his hfe 'extensive in ' charity, and
exemplary .m almost ever hing he did. What then can any one say
against being ve sensi 1e ot the value of such a man, nOtWItho
standing his pro ession? though it may be in opinion, perhaps,
as. well as the opimon of others who shall rea this, that he was
mistaken.

The first hour that I began to converse with him after he had
agreed .to go With me to the East Indies, I found reason to dehght
exceedingly in his conversation; and he first began With me about
rehgion m the most obliging manner imaginable. " Sig". says he
" you have. not only under God (and at that he crossed his .breast
saved my hfe, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your
ship, and by your obhgmg civility have taken me into_your family,
givmg me an opportunity of free conversation. Now, 511', you see by
my habit what in profession is, and I ess b your ._nation what
yours is; I may t ink it is my duty, an doubt ess it is so, to use
my utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the. souls Loan
to the knowledge of the truth. and to embrace the Cathohc doctrine;
but as _I am here under your permission, and in our family, I am
bound in Justice to your kindness, as well as in ecencv and good
manners, to be under your government; and therefore I shall not,
Without your leave, enter into any debate on the pomts of rehgion in
which we ma not agree, farther than you shall give me leave.'

I told him 's carriage was so modest that I could not but acknow-
ledge it; that it was true we were such eo 1e as they called heretics,
but that he was not the first Cathohc ha conversed With, Without
falling into inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in
debate; that he should not find himself the worse used for being of a
difi'erent opinion from us; and if we dld not converse Without any
dislike on either Side 1t should be his fault, not ours. . .

He reeihed, that he thought .all our conversation might be easily
separate from disputes; that it was not his busmess to ca prm-
ciples With every man he conversed with; and that. he rather esrred
me to converse With him as a gentleman than as a rehgionist ; and that,
if Iwould give him leave at any timeto discourse "(Eon relivious
subjects, he would readily comgly wrth it, and that he d not doubt
but I would allow him also to efend lllS own opinions as well as he
could; but that, .without my leave, he would not break in upon me
With any such thmm. He told me farther, that he would not cease to
do all that becamezlnm in his office as a priest, as well as a private
Christian, to procure t 1e good of the Sliilp and the safet .of all that
was in her; and though, perhaps, we wo dnot 30m With 1m, and he
could not pray With us, he ho ed he might pray for us, which he
would do qun all occasions. this manner we. conversed; and as
he was of t 6 most obligmg, gentlemanhke behanour, so he was, if I
may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I beheve, of
great learning. . . . .

He gave me a most diverting account of 1118 hfe, and of the many
extraordinary events of it; of many adventures which had befallen
him in the few years that he had been abroad in the world; and par-
ticularly _1t was very remarkable, that in the voyage he. was now
engage in, he had the misfortune to be.five times shipped and
unshipped, and never to go to the place whither any of the ships he
was 1n at first des1gned. That his first intent was to have gone to
Martimco, and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St.
Male; but, being forced intp Lisbon by bad weather, the ship
received some damage by running aground in the mouth of the river
Tagus, and'was obhoed to unload her cargo there - but finding 9. Por-
tuguese Slllp thereabound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and
supposmg he should easrly meet With a .vessel there beund to Mar-
tmico, he went on board, in. order to sail to.the Madeiras; but the
master of the Eortuvuese ship, being but an mdifierent manner, had
been out of his rec 'onmg, and they drove to Fyal; where, however,
he happened to find a. very good market for his cargo, which was
com, and therefore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load
salt at theolslepf May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had
no remedy 1n tlllS engence but to o with the ship, and had a pretty
good voyage as far as the Banks {5'0 they call the place where they
catch the .h); where meeting Wlt aFrench ship bound from Erance
to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to Martimco, to
carry rovnsrons he thought he should have an o portunity to com-
plete . first de51gn; but when he came to ue co, the master of
the Shlp died, and the vessel rocceded no arther; so the next
voyage, he 8th ed himself for rance, in the ship that was burned
when we took t em up at sea - and then shipped With us for the East
Indies, as I have already sai . Thus he had been disappomted m
five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall
have occasion to mention farther .of him.

But I shall not make digressmn into other men's stories, which
have no relation to my own; I return .to what concerns our afi'airs in
the island. He came to me one mom .(for he lodged among us all
the whilewe were upon the island), an it happened to be ust when
I was gomg to ViSit the Englishmen's colon , at the f est part
of the island; I sav, he came to me, and tol me, with a very grave
countenance, that he had for two or .three days desired an oppor-
tunity of some discourse With me, which he hoped would not be dis- '
pleasmo to. me, because he thought it might in some measure cor-
respond mth my general deSIgn, which was, the prosperity of my
new colony, and perhaps might put 113,. at least more than he yet
thought it was _m the way of God's blessmg. . .

I looked a little s used at the.last part of his discourse, and
turning a little short, " ow, sir," said I, ' can it be said that we are
not in the way of God's blessmg, after such viSible assmtances and
deliverances as we have seen here, and of which Ihave given you a
large account ?"--"If you had pleased, Sir," said he, With a world of
modesty, and yet Great readiness, " to have heard me, on would have
found no room toliave been displeased, much less to soohard of
me that I should suggest that you have not had wonderful assmtances
and deliverances; _an I hope, on your .behalf, that you are mthe
way of God's blessmg, and your design is exceeding good and Will
prospler: but, s1r, though it were more so than IS even ossihleto on,
yetIt ere may be some among you that are not e y right in t eir
actions :. and you know, that in the story of the dren ofP Israel, one
Aphan in the camp removed God's blessnig from them, and turned
his hand so against. them, that Six-and-thirty of them, though not
concerned in the crime, were the objects of divme vengeance, and
bore the weight of that umshrnentj' . . .
. I was sensibly. touc ed With his discourse, and told him his
inference was so. Just, and the whole deSign seemed so sincere and
was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry lhad
interrupted him, and be ged him to go on; and, in the meantime,
because it seemed that w _t we had both to say might take.up some
time, I .told him I .was gomg to the En lishmen's Plantations, and
asked him to go With me, and we micrht heourse o it by the way.
He told me he would the more willingly wait on me thither, because
there partly the thing was acted which he desired to s eak to me
about; so we walked on, and I pressed him to be free an plain With
me in what he had to say. .

"Why, then, s1r,'.' .says he, "be pleased to give me leave to lay
down a few propositions, as the foundationpf what I have to say,
that we ma not differ in the general principles, though we.may be
of some (1 ering Opinions in the ractice of particulars: .First, Sir,
though we (11561: in some of the octrinal articles of religion and it
is very unhappgit is so, especially in the case before us, as _ shall
show afterwar ), {let there are some general principles in which we
both agree--that ere is a God; and that this Go havmg givenus
some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we ought
not wfllmgly and knowingly to ofl'end Him, either by neglecting to do
what He has commanded, or by doing what he hasexpressly for-
bidden. And let our different relioionsbe what they Wlll, this general
pnnCiple is readily owned by us all, that the blessmg of God does not
ordinarily follow presumptuous sinning against His command; and
every good Christian will be affectionately concerned to prevent any
that are under his care living in a total neglect of God and His 'com-
mands. It is not your men dieing Protestants, whatever my opinion
may be of such, that discharges me from being concerned for their
souls, and from endeavouring, if It. hes .before me, that they should
hve in as little distance from enmitv With their Maker as possmle,
es ecially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit."
could not et imaoine what. he aimed at, and told him I granted
all he had saidy and thanked him that he would so far concern him-
self for us; and begged he would explain the particulars of what he
had observed, that 'like Joshua, to take his own parable, I imght
put away the accursed thing from us. . .
"Why, then, s1r," says he, "_I will take the liberty you give me;
and there are three things, which, if I am right, must stand in the
wayof God's blessmg upon your endeavours here, and which I should
reJOice, for your sake and their own, to see removed. And, Sir, I
promise myself that you Will fully agree with me in them all, as soon
as I name them; especially, because I shall convmce you that every
one of them may, with. great ease, and verfi' much to fyour satisfaction,
be remedied. irst, Sir," says he, "you ave here our Enghshmen,
who have fetched women from among the savages, and have taken
them as their wives, and have had many childrenbby them all, and yet
are not married to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense .of both
no less than fornicators, if not living in adultery. To this, sir,
know you Wlll obJect that there was no clergyman or priest of any
kind, or any profession to perform the ceremony; nor anyOpen and
ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and have it Signed
between them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor
has told you, I mean, of the agreement that he obhged them to make
when they took those women, viz. that they should choose them out '
by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by the_ way is
nothing of a mamage, no agreement with the women, as w1ves,_ ut
only an agreement among themselves, to keep them from quarrelhng.
But, 511', the essencepf the sacrament of matrimony (so he calledit,
being a Roman) consmts not only in the mutual consent of the arties
to take one another as man and wife, but in the formal an legal
obligation that. there is in the contract, to compel the man'and
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; obhging
the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in no other con-
tract. while these subsist; and, on all occasions, as ability allows, to
pronde honestly for them and their children; and to oblige the
women to the same or like conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their Side.
Now,.s1r," says he "these men may, when they please or when
occaSion presents, abandon these women, disown their children, leave
them to perish, and take other women, and marry them whilethese
are livin i" and here he added, With some warmth " How, sir, is God
honoure in this unlawful hberty? And how_ shall a blessmg succeed
your endeavours in thisplace however good in themselves, and how.
ever sincere in your deSign, w e these men, who at present are your
subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed
by on to live in open adulte ?" . . .

chonfessI was struck Wit the thing. itself, but much more With
the convincing arguments he su ported it With; for it was certainly
true, that thou h they had no 0 ergymen upon the spot yet a formal
contract en bot sides, made before Witnesses and co med by any
token which they had all agreed to be bound he, though it had been
but breakiniastiek between them, engagin t e men to own these
women for t eir Wives u on all occasmns, an never to abandon them
or their children, and t e women to the same with their husbands,
had been an effectual lawful marriage in the Si ht of God; and it
was a great neglect that it was not done. But I t ought to have got
ofl' my young priest by telhng him that all that part was dene when
I was not there; and that they had lived so many years Wlth them
now, that if it was adultery, it was past remedy; nothing could be
done in it now. .

" 813'," says he, 'f asking your pardon for such freedom you are
right in this, that, it being done in your absence, you could not be
charged With that part of the crime; but, I beseech you, flatter not
yourself that you are not therefore under an obli tion to do your
utmost now. to put an end to it. How can you t but that, let the
time ast he on whom it wfll,.all the I t, for the future, Will he

entire y upon you? because it is ce y in your power now to put
an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours."

I was so dull still .that I did not understand him ri ht; but I
imagined that, by putting an end to it he meant that I s ould. art
them, and not sufi'er them to hve together any longer; and I sai to
him I could not do that b any means, for. that would put the whole
island inte confusmnn e seemed surprised that I should so far
mistake him. "No, Sir," sa s he, " I do not mean that you should
now separate them, but leg y and effectually marry them; and, as,
sir, m waypf marrying them may not be easy to reconcile them to,
thoug it Will be eflectu even b your own laws, so your way.may
be as well before God, an asvali among men. I mean by a written
contract Signed by both man and woman, and by all the witnesses
present, which all the laws of Europe would decree to be vahd." . e

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much Sincenty
of zeal, beSIdes the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his own
party or church, and such true warmth for preservmg the people,
that he had no knowledge of or relation to - I say, for preservm'
them from transgressing the laws of God, the like of which I.ha
Indeed not met With anywhere. But recollectmo- what he had said of
marrying them by a written contract, which I inew he would stand
to,1 returned it back upon him, and told him, I granted all.that he
had said to be just, and on his part very kind - that I would discourse
With the men upon the point now, when I came to them; and I
knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them
which I knew well enough would be granted to be as authentic an
valid in England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.
What was afterwards done in this matter, I shall speak of by itselfJ

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint
which he ad to make acknowledging that I was very muc his
debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He told me he
would use the same freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped
I would take it as well; and this was, that notwithstanding these
English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived With these
women almost seven years, had taught them to speak Enghsh, and
even to read it, and that they were, as he perceived, women of
tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction, yet they had not,
to this hour, taught them anything of the Christian religion,_ no, not
so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in what
manner God was to be served; or that their own idolat :. anddeg
worshipping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. ', he
said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly
call them to account for, and perhapshat last take the work out of
their hands ;--he slpoke this very affectionately and warmly. " I am
persuaded," says e, "had those men lived in the savage country
whence their Wives came the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to he idolators, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, have taken vvithothem to teach
them the knowledge of the true .God. Now sir," said he, "thouvh
I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we would e
glad to see the DeVil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom,
taught to know the general rmc1ples of the Christian religion; that
they might, at least, hear 0 God and a Redeemer, and of the resur-
rection, and of a future state--things which we all beheve; that they
might, at least be so much nearer coming into the. bosom .of the true
church than they are now, in the pubhc profession of idolatry and
devil-worship."

I could hold no longer ;_ I took him in 'my.arms, and embraced
him with an excess of _pasSion. " How far," said I to him, '.' have I
been from understanding the most essential part of 'a Christian, viz.
to love the interest of the Christian church, and the good of other
men's souls! I scarce have known what oelonvs to the being a.
Christian." "Oh, Sir! do not say so," reg-lied he; "this thing is
not your fault." " No " said I; ' but why d I never lay it to heart
as well as you?" "It is not too late ye ," said he; ' be not too
forward to condemn yourself." "But what can be done now 1'" said
123--" Iyou see I am gomg away." " Will you ve me leave totalk
With t ese poor men about it '3" "Yes, With my hea ," said I;
"and Will obhge them to give heed to what you say too." "As to
tha ," said _he, "we must leave them to the mercy of .Christ; but it
is your busmess to aSSist them, encou_ a'e them, and instruct them;
and if you give me leave, and God his lessmg, I do not doubt but
the poor ignorant souls shall be brought .home to the great circle of
Christianity, if not into the articular faith'we all embrace, and that
even while you stay here." pon this I said, " I shall not only give
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for i ." What followed
I shall mention m its place. . . . '

I now ressed him for the third .artlcle m which we were to
blame. " by, really," sa 3 he, ".11: is of the same nature. And I
will proceed, askmg your cave, With the same plamness as before.
It is about vour poor savages who are, as I ma say, your conquered
subjects. It is amanm, 511' that IS, or ought to e, received among all
Christians of what church or pretended church soever that the
Christian knowledge ought to bepropagated by all ssible means,
and on all possrble occasrons. It is on this principle t at our Church
sends missmnaries into PerSIa,.Ind1a, and China; and that our clergy,
even of the superior sort, wrllmgly engage in the most hazardous
voyages, and the most dangerous resulence among murderers and
barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to
bring them over to embrace the Christian falth. Now, 811', you have
such an opportunity here to have 51x or seven-and-thirty poor savages
brought over from a state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their
Maker and Redeemer, that I. wonder how you can pass such an
occasion of doing good, which 15 really worth the expense of a man's
whole life." .

I was now struck dumb mdeed, and had not one word to say. I
had here the spirit of true. Christian zeal for God and religion before
me let his particular principles be of what kmdsoever. .As for me, I
had not so much as entertamed a thought of this in m heart before,
and I believe I should not have thought of 1t; for looked upon
these savages as slaves and people whom, had we not had anywork
for them to do, we would have used as such, or would have been glad
to have transported them to any other part of the world; for our
business was to get rid of them; and we would all have been satisfied
If they had been sent to any country, so they had never seen their
own. I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make him. . . . .

He looked earnestly at me, seemo me in some.d1so.rder---" 81:,"
ans he, "I shall be very sorr If what I have said gives you all?
offence."--" No, no," said 1 " am offended with nobo y but myse ;
but I am perfectly confounded, not only to thmk that I should never
take any notice. of this before, but with reflectmg what. notlce I am
able to take of it now. You know, sir " said I, 'fwhatcucumstances
I am m; I am bound to the East Indies in a Ship. freighted by mer-
chants, and to whom It would be an insufferable 1_ece of injustice to
detain thelr Slllp here, the men 1 'ng all this w e at victuals and
w ores on the owners' account. t is true, I agreed to be allowed
twe ve days here, and if I stay more, I must pay three pounds sterling
per diem demurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage above eight
days more and I have been here thirteen already; so that 1 am per-
fectly una le to engage in this work, unless I would suffer myse] to
be left behind here again- in which case if this s1.ng1e.sh1p1 should
miscarry in anv part of her voyage, I should be Just in t e same
condition that I was left in here at first, and from which I have been
so wonderfully delivered." He owned the case was very hard 11 on
me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon my commence, whet er
the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all
I had in the world for. I was. not _so sensible of that as he was. I
replied to hnn thus: "Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be
an instrument in God's hand to convert thirt seven theathens to. the
knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecc e51_astic, and are given
over to_the work, so_ it seems so naturally to fall into the way of Ivfour
professmn; how is it, then, that you do not rather ofl'er yourse to
undertake it than press me to do it?"

Upon this, he faced about 'ust before me, as he walked along, and
putting me to a full stop, ma e me a very low bow. " I most heartily
thank God and you, sir,'f said he, "for giving me so evident a call to
so blessed a work; and If. you think yourself discharged from.it, and
desire me to undertake it I Will most readily do it, and think it a
happy reward for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken,
disappointed voyage as I have met With, that I am dropped at last
into so glorious a work." . . . .

I discovered a kind of ragtnrenm his face while he spoke this to
me; his eyes 5 arkled like e, lns face "lowed, and his colour came
and went, as ' he had been falling into fits; in a word, he was fired
with the joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him; for I was
really surprised to find a. man .of such Sincerity and zeal,' and carried
out in his zeal be ond the ordinary rate of men, not of his rofession
only, but even 0 any profession whatsoever. But after had con-
s1dered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that
he would venture, on the single conSideration of an attempt to con-
vert those poor peo Is, to be locked up in an un lanted island for
perhaps his life, an at last might not know whet er he should be
able to do them good or not?

He turned short upon me, and asked .me what I called a venture ?
" I'ray, sir," said he, j' what do you_ think Iconsented to go in your
uliillp to the East Indies for?"--"1_Vay," said I, "that I know not

ess it was to preach to the Indians."--"Doubtless it was," said
he; "and do you think, if I can convert these thirty-seven men to
the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time, though Ishould
never be fetched off the island 0am ?--nay, 1.5 it_ not infimtely of
more worth to save so many sou 5 than my_hfe is, or the hfe or
twenty more of the same rofession? Yes, Sir," says he, "I would
give Christ and the blesse Virgin. thanks all my davs, if I could be
made the happy mstrument of saving the souls of those poor men,
though I were never to set my foot off this island, or see my native
country any more. . But since you Will honour me With putting me into
this work for which I will pray for you all the days of my hfe, I
have one humble petition to you besrd_es."--" What is that if" said. I.
--" Why," says he, "it is, that you Will leave your man Friday With
me, to be my inte reter to them and to assist me; for Without some
helf) I cannot s e to them, orthey to me." .
was sensib y touched at his requesting Friday, because I could
not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had
been the companion of my travels; he was not only faithful to me,
but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to
'10 something considerable for him if he outlived me. as it was no-
bable he would. Then I knew that as .I had bred Friday up to e a
Protestant, itwould (euite confound him to_ bring him to embrace
another reho'ron; an he would never, while lns eyes were open
believe that Ins old master was a heretlc and would be damned; an

this micrht in.the end rum the poor fellow's principles. and so turn
him bacl: again to his_first idolatry. .However, a sudden thought
relieved me in this stralt, and 11; was this : I told him I could not say
that I was wflhng to part w1th Friday on anlyalecceunt whatever,
though a work that to him was of more value t his life, ought to
be to me of much more value than the keeping or artmg with a
servant. But, on the other hand, .I was persuade that Friday
would by no means agree to part With me - and .I could not force
him to it Without his consent, mthout manifest in ustlce; because I
had promised I would never send him away, an be had promised
and engaged to me that he would never leave me, unless I sent him

awa .

H}; seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational
access to these poor pe0ple, seeing he did not understand one word
of their language, nor they one of his. To remove this difficul , I told
him Frida s father had learned Spanish, which I found e also
understoo , and. he should serve him as an interpreter. So he was
much better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he would
stay and endeavour to convert them; but Provrdence gave another
very happy turn to all this. . . _

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we
came to the Enolishmen, I sent for them all together, and after some
account given them of what I had done for them, v12. whatneeessa?
things I had provided for them, and how they were distribute ,
whic they were very sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to
talk to them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them afull
account of the notice the clergyman had taken of 1t; and arguing
how unchristian and irreligious a life it w as, I first asked them If they
were married men or bachelors? They soon explamed their con-
dition to me, and showed that two of them were widowers, and the
other three were smgle men, or bachelors. I asked them with what
conscience they could. take these women, and call them their wives,
and heve so many chlldren by them, and not be lawfufly mamed to

em .

They all gave me the answer I expected, viz. that there was
nobody to marrythem; that they agreed before the governor to keep
them as their Wives, and to maintain them and own them as their
Wives; and .they thought, as things stood w1th them, they were as
legally marriedas If they had been married by a parson, and With all
the formahtles m the world. _ , ,

I told them that no doubt they were married in. the Sight of God,
and were bound in conscience to keep them as their Wives; but that
the laws of men being otherwise, they nught desert the poor women
and children hereafter; and that their Wives, being poor desolate
women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help them-
selves: I therefore told them that, unless I was assured of their

1'
honest intent, I could do nothing for them, .but would take care that
what I did should be for the women and children Without them; and
that, unless they would 've me some assurances that they would
the women, I coul not think it was convemeiit they should
continue togetherasman and wife; for that it was both seandalous to
men and ofi'ensrve to God, who they could not think would bless them
if they went on thus. . _

All this went on as I expected: and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they love their
wives as well as if they had been born in their own native country
and would not leave them on any account whatever; and they did
verily believe that their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and
di to the utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their
c ' dren, as any women could poss1_bly do; and they would not part
with them on any account: and Will Atkins, for his own "particular,
added, that if any man would take him .away, and offer to carry him
home to England, and make .him captain of the best man-of-war in
the nayf' he would .not go with him, if he might not.carry his wife
and chi dren with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he
would be married to her now withall his heart.

This was Just as I would have it: the priest was not with me at
that moment, but was not far off; so to try him farther, I told him
I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, I would have him
married next _mormng, and bade him consider of it and talk with the
rest. He said, as for himself, he need not consider. of it at all, for
he was very read to do it, and was glad I had a minister with me,
and he believed t ey_would be all willin<r also. I then told him that
my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could not speak
English, but I would act the clerk between them. He never so
much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant which was
indeed what I was afraid of ; so we parted; I went hack to my
clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his com anions. I
desired the French gentleman not to say anything to t em till the
busmess was thoroughly ripe; and I told him what answer the men
had given me.

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told
me they had been COiiSidermg what I had said ' that they were lad
to hear I had a clergyman in m com any, and the were very ' ing
to give me the satisfaction I esire , and to be ormally married as
soon as I leased; tor they were .far from desiring to part with their
Wives, an that they meant nothing but what was very honest when
they .chose them. So I appomted them to meet me the next
morning; and, in the mean time, they should let their wives know
the meaning of the marriage law; and that it was not only to prevent
any scandal, but also to obhge them that they should not forsake

hem, whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meanin of the thing,
and were very well satisfied Wltll it, as indeed they hag reason to be:
so they failed not to attend altogether at my apartmeet next morning,
where I brought out my clergyman: and though he had not on a

minister's gown, after the manner of England: or the habit of a
nest, after the manner of France yet havino a black vest something
hire a cassock, with a sash round it, he dir not look very unlike a
minister; and as for his language, I was his interpreter. But the
seriousness of his behaViour to them, and the scruples he made of
marrying the women, because they were not baptized. and professed
Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person; and
there was no need, after that to. inquire whether he was a clergyman
or not. Indeed, I was afraid his scruples would have been carried
so far as that he would not have married them at'all; nay, notwith-
standing all I was able to say to him, he reSisted me, though
modestl'y, yet very steadily; and at. last refused absolutely to marry
them, unless he had first talked With the men and the women too -
and though at first I was a'httle backward to it, yet at last I agreed
to it with a good Wlll, erceivmg the smcerity of his deSIO'n.

When he came to t em, he let them know that I had acquainted
him with their circumstances, and With the present deSign; that he
was very Wilhno to erform that pait of his function, and marry
them, as I had esire ; but that before he could (it; it, he must take
the liberty to talk With them. He told them, that in the Slght of all
indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of spoiety, they had
lived all this while in open formcation ; and that it was true, that
nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating them
from one. another, could now put an end to it; but there was a
difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony,
which he was not.fully satisfied about2 that of marrying one that is
a professed Christian to a savage, an idolator, and a heathem--pne
that is not baptized; and yet that he did not see that there was time
left to endeavouroto persuade the women to be baptized, or to profess
the name of Christ, whom they had he douhte , heard nothing of,
and Without which they. could not be baptized. He told them he
doubted the were but mdifl'erent Christians themselves - that they
had but litt e knowledge of God or of his ways, and therefore he
could not expect that they had said much to their Wiveson that head
yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their endeavours
With their Wives to ersuade them to become Christians, and would,
as well as they could? instruct them in the knowledge and behef of
God that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have no handm J0
Christiansmth savages; nor was it consistent with the rmciples o
flie Christian religion, and was, indeed, expressly forbid en in God's

w.

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faith-
fully to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could;
only sometimes ad ' something of my own, to convince them how
Justit was, and that was of his mind: and I always very faithfully
distinguished between what I said from myself, and what were the
clergyman's words. They told me it was very true what the gentle-
man said, that they were very indifl'erent Christians themselves and
that they had never talked to their Wives about rehgiom "Lord,
811'," says Will Atkins, "how should we teach them re on? why,
we know nothing ourselves; and geSides, 511'," said he, should we
'r
talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it would
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we beheve ourselves? And
if we should te them that we believe all the things we speak of to
them, such as of good people gomg to heaven and Wicked eople to
thede ' they would ask us .where we intend to o ourse ves that
beheve I this, and are such Wicked fellows as we in eed are? 'Why,
sir 't1s enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first heanng ;
folks must have some religion themselves before the pretend to teach
other eople." "Will Atkins " said I to him, "t ough I am afraid
that w at you say has too much truthom 1t yet can you not. tell your
Wife she 18 m the wrong; that there is a 0d, and a religion better
than her own; that her gods are hdols; that the can neither hear
nor 5 eak; that there is a great Being that made thmgs, and that
can estroy all that he has made; that he rewards the Good. and un-
ishes the bad'; and that we are to be Judged by him at last for a we
do here? You are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach
you that all this is true - and I am satisfied you know it all to be true,
and believe it yourself."--"Th_at is true, sir," said Atkins: " but
with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this, when she
will tell me immediately it cannot be true_?"--".Not true!" said I:
"what do you mean bv that ?"---" Why, 511'," said he: " she will tell
me It cannot be true that this God I shall. tell her of can be Just, or
can pumsh or reward, smce I am not pumshed and sent to the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I have been,
even to her, and to everybody else; and that I should be suffered to
live, that have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her
is good, and to what I ought to have done."--" Why, trul , Atkins,"
said I, " I am afraid thou s eakest too much truth ;" an with that
I informed the clergyman 0 what Atkins had said, for he was impa-
tient to know. " Oh," said the priest, "tell him there is one thing
will make him the best mimster 1n the world to his wife, and that is,
repentance; for none teach re entance like true pemtents. He
wants nothing but to repent, an then he Will be so much the better
uahfied to instruct his Wife: he Will then. be able to tell her that
t ere is not only _a God, and thathe is the Just rewarder of ood and
evil, but that he 18 a merelful Bemg, and with infinite goo ess and
long;sufi'enndeg- forbears to plumsh those that offend; waiting to be
gracrous, and wflhng not t e death of a sinner, but rather that he
should return and live; that oftentimes he suffers wicked men to go
a long time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri-
bution; that 1t IS a. clear ev1dence of God and of a future state, that
nghteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their unish-
men till they come into another world; and this will lead deg to
teach his Wlfe. the doctrine of .the resurrection and of the last judg-
ment. Let him but re ent himself, he will be an excellent preacher
of repentance to his ' e." . .
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very; serious all. the while
and w 0, we could easily perceive, was more t an ordinarily affected
w1th 1t: when bemg eager, and hard] suffering me to make an end---
"I know all .this, master," says he, 'and a great deal more; but I
have not the impudence to talk thus to my Wife, when God and my
conscience know . and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against
me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God or future state,
or anything about it; and to talk of my re enting, alas! (and with
that he fetched a deep Sigh, and I could see t at the tears stood in his
eyes) 'tis past all that With me."--" Past it, Atkins?" said I: "what
dost thou mean by that P"--" I know well enough what I mean,"
says he - " I mean 'tis too late and that is too true."

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said: the poor, zeal-
ous priest--I must call lum so, for, be his opinion what it will, he had
certainly a most Singular affection for the good of other men's souls,
and it would be hard to think he had not the like for his own--I say,
this affectionate man could_ not refrain from tears - but, recovering
himself, saidjo me, "Ask him but one question: Is he eas that it is
too late; or_ is he troubled, and wishes it were not so 1'" _ put the
question fairly to Atkins; and he answered, with a great deal of
pasSion, " How could any man be easy in a condition that must cer-
tainly end in eternal destruction?_that he was far from being easy;
but that, on the contrary, he beheved it would, one time or other,
ruin him." ".What do you mean by that?" said I. " Why," he
said, " he believed he should one time or other out his throat, to put
an end to the terror of it." . . .

The clerg man shook lus head, with great concern in his face when
I_told him 1 this; but turning quick to me upon it, says, "Iftliat be
his case, we may assure him it is not too late - _Chr1st _Will ve him
repentance. But pray," says he, "explain tlus_to him; t at asno
man is saved but by Christ, and the merit of His passmn procuring
divme mercy for him, how can it he too late for any man to receive
mercy? Does he think he is able to 8111 be 0nd the power or reach
of divine. mercy? Pray tell him, there may e a time when provoked
mercy Will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to ear, but
that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are
Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at all times, mthe
name of Jesus Christ, to all those that smcerely repent; so that it is
never too late to repent." .

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me With great earnestness; but
it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest, for he said to
me, he would go and have some talk With his Wlfe; so he went out a
while, and we talked to the rest, I perceived they were all stupidly
ignorant as to matters of religion, as much as I was when I went
ram bling away from my father; and yet there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said ;. and all of them seriously fire.
mised that they would talk With their wives about it, and do t eir
endeavours to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer the
gave, but said nothing a good while; but at last shaking his he

' We that are Christ's servants," says he, " can gono farther than to
exhort and instruct: and when men com 1y, submit to the reproof,
and promise what we ask 'tis all we can 9: we are bound to accept
their ood words; but believe me, Sir," said he "whatever you may
have own of the life of that man you call W. Atkins, I beheve he
is the only sincere convert among them: I W111 not despair of the
rest; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of his past
life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of rehgion to his Wife,
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to teach others
is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who,
havin nothing but a summ notion of religion himself, and hem
wicke and profhgate to the ast degree in his hfe, made a thoroug
reformation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. . 1f that poor
Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his Wlfe,
my life for it he talks him5elf into a thorough convert, makes himself
a enitent and who knows what may follow?" . '

pon this discourse, however, and their romismg, as above,_ to
endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace hristiamty, he married
the other two couple; but Will Atkins. and his wife were not yet
come in. After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, was curious to
know where Atkins was "one; and turmng to me, said, " I entreat
you, sir let us walk out of your labfi'nnth here, and look; I dare say
we shall find this .poor man somew ere or other talking seriously to
his wife, and teaching her already something of reh ion." I be . to
be of the same mind; so we went out together, an I carried im a
way which none knew but myself, and where the .trees were so very
thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and
far harder to seem than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the
wood, I saw Atkins and lns tawny Wife Sitting under the shade of a
bush, very eager in discourse: I stopped short till my clergyman
came up to me, and then having showed him where the were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a ood while. e observed
him very earnest With her, pomting up to t e s and to every quar-
ter of the heavens, and then down to the earth, t en out to tie sea,
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. "Now,"
says the clergyman, " ou see my words are made good, the man
preaches to her; mark im now, he is tellin her that our God has
made him and her, and the heavens, the cart , the sea, the woods,_ the
trees, &c.'.'----"I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we perceived
Will Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on .his knees, and lift up
both ins hands. We supposed he said something, but we could not
hear him; it was too far for that. He did not continue kneehng half
a minute, but comes and Sits down again by his wife, and talks to her
again; weperceived then the woman very attentive, but whether she
said anything to him we could not tell. While the (poor fellow was
upon his knees, I could see the tears run plentifufl own my clergy-
man's cheeks, and I could hardly forbear myself; ut it was a great
aflhction to us both that we were not near enough to hear anything
that passed between them. Well, however, we could come no nearer
for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an end of this piece
of still conversation, and it spoke loud enou h to us Without the helg
of vorce. He sat down again, as I have sai :. close by her and talke
again earnestly to her, and two or three times we eould see him
embrace her most passionately; another time we saw him take out his
handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again With a kind
of transport very unusual; and after several of these things, we saw
him on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up,3031:1501: cnuson. 279

when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they both
kneeled down tooether, and continued so about two minutes.

Mly friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul!
St. a ! behold, he fiayethfl I was afraid Atkins would hear him,
therefore I entreated m to Withheld himself awhile, that we might
see an end of the scene, which to me I must confess, was the most
affecting that ever I saw in my life. W ell, he strove with himself for
a while, but was in such raptures, to tlnnk that the poor heathen
woman was become a Christian, that he was not able to contain him-
self- he wept_ several times, then throwing up his hands and crossing _
hisbreast, said over several'things ejaculatory, and by the way of
givmg God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of
our endeavours: some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear
others; somein Latin, spine in French; then two or three times the
tears would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all; but I
begged that he would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and
fully observe what was before us, which he did for a time, the scene
not being. near ended yet; for after the poor man and his wife were
risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talking still
eagerly to. her, and we observed her motion, that she was eatly
afl'ected With what he said, by her frequently lifting up her fiends,
laying her hand to her breasthand sueh other postures as express the
greatest seriousness and attention : this continued about half a quarter
of an hour, and then they walked away: so we could see no more of
them in that Situation. I took this interval to sa to the clergyman,
first, that Iwas glad to see the particulars we had oth been witnesses
to; that, though I was hard enough of behef in such cases, yet that .I
began to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and his
wife, however imorant they might both be and I he ed such a
beginning would5 yet have amorehap y end: "And w o knows"
said I, ' but these two may in time, y instruction and example,
work upon some of the others ? "--" Some of them?" said he turn-
ing quick upon me: "ay, upon all of them: dependu on it, if those
two savages--for he has been but httle better, as on re ate it--should..
embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave it t they work upon all
the rest; for true religion is naturally communicativehand he that IS-
once made a Christian will never leave a Ifagan behm_d him, if .he
can help It". I owned it was a most Christian prinCi 1e to think
so and a testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous cart in him.
"But, my friend," said I, " will you ' e me leave to start pne-
difficulty here? I cannot tell how to o ject the least thing against
that affectionate concern which on show .for the turmng of the oor
people from their P o'anism to t e Christian religion: but how oes
this comfort you, wh e these people are in your account, out of the
pale of the Catholic church, without which you believe there is no
salvation? so that on esteem these but heretics, as effectually lost as
the P vans themse ves." . " ,

To t '5 he answered, With abundance of candour, thus: Sir, I am
a Catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of St.
Benedict, and I embrace all the pniici les of the Roman faith; but
yet, if you will believe me, and that I 0 not speak in comphment to
you, or in res eat to my circumstances and our civilities; I sag,
nevertheless, do not look upon you, who yourselves reforme ,
without some charity: I dare not say (though I know it is our
opinion in general) that you cannot.be saved: I Will by no. means
limit the mercy of Christ so far as think that he cannot receive you
into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us unperceivable; and I
hope you have the same charity for us: I pray daily for your being
all restored to Christh church, by whatsoever method He, who is all-
wise, is pleased to direct. In the meantime, surely you Will allow it
consrsts With me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between aProtestant
and a Pagan: between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a
way which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a savage
or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if
you are not Within the pale of the Cathohc church, we ho e you are
nearer being restored to it than those that know nothing 0 God or of
his church: and I reJOice, .therefore when I see this poor man, who,
you say, has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down
and elray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, thouch not fully
enlie tened ; behevmg that God, from whomever): such work pro-
ceeds W111 senSibly touch his heart, and bring him to the farther
knowledge of that truth in his own time :. and if God shall influence
this poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his Wife, I
can never beheve that he shall be cast away himself. And have I not
reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer any are brought to the knowledge
of Christ, though theimay not be brought quite home into the bosom
9f the Catholic churc 'ust at the time when I may desn'e it, leaving
it tothe goodness of C rist to erfect hisworkoin his own time, and
in his own way? Certainly,_ would reJOice if all the savages in
America were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though
they were all to be aProtestants at firsthrather than they should con-
tinue P 0ems or Heathens; firmly believing, that He that had bestowed
the first ht on them would farther illuminate themwith a beam of
his heave y grace, and bring them into the pale of his church, when
He should see. 0d." . . _

I was astoms ed at the smcerity and temper of. this pious Papist
as much as I was 0 pressed b the power of his reasoning; an
at presently oceurre to my t oughts, .that if such a temper was
' universal, we might be all Cathth Christians, whatever church or
particular professmn we Jomed .1115 that a spirit of charity would
soon work us all 11 into righglfnnciplee; and as he thought that the
hire charity woul make us Cathohcsz so I told him I believed.
had all the members of his church the like moderation, they would
.seon all be Protestants. And there we left that part; for we never
dis uted at all. . -

owever Italked to him another way, and takiiig him by the hand,
"My fnemfi" sa 3 I, "I Wish all the clergy of t e Romish church
were blesse m such moderation, and had an equal share of your
charity. I am entirel of your epimon; but I must tell you, that if
you should preach suc doctrmem Spain oroItaly, the would put ou
into the Inqmsition.".--" It may be so," said he; " know not w t
they would do in Spain or Italy; but I w111not say they would be the
better Christians for that severity; for I am sure there is no heresy in
abounding with charity." . .

Well, as Will Atkins and his Wife were gone, our business there
was over so we went back our own way; and when we came back,
we found them waitino to be called in: observing this, I asked my
clergyman if we should .discoverto him that we had seen him under
the ush or not; and it was his opimon we should not, but that
we should talk to hmi first, andhear what he would say to us; so we
called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourxlves, and I
began with him thus 3-- .

' Will Atkins," said I, "prythce what education had you? What
was your father?"

W. A.--A better man than ever I shall be; sir, my father was a
clergyman. _

R. (ll--"That education did he give you? .

W. 4.--He would have taught me well, 811', but I despised all
education, instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was.

b Ii. 161'.--It is true, Solomon says, " He that despises reproof is

m is ."

W. A.--Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed for I. murdered m father:
PS013 God's sake, Sir, talk no more about that; 511', I murdere my poor

a ier.

R. C'.--Ha ! _a murderer!

Here the priest. started (for I inte reted every word he. Spoke)
anti looked pale: it seems he beheved t at Will had really killed his

a er.

R. 0,--No, no, sir; I do not understand him so: Will Atkins,
explain yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, wrth your
own hands? . .

. W. A.--No, 511', I did not cut his throat; but I cut the thread of all
his comforts, and shortened his days; I broke his heart by the most
ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most tender and affectionate
treatment that ever father gave, or child could receive. .

R. C.--Well, I did not_ask you about your father to extort this
confession: I my God gave {on re entance for it, and forgive that
and all your at er sms ; . ut aske you because I see that though
you have not much learmnv, yet you are not so ignorant as some are
in thinos that are good; that you have known more of religion, 9.
great deal, than you have. practised. .

W. A.--Though you, sir, do not extort the confessmn that I make
about my father, conscience does ; and whenever we come to look
back 11 on our lives, the sms against our indulgent Oarents are cer-
tainly the first to touch .us; the wounds they make e dee est, and
the weight they leave Will he heav1est upon the mind, of the 81118
we can commit. . . .

b R. 0.--You talk too feelingly and senmbly for me, Atkins; I cannot
car it.

W. A.--Yon bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.

R. 0.--Yes Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I may sayevery
tree in this island is witness to the anguish of my soul for my in .a-
titude to, and bad usage of a good, tender father; a father much a
wars, bv your description: and I murdered my father as well as you
111 At ms; but I think, for all that, my repentance is short of
yours too, by a great deal.

I would have said more, if I could have restrained my passions;
but I thou ht this poor man's repentance was so much sincerer than
mine,.tliat .was oing to leave off the discourse and retire; for I was
surprised With w at he had said, and thought that instead of my
gomg about to teach and instruct him, the man was made a teacher
and mstmetor to me in a most surprismo' and unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly
afl'ected with it, and said to me, "Did I not say 511' that when this
man was converted he would preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this
one man be made a true enitent, here Wlll be no need of me; he
will make Christians of a l in the island.".~-- But having a little
corirlilposed myself, I renewed my discoursewith Will Atkins. "But,
W 1:, said I, "how comes the sense of this matter to touch you just
now . "

W. A.---Sir, you have set me about a work that has stuck a dart
through my very soul; I have been talkmg about God and religion to
my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make aChristian of her, and
1silie has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I

ve.

R. 0.--No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but when
vou were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them
back upon you. . .

W. A.--Ay, sir with such force as is not to be resmted.

R. 0.--Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your
wife' for I knowsomethmg of it already. .

W). A.--Sir, it .15 impossible to give you a full account of it ; I am
too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let
her have said what she will, though I cannot give you an account of
{1:1, this I can tell you, that I have resolved to amend and reform my

e.

R. (it--But tell us some of it: how did youbegin Will? For this
has been an extraordinary case, that .13 certain. She has preached a
sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you. .

W. A.--Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage,
md what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter
=nto such compacts, as it was neither inothe power of one nor other
to break; that othermse, order and Justice could not-be maintained,
and men would run from their Wives, and abandon their children, mix
confusedly With one another, and neither families he kept entire, nor
inheritanees be settled by legal descent.

R. 0,--You talk like a c_1v1han, Will. Could you make her under-
stand what you meant by mhentance and families? They know no
such things among the savages, but marry anyhow,.w1thout regard
-:o relation, consanguinity, or famfly; brother and Sister, nay, as I
tiara;1 been told, even the lather and the daughter, and the son and the
mo er.

W. A.--I believe, sir on are misinformed, and m wife assures
me of the contrary, and t at they abhor it; perhaps, or any farther
relations, they may not be so exact as we are; but she tells me never
m the near relationshigigou speak of.

R. a--Woll, what .she say to what youtold her?

. W. A.----She said she liked it very well, as It was much better than
in her country. .

R. 0.--But did you tell her what marriage was?

_W. Az--Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her if she would
be married to me our way. She asked me what way that was, I told
her marriage was appomted by God; and here we had a strange talk
togther, indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe.

.B.--Tb1s_d1alogue between W111 Atkins and his wife, I took
llollm m writing, Just after he had told it me, which was as

o ows:--

71":fe.--~Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your
country ? . ,7

W. A.--Yes, my dcar,_God IS in every country.

Wife.---No your God in my country; my country have the great
old Benamuckee God.

W. A.--Child. I am very unfit to show you who God is; God is in
hfaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in

em 15.

Via--No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth; no makee
my cauntm . . .

h Will Attkms laughed a httle at her expressron of God not making

er coun .

Mfe.--%o laugh ; why lauilhsme? This nothing to laugh.

11 Egg: justly reproved by wife, for she was more senous than

e a .

W. A.----That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.

Wz' e.--Why, you say you God makee all?

. A.-----Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and
me, and all things; for he is the only true God, and there 13 no God
but h1m; he hves for ever m heaven.

ya--Why you no tell me long ago? .

. A.--That's true, mdeed; but I have been a Wicked wretch, and
have not only forgotten to acquaint thee w1th anything before, but
have lived Without God in the world myself.

. Wafer--What have you a geat God in your country, you no know
lllm ablNo say 0 to him? 0 do good thing for him? That no
posm e. _ .

W. A.--It is true; though for all that, we hve as if there was no
God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.
1i sz'fis--But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you good

ve.

. W. A.----It is all our own fault.

Wafer--But you say me he is Seat much great have. much great
power, can makee kill when he w , w y he no malice kill when you
no serve him? No say 0 to h1m, no be good mans.

W. A.--That is true, he might strike me dead; and I ought to
expect it, for I have been a wicked wretcb, that is true; but od is
merciful, and does not deal With us as we deserve.
Wz' e.---But then you do not tell God thankee for that too?
. A.----No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any
more than I have feared God for his power. .
Wz'fa--Then you God no God; me no think beheve he be such one,

great much power strong: no makee kill you, though you make him
much angr

W A.--%Vhat, will my wicked life hinder you from believing
in God? "That a dreadful creature am I! and what a sad_trut-
is 1t that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversron of
heathens!

Wifa--How me think you have great much God up .there [she
pomts up to heaven]nand yet no do well, no do good thing? Can he
tell? Sure he no te what you do?

W. A.---Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears us
spefi, sees what we do, knows what we thmk, though we do not
spe '.

"Wm--"mat! he no hear you curse, swear, speak de great
damn ?

W. A.----Yes, yes, he hears it all.

W17 e.---Where be then the much great power strong? .

. . A.---He ls merciful, that is all we can say for it; and tlns proves
him to be the true God; he is God, and not man, and therefore we
are not consumed: _

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think how
he could tell his Wlfe so clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows
the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we do, and yet that he
had dared to do all the Vile things he had done.

Wz' e.----Meroiful! What you call that?

. A.----He is our father and maker, and he pities and spares us.

.Mfer--So then he never makee kill, never angry when you do
w1cked; then he no good himself, or no great able. _

W. A.--Yes, yes my dear, he 18 infinitely good and infinitely great
and able to punish top; and sometimes, .to show his justice an
vengeance, he lets fiyhis anger to destroy Sinners and make examples;
man are cut off in their Sins.

{er--But no makee kill you yet ' then he tell you, may be,
that e no _makee you klll; so you ma 'ee de bar am with him, on
do bad thing, he no be angry at you when he 6 angry at ot er
mans.

W. A.--No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his good-
ness; and he would be mfimtely Just if he destroyed me, as he has
done other men. .

. Wz' e.----Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you say to
him or that? You no tell lum thankee for all that too?

W. A.--I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

W:fe.---Why he no makee you much good better? you say he
makee you. .

W. A.-He made me as he made all the world : it is Ihave deformed

myself and abused his goodness, and made myself an abominable
wretch.
"Wu--I wish (you. makee God know me; I no makee him angry, I
no do had wicke .thmg. _ . .

Here Will Atkms said his heart sunk wrthm him, to hear a poor
untaught creature demo to be taught to know God, and he such
a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her about God,
but what the reproach of his own carriage would make most irra.
tional to her to heheve; na , that alread she had told him that she
could not heheve 1n God, ecause he, t at was so wicked, was not
destroyed. _

W. A.--My dear, you mean, you wrsh I could teach you to know
God, not God to know you; for he knows you already, and every
thou ht m our heart.

.7 ie.-- Em he know what I say to you now; he know me
Wish to know ; how shall me know who makee me?

JV. A.--Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee; I
Will pray to him to teach thee to know him, and forgive me, that am
unworthy to teach thee: .

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desuing him to make
her know God and her Wishing to know him, that. he said he fell down
on his knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with
the savm knowled're of Jesus Christ, and to pardon .lns Sins, and
accept of ' being the unworthy instrument of instructing her in the
grinmples of rehgion: after which he sat down by her again, and their

ialogue went on.--'I'his was the tune when we saw him kneel down,
and hold u his hands.

erf'a-- at you put down the knee for? What you hold :3
tlfietlfmd for? What you say? Who you speak to? What is
t a .

7V. A.--My dear, .1 how my knees in token of m submission to him
that made me: I said O to lnm, .as you call 1t, an as your old men do
to their idol Benamuckee; thatois, I prayed to him.

W zfe.--What sav you.O to lnm for?

W. A.--I prayed to lnm to open your eyes and your understanding,
that you may know him, and be accepted by him.

Wz' e.--Can he do that too?

. A.----Yes, he can- he can do all things.

sza--But now he hear what you say? .

W. A.--Yes, he has bld us ray to him and promised to hear us.

era--Bid you pray? hen he bid you? How he bid you?
What, you hear him speak? _ _

W. A.--No, we do not hear him speak; but he has revealed himself
man ways to us.

HSere he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has
revealed himself to us by his word, and what his word was; but at
last he told it her thus :-- .

W. A.--God has spoken to some Good men in former days, even
from heaven, by lam words; and God has inspired good men by his
spirit; and they ve written all his laws down in a book.

give--Me no understand that; where is book? .

. A.---A.las! my poor creature, I have not this book ; but I
11088wa shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to
re 1 .

Here he embraced her with great affection, but with inexpressible
grief that he had not a Bible.

Wife--But how you makee me know that God teachee them to
write that book?

77. 1.733% the same rule that we know him to be God.

77" e.- at rule? What way ou know him? .

.4--Because he teaches an commands nothing but what is
good, righteous and holy, and tends to make .us perfectly good, as
well asdperfect y happy; and because he. forbids, and commands us
to av01 , all that is chked, that is evil in itself, or ev11 in its
conse uence. .

Wz' e.--That me would understand, that me fam see; it: he teachee
all good thing, he makee all good thing, he give all thing, he hear
me when I sa 0 to him, as you do Just now; he makee me good,
if I wish to e .good; he s are me, no makee kill me, when I no
bmod: .all this you say e do, yet he be great God: me take,
t d, believe him to be great God; me say 0 to him With you,
111 ear.

ere the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up,.made
her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the
knowledge of himself, by his spirit; and that by some good rovrdenee,
if possible, she nught some time or other come to have a ible, that
she might read the Word of God, and be taught b it to know him.
This was the time that we saw him lift her up by t e hand, and saw
him kneel down by her, as above. . .

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too iong
to be set down here; and. articularly she.made him promise that
since he confessed his own 1 e had been a Wicked, abominable course
of rovocations against God, that he would reform it, and not make
Go angry any more; lest he should make him dead, as she called it,
and then she would be left alone, and never be taught to know this
God better; and lest he should be miserable, as he had told her
Wicked men would be, after death. .

This was a strange account, and verv afl'ectmg to us both, but
particularly. to .the young clergyman; he was indeed wonderfully
8 used With it, but under the greatest aflliction imaginable that be
co 6. not talk to her that he could not speak English, to make her
understand him; and as she spoke but very broken English, he could
not understand her; however, he turned himself to me, and told me
that he believed that there must be more to do with this woman than
to marry her. I did not understand him at first, but at length'he
explained himself, Via, that she ought to be ba tized. I agreed With
him in that part readily, and Wislie it to be one Eresently. " No
no; hold, sir," said he; "though I would have her e ba tized bv all
means, for I must observe that Will Atkins, 'her husband:J has indeed
brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to embrace arehgious
life, and has given her just ideas of the bemo of a God; of his power,
instice and mercy: yet I'desire to know of.3 him if he.has said any-
thing to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of Sinners; of the
nature of faith in him, and redemption by him; of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, the last Judgment, and the future state."

. I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor fellow fell
immediately into tears, and told us. he had said something to her of
all those things, but that he was himself .50 Wicked a creature, and
his own conscience so reproached him With his horrid, nngodl hfe,
that he trembled at the ap rehenSions. that her knowledge 0 him
should lessen the attention s e should give. to those things, and make
her rather contemn religion than receive it ; but he was assure he
said, that her mind was so disposed to receive due. imEressions 0 all
those things, and that if Iwould but discourse With er, she would
make 1ilt appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not be lost
upon er. . . .

Accordingly, .I. called her in, and placinsiP myself as inte reter
between in rehgious priest and the woman, fentreated him to egin
With her; ut sure such a sermon was never preached by a 1'0th
finest in these latter ages of the world; and, as I told him, I thought

e had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the smeerity of a Christian,
Without the error of a Roman Cathohc; and that I took him to be
such a clergyman .as the Roman bishops were, before the church of
Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men. In
a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of
Christ, and of redemption by him, not With wonder and astonishment
onlv, as she did the first notions of a God, but With 9y and faith;
With an affection, and a surprismg degree of understan g, scarce to
be imagined, much less to be expressed; and, at her own request, she
was baptized. . .

When he was preparing. to baptize her, I entreated him .that he
would perform that office With some caution, that the man might not

erceive he was of the Roman church, idt'ieiossible, because of other
ill consequences .which might_attend 'a erence among us in that
very religion which we were mstructmg the other in. He told me
that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper thin for the ofi'ice,
I should see he would do it in a manner that shoul not know by it
that he wasa Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before;
and so he did- for saying only some words over to himself in Latin,
which I could not understand, be poured a whole dishful of water
upon the woman's head, ronouncingin French, very loud, " Mary,
(which was the name her usband desned me to $ve her, for I was
her godfather), I baptize thee in the" name of the ather, and .of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost ;" so that none could know anything by
it what religion he was of. He gave the benediction afterwar . in
Latin, but either Will Atkins did. not know but it was French, or else
did not take notice of it at that time.

As soon as this was over, we married them ; and after the mar-
riage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate
manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in that good d1$p081t10n
he was in, but to sup ort_the conVictions that were-upon him by a
resolution to reform is hfe; told him it was in vain to say he re-

ented if he did'not forsake his crimes: represented to. himhow God
had honoured him with being the instrument of bringing his Wife to
the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he should be carefu-
he should not disnonour the grace of .God - andthat if he did, he
would see the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage
converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many
good things to them both; and then, recommending them to _God's
gfodness gave them the benediction again, I repeatmoeverything to
t em in English; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the
mhost lieasant and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my
w o e e.-

But my clergyman had not done yet: his thoughts hung continually
upon the converSion of the thirty-seven savages,_ and fain he would
have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it; but I convmced
him, first, that his undertaking was .impracticable in itself;_ and,
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being done in his
absence to his satisfaction. . .

Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow comfiass
I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man had
taken out of the famished ship's company came to me, and told me
he understood I had a clergyman With me, and that I had caused the
Englishmen to be married to the. savages - that he had a match too,
which he desired might be finished before I went, between two
Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island: so I
began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind rashly, or be-
cause he round himself in thissohtary circumstance. I represented
to him that he had some conSiderable substance in. the world, and
good friends, as I understood by himself, and the maid also; that the
maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was une ual to him, she
being Six or seven and twenty years old, and he not a ove seventeen
or eighteen; that he'might very probably, with my assistance, make
a remove fromthrs Wilderness, and come into his own country again;
and. that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his
chOice and the dislike of that Circumstance might be disadvantageous
to both. I wasyomg to say more but he interru ted.me, smiling,
and told me, Wlfil a great deal of modesty, that mistook in my
guesses,--that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts; and he
was very glad to hear that I had an intent of uttmo them in a way
tosee their own country agam- and nothing s ould Iiave made him
think of staying there, but that the voyage I was going was so
exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the
reach of all Ins triends; thatbe had nothing to desire of me, but that
Iwould settle him in some httle property in the island where he was

we him a. servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would

ve here hke a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I re-
turned to England, I would redeem him; and hoped I would not be
unmindful of him when I came to England: that he would give me
some letters to his friends in London, to let them know how good I
had been to him, and in what part of the world, and what Circum-
stances I had left him in: and he promised me that whenever I
redeemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements he had
made upon it, let the value be what it would, should be wholly
mine. '

His discourse was ve prettily delivered, considering his youth,
and was the more agreea le to me, because he told me positively the
match was not for himself. I gave him all possible assurances that
if I lived to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters and do
his busmess effectually; and that he might depend I should never
forget the circumstances I had left him in; but still I was impatient
to ' ow who was the person to be. married; upon which he told me
it was my .Jack-ofoall-trades and his maid Susan._ I was most ee-
ably surprised when he named the match; for, indeed, I thong tit
very suitable. The character of that man I have given alread ; and
as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and re 'gious
young woman; had a very good share of sense, was agreeable enough
in her person, spoke very iandsomely and to the purpose, always With
decency andgood manners, and was neither too .backward to s eak
when requiSite, nor 1m ertmently forward when it was not her usi-
ness; very handy and ouseWifely, and an excellent m er; fit,
indeed, to have been governess to the whde island; and s e knew
verv well how to_ behave in every respect. . .

The match bemo' proposed in this manner, we married them the
same day; and _as I was father at the altar, and gave her away so I
gave her a portion; for I a pointed her and her husband a ban ome

aroe space of ground for t eir plantation; and, .mdeed, this match,
and the proposal the young gent eman made to give him a small pro-

erty in the island, put me upon parcellino it out amongst them, that
they might not quarrel afterwards about their Situation. .

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who was
now own a sober, grave, managing fellow, erfeetly reformed,
excee ' gly pious and religious ; an , as far. as may be allowedtp
speak 031tively in such a case, I verily beheve he was a true pem-
tent. e diVided things so Justify and so muchto eve one's
satisfaction, that they onl desire one general writm iin er my
hand for the whole, which causedto be drawn up, an Signed and
sealed, setting out the bounds and Situation of every man's plantation,
and testifying that Igave them thereby severally a right to the whole
possessmn and inheritance of the respective plantations or farms, With
their improvements, to them and their heirs, reservmg all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in my
mug; came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the same
wn g.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them, I was
not capable of giving them better rules than they were able to give
themselves; only I made them promise me to hve in love and
nei hbourhood with one another; and so. I prepared to leave them._

fine thing I must not omit, and that is, that being new settled If).
a kind of commonwealth among themselves and havmg much busi-
ness in hand, it was odd to have seven-an thirty Indians hve in a
nook of the island, .inde endent, and, indeed, unemployed - for,
excepting the prov1ding t emselves food, which they had difficulty

0'
enough to do, sometimes they had no manner of bnsiness. or roperty
to manage. I roposed, therefore, to the governor Spamard? that he
should go to _t em, With Friday's father, and propose to .them to
remove, and either plant for themselves, or be taken into their several
families as servants, to be maintained forttheir labour, but Without
being absolute slaves; for I would not permit them. tomake them
slaves by foree, by any means; because t ey had their liberty given
them by capitulation, as it were articles of surrender, which they
oucht not to break.

'I'hey most wfllin01 .embraced the pro 03 and came all very
cheerftu along with in: so we allotted t em and and plantations
which three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed
as servants in the several families we had settled ;. and thus my
colony was in a manner settled as follows _:--The Spamards possessed
my original habitation which was the caiital eity, and extended their

lantations all along the Side of the broo , which made the creek that
Ihave so often described as far as my bower; and as they increased
their culture, it went always eastward: The Enghsh lived in the
north-east part, wherellal Atkins and his comrades be , and. came
on southward and south-west, towardsthe back part of t e Spamards;
and every plantation had a great addition of land to take in, if they
found occaSion, so that the need not Jostle one another for want of
room. All the east end of t e island was left umnhabited, that if any
of the savages should come on shore there only for their usual custo-
mary barbarities, they might come and go; if they disturbed nobody,
nobody would disturb them : and no doubt but they were often ashore,
and went away again; for I never heard that the planters were ever
(attacked or disturbed any more. .
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend the
clergyman that the work of converting the sav <<res miOht perhaps be
set on foot in his absence _to his satisfaction, an toldjhim that now I
thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages, being thus divided
.amongthe Christians, if they would but every one of them. do their
part With those which came under their hands, I hoped it might have
a very good effect. . . .

He agreed resently .m that, if they did their art. "But how,"
says he, " sh we obtain that of them ? " I told ' we would call
them all together, and leave it in charge with them, .or go to them,
one by one, wlnch he thought best; so we divided it,--lie to s eak
to the Spaniards, who were rill Papists, and I to speak to the Err7 'sh,
who were all Protestants; and we recommended it earnestl to them,
and made them promisethat they would never make any 'stinction
of Papist or Protestant in their exhorting the savages to turn Chris-
tians, but teach them the general knowledge of the true God, and of
their SaViour Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us that they
weiuld never have any differences or disputes one with another about
re gion.

When 1 came t9 Will Atkins' house may call it so, for such a
house, or such a piece of basket-work, I elieve was not standing in
the world Wu)' there I feund the oung woman I have mentioned
above and ill Atkins' Wife were ecome intimates; and this pru-
dent, religious youngwoman had crfeeted the work Will Atkins had
begun d and though 1t was not a ove four days after what I have

relate , yet the new-baptised savaa'fe woman was made such a Chris- '
tian as I have seldom heard of m

the world.

It came next into my mind in the morning before I went to the
that amongst all the needful'thmgs I had to leave with them, I ha
not left them a Bible .m which I. showed myself less considermg for
them than my good friend the Widow was for me when she sent me
the cargo of a hundred pounds from Insbon, where she packed up
three Bibles and a Prayer-book. However, the good woman's charit
had a greater extent than ever she imagmed, for they were reserved
for the comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done. .

I took one of the Bibles in my ocket, and when I came to Will
Atkins' tent, or house, and found t e .young woman and Atkins' bap-
tized wife had been discoursing of reh 1011 together--for Will Atkins
told it me with a great deal of Joy-- asked if thev were together
now and he said yes- so I went mto the house, and he with .me, and
we found. them together very .eamest 1n discourse. . "Oh, sxr" says
Will Atkins, " when God has smners to reconc11e to hlmself, and aliens
to bring home, he never wants a messenger; my wrfe has got a new
instructor; I knew I was unworthy as I was incapable of that work;
that young woman has been sent hlther from heaven,--she 18 enough
to convert a whole island of savages." The young woman blushed,
and rose 11 to go away, but I desrred her to at s - I told her she
had; goo work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless

er In it.

We talked a little, and I_ did not erceive that they had any book
among them, though I drd_not as - but I put my hand mto my

ocket, and pulled out my Bible: " Here," says I to Atkms, "I have
Brought you an assrstant that perhaps vou had not before." .The
man was so confounded, that he was not able to speak for some tune;
but, recovering himself, he takes it w1th both his hands, and turmn
to his Wife, " Here, my dear," says he, "did not I tell you our
though he lives above, could hear what we have said? Here's the
book I grayed for when you and I kneeled down under the' bush;
now G0 has heard us, and senti ." When he had said so the man
fell into such transports of passionate jov, that between the Joy of
having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face
like a chlld that was crying. . . .

The woman was surprised, and was hke to haverun mto a mistake
that none of us were aware of, for she firmly beheved God. had sent
the book upon her husband's petition. It IS true that prondentially
it was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I beheve
it would have been no difficult matter at that time to have per-
suaded the oor woman to have beheved that an express messen er
came from Iileaven on purpose to brmg that individual book; ut
1t was too serious a matter to sufi'er any delusron to take place; so I
turned to the young woman, and told her we did not dcsrre to mgomse
upon the new convert in her first and more ignorant understan 3

U2

my observation or conversationin
of things, and begged her to explain to her that God may be very
properly said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of His
providence, such things are in a articular manner brought to pass
as we petitioned for: but we di not expect returns from Heaven
in atmiraculous and particular manner, and it is a mercy that it
is no so.

This the young woman did afterwards effectually so that there was,

I assure you, no priesteraft used here; and I should have thought it
one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so.
But the sur rise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to be ex-
pressed; an there we may be sure was no delusion. Sure no man
was ever more thankful iii the world for anything of its kind than. he
was for the Bible,--nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible
from a better rinciple; and though he had been a most profligate
creature, hea strong, furious, and desperately Wicked yet this man
is a standing rule to us all for the well mstructmg children, v12., that
parents should never give over to teach and instruct, nor ever des air
of the success of their endeavours, letthe children be ever so re rac-
tory, or, to appearance, iiisensible to instruction; for, if ever God, in
His prov1dence, touches the conscience of such, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents is
not lost, though it may have been many years laid asleep, but some
time or other they may find the benefit of it. . Thus it was With this
poor man; however ignorant he was of religion and Christian know-
ledge, he found he had some to do with now moreignorant than him-
self, and that the least part of the instruction of his good father that
now came to his mind was of use to him. _
. Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to
mSlSt so much on the inexpressible value of the Bible, and the privi-
lege and blessino of it to nations, families, and ersons ; but he never
entertained the least notion of the worth of it t now, when being to
tall: to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the
written oracle for his assistance.

The young woman was 0'lad of it also for the present_occasion,
though she had one, and so Iiad the youth, on board our ship, among
their goods, which were not yet brought on shore. And now _ having
said so many things of this young woman, I cannot omit te .ng one
story more of her and myself, which has something in it very mstruc-
tive and remarkable.

I have related to what extremity the oor young woman was
reduced,--how her mistress was starved to eath, and died on board
that unhappy shi we met at sea, and how the whole ship's company
was reduced .to t e last extremity. The gentlewoman, and her son,-
and this maid, were first hardly used as to provismns, and at last
totally .neglected and starved,--that is to say, brought to the last
extremity of hunger. (\ie day being discoursing With her.on the
extremities the suffered, I ashed her if she could describe, by
what she had fe t, what it was to starve, and how it appeared? She

igld me she believed she could, and she told her tale very distinctly
us :--
" First, sir," said she, " we had for some days fared exceeding hard,
and suffered very great hunger; but at lastowe were wholly without
food of an kind, except sugar, and a httle wme-and-water. The first
day after had received no food at all, I found myself towards even-
rng .first empty .and srck at the stomach, and nearer night much
mchned to yawmng and sleep. I laid down on the couch in the eat
cabin to sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a fitle
refreshed, havmg taken a glass. of me when I lay down; after being
about three hours awake, 1t bemg about five _o'clock in the morning,
I found myself empty, and my. stomach slclnsh, and lay down again,
but could not sleep at all, being very famt and ill- and thus I con-
tinued all the second. day With a stranoe vanetSS,--first hungry then
srck agam, Withretehmgs to vomit. 'Ilhe secon night, being obliged
to to bed again Without any food, more than a drauOht of fresh water,
an bemg asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes and that the market
was mightily stocked With (provisions--- hat I hought some for m
mistress, and went .and dme ve heartily. I thought my stomac
was as full after this as 1t would ave been after a good dmner; but
when I awaked, I was exceedm01y sunk m myospirits to find myself in
the extremity of fame. Thelastglass of wme we had I drank, and
put sugar 1n 1t, because of its haying some spirit to $111)le nourish-
ment; but there bemg no substance in the stomach for t e digesting
office to work upon, I found the only eflfect of the wme was to raise
disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head,--and I lay as
they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some time. 8
third day, in the morning, after a mght of strange, confused, and
mconsmtent dreams, and rather dozmo than. sleepmg, I awaked
ravenous and furious with hunger,--andI question had not my under-
standing returned and conquered 1t, whether, if I had been a mother,
and had had a little child wrth me, its hfe would have been safe or not.
Thls lasted about three hours,---during which time I was twree raging
mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as
he can now inform you. . .

" In one of those fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down and struck
my face agamst the corner of a pallet-bed, 1n whlch my nustress lay,
and With the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and the cabm-
boy bnngmg me a little basm, I sat down and bled mto It a great
deal; and as the blood came from me I came to myself, and the no-
lence of the flame or fever Iwas in abated, and so dld the ravenous
part of the hunger. ThenI grew sick, and retched to vomit but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to brmv up. After I had bled
some time I swooned, and they all beheved I was dead; but I came
to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my sto-
mach not to be described--not like the cohc, but a gnawmg, eager
pain for food; and towards mght it went off wrth a kind of earnest
mshing or longing for food, somethmg hke, as I suppose, the longing
of a woman with child. I took another draught of water w1th sugar
m it,--but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brouvht it all up again;
then I took a draught of water Without sugar, and:, that sta ed With
me; and I laid me down upon the bed praying most heart y that 1t
would Iplease God to take me away; and composmg my mind in hopes
of 1t, slumbered awhile, and then wakmg, thought myself dying,
being light with vapours from an emfity stomach; I recommended my
soul then to God, and earnestly wis ed that somebody would throw
me into the sea: . . . .

"All this while my mistress lay by me Just as I thought, expiring,
but bore it With much more atience than ,--gave the last bit of
bread she had left to her child? my young master who would not have
iii-ken it, but she obliged him to eat it; and I beheve it saved his

e.

'f Towards the morning I sle t again ~ and when I awoke I fell into

a Violent asSion of crying, an after that had a second fit of Violent
hunger; got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful condition; had my
mistress been dead, as much as I loved her "I am certain I should have
eaten a piece of her flesh with as much relish and as unconcerned as
ever I did eat the flesh of .any creature appointed for food -and once
or twice I was oino' to bite my own arm; at last I saw the basm in
which was the $1003 I had bled at my nose the day before; I ran to
it, and swallowed it With such haste, and such a greed appetite
as if I wondered nobody had taken it before and aim it should
be taken from me now. After it was down though the thoughts of
it filled me With horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, anch took
another draught of water, and was composed and refreshed for some
hours after. This was the fourth day,----and thus I he t upl till
towards night, when, Within the compass of three hours, I had a the
several circumstances. over again one after another, viz., sick, sleepy,
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again,---then sic ,
then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every (uarter
of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly; at night _I lay me
down, havmg no comfort but in the hope that I should die before
mormng.
. " Allthis night I had no sleep; but the hunger was now turned
into a disease; and I had a terrible colic and griping,_by wind, instead
of food, havmgfound its way into the bowels; and .111 this condition
I lay till mormng, when I was surprised by the cries .and lamenta-
tions of my young master, who called out to me that his mother was
dead- I lifted myself up a httle, for I had not strength to rise, but
f?1fi}d she was not dead, though she was able to give very httle signs
0 e.

" I had then such convulsions in m stomach, for want of some
sustenance, as _I cannot describe; Wit such frequent throes and
pangs of appetite, as nothing but the tortures of death can imi-
tate; and in this condition I was when I heard the seamen above cry
out, 'A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump about as if they were
distracted.

" I was not able to get ofl' from the bed, and my mistress much
less; .and my young master was so Slck. that I thought he had been
expiring; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any account
what it was that occasioned such confusion; nor had we had any
conversation vnth the ship's company for two days, they having
told us that .they had not a mouthful of anything to eat in the
ship; and this tliegxtold us afterwards--they thought we had been
dead. It was this oadful condition we were in when you were sent
to save our lives; and how you found us, sir, you know as well as I,
and better too." . . 0

This was her own relation, and is such. a distinct account of
starving to death, as, I confess, I never met Wit and was exceeding
entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to be 'eve it to be atrue
account because the youth (give me an account of a. good part of it -
though I must own, not so tinct and so feeling as the maid; and
the rather, because it Seems his mother fed him at the price of her
own life: but the poor maid though her constitution being stronger
than that of her mistress, w 9 was in 1years, and a weakly woman too,
she might struggle harder with it; say, the poor maid might be
supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress,
who might be allowed to kee the last bit something longer than she
Kartcd With any to relieve t e maid. 1\o question, as the case is

ere related, if our ship, or some other, had not so prov1dentially met

them, a few days more would have ended all their lives, unless they
had revented it by eating one another; and that even, as their case
stood would have served them but a httle while they being five hun-
dred leagues from any land, or any pOSSlblhotyoof rehef, other than in
the miraculous manner it happened: but this is by the way; 1 return
to my disposition. of things among the people. .

And, first, it is to be observe here, that for many reasons I did
not think fit to let them know anything of the $100 I had framed,
and which I thought of setting up among them; for found, at least
at my first coming, such seeds of diViSion among them, that I saw
plainly, had I set up the sloop, and left it among them, th would,
upon every light disgust, have separated, and gone awa rom one
another; or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made t e island a
den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and rehgious peo 16,
as I intended it; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon t t
I had onboard, or the two quarter-deck guns that my nephew took
extraordinary for the same reason: I thought it was enough to
qualify them or a. defenSive war against any that should invade them,
but not to set them up for an ofi'enswe war, .or to go abroad to attack
others; which, in the end, would only bring rum and destruction
upon them: I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their
service another way, as I shallobserve in its lplace. . .

Having now done with the island, I left t em all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing. condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, havmg been about twenty-five days among
them; and as they were all resolved to sta upon the island till
came to .remove them, I promised to send t em farther relief from
the Brazds, if I could posmbly find an Opplortumty; and, particularly
I promised to send them some cattle, suc as sheep, hogs, and cows :
as to the two cows and calves which I brought from England, wehad
been obliged, b the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for
want of hay to eed them.

The next da , 'vin them a salute of .five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrivladglat die bay of All Saints in the Brazils, in about

twen -two da 5, meeting nothing remarkable in. our pass but
this :tlihat abodt three days after we had sailed, bemg becalme and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay, or gulf on the land side, we were. driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out " Land to the east-
ward !" but whether it was the continent or islands we could not tell
by anlyl' means. But the third day, towards evemng, the sea smooth,
and t e weather calm, we saw the sea, as _it were, covered towards
the land_w1th something very black; not bemg able to discover what
it was, till after some time, our chief mate gomg up themam-shrouds
a little way, and looking at them With a erspective, cried out it was
an army. .1 could not imagine what e meant by an army, and
thwarted him ahttle hastily. " Nay, srr," .says he, " don't be angry
for 'tis an army, and a fleet too ; for I beheve there are a thousand
canoes and you may see them paddle along, for they are eommg
towards us apace." . .

Iwas a httle surprised then, indeed, and so was my ne he_w, the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in t ie island,
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times we should all be
devoured. I must confess, consrderm<r we were becalmed and the
.current set stron towards the shore, fhked it the worse; however,
I bade them not e afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon as
-we came so near as to know that we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us;
.so I gave orders to come to an anchor, .and furl all our sails - as for
the savages, I told them they had nothmo to fear but fire, and there-
.fore the should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by
'the hea ,and the other by the stern and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture: this l. did, that the men in the boats
might be .ready With sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savagesmight endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

,Inthis posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came
up With us; but never was such horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number,
yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-Six;
some of them had sixteen of seventeen men in them, and some more,
and the least 51X or seven. .

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck With
wonder and astomshment, as at a Sig t which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us, they came bold] up, however, ve
near to us, and seemed to go about to row roun us: but we calle
to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them. This
very order. brought us to an engagement with them, Without our
desrgmng it; for five or 51: of the larcecanoes came so near our loner.
boat, that our men beckoned With their hands to keep them back,
which they understood very well, and went back: but at their retreat
about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and one of our
men in the lonfiboat was very much wounded. However, 1 called to
them not to e by any means; but we handed down some deal

boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of
fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should shoot train.

About half an hour afterwar 3. they all came u in a body astern of
us, and so near that we could easily discern what txliey were, though we
could not_ tell their des1gn; and l. eaSily found they were some of
my old friends, the. same sort of savages that I had been used to
engage With; and in a short time more they rowed a little farther
out to sea, till the came direct] broadSide with us, and then
rowed down straig t upon us, t' they came so near that they
could hear us s eak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close,
lest they shoul shoot any more. arrows, and made allour guns ready;
but being so near as to be Witlun hearing, .I made Friday go out upon
the deck, and call out aloud to them in his L nguage, to know
what they meant; which accordingly he did. thflier they under-
stood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as _he had called
to them, six of. them, who were in the foremost or mghest boat to
us turned their canoes from us, and st00pmg down, showed us their
naked backs: whether this was a defiance or challenge we knew not,
or whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a Signa to the rest : but
immediately Friday cried out they were gomg to shoot, and, unhap-
pily for him, poor fellow, thev let fly about three hundred of their
arrows, and, to my inexpresmble grief killed poor Eriday, no other
man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shotw1th no less than
three arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marksmen they were !

I.was so enraged .at the loss of my old trusty servant and com-
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with eat, and ve them such a broadSIde as they
had never heard in t eir lives efore, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable's lenoth off when we fired; and our gunners took
their aim so well, hat three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to beheve, by one shot only.

The ill manners of turmng up their bare backs to us gave us no great
offence; neither did I know for certain whether that which would
Bass for the greatest contempt among us might be understood so

y them or not; therefore, in return I had only resolved to have
fired four or five guns at them with powder only, which I knew
would frighten them sufiiCiently: but when they shot at us directs
with all the fuilthey were capableof and especialalf' as they h
killed my poor riday, whom I so entirely loved and v u_ed, and who,
indeed, so well deserved it, I thought myself not only Justifiable before
God and man, but would have been very glad if I could have overset
every canoe there, and drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded
at this broadside, but sure such a fright . and hurry never were seen
among such a multitude: there were thirteen or fourteen .of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a smmmmg: the
rest, frightened out of their Wits, scoured away as fast they could
taking but little care to save those whose boats were spht or spOile
with our shot ; so I suppose that many of them were lost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone. .

ll'he small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short, we never knew how it went with them, for they
fled so fast that, mthree hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above
three or four straggling canoes, nor did we ever see the restany more-
for a breeze of Wind springing up the same evemng, we weighed, and
set sail for the Brazils.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would nelther cat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death: but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the long-boat and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do, but they really
did throw him into the sea, and came away from him; and then he
followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his
tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said; however,
at last theytook him in again, and then he began to be more tract-
able: nor did 1 ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again, but I was the most disconsolate
creature ahve for want of mv man Friday, and would have been very
glad to have gone back to the island, to have taken one of the rest
from thence for my occasion, but it could not be: so we went on.
\Vc had one Erisoner, as I have said, and it was a long time before
we could. ma 'e him understand anything: but, in time, our men
taught him some English, and he began to be a little tractable.
Afterwards, we inquired what country he came from, but could make
nothing of what he said; for his speech was so odd, all gutturals, and
he spo 'e in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we could
never form a word after him; and we were all of opinion that theymight
speak that language as well if they were gagged as otherwrse;
nor could we perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth,
tongue hps, or palate, but formed their words just as a hunting
horn forms a tune wrth an open throat. He told us, however,
some time after, when we had taught him to speak a little Eng-
hsh, that thev were gomg with their kings to fight a great battle.
When he said kings, we asked him how many kings? He said
they were five nation (we could not make him understand the
plural s), and that they all Joined to go against two nation. We
asked him what made them come up to us? He said " To makee
te great wonder look." Here it is to be observed, that all those
natives, as also those of Africa when they learn English always add
two e's at the end of the words where we use one; and thev place
the accent u on them, as. makee, takee, and the like: nay, Icould
hardly make riday leave it off, though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him. Poor. honest_Fr1day! We buried him With all the
decency and solemmty possrble by putting him into a coffin, and
throwmg him into the sea; audI caused them to fire eleven guns for
him: and so ended the life of the most mful, faithful, honest, and
most affectionate servant that ever man
We went now away with a (air wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line being the iiorth~easteijnmost land of all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E., insight of the shore four days, when
we made Cape St. Augustine and in three days came to an anchor
oil' the bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from
whence came both my good and evil ate.

Never. ship came to this ort that had less business than I had,
and yet it was With great culty that we were admitted to hold the
least correSpondcnce ,on shore: not my partner himself, who was
ahve, and made a great figure among them, not my two merchant-
trustees not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island
could. obtain me that favour; but my partner, remembering thatI
had given five hundred mOidores to the Prior of the Monastery of the
Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to
the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was, to .go to the
governor, 'and get leave for me personally, With the captain and one
more, beSides eight seamen, to come on shore and no more; and this
upon condition, absolutely capitulated for, that we should not offer
to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away with-
out hcence. They were so strict With us, as to landing any goods,
that it was With extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of
English goods, such as fine broadcloths, stufi's, and some hnen, which
I had brought for a present to my artner. .

He was a very generous, 0 en- earted man; though, hke me, he
began with little at first; an thouvh he knew not that I had the
least deSigii of givnig him anythmg,he sent me on board a present of
fresh rOVisions, wme, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty meidores
mclu g some tobacco, and three or four fine medalspf gold; but I
was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, consrsted of
fine broadcloth, English stuffs lace, and fine Hollands; also, I deh-
vered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterhno, in the
same goods, for other uses; and I obhged him to set up the sloop,
which I had brought with me from England, as I have said, for the
use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my
plantation. . .

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was alread framed; and I gave the master of her such
instructions that he co (1 not miss the filace ; nor did he, as I had an
account from my partner afterwards. got him soon loaded Wlth the
small cargo I sent them - and one of our seamen, that had been on
shore With me there, offered to go With the sloop and settle there,
upon my letter to the Extrema Spamard, to allot him a sulficient
quantity of land for a p tation, and ' ivmg him some clothes and
tools for his plantm work, which he sai he understood, havmg been
an old planter at ' land, and a buccaneer into the bargain: I
encouraged the fellow y grantin all he deSired; and, as an addition,
I gave him the savage whom we ad taken prisoner of war, to be his
slave, and ordered the governor Spamard to give him his share of
evervthing he wanted mth the rest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me there
was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his aciiuaintance,
who had fallen into the displeasure of the church. " know not
what the matter .13 with him," says he, "but, on my conscience, I
think he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been obhged to conceal
himself for fear of the Inquisition ;" that he would be very glad of
such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters; and if 1 would let them go to my island and allot them
a plantation, he would give them a small stock to begin w1th,--f0r
the officers of the In uiSition had seized all his effects and estate,
and he had nothing le t but a little household stufl', and two slaves;
" and," adds he, " though I hate his rinciples, at I would not have
Sim fall into their hands, for he Will e assure y burned alive if he
oes."

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them;
and we concealed the man, and his Wife and daughters, on board our
ship till the sloop put out to go to sea; and then having put all their
goods on board some time before, we put them on board the sloop
after she was got out.of the bay.

Our seaman was mightily leased with this new partner; and their
stocks, indeed, were much . 'e, rich in tools, in preparations, and a
farm,--but nothing to begin with, except as above: however, they
carried over With them, what was worth all the rest, some materials
for lanting sugar-canes, With some plants of canes, which he, I mean
the ortugal man, understood ycry well. .

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I
sent them by the sloop three milch cows. and.five calves, about twenty-
two hogs among them, three sows big With pig, two mares, and a
stone-horse. For my Spamards, according to m promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go, and recommende it to them to marry
them, and use them kindly. I could have procured more women, but
I remembered that the poor prosecuted man had two daughters, and
that there were but five of the Spaniards that wanted,--the rest had
wives of their own, though in another country.

All this cargo 3. ve .safe and, as you may easily suppose, was
very welcome to my old mhahitants, who were now, with this addi-
tion, between Sixty and seventy peo 1e, beSides httle children, of
which there were a great many. I ound letters at London from
them all by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, of which
I shall also take some notice immediately.

I have now done With the island, and all manner of disc0urse about
it: and whoever reads the rest of: my memorandums would do well
to turn his thoughts entirel from it, and expect to read of the follies
of an old man, not warned y his own harms, much less by those of
other men, to beware; not cooled .b almost fort years' miseries and
disappointments,--not satisfied Wit prosperity egond. erpectation,
nor made cautious by afflictions and distress be on imitation.

I had no more business to go to the East In 'es than a man at full
liberty has to go to the turnke at Newgate, and desire him to lock
him up among the prisoners t ere, and_ starve him. Had I taken a
small vessel from_England, and gone directly to the island; had I
loaded her, as I did the other vessel, With all the necessaries for the
plantation, and for my people ; taken a patent from the vernment here
to have secured my property, in subjection only to t at of England;
had I earned over cannon and ammumtion, servants and people to
plant, and taken ossessron of the place, fortified and strengthened it
in the name of ngland, and mcreased 1t wrth peo 1e, as I mi ht
easily have done; had I then settled m self there, an sent the s 'p
back laden With good use, as I mivht 0 have done in six months'
time, and ordered my friends to ave fitted her out a ain for our
supply,--had I done this, and stayed there myself, I ad at least
acted like a man of common sense: but I was possessed of a wander-
mg Spll'lt, and scorned all advantages: I (pleased myself with bein

the patron of the people I laced there, an domg for them in a king
of haughty, ma'estic way, 1ke an old patnarchal monarch providing
for them as if had been father of the whole famil , aswell as of the
plantation: but I never so much as retended to p ant _m the name of
any government or nation, or to ac .nowledge any pnnce, or to call
my people subjects to any one nation more than another: nasal
never _so much as gave the place a name, but left .It .as I foun it,
belonging to nobody, and the co le under no disc1p11ne or govem-
ment but my own; who, thoug. I Influence over them as a father
and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command one
way or other, farther than voluntary consent moved them to oompgy :
yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well enough; ut
as I rambled from them, and came there no more the last etters I
had from any of them were by my partner's means, who afterwards sent
another slooli)l to the place, and who sent me word, though I had not
the letter t' I got to London, several years after 1t was written,
that the went on but poorly were discontent with their long stay
there: t at Will Atkins was ea --that five of the S amards were
come away,---and though they ha. not been much mo ested by the
savages, yet_ they had had some skirmshes With them; and that they
begged of him to write to me.to thmk of. the promise I had made to
gets}; them away, that they might see their country again before they

e .

But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed! and they that will
have any more of me must be content to follow me mto a new
variety of follies, hardships and Wild adventures, wherem the 311.8th
of Prov1dence may be. uly observed; and we may see how easrly
Heaven can gorge us With our own desrres, make the strongest of our
wishes be our aflhction, and umsh us most severely Wlth those ve
things which we think it wo d be our utmost happmess to be allowe
in. Whether I had business orno busmess, .away I went: 1t1s no
time now to enlarge upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct,
but to come to the history,---I was embarked for the voyage, and the

voyage I went. . .

s onl add a word or two ooncermng my honest Popish cler.
gyman,----for et their opinions of us, and all other heretics m issueral,
as they callus, be as uncharitable as it may, I verily beheve t . man
was very sincere, and wished the good of allomen: yet I behevehe
was u n the reserve in many of his expressmns, to firevent .vmg
me o cues; for 1 scarce heard him once call on the lessed irgin,
or mention St. Iago, or his guardian angel, though so common with ,
the rest of them: however, I say, I had not the least doubt of his
sinceri and piousmtentions: and I am firmly of opinion, if the rest
of the opish missmnaries were like him, they would strive to visit
even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, where they have nothing to give
them, as well as covet to flock to India, Persia, China, &c., the most
wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they ex ected to bring; no
gains to their church b it, it may well be admire how they came to
admit the Chinese Con ucius into the calendar of the Christian saints.

A ship being ready7 to sail. for Lisbon, my pious riest asked me
leave to go thither; heino still, as he observed, boun never to finish
any voyage he began. Hpow happy it had been for me if I had gone
with him! But it was too late now: all.tliings Heaven appomts for
the best: had I gone with him, I had never had so many things to
be thankful for, and the reader had never heard of the second part of
the travels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must here leave
exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage. From the Brazils,
we made directl ' over the Atlantic Sea to the Ca e of Good Hope,
and had a tolera le good voyage, our course general y south-east, now
and then a storm, and some contrary wmds: but my disasters at sea
were at an end,--m.y future rubs and cross events were to befal me
on shore, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to be
our scourge as the sea. .

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board,
who has to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape,
only being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-
;Barty, at the. several ports she wasto go to. This was none of my

usiness, neither did .I meddle With 113;. my nephew, the captain,
1alilid thet sfiupercargo, adjusting all those things between them as they

0110' t.

W; stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in
fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coroman-
(181. We were, indeed, informed that a French man-of-war, of fifty
guns, and two large. merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as

knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehensions of
them; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
t em.

I shall not pester the reader. with a tedious dcscri tion of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, atitudes, trade-
winds, 820.; it IS enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at. and what occurred to us upon our passage from one to
another, We touched first at the Island of Madagascar, where
though the people are fierce and treacherous, and very well arme
withiances and bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them a while; they treated us very
civilly; and for some trifles wlnch we 6we them, such as knives,
scissors, &c., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks. of a middling
size, which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were obliged_to stay here some time after we had furnished
ourselves with prowsions; and I, who was always too curious to lock
into every nook of the world wherever I came, went on shore as often
as I could. It was on the east Side of the island that we went on
shore one evemng: and the people, who, by the way, are very
numerous, came throngmv about us, and stood gazing at us at a dis-
tance: but as we had traded freely Wltll them, and had been kindly
used we thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we out three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at adis-
tanee from us; which, it seems, is amark in that country, not only of
a tmcc and friendshi , but when it is acce ted, the other set side up
three poles or boug s, which is a signalt at they1 accept the tmee
too; but then this tree is a known condition of t e truce, that you
are not to pass beyond their three oles towards them, nor they to
come past your three poles, or bong 5 towards ou; so that you are
perfectly secure withm the three yliioles, and a the s ace between
your poles and theirs is allowed 'e a market for ree converse,
trall'ic, and commerce. When you go there, you must not

your weapons With ou: and if they come into that space, they stick

up their javelins an lauces all at the first (Poles, and come on unarmed;
but if any violence is offered them, an the truce thereby broken,
away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the
truce is at an end. .

It happenedone evening, when we went on shore, that a greater
number of their people came down than usual, but all very friendly
and civil; and the brought several kinds of provisrons for which we
satisfied them wit such toys as we had; the women also brouoht us
milk and roots, and several things very acceptable to us, and all was
quiet; and we made us a little tent or hut of some boughs or trees,
and lay on shore all night. _

I know not what was the occasion but I was not so well satisfied
to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at an anchor at about
a stone's cast from the land, With two men in her to take care of her,
I made one of them come on shore; and getting some boughs of trees
to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the
goats and lay under the cover of the branches of the trees all night in

e oa .

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make
a temble noise on the shore, calhng out, for God's sake, to bring the
boat in, and come and hel them, for they were all hke to be mur-
dered ; at the same time, heard the fire of five muskets, which was
the number of: guns they had, and that three times. over; for, it
seems, the natives here were not so easily frightened With guns as the
savages were in America, where I had to do with them. All this
while I knew not'what was the matter, but rousmg immediately from
sleep with the neise, I caused the beat to be thrust in, and resolved,
With three fusees we had on board, to land and asmst our .men.

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much
haste; for being come to the shore, the plunged into the water to
get to the boat with all the expedition t iey could, being pursued all?

etween three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in
and only five of them had fusees with them; the rest had pistols and
swords, indeed, but they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enou'rh too, three
of them being very ill wounded; and that which was st worse was,
that while we stood in the boat to take our men m, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows
in upon us so thick that we were glad to barricade the side of the
boat up with the benches and two or three loose boards, which, to
our great satisfaction, we had by mere accident inthe boat. And yet,
had it been daylight, they are it seems, such exact marksmen, that if
they could have seen but the least part of any of us, they would have
been sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a little sight of
them, as they stood elting us from the shore With darts and arrows;
and having get rea y our fire-arms we ave them a volley, that we
could hear, by the cries of some of them, lad wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle array on the shore till break of day,
which we supposed was that they might see the better to take their
arm at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our
anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a
tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to.the ship, and,
though she rode a league off, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our
firing, and by glasses pcrceivmg the posture we lay in, and that we
fired towards the shore, pretty well understood us; and wei hing
anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst wit the
ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to assrst us;
but we called to them not to come too near, telling them what condi~
tion we were in; however, they stood in near to us, and one of the
men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and kee ing one boat
between him and the enem , so that they could not per cctly see him,
swam on board us, and mat e fast the line to the boat; u on which we
slipped out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behin , they towed
us out of reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the
barricade we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that
we could lay her side to the shore, she ran along just by them, and

cured in a broadside among them, loaded with pieces of iron and
cad, small bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made
a. terrible havoc among them.

When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to
examine into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed, our supercargo=
who had been often in those arts, put me upon it; for he said he
was sure the inhabitants won (1 not have touched us after we had
made a truce, if we had not done something to revoke them to 1t.
At length, it came out that an old woman, who ad come to sell .us
some milk, had brought it within our poles, and a young woman With
her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while the old woman
(whether she was mother to the young woman or no they could not
tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to
the wench that was with her, at which the old woman made 2} -eat
noise: however, the seaman would not quit lllS prize, but cam her
out of the old woman's sight among the trees, it being almost dark:
the old woman went away Without her, and as we may suppose, made
an outcry among the people_ she came from; who, upon notice,
raised this great arm upon us in three or four hours, and it was great
odds but we had all een destroyed.

Qne _of our men was killed With a lance thrown at him 'ust at the
begmmng of the attack, as he salhed out of the tent they ad made:
the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who aid dear enouoh for his black mistress, for we
could not hear what ecame of him or a great while. We lay upon the
shoreotwo days after, though the wind presented, and made signals
for him, and made our boat sail up shore and down shore several
leagues, but in vain, so we were obliged to give him over; and if he
alone had sufi'eredfor it, the loss had been less.

I could not satisfy myself however, without venturing on shore
once more2 to try if I could learn an hing of him or them: it was
the third night after the action that I ad a 0meat mind to learn, if I
could by any means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indians' Side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we
should be attacked again; but I ought, indeed, to have been sure
that the men I.went With had been under. my command, before I
eng ved in a thing so. hazardous and mischievous as I was brought
into y it, Without deSign. .

We took twenty as stout fellows With us as any in the ship, besides
the supercargo and myself and we landed two hours before midnight,
at the same place where the Indians stood drawn up in the evening
before. I landed here, because my deSIgn, as I have said, was chiefly
to see if they had uitted the field, and if they had left an marks behind
them of the misc 'ef we had done them; and I thoug t if we could'
surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man again, by
way of exchange. . . _ .

Ve landed Without any neise, and diVided our men into two bodieS.
whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other. We neither
saw nor heard .anybody stir when we landed: and we marched if
one body. at a.distance from the other to the lace; but at first co d
see nothing, it being ver dark. till by-an -by our boatswam, who
led the first party, stumb ed and fell over a dead body. This made
them halt a while; for knowing by the circumstances that they were
at the place where the Indians Ila istood, they waited for my comi_n<y
up there. We concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, winch
we knew would be in less than an hour, when we could eaSily discern
the havoc we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies
upon the ground whereof two were not a(gluite dead ' some had an arm,
and some a leg shot off, and one his he : those that were wounded,
we supposed they had carried away. .

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could
come to the knowledge of, I resolved on gomg on board; but the
boatswam and his party sent me word that they were resolved to
make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called
them, dwelt, and asked me to go along Wlth them; and if they could

at
find them, as they still fancied they should, they did not doubt of
getting a good booty; and it might be they might find Tom Jeffry
there: that was the man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to 0'0, I knew well enough what
answer to have ven them; for I s ould have commanded them
instantly on board, knowino it was not a hazard fit for us to run,
who had a ship and ship- oading in our charge, and a voyage to
make which depended very much upon the lives of the men; but as
they sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me and
my comfany to go along With them, .I posmvely refused it, and rose
up, for was sitting on the ground, in order to go to the boat. One
or two of the men began to importune me to go; and when I refused
began to mble, and sa they were not under my command, an
the woulflo. "Come, ack," says one of the men, "Will you go
wit me? I'll go for one." Jack said he would,----and then another,--
and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom I ersuaded to stay
and a boy left in the boat. So the supercargo an I, With the third
man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would stay for
them and take care to take in as many of them as should be left; for
I told them it was a mad thin" they were oing about, and supposed
most of them would have the fate of Tom efl'ry.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would
come off <<rain, and they would take care, &c.; so away they went.
I entreate them to consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives
were not their own and that they were entruste With the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for
want of their hel , and that they could not answer for it to God or
man. But I mig t as well have talked to the mainmast of the shii;
the were mad upon their Journey; only they gave me ood wor s,
an begged I would not be angry; that they did not dOlfiTt but they
would be back again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indian town,
they said, was not above half a mile off, though they found it above
two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away, and though the attem twas desperate,
and suchas none but madmen would have "one a out, yet, to give
them their due, they went about it as warily as boldly: they were
gallantly armed, for the had ever man a fusee or musket, a bayonet
and a plStOl' some of t em had road cutlasses, some of them ha
hangers, and the boatswain and two more had oleaxes; besides all
which, the had among them thirteen hand) grenadoes: bolder
fellows, an better promded, never went about any wicked work in
the world. . .

. When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were
in migh hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance which
none of t cm were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and made
devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian houses which
they thought had been the town, which was not above half a mile off,
the were under a great disa pomtment, for there were not above
twe ve or thirteen houses; an where the town was, or how big, they
knew not. They consulted, therefore what to do, and were some
time before they could resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must
cut all their throats and .it was ten to one but some of them might
escape, 1t being in the moht,'thou h the moon was up- and if one
esca ed. he would run and raise a the town, so they s ould have a
who e army upon them : again, on the other hand if they went awa
and left those untouched, for the people were asleep they could
not tell which way to look for the town: however, the last was the
best advrce, so they resolved to leave them, and look for the town as well
as they could. T ey went on a httle was and found a cow tied to a
tree; this, they resently concluded we d be a good guide to them;
for, they said t .e cow certaml be onged to the town before them,
or the town behind them; an if the untied her, they should see
which way she went: If she went bac , they had nothing to sayto
her - butlf she went forward, the would follow her: so they cut the
cor , which was made of twiste flags, and the cow went on before
them, directly to the town; which, as .they reported, consisted of
above two hundred houses or huts, and m some of these they found
several families living together.

Here they found all m Silence, as profoundly secure as sleep could
make them : and, first, they called another COIIDCll, to consider what
they had to do; and, In a word, they resolved to divide themselves
into three bodies, and so set three houses on fire in three arts of the
town; and as the men came out, to seize them and bind t em (if ang
re51sted, they need not be asked what to do then) and so to scare
the rest of the houses for glundcr: but. they resolved to march silently
first through the town, an see what dimensions it was of, and if they
might venture upon it or no.

hey dld so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon ,
them: but while they were animating one another to the work, three
of them who were a little before the rest, called out aloud to them,
and told them, that they had found Tom J efl'ry: they all ran up to
the place, where they found the poor fellow hanging up naked by one
arm, and his throat cut. There was an Indian house Just b _the tree,
where they found sixteen or seventeen of the prinCIpal In ans, who
had been concerned in the fray wrth us before, and two or three
of them wounded with our shot; and our men found they were
awake, and talking one to another in that house, but knew not their
nnm )er.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as
before, that. they swore to one another they would be revenged, and
that not an Indian that came into their hands should have any
quarter; and to work they went immediately and yet not so madlfyl as
might be expected from the rage and fury they were 1n. Their _ rst
care was to get somethmg that would soon take fire, but, after a httle
search, they found that would be to no pu ose ; for most of tee houses
were low, and thatched with flags and rus es, of Wthll the country 13
full; so they presently made some Wildfire, as we call 1t, by wettmg
a little powder in the alm of their hands, and m a quarter of an hour
they set the town on re in four or five places, and particularly that
house where the Indians were not gone to bed. .

As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened creatures
began to rush out to save their lives, but met mtll their fate m the

x
attempt; and especially at the door, where they drove them back, the
boatswam himself killing one or_ two With his poleaxe. The house
beinor large, and man m it, he dld not care to_ g? m, but called for a
hand, enado and t rew 1t among them, whic at first frightened
them, ut,. when 1t burst, made such havoc among them that they
cried out m a hideous manner. In short, most ofP the Indians who
were in the open part of the house were killed or hurt With the
grenade, except two or three more who pressed to the door, which
the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets on the muzzles
of their ieces, and despatched all that came in their way; but there
was anot er apartment in the house, where the prince or lung, or
whatever he was, and several .otbers, were; and these were _kept 1n
till the house, which was by thlS time all m a hght flame, fell in upon
them and the were smothered together.

Ali this whi e they fired not a gun, because they would not waken
the peo le faster than they could master them; but the fire began to
waken t em fast enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little
together in bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses being
made of light combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street
between them; and their business was to follow the fire, for the surer
execution: as fast as the fire either forced the people out of those
houses which were burning, or frightened them out of others, our
people were ready at their doors to knock them on the head, still
calling and halloomg one to another to remember Tom Jeffry.

Whlle this was domg, I must confess I was very uneasy, and
especrally when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night
seemed to be Just by me. My nephew, the captain, who was rouse
by 1118 men, seemg such a fire, was very uneasy not knowmg what
the matter was, or what danger I was In, espemally hearing the guns
too, for by tlns time they began to use then fire-arms; a thousand
thoughts oppressed his mmd concerning me and the supercargo, what
would become of us; and at last, though he could 111 spare any more
men, yet not knowmg what emgenee we might be in, he takes another
boat, and wrth thirteen men and himself comes ashore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with
no more than two men ;. and though he was glad that we were well,
yet he was _m the same impatience wrth us to know what was doing;
for the n01_se continued, and the flame increased; in short, it was
next to an imposmbrhty for any men in the world to restrain their
cunosrty to know what had happened, or their concern for the safety
of the men: 1n a word, the captain told me he would 00 and help
his men, let what would come. I argued with him as I did before
with the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the
mterest of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him I and the
two men would go, and only see if we could at a distance learn what
was hkely to be the event, and_ come back and tell him. It was in
vain to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before; he
wouldgo, he said; and he only "'15th he had left but ten men in
the $111 , for he could not think of having his men lost for want of

hel ; c had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all;
an away he went.
I was no more able to stay behind now, than I was to persuade
them not to go; so, in short, the captam ordered two men to row
back the mnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving the long-boat
at an anc or; and that when they came back, six men should keep
the two boats, and s1_x more come after us: so that he left only
sixteen men m the ship; for the whole ship's company consisted of
sixty.five men, whereof two were lost m the late quarrel which
brought this mischlef on.

Bemg now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the
around we trod on; and bemg 'ded by the fire, we kept no path,
but went directly to the lace o theflame. If the noise of the guns
was sur rismg to us be ore, the ones of the poor people were now

mte 0 another nature, and filled us wrth horror. I must confess

was never at the. sacking 21 mt , or .at the taking a town by storm.
IDhad heard of Ohver Cromwel taking Dr00hed in Ireland, and
kilhng man, woman, and child; and I .ha rea of Count Tilly
sacking the City of Magdebourv, and cuttmg the throats of twenty;
two thousand of all sexes; but fnever had an idea of the thing itse
before, nor 13 it possible to descnbe it, or the horror that was upon
our minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at length came
to the town, though there was no entering the streets of it for the
fire. The first object we met wrth was the ruins of a hut or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed: and just
before it, plamly now to be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men
and three women killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in
the heap among the fire; in short, there were such instances of rage
altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was
human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of 1t;
or if they were the authors of 1t we thought they ought to be every
one of them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all: we saw
the fire increased forward, and the cry went on ust as the fire went
on; so that we were in the utmost confusron. Ve advanced a httle
wa farther; and behold, to our astonishment, three naked wome
an crying in a most dreadful manner, came flying as .if they h
wings, an after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, 1n the. same
terror and consternation, with three of our English .butchers 1n the
rear; who, when the could not overtake them, fired 1n among them,
and one that was k' ed by their shot fell down m our Slght. When
the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we would
murder them as well as those that pursued them they set us a most
dreadful shriek, especially the women, and two of them fell own, as
if already dead w1th the fright. . .

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in. my
veins, when I saw this: and I believe, had the three English sailors
that pursued them come on, I had made our men klll them all: how-
ever, we took some means to letthe poor flying creatures know that
we would not hurt them; and immediately they came ufato us, and
kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous mentation
to us to save them, which we let them know we would; whereupon
they crept altogether in a huddle close behind us, as for protection.
I left my men drawn up together, and charging them to hurt nobody,
but, if possible, to get at some of our people, and see what devil it
was possessed them, and what the intended to do, and to command
them off ; assuriner them that If t ey stayed till davhght they would
have a. hundred t rousand men about their ears: Isay, I lelt them,
and went among those flying people, taking only two of our men with
me: and there was indeed a piteous spectacle among them; some of
them had their feet terribly burned, with trampling and rumiin
through the fire, others their hands burned; one of the women ha
fallen down in the fire, and was ver much burned before she could
get out again; and two or three .of t 1e men had cuts in their backs
and thighs, from our men pursumg; and another was shot through
the body, and died while I was there.

I would fajn have learned what the occasion of all this was, but I
could not understand one word they said: though, by signs, I per-
ceived some of them knew not what was the occasion t iemselves.
I was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
could not stay there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to
"0 into the middle of the town, through the fire, or whatever might
be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it would: accordingly
as I came back to my men, I told them my resolution, and commanded
them to follow me, when, at the very moment, came four of our men,
with the boatswain at their head, rovmg over hea s of bodies they
had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if trey wanted more
peo le to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud as they
co d halloo: and with much ado, one of them made them hear, so
that they knew who we were, and came up to us.

As soon as the boatswain saw us he set up a halloo like a shout
of trimnph, for having, as he thong t, more hel) come; and without
waiting to hear me, "Captain," says he, "noble captain! I am glad
you are come; we have not half done yet: yillanons, hell-hound
dogs! I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head:
we have sworn to spare none of them; we'll root out the very nation
of them from the earth 3" and thus he ran on, out of breath too with
action and would not give us leave to sEeak a word.

At last, raising mv voice, that I mig t silence him alittle, "Bar-
barous dog! " said I,' "what are you doing? I won't have one
creature touched more, upon pain of death: I charge you, n on your
life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a ead man
this minute."----" Why, 5113" says he, "do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what we have done',
come hither ;" and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging,
with his throat cut.

I confess I was urged then mvself, and at another time would
have been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their rage
too far, and remembered J acobfs words to his sons Simeon and Leyi
--" Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel." But I had now a new task upon my hands; for when
the men I carried with me saw the sneht, as I had done, I had as
much to do to restrain them as I should have had With theothers;
nay, my nephew himself fell in w1th them, and told me, _1n their
hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the men being over-
.owered; and as to the peo 1e he thoughtonot one of them ought to

ve; for they had all glutte themselveswrth the murder of the or
man and that they ought to be used hke murderers. Upon t ese
words, away ran .elgglt of my men, With the boatswain and his crew,
to complete their loody work; and I, seemg it quite out of my

ower to restrain them, came away p)ens1ve and sad; for I could not

ear the Sight, much less the horn 1e n01se and cries of the poor
wretches that fell Into their hands.

I got nobody to come back With me but the supercargo and two
men, and With. these walked back to the boat. It was a very great ,
piece of folly in me I confess, to venture back as it were alone; for
as 1t began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run over the
count , there stood about forty men armed with lances and bows,
at the ittle place where the twelve or tlnrteen houses stood, men-
tioned before- but by accident I missed the place, and came directly
to the sea-side; and b1}; the time I got to the sea-Side It was broad
day: immediately I too. the pinn'ace and went on boar , and sent her-
back to assxst the men in _what mlght happen. .

1 observed, about the time that I came to the boat-Side that thefire
was pretty well out, and the nouse abated ~ but in about half-an-hour-
after I got on board, I heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and
saw a great smoke: this, as I understood afterwards, was our men
falling upon the men, who, _as I said, stood at the few houses on the
way, of whom they killed Sixteen or seventeen, and set all the houses
on fire, but did not meddle With the women or children. .

By the time the men got to the shore. again with the pmnace, our
men began to appear; they came drop mg 'm, not m two bodies as
they went, but straggling here and t ere m such a manner that a
small force of resolute men might have cut them all 011'. But the
dread of them was upon the whole country and the men were sur-
Erased and so frightened, that I beheve a undred of them would

ave tied at the Slght of but five of our men ;. nor m all this temble
action was there a man that made any conSIderable defence; they
were so surprised between the terror of the fire and the sudden
attack of our men in the dark, that the knew not which way to turn
themselves; for if they fled one way t ey were met by one Bart , 1f
back again, by another; so that they were everywhere ' 10c ed
down; nor did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one
that s rained his foot, and another that had one of his hands

urne . ,

I was very angry with my nephcwh the captain, and, indeed,
with all the men, in my mind, but with lum m particular, as well for
his acting so out of his duty, as commander of the ship, and havmg
the charge of the voyage upon lum,.as m 1113 (prom tmg, rather than
cooling, the rage of his blind men, m so bloo y an cruel an enter-
prise. My ne )hew answered me very respectfully but told me that
when he saw the body of the poor seaman whom they had murdered
in so cruel and barbarous a mamier, he was not master of himself,
neither could he govern his passion; he owned he should not have
done so as he was commander of the slup; but as he was a man, and
nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the men,
they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it well enough;
so they took no notice of my dislike. .

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our
men differed in the account of the number they had killed;_but
according to the best of their accounts ut all together, they killed
or destroyed about one hundred and fity people, men, women, and
children, and left not a house standin in the town. As for the poor
fellow Tom J efl'ry, as he was quite end (for his throat was so out
that his head was half off) it would do him no service to bring him
away; so they only took him down from the tree where he was
hanging by one hand. .

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in
it, and I always, after that time, told them God would blast the
voyaoe; for I looked upon all the blood they shed that night to be
murder in them. For though it is true that they had killed Tom
Jeffry, (yet Jeffry was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had
violate a young woman of theirs, who came down to them innocently,
and on the faith of the public capitulation.

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards
on board. He said it was true that we seemed to break the truce,
but really had not - and that the war was begun the night before by
the natives themse ves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men
without any Just provocation- so that as we were in a capacitv to
fight them now, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves
justice upon them in an extraordinary manner; that though the
poor man had taken a httle liberty wrth the wench, he ought not
to have been murdered, and that in such a villanous manner- and
that they did nothing but what was Just, and what the laws of God
allowed to he done to murderers.

One. wouldthink this should have been enough to have warned
us against gomg on shore amongst heathens and barbarians; but it
is impossrbe to make mankind Wise but at their own expense; and
their experience seems to be always of most use to them when it is
dearest bought. .

We were now bound to the Gulf of I'ersm, and from thence to
the coast of Coromandel only to touch at Surat; but the chief of
the supercargofs desxgn lay at the Bay of Bengal; where, if he
missed his busmess outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and
return to the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that bcfcll us was in the Gulf of Persia, where
five of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed, or carried
away into slavery; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them,. and had .but Just time to get off their boat. I began to
ulpbraid them With the Just retribution of Heaven in this case; but
t e boatswam very warml told me, he thought I went farther in my
censures than I could s ow any warrant for in Scripture ; and
referred to Luke x111. 4, where our Saviour intimates that those
men on whom the Tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all
the Galileans; bnt that which put me to silence in the case was, that
not one of these five men who were now lost were of those who went
on shore to the massacre of Madagascar, so I always called it,
th<t>lugh our men could not bear to hear the word massacre With any
pa ence. . . .

But my fre uent preaching to them on this subject had worse
consequences t an I expects ; and the boatswain, who had been
the head of the attempt, came up boldly tome one time, and told
me he found that I brought that affair continually u on the stage-
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used t e men very ill
on that account, and himself in articular; that as I was but a
passenger, and had no command in t 1e ship, or concern in the voyage,
they were not obliged to bearit; that they did not know but I might
have some ill deSign in my head, and perhaps to call them to an
account for it when theyl came to England; and that, therefore,
unless I would resolve to. ave done with it, and also not to concern
myself any farther with lnm, or any of his affairs, he would leave the
Shlf); for he_did not think it was safe to sail With me among them.

heard himdiatiently enough till he had done, and then told him
that I confessc I had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar,
and that I had, on all .occasmns, spoken my mind freely aboutat,
though not more upon him than any of the rest; that as to.havmg
no command in the ship that was true; nor did I exermse an
authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in things whic
pubhcly concerned us all; and what concern I had in the voyage
was none of his business; that I was a conSiderable owner in t e
ship. In that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even farther
than I had done, and would not be accountable to him or an one
else, and began to he a little warm with him. He made but 'ttle
re 1y to me zit-that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
I e were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being Willing to
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's
boat, to divert myself; and towards evemng was repanng to 0
on board, when one of the men came to me, and to d me he wo d
not have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had
orders not to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess
what a su rise I.was in at so msolent a message; and I asked the
man, who ade .lnm deliver that message to me? He .told me the
coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let.them
know he had dehvered his message, and that I had given him no
answer to it. .

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him
the story, adding, what I presently foresaw, that there would be a
mutiny in the slug; and entreated him to go immediately. on board
the shi in an In ian boat, and acquaint the ca tam of it. But I
might ave spared this intelligence, for before I ad spoken .to h1m
on shore, the matter was effected on board. The boatswain the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon as was
gone off in the boat, came up and desned to speak With the captain-
and there the boatswain, making a long harangue, and re eating all
he had said to me, told the captain in afew words, that as was now
gone peaceably on shore, they were loth to use auv wolence With me,
which, if I had not gone on shore, they would othermse have done,
to oblige me to have one. They therefore thought fit to tell him,
that as they shi ed t emselves to serve in the slnp under his com-
mand, they won perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not-

uit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave
t e ship, and sail no farther with'him; and at that word all, he turned
his face towards the maimnast, which was, it seems, the signal reed
on between them, at which, the seamen, being got together t ere,
cried out, " 0m: and all! one and all!"

My nephew, the ca tain, was a man of spirit, and of great presence
of mud; and thoughihe was surprised 'ou mav be sure, at the thing,
yet he told them calmly that he wo ti consider of the matter; but
that he could do norhing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He
used some arguments with them, to show them the unreasonableness
and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain; they swore and
shook hands round before his face, that they would all go on shore,
unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more on
board the ship. .

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to serving me as the famous pirate Kidd had done,
who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore on_ an unin-
habited island, and ran away with the shi ; that let them go into what
ship they would, if ever they came to England again, it would cost
them very dear; that the slnp was mine, and that he could not put
me out of it; and that. he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage
too, than disoblige me so much; so thexr might do as they pleased.
However, he would go on shore and talk with me, and invrted the
boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the
matter with me. But they all rejected the pro osal, and said the
would have nothing to do with me any more ; an if I came on boar ,
they would all go on shore. "Well," said the captain, "if you are
all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with hnn." So awagl he
came to me with this account, a little after the message had een
brought to me from the coxswain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess - for I was
not without apprehensions that they would confine him hy violence
set sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stripped
naked in a remote country, having nothing to he! myself ; in short, 1
had been in a worse case than when I was alone in t to island. But they
had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction; and when
my nephew told me what the had said to him, and how they had
sworn and shook hands that t ey would, one and all, leave the ship,
if I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should not be con-
cerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I onlv desired he would
take care and send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave me
a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to England as
well as I could.

This was a. heavy piece of news to mi nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in s ort, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
importunity, and had sent. for his oods from on board the ship - so
that the matter was overcin a few ours, the men returned to their
duty, and I began to. consider what course I should steer.

I was now alone m the most remote part of the world, as I think
I may call if, for Iwas near three thousand leagues by sea farther
oil' from England, than I was at my Island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf .cf Persia, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Sean-
deroon; from thence by sea agam to Italy, and so overland into
France; and this put together, might at least be a full diameter of
the lobe or more. .

I ad another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achln, on the Island of
Sumatra, andget passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither Without any concern mth the East-India Company, so it
would be difficult to go from hence Without their license, unless
with great favour of the captains of the SthS, or the company's
factors; and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarcely ever met
with, exee tl'rom pirates running away wrth a ship, and setting those
that would) not agree with their villany on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways; however, my nephew left me two servants, '
or rather, one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he eng <<ed to go wrth me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me o a good lodging in the house of an E adish.
woman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two It 'ans,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman. Here I was handsomely enough
entertained; and that I might not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above mne months, considering what course to
take, and how to manage m self. I had some English goods with
me of: value and a consi erab e sum of money; m neglrew furnishing
me With a thousand pieces-of-eivht, and a letter 0 ere 't for more, 1fI
had occasion. that I might not he straitened, whatever might happen.
. I quickly disposed of" my goods to advantage - and,.as=I originally
mtended, I bought here some very good diamon , which, of all other
things, were themest--proper for me in my present circumstances,
because I could always carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many progosals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my min , the Enghsh merchant who
lodged wrth me, and whom I had contracted an mtlmate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning: " Countryman," says he, ' I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as 1t smts wrth my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also. when you shall ave
thoroughly considered 1t. Here we are osted, you by accident, and
I by own choice, in a part of the worl very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us, who understand trade
and business, a cat deal of money is to be got. If you will put one
thousand pouu to my one thousand pounds, we w111 hire a sh1p
here, the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll o a trading voyage to China; for what should
we stand still for? T e whole world is in motion, rolling round and
round; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are
busy and dihgent; why should we be idle? There are no drones m
the world but men: w y should we be of that number?" .

I hked this proposal very well; and the more so because 1t seemed
to be expresse With so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.
I Will not say but that I might, b my loose unhinged circumstances,
be the fitter to embrace a propos for trade, or indeed anything else;
otherwise, trade was none of m element. However, I might perhaps
say with some truth, that if tra e was not my element, rambling was;
and no proposal for seeing any part of the world, which I had never
seen be ore, could possibly come amiss to me.

_It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick 11 there.
After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, nghsh -
a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast men. With these we found
we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were,
to make up.

There are so many travellers who have written a history of their
voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little diversion to
anybodyto give a long account of the flaws we went to, and the
people who inhabit there; these things l leave to others, and refer
the reader to those Journals and travels of Englishmen, of which many
I find are published, and more promised every day; it is enough for
me to tell you that we made t iis voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our
wares for opium and some arrack; the first a commodity which bears
a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much
wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made a ver great
voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Bengal; an fwas
very well satisfied with my adventure. I observe that our peo 10 in
England often admire how oilicers, which the Company sen into
India, and the merchants which generally stay there, get such very
great estates as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty or
seventy thousand pounds at a time; but it is no wonder, or at least
we shall see so much farther into it, when we consider the innume-
rable ports and places where the have a free commerce, that it will
be none; and much less it wrll e so when we consider that at those
places and ports where the English ships come, there is such great
and constant demands for the growth of all other countries, that there
is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad for the
goods carried out.

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
by my first adventure, and such an might into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty years younger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here" and sought no farther for making any
fortune; but what was all this to a man upwards of three-score, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desrrepf seem' the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?
And, indeed, I thmk it 18 Will! great Justice I now call it restless
desrre for It was so. When I was at home, I was restless to o abroad;
and w en I was abroad, I was restless to be at home. sa , what
was this gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor h I any
uneasy desrres about gettmg more mone ; and therefore the profit of
the v0 age to me was of no great force or the prompting me forward
to fart er undertakings; hence, I thought that by this voyage I had
made no progress at all, because I was come back, as I might call it,
to the place from whence I came, as to a. home: whereas my eye like
that w ch Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing. was
come mto a part ot the world which I was never in before, and that
part, in particular, wlnch I had heard much of, and was resolved to
see as much of it as I could: and then I thought I might say I had
seen all the world that was worth seeing. _

But my fellow-traveller and I had different notlons: I do not name
this to ms1st on.my own, for I acknowledge lus were the most 'ust,
and the more suited to the end of a merchant's hfe: who, when e is
abroad upon adventures, lS wrse to stick to that, as the best thing for
him, which he is hkely to get the most money by. My new friend
ke )t himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been content
to ave gone like a carrier's horse, always to .the same inn, backward
and forward, rovided he could, as he called 1t, find his account in it.
On the other and, mine was. the motion of a mad, rambling bo that
never cares to. see a thmg twrce over. But tlns was not : thad a
kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most
unsettled resolution imagmable which way to go. In the interval of
these consultations, my friend, who was always upon the search for
business, pro osed another voyage to me among the Spice Islands,
and to bring ome a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or there-
abouts; places, indeed, where the Dutch trade, but islands belonging
partly to the Spamards; though we went not so far, but to some
(etlieir, wlgizere they have not the whole power, as they have at Batav1a,

ey on, c.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was .m bringing_me to come into it: however, at last, nothing else
offering, and finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit
bemo' so great, and, as I may say, certain, had_ more i1lpleasnure in 1t,
and had more satisfaction to my mind, than. sittmo' st , which, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on this voyage
too, which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several
islands whose names I do not remember. and came home In about five
months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves and nutmegs
to the Persran merchants, who carried them away to the gulf; an
making near five of one, we really got a great deal of money. _

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled atme: "Well,
now," said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon mi}; indolent tem-
per "is not this better than walking about here, 1 e a man With
nothing to do, and spending our time in starmg at the nonsense and
ignorance of the Pagans?" " Why, truly," says I, "my friend. I.
think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles of merchand-

ising; but I must tell you," said I, " by the way, (you do not know

what I am domg; for if I once conquer my backwar ness, and embark

heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up and down the world

itiin lat-ire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you
e s ."

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this there
came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an Euro-
pean trader of about two hundred tons burden; the men, as they
pretended, having been so sickly that the captain had not hands
enough to go to sea with he lay bv at Bengal - and having, it seems,
got money enough, or being Willing, for ot er reasons to go for
Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his ship. This came to
my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great mind
to buy it; so I went to him and I told lnm of it. He considered
awhile for he was no rash man neither' but musing some time, he
replied, " She is a little too big; but however, we will have her."
Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreemtr with the master we
paid for her, and took .possesswn. "Then we had done so, we resolved
to engage the men, if we could, to join with those we had, for the
pursuing our business; but, on a sudden, they having received not
their wages but their share of the money, as we afterwards learned
not one of t em was to be found; we inquired much i bout them, and
at length were told that they were all gone together by land to Agra,
the great city of the Mogul's residence and from thence to travel to
Surat, and "o by the sea to the Gulf of IDersia. _

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while, as that I should
miss the opportunity of going with them - for such a ramble, I
thought and in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and I
should have both seen the world and gone homeward too: but 1 was
much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know what
sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their historv was, that this
man they called captain was the gunner only, not the commander-
that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had been attacked
on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the captain and three
of his men; and that, after the captain was killed, these men, eleven
in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did,
and brought her to Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.

Well, Iet them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into things
so exactly as we ought; tor we never inquired anything of the sea-
men, who would certainly have faltered in their account, contradicted
one another and erhaps contradicted themselves- somehow or other
we should have iad reason to have suspected them; but the man
showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven,
or some such name, for I suppose it was all a forger , and called him-
self by that name, and we could not contradict bun: and withal,
having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch; and now we resolved on a second voyage to the south-east
for cloves, &c., that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucea
Isles; and, in short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles,
when what. is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six
years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and for-
ward, and. with very good success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, gomg in the 51in above mentioned, on a voyage to
China, but desrgnm" first to go to Siam,.to bu rice.

In this voyage _eing by eontrarv wmds o lived to beat 11 and
down a great while in the Straits of Molacea, and among the is ands,
we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas than we found our
shi had 5 rung a leak, and we were not able, by all our indus , to
fin out w ere it was. This forced us to make some port, an my
partner, who knew the country better than I did, directed the ca -
tain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had made the Englis
mate, one Mr. Thompson, ca tain, not being willing to take the
charge of the sin p unonmysc f. 'lhis river lies on the north side of
the great bay or gull which goes up to Siam. While we were here,
and going often on shore for refreshment, there comes to me one day
an Englishman, and he was,.it seems, a gunner's mate on board an
English East India ship, which rode in the same river, at or near the
city of Cambodia; what brought him hither we knew not; but he
comes to me, and s eaking English, " Sir," says he, " on are a
stranger to me, and to you, but I have something; to tell you that
very near] concerns you."

I looke stedfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I had
known lnm, but I did not. " If it very nearl concerns me," said I,
" and not yourself what moves you to te it to me?" " I am
moved," says he, "by the imminent danger you are in, and, for aught
I see you have no knowledge of it." " I know no danger I am in,"
saysl "but that my shi is leaky, and I cannot find it.out; but I
intend to lay her agroun tomorrow, to see if I can find it." " But,
sir," says he, " leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be
wiser than to lay your shi on shore tomorrow, when you hear what
I have to say to you. 0 you know sir," said he, "the town of
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up t is river; and there are two
large English ships about five leavues on this side, and three Dutch?"
"Well," said I, "and what is that to me?" "Why, Sir," said.he,
" is it for a man that is u on such adventures as you are, to come into
a port, and not examine rst what ships there are there, and whether
he is able to deal with them? I su pose you do not think you are
a match for them?" I was amuse very much at his discourse, but
not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what he meant; and}
turned short upon him, and said, "Sir I Wish on would explain
yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to e afraid of any of
the Company's ships, or Dutch ships: I am no interloper; what can
they have to say to me?" He looked like a man halt: angry and half
pleased, aud pausing awhile, but smihng, "Well, Sir," says he, "if
you think yourself secure, yon must take your chance; I am so
your fate should blind you against ood advice; but assure yourse ,
if you do not put to sea immediate y, you Will the very next tide be
attacked by five long-boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken,
you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined after-
wards. I thought, sir," added he, "I s ould have met with a better
reception than this, for doing you a piece of servrce of such import-
ance." " I can never be ungrateful, ' said I, " for any serv1ce, or to
any man that offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehen-
sion what they should have such a design upon me for: however,
since you say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some vil-
lanous design on hand against me, I will go on board this minute, and
put to sea immediately, If my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim
without stop )inyr it; but, srr," said .1: " shall I go away ignorant of
the cause 0 all this? Can you give me no further light into it?"
"I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he; " but I have a
Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I .could persuade him to
tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for 1t: but the short of the
story is this, the first part of wlnch I suppose you know well enough,
that on were with this ship at Sumatra- that there your captain was
murdered by the Malays, with three of, his men; and that you, or
some of those that were on board'with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned pirates. This is the sum of the stor , and you
will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and execute with very
little ceremony; for you know merchant ships show but little law to

irates, if thev get them into their power." "Now you speak plain

ndeglish," said 1, " and I thank you; and though I know nothing that
wedmvc done like what you tal ' of, for I am sure we came honestly
and fairly by the ship: yet seeing such a work is doing, as you say,
and that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my ward."
" Nay, sir," says he, " do not talk of being upon your guard; the best
defence is, to be out of the danger; 1f you have any regard for your life,
and the lives of all your men, put to sea, without fail, at high water,
and as you have a whole tide before you, you Will be gone too far out
before they can come down - for they will come away at high water,
and as they have twenty mi es to come, you will get near two hours
of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the
way; beSIdCS, as they are only boats, and not $111 )5, they Wlll not
venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it b ows." " Well,"
said I, "you have been very kind in this: what shall I do for you to
make you amends P" " Sir," says he, "you may not be willing to make
me any amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it:
I Will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me
on board the ship -'--, which I came out of Envland in; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven months' pay due to him; 1f you
will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you; if you find
nothing more in 1t, we wrll desne no more; but if we do convmee you
that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the
men in her, we will leave the rest to you."

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the
two men with me. As soon as I came to the shi '5 side, my (partner,
who was on board, came out on the quarter-dec ', and calle to me
With a great deal of Joy,--" 0 ho! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak -
we have stopped the leak!"--'f Sa you set": said I, "thank Godi
but weigh anchor, then. immediate y."--" Weigh !" says he; " what
do (you mean bv that? What is the matter?"--" 'lsk no questions,"
sai I; " but all hands to work, and weigh without losing a minute."
lie was surprised ; but, however, he called the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and though the tide
was not quite down, yet a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to
sea. Then I called lmn into the cabin, and told him the story; and
we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as it took
up a great deal of time, before we had done, a seaman comes to the
cabin door, and called out to us that the captain bade him tell us we
were chased. " Chased !" says I; "by what P"--"By live $100 8 or
boats," says the fellow, "full of men."--" Very well," said I, t en
it is apparent there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered
all our men to be called up, and told them there was a design to
seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they
would stand by us, and by one another; the men answered cheerfully,
one and all, that they would live and die with us. Then I asked the
captain what way he thought best for us to manage a fight with
them ; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the wa was to keep them off with our
great shot as long as we could, am then to fire at them with our
small-arms, to keep them from boarding us: but when neither of
these would do any longer,_we would retire to our close uarters;
perhaps they had not materials to break open our bulk-hea s, or get
in u on us.

T 10 gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring two (runs to bear
fore and aft, out of the stecrage, to clear the deck, and load them
with musket-bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what came next
to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this while we
kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at a dis--
tance, being five large long beats, following us with all the sail they
eculd make. .

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
an gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us - upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate that
thev should bring to: and we put out a flag of truce, as a_51gnal for
parley: but they came crowding after us, till the came Wltllm shot,
when we took in our white flag, they having ma e no answer to It,
and hung out a red flag, and tired at them with a shot. Notwrth-
standing this, they came on till they were near enough to call to them
with a s making-trumpet which we had on board; so we called to
them, an bade them keep oil, at their peril.

It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon which, seeing
they were resolute f r mischief, and depended upon the strength that
followed them, I or ered to bring the shi to, so that they lay upon
our broadside; when immediately we fire five guns at them, one of
which had been levelled so true as to carry away the stern of the
hindermost boat, and bring them to the neeessrty of taking down
their sail, and running all to the head of the boat, to keep her from
smkmg; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but seemg the foremos
Y
boat crowd on after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being
forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which we had
disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men: we
called again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce, to parley again,
and to lmow what her business was with 'us; but had no answer,
only she crowded close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who
was a very dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase-guns, and tired
again at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted,
waved their caps and came on; but the gunner, getting quickly
ready again, fire among them a second time, one shot of which,
though it missed the boat itself, vet fell in among the men, and we
could easily see had done a great deal of mischief among them; but
we took no notice of that, were the Ship .gain, and brought our
quarter to bear upon them, and firing three guns more we found the
boat was almost split to pieces; in particular, her rudder and a piece
of her stern was shot quite away; so they handed her sail imme-
diately, and were in great disorder. But, to complete their mis-
fortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again; where he hit
them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some
of the men already in the water: upon this, 1 immediately manned
out our pinnaee, which we kept close by our side, with orders to pick
up some of the men, If they could. and save them from drowning, and
immediately come on board the ship with them, because we saw the
rest of the boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace followed
their orders, and took up three men, one of whom was Just drowning,
and it was a good while before we Could recover him. As soon as
they were on board, we crowded all the sad we could make, and stood
farther out to sea; and we found that when the other three boats
came up to the first, they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than} a prehcnded,
I resolved that we should change our course, and not et any one
know whither we were going: so we stood out to sea eastward, quite
out of the course of all European ships, whether they were bound to
China or anywhere else, within the commerce of the European nations.

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this should be; and the Dutch.
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that sold
us the slnp, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run away
with her. Then he told us that the captain, whose name too he told
us, though I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his men,---a.nd
that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods, where-
they wandered about a great while, till at length he, in particular, in
a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which, sailing near the shore in its wav from Chma, had sent their
boat on shore for fresh water,--that he durst not come to that part
of the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the night to take

the water farther ofi', and swimming a great while; at last the ship's
boat took him up. .
He then told us that he went to Batavia where two of the seamen
belonging to the Slllp arrived, having deserted the rest in their
travels, and gave an account that the fcllow who had run away with
the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, who were gone a
cruising in her, and that the had already taken an English ship and
two Dutch ships very richl adcn.

This latter part we foun to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if we had fallen
into their hands, and they had had such a prepossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or
to hope for any good quarter at their hands,----and es ecially, con-
sidering that our aecusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungovcrned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came,
without putting in at any port whatever,--bccause there we could give
a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were when the
ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, what was
more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing
it before the prOper judges, we should be sure to have Some justice,
and not to be hanged first, and judged afterwards.

1 was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him 1 thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we
should be sure to be wavlaid on every side, as well by the Dutch at
Batavia as the English elsewhere ;--that if we should be taken, as it
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the
English sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we
should certainly be taken. This danger a little startled my partner,
and all the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to go away
to the coast 0t 'l'onqum, and so on to the coast of China,--and, pur-
suing the first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose
of the ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such
as we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our-
security; and accordingly we steered awziy N.N.E., kee ing above fifty
leagues oil' from the usual course to the eastward. g)l'his, however,
put us to some inconvenience,--for first, the winds, when we came
that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily agamst us,
blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and E.N..E., so that
we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were but lll rowded
with \'ictuals for so long a rum--and, what was still worse, t me was
some danger that thoseEnglish and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued
us, whereof some were bound that way, might have got m before us,
and if not, some other ship bound to China might have information of
us from them, and ursue us with the same v1gour. .

I must confess was now very uneasy, and thought .myself, 1n-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been m the most
dangerous condition that ever I was in through my past hfe; for what.
ever ill circumstances I had been ine I was never pursued for a thief

Y
before; nor had I ever done anything that. merited the name of dis-
honest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been my own
enemy or, as I may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but my
own- but. now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable;
for though I was perfectly innocent. I was in no condition to make
that innocence appear; and if I had been taken, it had been under a
supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made me very anxious to make
an escape, though which wav to do it I knew not, or what. port or

lace we could go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected, though
10 was the most concerned at. first, began to encourage me, and de-
scribing to me the several ports of that coast, told me he would
put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of 'l'onquin, intending
afterwards to go to Macao, a town once in possession of the Portu-
guese, and where still a great many European families rcsidcd,----and
particularly the missionary priests usually went thither in order to their
going forward to China.

Hither then we resolved to go; and, accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provi-
sions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the, morning;
and, upon reflection on the amt circumstances we were in, and the
danger if we had not escape , we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's pinnaee, come to know what
ships were in any port thereabouts. This hap )y step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not. innnediatelysec any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of 'l'onqnin, yet the next monnng there came
mto the bav two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours
5 )read out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
a out two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China, and in
the afternoon went by two English shi )s steering the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves )esct. with enemies both one
way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous,--
the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though, it is
true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few pro-
visions cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was with
much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them
several ways. "'0 were in a small river of this country, within a few
leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our boat we coasted
north-east, to the point of land which opens the great bay of Tonquin ;
and it was in this beating up along the shore that we discovered we were
surrounded with enemies. The people we were among were the most
barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast having no correspondence
with an other nation, and dealing only in fish and5 oil, and such gross
commo 'ties; and it may be particularly seen that they are the most
barbarous of any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, the have
this one,--that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecke upon
their coast, they presently make the men all risoners or slaves; and
it was not long betore we found a piece of their 'indness this way, on the
occasion following.

Ihave observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that
we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it
was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet, as
we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we desired,
we resolved while we were at this lace to lay her on shore, and take
out what heavy things we had on oard, and clean her bottom, and,
if )ossible. to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly, having
lig demo. the ship, and brought all our guns and other movcables to ,
one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry
ground, neither could we find out a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
came wondering down the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lie
down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the shore,
and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom with
stages, and with their boats on the oil-side, they presently concluded
that the ship was east away, and lay fast on the ground. On this
supposition, they all came about us in two or three hours' time with
ten or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men
in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board and plundered
the ship, and if they found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves to their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew nothing
of their governor.

When they came u ) to the ship, and began to row round her, they
discovered us all bar at work on the outside of the ship's bottom and
side, washing, and gaming, and stopping, as every seafaring man knows
how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little
surprised, could not imagine what their design was; but being willing
to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship,
and others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at
work, to defend themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it
was no more than need--for in less than a quarter of an hour's con-
sultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a Wreck, and
that we were all at work endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives
by the hel J of our boats; and when we banded our arms into the boat,
they concluded, by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods; upon this, they took it for granted we all belonged
to them, and away they came directly upon our men, as if it had been
in a line-of--battlc.

()ur men. seeing so mamr of them, began to be frightened, for we lay
but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what they
should do. 1 innnediately called to the men that worked upon the
stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into the ship, and bade
those in the boat to row round and come on board; and the few
who were on board worked with all the strength and hands we
had to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men upon
the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two ot their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as them
prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a stout,
strong fellow, who having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire
it, but laid it down in the boat, like afool, as I thought; but be under-
stood his business better than I could teach him, for he grappled the
Pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat mto ours,
where taking him bv the ears, he beat his head so against the boat's
el, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the mean time, a
tchman, who stood next, took up the musket, and With the butt-
end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down fivepf them who
attempted to enter the boat. But this was domg httle towards
resistm thirty or forty men, who, fearless because ignorant of their
dangerfbegan to throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had
but five men in all to defend it; but the following accident, which
deserved our laughter, gave our men a com letc victory. .

Our carpenter being pre ared to grave t ie ontsrde of the ship, as
well as to pa the seams w me he had calked her to stopthe leaks,
had got two 'ettles just let down into the boat, one tilled w1th borling
pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow and oil, and such stuff as the
shipwrights use for that work; and t 1e man that attended the car-
penter had a great iron ladle in his hand, wrth which he supplied the
men that were at work with the hot stuff. Two of . the enemy's men
entered the boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets;
he immediately saluted them with a ladle-full of the stuff, boiling hot.
which so burned and scalded them, being half-naked, that they roared
out like bulls, and, enraged with the fire, lea ed both into the sea.
The carpenter .saw it, and cried out, "Well one, Jack! give them
some more of ltz" and stepping forward himself, takes one of the
mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among
them so plentil'ully, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats,
there was not one that escaped being scalded and burned with it, in
a most frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying,
that I never heard a worse noise: for it is worth observing, that
though pain naturally makes all peo le cry out, yet eve nation has
a particular way of exclamation, an make a noise as l('lyill'erent one
from another as their speech. 1 cannot give the noise these creatures
made a better name than howling, nor a name more proper to the tone
of it; for I never heard anything more like the norse of the wolves,
which, as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of
Languedoc.

. I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as
It was a perfect surprise tonne, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this Victory without any bloodshed. except of
that man the fellow killed wrth his naked hands, and which I was
very much concerned at; for I was sick of killing such poor savage
wretches, even_ though it was in my own defence; knowing they came
on errands which they thought just, and knew no better; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wrekedness in nature , yet I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to e killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and, indeed, I think so still; and I would even now
suffer a great deal,_rather than I would take away the life even of the
worst person injuring me; and I believe all considering people, who
know the value of life, would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously
into the consideration of it.

But to return to my story :--All the while this was doinv, m
partner and I, who in cred the rest of the men on board, had wit
great dexterity brought t .e ship almost to rights, and having got the
guns into their places again, the gunner called to me to bid our boat
get .out of. the wafiforche would let fly amon them. I called back
again to him, and id luin not. offer to fire, for t e carpenter would do
the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which
our "cook, who was on board, tookcare of ; but the enemy was so,
terrified With what they'liad met With in their first attack, that the
would not come on agam; and some of them who were farthest o ,
seeing the ship swnn, as it were, upright, began as we suppose, to see
their mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they
expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight; and having got
some rice, and some roots and bread, With about sixteen hogs, on
board, two days before, we'resolvcd to stay here no longer, but
forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we sho
be surrounded the next day with rogues enough perhaps more than
our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We liercfore got all our
things on board the same evening, and the next morning were ready
to sail: in the mean time, lying at anchor at some distance from the
shore we were not so much concerned, being now in afightmg sture,
as well as in a sailing posture, if .any encmytliad presented. '1 e next
day, having finished our work Within boardhand finding our ship was
perfectly healed of all _her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone
into the Bay of Tonquiii, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what
was to be known concerning the Dutch ships that had been there;
but we durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships
in, as we supposed, but a httle before- so we. kept on N.E., tower
the island of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or
English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the
Mediterranean is of an Algerine man-oliwar. .

When we were thus got to sea, .wc ke t on N.E., as if we_would
go to the Manillas or t ie Philippine Is ands; and tlus we'did that
we might not fall into the way of any of the. European ships; and
then we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees 30
minutes, by which means we made the island Formosa directly, where
we.came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh prqvmions,
which the people there, who are very courteous and. civil in their
manners, supplied us wrth wrllingly, and dealt very lairly and punc-
tually With us in all their agreements and bargains; which is what
we did not find among other peo 1e, and ma he owmg to the remains
of Christianity which was once p antcd here y a Dutch missmnary. of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what} have often observed, Viz,
that the Christian religion always civilizcs the people and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it works savmg effects
upon them or no. _ ,

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, if
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this
country; where, as our circmnstances were, we could not fail of being
entirely rumed. .

Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees we resolved to put
into the first trading ort we should come at; and standing in for the
shore, a boat came 0 two leagues to us With an old Portuguese pilot
on board, who, knowing us tome an Euro can ship, came to offer his
service, which, indeed, we were glad of, an took 111113011. board; upon
which, without asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat
he came in, and sent it back. . .

I thought it was now so much in our elicice to make the old man

us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about carry-
ingus to the Gulf of Nan um, which is the most northern part 9':
the coast of China. The e d man said he knew the Gulf of Nanquin
very well; but smiling, asked us what we would do there? I told
him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares, cahcocs, raw
silks, tea, wrought silks, &c.; and so would return by the same
course we came. He told us our best JOI't would have been to put in
at Macao, where we could not have fai cd of a market for our opium
to our satisfaction, and might for our money have purchased all sorts
of China goods as cheap as we could at Nan um. _

Not being able to put the old man out of iis talk, of which he was
very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as well
as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and see the great city
of Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China. "Why
then," says the old man, " you should go to Ningpo where, by the
river which runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers
passes some considerable bills by the help of sluices and gates and
goes up to the city of Pckiu, being in length near two liluidred and
sevent leagues." . _

" V ell," said I, " Scignior Portuguese, but that is not our busi-
ness now ;. the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city
of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to l'ckin afterwards?" He
said he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch shi
gone up that way Just before. This gave me a little shock, for a Date
shi was now our terror, and we had much rather have met the devil
at east if he had not come in too frightful afigure; and we depende
upon it that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were
in no condition to fieht them; all the ships they trade with into those
parts being of greatcburden, and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch shi , and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of t e Dutch; I sup ose they are not now
at war Wlth. our nation?" " No," said I, ' t at's true; but I know
not what 11 erties men may take when they are out of the reach
of the laws of their own country." " Why," says he, " you are

no pirates; what need you fear? They W111 not meddle with peace.
able merchants, sure."
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered _by some stop in the vessels appointed b
nature to emulate 1t, for it put me_1nto the greatest lsorder an
confusion imaginable: nor was it possxble for me to conceal it so, but
the old man easily perceived 1t. . .

" Sir," says he, ' I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts
at my talk; pra be pleased to go winch way you think .fit,. and
depend upon 1t, '11 do you all the semce I can." " Why, seigmor,"
said I, " it IS true I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go 111 particular; and I am something more so
for what you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in
these seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet With them, for you
see weOhavc but a small force, and are but very weakly manned."
" Oh, Sir," sayshc, " don't be concerned; I do not know that there
have been any pirates m these seas thesefifteen years, except one,
which was seen, as I hear, in the Bay of Siam, about a month since;
but you may be assured she is gone to the southward ; nor was she a
ship of any great force, or fit for the work : she was not built for a
Erivatcer, but was run_ away with by a .reprobate crew that was on

oard, alter the captain and some of his men had been murdered
by the Malayans, at or near the island of Sumatra." " What," said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, " dld they! murder the
captain?" " No," said he, " I don't understand that t. ey murdered
him; but as they afterwards. ran away With the Ship, It 18 generally
believed that they betrayed him mto the hands of the Malayans who
did murder him] and perhaps they rocured them to do 1 ." " W'h ,
then," said I, ' they deserve deat 1 as much as it they haddone it
themselves." " Nay," says the oldman, "they do deserve it - and
they will certainly have it, if they light upon any Enghsh or fiutch
ship; for they have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogue
they'll give him no quarter." ' But," said I to him, " you say the
pirate is gone out of these seas; how can they meet With him then?"
' Why, that's true," savs he, _" they do sa so; but he was, as I
tell you, in the Bay of Siam, m the nver ambodia, and was (118-
covered there by somc Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who
were left on shore when they ran away wrth her; and some Enchsh
and Dutch traders hem" m the river, they were Within a httlh of
taking him: nay, said lhe, " if theforemost boats had been well
seconded by the rest, they had certamly taken lnm; but he, finding
only two boats Within reach of him, tacked about, and fired at those
two, and disabled them before the others came up, and then standing
off to sea, the others were not able to follow and so he got away; but
they have all so exact a description of the ship, that they Will be sure
to know her; and wherever they find her, they have vowed to vs
no uarter either to the captain or seamen but to hang them . up
at t e yard-arm." " What!" said I, " Wlli. they execute them, right
or wrong; hang them first, and judge them afterwards?" '_' h,
s1r," says the old pilot, " there is no need to make a formal busmess
of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them back to back, and -
set them a diving, 'tis no more than they deserve."

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no '
harm, so that I turned short upon him: " Well now, seignior," said

" this is the very reason wh I would have you carry us up to

anqmn, and not ut back to acao, or to any otherpart of the
country where the ghsh or Dutch ships come; for be it known to
you, selgmor, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a
parcel of rash,_ proud, insolent fellows, that neither know what

elongs to Justlce, or how to behave themselves as the laws of God
and nature direct; but being uproud of their oilices, and not under-
standing their power, they wo d act the murderers to punish robbers;
would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and deter-
mine them guilty without due inquiry: and perhaps I may live to
bring some of them to account for 1t, when they may be taught
how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought to be treated
as 310an till some ev1dence may be had of the crime, and that he
is e man.

With this I told him that this was .the very ship they attacked, and
fiave him a full account of the skmmsh we had With their boats, and

ow foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all the stow-of
our buying the Shlp, and how the Dutchman served us. I told him
the reasons I had to believe the story of killing the master by the
Malayans was true, as also the runmng away With the shi ; but it
was all a fiction of their own to suggest that the men ha turned
pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so before thev ven-
tured to attack us by 5 rise, and oblige us to resist them - adding,
that they would have the load of those men whom we killed there
in ust defence, to answer for. . .

[be old man was amazed at tlns relation, and told us we were very
much in the right to go away to the north; and. that 1f he might
adv15e us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might very
well do, and buy _or build another in the country; " an ," said
be "though you Will not get so good a ship, at you mav get one
able enough to carry you and all your goods bac again to Bengal or
anywhere else." I told him I would take lllS advice when I came
to any port where. I could find a shi for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I s ould meet with customers
enough for the Slllp at Nanqum, and that a Chinese Junk would
serve me very well to go back again; and that he would procure me
peo 1e both to buy one and sell the other. " Well, but, seigmor,"
sai I, " as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be mstrumental to bring some honest, innocent
men mto a terrible brorl, and perhaps to be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by provmg this was the slup; and so innocent men ma pro-
babl be overpowered and murdered."--" Why," says the 01 man,
" I' find out a way to revent that also; for as 1 know all those
commanders you speak 0 very well, and shall see them all as they
pass bv, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run_ away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had turned pirates - and, that .m
particular, these were not the men that first went oil? With the ship,
but innocently brought her for their trade; and I am ersuaded they
gill so far believe me, as at least to act more cautious y for the time
come."

While these things were assing between us, by way of discourse,
we went forward directly or Nanquin, and in about thirteen days'
sail came to an anchor, at the south-west point of the eat Gulf of
Nan inn; where, by the way, I came by accident to un erstand that
two . utch ships were-gone the length before me, and that I should
certainly fall into their hands. I consulted in partner again in this
exwency, and he was as much at a loss as was, and would very
gladly have been safe_on shore almost anywhere: .however, I was not
in such perpleiuty neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was no
creek o_r harbour which I might put into and pursue my business with
the Chinese rivately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told
me, if Iwo d sail to the. southward about fort -two le ones, there
was a httle port called Quinchang, where the fat ers of t e mission
usually landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian
religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in;
and if I thought to put in there, I might consider what farther course
to take when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a
Egce for merchants, except that at some certain times they had a

(l of a fair there, when the merchants from Japan came over
thither to buy Chinese merchandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place- the name of the port, as he
called it I ma [ierhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly remem-
ber it, having ost this, together with the names of many other
places set down in a httie ocket-hook, which was spOiled by the
water by an accident; but t iis 1 remember, that the Chinese or
Japanese merchants we corresponded With called it by a different
name from that. which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced
it as above, Quinchang. .

As we were unanimous in our resolution to EC to this place, we
weighed the next day, having onl gone twice on s ore where we were,
to get fresh water; on both whic occasions the people of the country
were very civil to us, and brought abundance of things to sell to us;
I mean of pronsions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some fowls; but
nothing .without money. '

We did not come to the other port (the wind being contra?) for
iive days; but it was very much to our satisfaction; and was
Joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore
resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possmle to dispose oi'
ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel
more; and indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the Circumstances
of life that ever I had any experience of, notlnng makes mankind so
com letely miserable as that of heme in constant fear. .Well does
the cripture say, " The fear of man rmgs a snare :" it is a his of
death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief. . ,

. Nor did it fail of its usual Operations uplon the fancy, by heighten-
mg every danger; representing the Englis and Dutch captains to be
men incapable of hearing reason, or of distinmishing between honest
men and rogues; or between a story calculated for our own turn,
made out 0? nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genume
account of our whole vovage, progress, and deSign; for we might
many ways have convinced any reasonable creatures that we were not
gates; the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our
nkly showing ourselves, and entering into such and such ports;
and even our very manner, the force wehad, the number of men, the
few arms, the little ammunition, short provisions; all these would
have served to convince any men that we were no pirates. The
0 ium and other goods we had on board would make it a pear the
s 'p had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was sat , had the
names of all the men that were in the ship, micht easily see that we
were a mixture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two
Dutchmen on board. 'I'hese, and many other particular circumstances,
might have made it crident to the understanding of any commander,
whose hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But fear,
that blind useless passion worked another way, and throw us into
the vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set the magma-
tion at work to form a thousand terrible things that perha 5 might
never happen. We first su posed, as indeed evervbodv ha related
to us, that the seamen on card the English and Dutch ships, but
especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and
especially at our beating off their boats and escaping, that new would
not give themselves leave to in uire whether we were pirates or no,
but would execute us off hand without giving us any room for a
defence. \Ve reflected that there really was so much apparent
evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire after any more;
as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and that some of the
seamen among them knew her and had been on board her; and,
secondly, that when we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia that
the were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats and
fie ' so that we made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of
our being irates, as we were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I
often said, know not but I should have been apt to have taken those
circumstances for ev1denee, if the tables were turned, and my case
was theirs - and have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces,
Without be ievmg, or perhaps considering what they might have to
offer in their defence. . .
But let that be how it will, these were our 9. prehensions; and both
my artner and I_ scarce slept a night without greaniing of halters and
ar- arms, that IS to say, gibbets; of fighting, and being taken; of
idling, and being killed: and one night I was in such a fury in my
dream, fancying the Dutchmen had boarded us and I was knocking
one of their seamen down, that I struck my double fist against the
Side of the cabin I lay in with such a force as wounded my hand

'evousl , broke in knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that
it awake me out o my sleep.

.Anotlier apprehension Ihad was, the cruel usage we might meet
With from them if we fell into their hands: then the story of mboyna

.
came into my head, and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as
they did our countrymen there, and make some of our men, b
extremitv of torture, confess those crimes they never were guilt o ,
or own themselves and all of us to be pirates, and so they wouldyput
us to death wrth a formal appearance of justice; and that they might
be tempted to do tlus for the gam of our ship and cargo, which was
w0rth tour or five thousand pounds altogether.

These things tormented me, and my tpartner too, night and day;
nor did we conSIdcr that the captams 0 ships have no authority to
act thus ' and If we. had surrendered prisoners to them, they could not
answer the destroying us, or torturing us .but would be accountable
for it when they came to their country; t us, I say, gave me no satis-
faction; for if they were to act thus with us, what advantage would
it be to us that they should be called to an account for it ?--or if we
were first to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us to have
them punished when they came home?

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had upon
the vast variety of my particular circumstances - how hard I thought
it was that I, who had spent forty years in a life of contmual difficulties,
and was at last come, as it were, to the ort or haven which all men
drive at, viz., to have rest and plenty, s ould be a volunteer in new
sorrows by my own unha py chorcc; and that I, who had escaped so
many dangers in my yout , should now come to be hanged in m old
age, and In so remote a place, for a crnne which I was not mthe east
inclined to, much less guilty of. '

After these thoughts something of religion would come in; and I
would be consrdering that fills seemed to me to be a disposrtron of
immediate Prowdence, and I ought to look upon it and submitto it as
such; that although I was innocent as to men, I was far from being
innocent as to myMaker; and I ought to look in and examine what
other crimes in my hfe were most ohvrous to me, and for which Pro.
Vidence might Justly millet this pumshment as a retribution; and that
I ought to submit to this, Just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had
pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.

In its turn natural. courage would sometimes take its place and
then I would be talkmo' myself up to vioorous resolutions; that I
would not be taken to be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless
wretches in cold blood; that it were much better to have fallen mto
the hands of the sav es, though I was sure they would feast upon
me .when they had t en me, than those who would perhaps glut
their rage upon me by mhuman tortures and barbaritles - that m the
case of the savages, I always resolved to die fightmg to the last gas ,
and why shouldaI not do so now, seeing it was much more dre .
to me at least, to think of falling into these men's hands, than ever it
was to think of being eaten by men? for the sav es give them their
due, would not eat a man till he was killed and cad, but that these
men had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. .Whenever these
thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself mto a kind of fever Wlth
the agitation of a supposed fight- my blood would bed and my eyes
sparkle, as if I was ena 0"ed, and I always resolved to take no quarter
at their hands; but, even, at last, if I could resist no longer, I would
blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast 0t. .

The greater weight the anxieties and perilexities of these things
were to our thoughts while we were at sea, t e greater was our satis-
faction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my partner told me he
dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon his back, which he was
to carry 11 a hill, and found that he was not able to stand longer
under 1t; ut that the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him a )pearing all smooth
and plain: and truly it was so; they were all like men who had a
load taken off their backs. For my part, I had aweight taken otl'
from my heart that it was not able any longer to bear; and, as I said
above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. W hen we.
came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a
lodging and a warehouse for our goods, which, by the way, was much
the same- it was a little house, or hut, with a larger house adjonring
to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large canes, to
kee out pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, there were not a few
int at country: however, the magistrates allowed us a little guard
and we had a soldier with a kind of halberd, or half-pike, who stood
sentinel at our door; to whom we allowed a pint of rice, and a little
piece of money, about the value of three-pence, per day, so that our
goods were kept very safe.

The fair, or mart. usually ke )t in this place, had been over some
time: however we found that there were three or four junks in the
river, and two .lapanners, I mean ships from Japan, with goods which
they had bought in China, and were not gone away, having some
J a anese merchants on shore.

he first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acquainted with three missionary ltomish priests who were in the
town, and who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; but we thought they made but poor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they had done: however, that
was none of our business. One of these was aFrenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese - and the third a
Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, and
very agreeable company; the other two were more reserved, seemed
rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they came about,
viz., to talk with, and insinuate themselves amen" the inhabitants,
wherever they had opportunity. We often ate and drank with those
men; and though, 1 must confess, the conversion, as they call 1t, of
the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the true conversion
required to bring heathen peo 1e to the faith of Christ, that It seems
to amount to little more than etting them know the name of Christ,
and say some rayers to the V1rgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue
which they un erstand not and to. cross themselves and the like ; yet
1t must he confessed that the rehgionists, whom we call missronanes,
have a firm belief that these peoE}: will be saved, and that they are
the Instruments of it; and on t account theynndergo not only
the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of 'vmg m such places, but
oitentimes death itself, and the most violent tortures, for the sake of
t 13 wor '. .

But to return to my story :---This French priest, Father Simon, was
a )ointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to
Ipelkin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited only for
another priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go
along wrth him; and we scarce ever met together but he was inviting
me go that journey; telling me how he would show me all the glo-
rious things of that mighty empire, and, among the rest, the greatest
city in the world; "a city," said he, "that your London and our
Paris put together cannot c equal to." . Time was the city of Pek'
which I confess, is very great, and mfimtely full of people; but as
looked on those things with different e es from other men, so I shall
give my opimon of them in a few wor , when I come in the course
of my travels to speak more particularly of them. .

But first, I come to my fnar or missxonary. Dimng with him one
day, and being very merry together, I showed some httle inchnation
to_ owith him; and he pressed me and my partner ve hard, and
w1t l a great many persuasrons, to consent. 'Why, Fat er Simon,"
says my partner, ' should you desire our company so much? you
know we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor cannot kee us
company with any pleasure."----" Oh!" says he, " you may per ps
be good Catholics in time; my business here is to convert heathens,
and who knows but I may convert you too P "--"Very well, Father "
said I, "so you will preach to us all the wa '?"--"I will not 6
troublesome to you," says be; "our religion oes not divest us of
good manners : besides, we are here like countrymen; and so we are,
compared to the place we are in; and if you are Huguenots and I a
Catholic, we may all be Christians at last; at least, we are all gentle-
men, and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one another."
I liked this part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils; but thls Father
Simon did not come up to his character by a oreatdeal; for though
Father Simon had no appearance of a crimmal lev1ty in him, yet e
had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict icty, and sincere affection
to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic ad. . . _

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor sohcrtmg us
to go with him; we had something else before us at first, for we had
all tlus while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and. we
began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we were now m a
place of very little business; and once I was about to venture _to sail
tor the river of Kilam and the city of Nanqum; but Prov1d_ence
seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to. concern itself
in our affairs; and I was encouraged, from this very time, to thmk I
should, one way or other, get out of this entangled Circumstance, and
be brought home to my own count again, though Ihad not the least
View of the manner. Providence I say, began :here to clear up our
way a little - and the first thing that offered was, that our old Portu-
guese ilot rought 3. Japan merchant to us who mqurred what goods,
we ha ; and, in the first place, he beught all our epium, and gave us
a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some m small
pieces of their own coin. and some in small wedges, of about ten or
twelve ounces each. While we were dealing with him for our opium
it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for the ship too, and
I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he shrunk up his
shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him; but in a few days
after he came to me with one of the missionary priests for his inter-

reter, and told me rad a proposal to make to me, which was this :--
ie had bought a great quantitv of goods of us, when he had no thoughts
of )roposals made to lnm of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he
ha not money enough to pay for the ship: but if I would let the
same men who were in the Slllp navigate her, he would hire the ship
to go to J a an; and would send them from thence to the Philippine
Islands wit i another loading, which he would pay the freight of before
they went from Japan: and that at their return he would buy the
shi . I began to listen to his proposal, and so eager did my head
st' run upon rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a
notion of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the Philippine
Islands away to the South Seas; accordingly, I asked the Japanese
merchant if he would not hire us to the Philippine Islands and dis-
charge us there. He said no, he could not do that, for then he could
not have the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan,
at the ship's return. \Vcll, still I was for taking him at that proposal,
and going myself; but in partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me
from it, representing the angers. as well of the seas as of the Japanese,
who are a false, cruel, and treacherous pe0ple: likewise those of the
Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than

the .

flat to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion; the first
thing we had to do was, to consult With the captain of the ship, and
with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Ja an: and
while I was domg this, the young man whom my nephew ha left with
me as my companion for my travels came to me, and told me that he
thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there was a great

ros ect of advantage, and he would be very glad if 1 undertook it;

ut t lat if I would not, and would give him leave, he would go as a
merchant, or as I pleased to order him; that if ever he came to
England, and I was there and alive he would render me a faithful
account of his success, which 'hould be as much mine as 1 pleased.
I was really loath to art With him; but considering the prospect of
advantage, which re y was considerable, and that he was a young
fellow as hkely to do well in 1t as any I knew, I inclined to let him
go; but I told him I would consult my partner, and giye him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed about 1t, and my
partner made a most generous offer: " You know it has been an
unlucky ship," said he, 'and we both resolve not to go to sea m it
agam: if your steward PS80 he called at man) will venture the voyage,
I will leave my share 0 the vessel to im, and let him make the best
of it; and if we hve to meet in England, and he meets with success

abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's freight
to us; the other shall be his own."

If my partner. who was no way concerned with my young man.
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same:
and all theship'spompany being wdhng to go with him, we made over
half the ship to him in property, and took awriting from him obliging
him to account for the other; and away he went to Ja an. l'he
Japan merchant proved a veriopunct'ual, honest man to 'm: r0<<
tected him at Japan, and got im a license to come on shore, w ich
the Europeans in general have .not lately obtained; paid him his
freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded with
Japan and Clnna wares, and a supercargo of their own, who traffick-
ing with the Spaniards, brought baclc European goods again, and a
great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there he was not only
paid his freight very well, and at a very good Brice, but not being
willing to sell the ship then, the merchant fumis ed him goods on his
own account; and with some money, and some spices of his own
which he brought With lnm, he went back to the Manillas to the
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having got a
good acquaintance at _Ma1ulla, he got his ship made a free ship, and
the governor of Manilla hired him to goto Acapulco, in America, on
the coast of Mexico, and gave hnn a license to land there, and to
travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all
his men. l-Ieniade the voyage to Acapulco ver happily, and there
he sold his ship; and havmg there also obtaine lallowance to travel
by land to Porto Belle, he found means, somehow or other, to get to
Jamaica, with all lustreasure - and about eight years after, came to
England, exceeding rich; of which I shall take notice in its place: in
the mean time, I return to our articular affairs.

Being now to part wrth the 5 1p and ship's company, it came before
us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give to the two
men that gave us such timely notice of the design against us in the
river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a very consider.
able service, and deserved well at our hands; though by the way,
they were a couple of rogues too- for, as they believed the stor of
our being pirates, and that we had really run away with the s 'p
they came down to us, not only to betray the design that was forme
against us, but to go to sea. with us as pirates; and one of them con-
fessed afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going a-roguing
brought him to do it: however, the service they did us was not the
less; and, therefore, as I had promised _to be grateful to them, I first
ordered the money to be paid them which they said was due to them
on board their respective ships; over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented them very well;
then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gunner being
now made second mate and purser- the Dute man 1 made boat.
swain; so they were both very well pleased, and proved very service-
able, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows. _

We were now on shore in China; if I thought myself bamshed
and remote from my own country at Bengal, where I had many ways
to get home for my money what could I think of myself now, when
I was orot about a thousaii leagues farther off from home, and er-
fectly destitute of all manner of prospect of return? All we h for
it was this, that in about four months' time there was to be another

2
fair at. the place where we were, and then we might be able. to pur-
chase all sorts of the manufactures of the country. and witlial might
ossibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from 'l'ouquin, that would
6 to be sold, and would Carry us and our goods whither we pleased.
This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides. as our articular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch s iips came
thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our goods, and
get passage to some other place in India nearer home. L'pou these
hopes, we resolved to continue here: but, to divert ourselves, we
took two or three journeys into the country. First, we went ten
days'journcy to the city of Nanquiu, a city well worth seeing, indeed;
they say it has a million of people in it; it is regularlvbuilt, the
streets all exactly straight. and cross one another in direct lines,
which gives the figure of it great advantage. But when I come to
compare the miserable people ot'.tliese countries with ours, their
1': brics, their manner of tying, their government, their religion, their
wealth, and their glory, as some call it, 1 must confess that. I scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them here. it is very observable,
that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the. ceremonies,
the government. the manufactures, the commerce, and conduct; of
these people; not that it is to be. wondered at, or, indeed, in the least
to be regarded, but, because having a true not ion of the harbarity of
those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance that. irevail there,
we do not expect to find any such thing so far off. ()1 terwise, what.
are their buildings to the palaces and royal buildings of l'luropc?
What their trade to the universal commerce of England, llolland,
France, and Spain? What are. their cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaicty of apparel, rich furniture, and infinite variety? What
are their ports, sup ilied with a few junks and barks, to our naviga-
tion our merchant teets, our larg' and powerful iiavies? ()iii' city
of tendon has more trade than half their mighty empire: one Eng-
lisli, Dutch, or French man-of-war of eighty guns, would be able to
fight almost all the shipping belonging to China: but the greatness
01 their wealth, their trade, the power of their government, and the
strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to us, because, as
I have said, considering them as a barbarous nat ion of Pagans, little
better than savages, we did not expect such things among them : and
this, indeed, is the advantage with which all their greatness and
wer is re ircsented to us; otherwise, it. is in itself nothing at all-
or What Iliave said of their ships mav be said of their armies an
troops; all the forces of their empire, though they were to bring two
millions of men into the field together, would be able to do nothing
but ruin the country, and starve themselves, if they were to besiegc
a strong town in Flanders, or to fight. a disciplined army; one good
line of German eurassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all
the horse of China; a million of their foot could not stand before one
embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded,
though they were not to be one to twenty in number- nay, I do not
boast if I say that thirty thousand German or English foot, and ten
thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the forces of China.
And so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers in
assaulting and defending towns; there is not a fortified ton in China
could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of an
European army: and, at the same time, all the armies of China could
never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not starved; no,
not in a ten years' siege. They have lire-arms it is true, but they are
awkward and uncertain in their going oli'~ and their powder has but
little strength. Their armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to
attack, or temper to retreat; and therefore, 1 must confess, it seemed
strange to me, when 1 came home, and heard our people say such fine
things of the power, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese;
because, as far as 1 saw, they appeared to be a eontemptible herd or
crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a government qualified
only to rule such a people- and were not its distance inconceivably
great from Muscovy, and the Museovite empire in a manner as rude,
impotent, and ill-governed as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with
ease drive them all out of their country, and conquer them in one
campaign; and had the Czar (who is now a growmg prince) fallen
this way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, and equally
improved himself in the art of war, as they say he has done; and if
none of the powers of Europe had envied or interrupted him, he
might by this time have been Emperor of China, instead of being
beaten by the King of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one
to six in number. As their strength and their grandeur, so their
navigation, commerce, and husbandry, are very im ierfeet, com ared
to the same things in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their cam-
ing, and in their skill in the sciences, they are either very awkward
or defective, though they have globes or Spheres, and asmatterino'
of the mathematics, and think they know more than all the world
besides; but they know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies;
and so grossly and absurdlv ignorant are their common people, that
when the sun is eclipsed, they think a great dragon has assaulted it
and is going to run away with it: and they fall a clattering with all
the drums and kettles in the country, to fright the monster away,
just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have made in all
the accounts I have given of my travels, so 1 shall make no more
such; it is none of my business, nor any part of my desxgn; but to
give an account of my own adventures through a life of nnmrtable
wanderings, and a long varietv of changes, which, erhaps, few that
come after me will have heard the like of: I shallt erefore say very
little of all the mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people
I have yet to pass through, more than relates to my own story, an
which my concern among them make necessary. .

I was now, as near as I can compute, m the heart of China, about
thirtv degrees north of the line, for we were returned from Nanqmn.
I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pckm, which I. had heard so
much of, and Father Simon importuned me daily todo It. At length
his time of oing away being set, and the other nnssronary who was
to go with iim being arrived from Macao, it was necessarv that we
should resolve either to go, or not ;_ so I referred 1t wholly to. my
partner, and left it wholly to his chgice, who at length resolved 11: m ,

z
the affirmative, and we preparedfor our journey. We set out with
very good advantage, as to findmg the way; for _we got leave to
travel in the retinueof one of their mandarms, a kind of Vicewy or
principal magistrate 1n the province where they reSide, and who take
t state upon them, travelling with. great attendance, and great
omage from the people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by
them, being obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their
attendants in their Journeys. That which I particularly observed in
our travelling With his baggage, was this, that though we received
sufficient provisions both tor ourselves and our llOl'SCS from the
country, as belonging to the mandarm, yet we were obliged to pay for
everything we had, after the market price of the country, and the
mandarin's steward collected. it duly from us; so that our travelling
in the retinue of the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness
to us, was not such a n_iighty favour in him, but was a great advan-
tage to him considering there'were above thirty other peeile
travelled in t ie same manner beSides us under the protection of iis
retinue- for the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to
him, an yet he took our money for them.

We were twenty-five. days travelling to I'ekiu, though a country
infinitely populous, but I think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though they boast so much
of the industry of the people; I say miserable, it' compared with our
own, but not so to these poor wretclies, who know no other. The
pride of the people Is infinitely great, and exceeded by; nothing but
their povert , in some parts, _which adds to that whic I call their
misery; an I must needs think the native savages of America live
much more happy than the poorer sort of these, because as they have
nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas these are proud and inso-
lent, and m the main are in many parts mere beggars and drudgcs;
their ostentation 1s inexpressible; and, if they can, they love to keep
multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last degree ridiculous,
as well as the contempt of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, .1 travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wrldernesses of Grand 'I'artary than here, and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers; but nothing was more awkward to me than to see such
a. haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the grossest
51m heity and ignorance; and my triend Father Simon and I used
to e very merr upon these oeeasmus, to see the beggar-1y pride of
these peo le. o_r example, commg by the house of a country gentle-
man as ather Simon called him, about ten leagues 011' the city of
Nanluu, we had firstof all the honour to ride with the master of the
house about two miles; the state he rode in was a perfect Don
Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was
ve proper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrcw, being a dirty calico,
wit _angmg sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on eve
side: it covered a tafl'ety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and whic
testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse
was but a poor, starved hobbling creature, and he had two slaves
followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along; he had a whip
in his band, and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head as his
slaves did abOiit the tail; and thus he rode by us, with about ten or
twelve servants, gem from the city to his country seat, about half a
league before us. e travelled on gently, but this figure of a gentle-
man rode away before us; and as we stopped at a ' e about an
lieur to refresh.us,. when we came by the country seat 0 this great
man, we saw him in a httlc lace before his door, eating a repast.
It was a kind of garden, but ie was easy to be seen; and we were
given to understand that the more we looked at him the better he
would be pleased. He sat. under a tree something like the palmetto,
which effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side;
but under the tree was placed a large umbrella, which made that part
look well enough. He sat lollin .back in a great elbowochair, being
a heavy co ulcnt man, and had s meat brought him bytwo women.
slaves; he ad two more, one of whom fed the squire with a spoon,
and the other_lield the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he;
let fall upon his worsliip's beard and taffety vest. .

. Thus leaving the poor wretcli to please himself with put looking at
him, as if we admired his pomp, though we really pitied and con-
temped him, we pursued our joumefi; only Father Simon had the
cur1081tY= to stay to inform himself w at dainties the country justice.-.
had to eed on in all his state, which he had the honour to taste of,
and which was, I think, a mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of '
garlic m_ it, and a little bag filled With'green pepper, and another
giant which they have there, something like our ginger, but smelling

e musk, and tasting like mustard; a tlus was put together, and a
small piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship's
repast; four or five servants more attended at a distance, who we
supposed were to eatpf the same after their master.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was res acted as
a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and atten ed in all
his appearances With such pomp, that I saw little of him but at a
distance. But this I observed, that there was not a horse in his
retinue but that our carriers' paekhorses in England seemed to me to
look much better; though it was hard to judge rightly, for they were
so covered With .cquipage, mantles, trap ings, &c., that we could
Saree see anything but their feet and 1: en heads as they went

ong. .

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplex1ty that
I have given an account of. being over, I had no anxious thoughts
about me, which made this Journey the pleasanter to me; nor had I
any ill accident attended me, only in passing or fording a small river,
my horse fell, and made me free of the country as they call it,--that
is to sa threw me in. The place was not deep, but it wetted me all
over. mention it because it spoiled m pocketbook, wherein I had
set down the names of several people an places which I had occasion
to remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the
names of some of the places I touched at in this Journev.

At length we arrived at Pekm; I hadnobody With me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a
servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent: and my partner
had nobody with him but one servant, who was a kmsman. As for
the Portuguese pilot, he beirvr desuous to see the court, we bore his
charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for he
understood the language of the country, and spoke good French and
a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful 1m le-
ment to us everywhere: for we had not been above a week at Pe 'in,
when he came laughing :--" Ah, Seignior Inglese," says he, "I have
something to tell will make your heart glad." '.' My heart glad,"
says I; " what can that be? I don't know an thing in this country
can either give me jov or grief to any great cgree." "Yes, yes,"
said the old man, in broken English, "make you glad, me sorrv."
"Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?". "Because" said be,
"you have brought me here twenty-five day's' Journey, and will leave
me to go back alone; and which way shall 1 get to my port after-
wards without a ship, without a horse, without cane ?"--so he called
money, being his broken Latin, of which he iad abundance to make
us merry with. In, short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscowte and Polish merchants in the at , preparmg to set out on
their journey by land to Muscovy, within our or five weeks, and he
was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave
him behind, to go back alone.

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had
scarce power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to
him. " How do you know this? " said I : " are you sure it is true?"
"Yes," says he; "I met this morning in the street an old acquaint-
ance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them. He came last from
Astraean, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I formerlv
knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go with
the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to Astracan."
"Well Seignior," says I, " do not be uneasy about being left to go
back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall e
your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We then went to consult
together what was to be done; and I asked my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news. and whether it would suit with his affairs?"
He told me he would do just as I would; for he had settled all his
afi'airs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands that
as we had made a good voyage here if he could invest it in China
silks, wrought and raw such as might be worth the carriage, he would
be content to go to England, and then make his voyage back to
Belligal by the Company's ships.

. avmg resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese
fillet would 0 With us, we would hear his charges to Moscow, or o

gland, if e pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over
generous in that either, if we had not rewarded him farther, the
service he had done us being really worth more than that; for he
had not onlv been a gilot to us at. sea, but he had been like a broker
for us on shore; an his procuring for us the Japan merchant was
some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together
about it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him
Justice, and very Willing also to have him With us besides, for he was3031mm cnvsoz. m

a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a
quantity of comed gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one
hundred and seventv-five pounds sterling, between us, and to bear
all his charges, both for himself and horse, except only a horse to
carry his gods. Havmg settled this between ourselves, we called
him to let 1m know what we had resolved. I told him he had com-
plained of our bemg willing to let him go back alone, and I was now
about to tell him we were resolved he should not go back at all.
That as we had resolved to go to Europe With the caravan, we resolved
also he should go wrth us; and that we called him to know his mind.
He shook his head and said it was a long journey, and that he had no
{Kiowa to carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he came there.

e told him we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolvedto
do something for him that should let him see how sensible we were
of the service he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us;
and then I told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he
might lay out as we would do our own: and that as for his charges
if he would go with us we_ would set him safe on shore (life an
casualties excepted), either in Muscovy or England, which he wouldi
at our own charge, except only the carriage of his woods. He receive
the proposal like a man transported, and told us he would goOWith us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our Journey.
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants;
they had many things to do, and instead of being ready in five
reeks, it was four months and some days before all thmgs were got

oget ier.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out from
Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back to the
port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods which we

ad left there; and I, wrth a Chinese merchant whom I had some
knowledge of at 1\'anqu1n, and who came to Pekin on his own affairs,
went to hanquin, where I bought ninety pleces of fine damasks, With
about two hundred ieces of other ver fine silks of several sorts,
some mixed wrth gol , and had all these rought to Pekm agamst my
partner's return; besides this, we bought a very large uantity of
raw silk, and some other goods, our caroo amounting, int ese goods
only, to about three. thousand five hundred pounds sterhng - which
together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three camels' loads oi'
nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels for our share,
besides those we rode upon; which, with two or_three spare horses,
and two horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-51x
camels and horses in our retinue.

The company was ver great, and, as near as I can remember, made
between three and four undred horse, and upwards of one hundred
and twenty men, very well armed, and provrded for all events; for as
the eastern caravans are subject to he attacked by the Arabs, so are
these by the Tartars; but they are not altogetherso dangerous as the
Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail. .

The company consisted of people of several nations ; but there were
above sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscowathough of
them some were Livomans; and to our particular satisfaction, five of
them were Scots, who ap cared also to be men of great experience in
business, and of very g substance. .

When we had travelled one day's Journey the des, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen an mere ants,--that ls to
:31, all the assengers except t e servants, to a great council, asthey

ed 1t. t this council, every one deposited a certain quantity of
money to a common stock, for the necessary ex use of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be rad, and for satisfym
the guides, getting horses, and the hke: and here they constitute
the Journe , as the call it, viz., they named captains and officers to
draw as up, an ive the word of command, in case. of an attack,
and give every one t eir turn of command; nor was tlns forming us
into order any more than what we found needful on the way, as shall
be observed. . . . .

The road all on this snde of the country is very po alone, and is
full of pottcrs and earth-makers,-----that is to say, .peop e that temper
the earth for the Chma ware; and as I was Comlllg along, our Por-
tugal pilot, who had always somethin or other to say to make us
merry, came sneer-mg to me, and tol me he would showmw the
greatest rarity in all the country, and .that I should have this to say
of China, after all the ill-humoured thmgs that I had said of it, that
I had seen one thing which was not to be seen in all the world besxde.
I was very importunate to know what it was; at last he told me it
was a gentleman's house built with China ware. " Well," says I,
" are not the materials of their buildings thep oduct of their own
country, and so it is all China ware is it not?' --" No, no," savs he,
" I mean it is a house all made of C'hina ware, such as you call it in
England, or as it is called in our country, porcelain."---" Well," says
I, ' such a thme: may be; how big is it ? Can~ we carry it in a box
upon a camel? If we can, we will buy it."--" Upon a camel !" .says
the old pilot, holdingnp both his hands; " why, there is a family of
thirty people lives in 1 _." . _

I was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to 1t, it
was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house built, as we
call it in England, Wltll lath and plaster; but all this plastering was
really China ware,----that is to say, it was plastered wrth the earth
that makes China ware. The outsxde, which the sun shone. hot upon,
was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly white, and painted With
blue figures as the large China ware in England is painted, and hard
as if it had been burned. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of
warnseot, were hned with hardened and painted tiles, hke the httle
SWuare tiles we call galley-tiles. in England, all made of the finest
C iina, and the figures enceedmo' fine indeed, with extraordinary
variety. of colours, mixed With gold: manytiles making but one figure,
but Jomed so artificially, the mortar being made of th same earth,
that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The oors of the
rooms were of the same composmon and as hard as the earthen floors
we have In use in several parts of, England; as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms, like
closets, which were all, as it were, paved With the same tile- the
ceiling and all the plastermg work in the whole house, were of the
same earth; and after all, the roof was. covered with tiles of the
same, but of a deep shining black. This was a China warehouse
indeed, truly and hterally to be called so, and had I not been upon
the Journey, I_eould have stayed some days to see and examine the
particulars of it. They told me there were fountains and fish-ponds
in the garden, all paved on the bottom and sides with the same; and
fine statues set 11 in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the
porcelain earth, an burned whole. .

As this is one of the smgulanties of China1 so they may be allowed
to excel in it - but I am very sure they exce in their accounts of it;
for they told me such. incredible things of their performance in
crockery-ware, for such it is. that I care not to relate, as knowin it
could not he true. 'l'hey told me in particular,_ of .one workman t at
made a ship with all its tackle and masts and sails in earthenware, blfi
enough to carry fift men. . If they had told me he launched it, an.
made a voyageoto apan in it, I might have said something to it
indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole of the story, which was, in
short, askmg pardon for the word, that the fellow lied; so I smiled,
and said nothin to it. .

This odd Sig t kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which
the leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three shillings;
and told me if it had been three days' Journey without .the wall, as it -
was three days Within, he must have fined me four times as much,
and made me ask pardon the next council day: I promised to be more
orderly; and, indeed, I found afterwards the orders made for keeping
all together were absolutely necessary for our common safety.

In two days .more, we passed the great China wall made for a
fortification against the Tartars: and a very great work it is, gomg
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the_rocks are
impassable, and the precipicessuch as no enemy could $03.31ny enter,
or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall coul hinder them.
They tell us its len th is. near a thousand English. miles hut that the
country is.five hun edm a strai ht measured hne, which the wall
bounds, Without measuring the wmdinos and turmngs it takes; it is
about four fathoms high, and as many t "ck in some places.

I stood still an hour or thereabouts without tres assmg our orders
(for so long the caravan was in passmg the gate ,to look at it on
every side, near and far off, I mean that was within my View: and
the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of
the world, was mighty eager to hear my ogmion of it. I told him it
was a most excellent thing to keep out t e Tartarsywhich he ha .-
pened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it fora compx .
ment; but the old pilot laughed: "Oh, Seifnior Inglese," says e,
" you speak in colours."---" In colours!" sai I, " what do you mean
by that P"--" Why, you speak what looks wlnte this way and black
that wa ,--gay one way and dull another. You tell him it is a 0pod
wall to eep out Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for 110131111?
but to keep out Tartars. . I understand you, Seigmor Inglese,
understand you; but Seigmor Chinese understood you his own way."
--" Well," says I, "Seignior, do Iylou think it would stand out an.
army of our country people, Wit a good tram of artillery; or our
engineers, with two companies of miners? Would not they batter it
down in ten days, that an army might enter in battaha; or blow it
up in the air, foundation and all, that there should beno Sign of it
left?"--"Ay ay," says he, "I know that." 'l'he Chinese wanted
mi htily to know what I said, and I ave him leave to tell him
a ew days after, for we were then most out of their country,
and he was to leave us a little time after this; but when he knew
what I said, _he was dumb all therest of the way, and we heard
no more of his fine story of the Chinese power and greatness while
he stayed. . .

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall something like
the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly mhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the
inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and
therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an 0 en
country. And here I bemn to find the necessity of keeping toget er
in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars
roving about; but when I came to see them distinctly I wondered
more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such con-
temptible fellows - for they are a mere .horde of wild fellows, kee ing
no order, and understanding no disciphne or manner of fight. heir
horses are poor lean creatures taught nothing, and fit for nothing:
and this we found the first day we saw them, which was after we
entered the wilder part of the countrv. Qur leader for the dav gave
leave for about sinteen of us to go a-huntmg as thcv call it, and what
was this but huntmg of sheep !----however, 1t may be called hunting
too, for the creatures are the wildest and swrftest of foot that ever I
saw of their kind : only they will not run a great way, and you are
sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they appear generally
thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep, always 'eep together
when they fly. _

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with
about forty Tartars: whether they were hunting mutton as we were,
or whether they looked for another kind of prev, we know not: but
as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very loud,
but with a. barbarous sound that I had never heard before, and, by
the way, never care to hear again; we all supposed this was to call
their friends about them, and so it was; for in less than ten minutes,
a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about a mile distance; but
our work was over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants ot Moscow happened to be amongst
us, and as soon as he heard the born, he told us that we had nothm
to do but to charge them immediately, without loss of time - an
drawing us up in aiine, he asked if we were resolved. We told him
we were ready to follow him; so he rode directly towards them. They
stood. gazmg at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor
showmg the face of any. order at all; but as soon as they saw us
advance, they let fly their arrows, wluchhhowever, missed us very
happily: 1t seems the .mlstook not their mm, but their distance; for
their arrows all fell a ttle short of us, but with so true an aim, that
had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not lulled. .

I mmediately we halted and though it was at a great distance,
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following
our shot full gallop, to. fall in among them sword in hand, for so our
bold Scot that led as directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant but
he behaved With such v1gour and bravery on this occasion, and yet
With such cool courage too, that I never saw any man in action fitter
for command. As soon as we came up to them we fired our pistols
.31 their faces, and then drew - but they fled in the greatest confusion
imaginable. The only stand any of them made was on our right,
where three of them stood, and, by Slgns called the rest to come
backto them, having a kmd of scimitar in their hands, and their bows
hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, without asking any-
body to follow lnm, gallops up close to them, and With his fusee
knocks one of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol,
and the third ran away; and thus ended our fight: but we had this
nnsfortnne attendino'gt, that all our mutton we had in chase 1got away.
We had not a man killed or hurt; but as for the Tartars, ere were
about five of them killed ~ how many were wounded we knew not;
but this we knew, that the other party were so frightened With the
neise of our guns, that they made off, and never made any attempt
upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days' and
mghts' march; and we were obliged to earrv our water With us in
great leathem bottles, and to eneamp all mght, Just as I have heard
they do in the desert of Arabia. . .

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in: and they told
me this was a kind of border, that might be called no man's land,
being a. part of Great Karakathy, or _Grand Tartary; but, however,
it was all reckoned as belonging to _Ch1na, but that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the mroads of thieves, and therefore 1t
was reckoned the worst desert inthe whole march, though we were to
go over some mneh larger. . .

In passmg this Wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me, we
saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed
to be upon their own affairs, and to have no des1gn upon us; and so,
like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing to sa to us, we
had nothing to say to them: we let them go. Once, owever, .a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we knew not; but
when we had passed at some distance by them, we made a. rear-guard
of forty men, and stood ready for them, lettmg the caravan pass half
a mile or thereabouts before us: but after a while they marched ofl';
only we found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, which
wounded a horse so that it disabled hun, and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in eat need of a good farmer: they might shoot more

arrows which _mig tfall short of us, but we saw no more arrows at
Tartars that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways not heino .50 good
as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of C mm, but
lay for the most part in the villages, some of which were fortified,
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we were come to
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half 's Journey before
we came to the city of Naum) I wanted to buy a camel, of winch
there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and horses
also, such as they are, because, so man caravans coming that way,
they are often wanted. The erson that s oke to to get me a camel,
would have one and fetche one for me; at I, like a fool, must be
oflicious, an go myself along with him: the lace was about two
miles out of the village, where, it seems, they 'cpt the camels and
horses feeding, under a guard. ' .

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese bcmg very
desirous of a little variety. I 'hen we came to the place, it was
a low, marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, plied up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of
Chmese soldiers at the door. Having bought a camel, and agreed
for the price I came away, and the Chinese man that went wit 1 me
led the camel, when on a sudden came 11 five Tartars on horseback;
two of them seized the fellow and took 1 ie camel from him, while the
other three step ed up to me and my old )ilot, sccing us, as it were
unarmed, for I rad no wea on about me at my sword, winch could
but ill defend me against t iree horsemen. The first that came up
stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrant
cowards; but a. second, coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards and wondered, when I came
to m self, what was the matter and where I was, for he laid me flat
on toe ground. but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Prowdence, unlocked for, directs dehverances from dangers which to
us are unforeseen) had apistol in his ocket, which I knew nothing of,
nor the Tartars either; if they had, suppose they would not have
attacked us; but cowards are alwa 's boldest when there is no danger.
The old man seeing me down with abold heart stepped up to the
fellow that had struck me, and la ' g hold of his arm with one hand,
and pulhnnghim down by main force a little towards him, with the
other shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He
then immediately stepped up to him who had stOpped us asI said,
and before he could come forward again, made a blow at him with a.
scimrtar, which he always wore, but missing the man, struck his horse
1n. the Slde of his head, out one of the cars off by the root, and a great
shoe down by the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with the
wound, was no more to be governed by his rider though the fellow sat
well enough too, but away he flew, and. carried him quite out of the

ilot's reach; and at some distance rismg upon his hind legs, threw
own the fl'artar, and fell upon him

In this mterval, the poor Chmese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no wea 9n: however, seemg the Tartar down, and 1118
horse. fallen upon 1m, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an
ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his Side, something like a poleaxe,
but not a poleaxe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had
the tlnrd Tartar to deal wrth still ;. and seeing he did not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stood
stock still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle
to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,
away he scoured, and Ieft my pilot, my champion I called him after-
wards, a complete Victory.

By this time Iwas a ittle recovered; for I thought when I first
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said above,
Iwondercd where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what
was the matter: but a few moments after as sense returned, I felt
pain though I did not know where; so I clapfied my hand to my
iea , and took it away bloody; then I felt my ead ache; and then
in a moment memory returned, and everything was present to me
again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword,
but no enemies were in view: _I found a Tartar lying dead and his
horse standin'r very quietly by him; and, looking farther, I saw my
champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me and embraced me with a great
deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and 566111;; me
bloody, would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what
we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great
inconvenience from the blow, for it was well again in two or three

da '3.

lVe made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a
camel and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be aid for the camel;
I disputed it, and it was-brought to a hearing before the Chinese
judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with a great deal
of prudence and impartiality; and, having heard both Sldes, he
gravely asked the Chinese man that went With me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was? "I am no servant," says he, "but went
with the stranger."---"At whose reguest?" says the Justice: ".At
the stranger's request," says he. 'Why then," says the Justlce,
" on were the stranger's servant for the time ;_ and the camel being
idc ivered to his servant, it was dehvercd to him, and he must pay

or it."

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say; but,
admiring to see such just reasomng n on the consequence, and an
accurate stating of the case I paid wrliingly for the camel, and sent
for another - but, you may observe, I did not go to fetch it myself any
more, for I had had enough of that. . . .

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire ; they call it
fortified, and so it is as fortifications go there; for this I Will. venture
to affirm that all the Tartars in Karakathay which, I believe, are
some millions, could not batter down the walls wrth their bows and
arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked wrth cannon, would
be to make those who understand it laugh at you: . .

We wanted, as I have said, above two days' Journey of this city
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for them -
for that an unusual body of Tartars,.mak1ng ten thousand in all, had
ap eared 1n the way, about thirty miles beyond the city.

'his was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have
a guard. Accordingly, two daysafter, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our left and three hundred
more from the city of Naum, and with these we_advanced boldly; the
three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two
hundred in our rear, and our men_ on each side of our-camels, Wltll our
baggage and the whole caravan 1n the centre; in this order, and well
prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten
thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next day,
when they did3 appear, it was quite another thing. .

It was early in the mormng, when, marching from a well Situated
little town, called Chaugu, we had a river topass, which we were
obliged to ferry; and, had the Tartars had any mtelhgence, then had
been the time to have attacked us .when the caravan being over, the
rear guard was behmd; but they did not appear there. About three
hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or
sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at hand: and they were at hand indeed, for they came on
upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard in the front, who had talked so big the
damefore, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
be (1 them, which is a certain Sign in a soldier that he .is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and being near me,
called out, "Seigmor Inglese," says be, "those fellows must be en-
couraged, or they wrll rum us all; for if the Tartars come on they
will never stand it."----" I am of your mind," said I; " but what must
be done?"--" Done!" says he, "let fifty of our men advance, and
flank them on each wing, and encourage them; and they will fight
like brave fellows. 1n brave company; but Without this, they will
every man turn his back." Immediately, I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty of
us marched to the right mug, and fifty to the left, and the rest made
a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two hundred
men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the camels; only
that, if need were, they should send a hundred men to assist the last

fif .

a a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they
were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousand we thought,
was the least; a party of them came on first and Viewed our posture
traversing. the ground in the front of our line: and, as we foun
them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance
swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing With their shot, which
was done; and they went off, I suppose back, to give an account of
the recefition they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute
cloyed t eir stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile to
consrder of it, and wheehng off to the left, theft; gave over their des1gn,
and said no more to us for that time: who was very agreeable to
our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with
such a number. .

Two days after, we came to the city of Naun, or Naum - we
thanked the governor for his care of us and collected to the value of
a hundred Crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent
to (guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed,
an there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the reason of it
was, that formerly the Muscov1te frontiers lay nearer to them than
they now do, the Muscovites. havmg abandoned that part of the
country, which hes from this city west for about two hundred miles,
as desolate and unfit for use; andOmore especrally being so very remote,
and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence: for we were yet
above two thousand miles from Muscovy, properly so called.

After this, we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts deg
one of which we were Sixteen days passing over, and which, as I
said, was to be called no man's land; and, on the 13th of April, we
came to the frontierspf the Muscovite dominions. I think the first
town or fortress, whichever it may be called, that belonged to the
Czar of Muscovy, was called Arguna, being on the west side of the
river r .

I coul not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or,_ at least, in a country
governed by Christians; for though the Muscov1tes do, in my opinion,
but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such they pretend to be,
and are very devout in their way. It would certainly occur to any
man who. travels the world as I have done, and who had any power
of reflection, what a blessmg it is to be brought into the world where
the name of God and a Redeemer is known adored, and. worshipped:
and not where the poo le, given 11 by Heaven to strong deluSions,
worship the devil, an prostrate t emselves t_o stocks and stones;
worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped animals, and statues or
images of monsters. Not a town or city we passed through but had
their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people wor-
shi ping even the works of their own . ands. Now we came where,
at east, a face of the Christian worship a peared; where the knee
was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignorant y or not yet the Christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God was called upon
and adored and it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave
Scots merchant I mentioned above with my first acknowledgment of
this; and taking him by the hand, I said to him, "Blesseddegbe God,
we are once again amongst Christians." He smiled and answered,
" Do not reJoice too soon, countryman; these Muscowtes are but an
odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it, you may see very
little of the substance for some months farther. of our Journey."--
" Well," says I " but still it is better than Pagamsm and worshipping
of devils."---" Why, I Will tell you," says he, " encept the Russian
soldiers in the rrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities
upon the road, the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles
farther, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of Pagans."
And so, indeed, we found it. . . .

We were now launched into the greatest piece of sohd earth, if I
understand anythin of the surface of the globe, that is to be found in
any part of the wor d; we had, at least, twelve thousand _m1les to the
sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea, west-
ward; and above three thousand, if we left that se and went on
west, to the British and French channels: we had fu five thousand
miles- to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about Cldegllt hundred
to the Frozen sea, north. Na , if some people may be believed, there
might be no sea north-east till we came round the pole, and conse-
quently into the north-west, and so had a contment of land mto
America, the Lord knows where; though I could give some reasons
wh I beheve that to be a mlstake: . . .

we entered mto the Muscovrte dommions a good while before
we came to any considerable. towns, we had nothing to observe there
but this; first, that all the rivers run to the east: as Innderstood Bil
the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it wasplam
those rivers ran into the great river Yainour, or Gamour; which river,
by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea, or Chmese
Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this river is choked
up with bulruslres of a monstrous growth, vrz., three feet about, and
twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say, I believe nothing
of it; but, as its navrgation is of no use, because there is no trade
that war, the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs, deahng 1n nothmg
but cattle, so nobody that ever I heard of has been curious enouOh
either to go down to the mouth of it in boats, .or. come up from t .e
mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this IS certain,.tlrat this
river running east, m the latitude of about 50 degrees, carries a vast
concourse oi rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in
that latitude; so we are sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river, there are several consider-
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs east,
and these are all found to join their waters with the eat river Tar-
tarus, named so from the northernmost nations of the iIovul Tartars;
who, as the Chmese say, were the first Tartars in the world ; and who,
as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Magog mentioned in
sacred lristorf'. These l'lV'ch running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers am yet to 5 male of make it evident that the northern
ocean bounds the lands '_ so on that side; so that it does not seem
rational mthe least to think that the land can extend itself to join
with America on that srdc, or that there is not acommunication between
the northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say no more; 1t
:13: niy observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in

ace.

\ 0 new advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Mus-
covy has taken to have crties and towns. built in as many places as it
is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison something
like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans m the remotest
countries of their empire; some of wlnch I had read of .were placed in
Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the lodging travellers:
and thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these towns
and stations the gamsons and governors were Russians and professed
Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere pagans; sacrificing to idols,
and worshi ping the sun, moon and stars, or all the host of heaven -
and not on y so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat men's
flesh, as our savages of .Amenca di .

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna
where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars an
Russians together, called Nortzmusky, in which is a continued desert
or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over. In a village near
the last of these places, I had the curiosity to go and see their way of
livmg, which is most brutish and unsufl'erable: they had I suppose,
a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out, upon an old stump of
a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful as the devil - at least, as any-
thing we can think of to represent the devil can e made: it had a
head not resembhng any creature that the world ever saw; ears as
big as goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown-piece; anose
hke a crooked ram's horn, and a m0uth extended four cornered, like that
of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill; it was
dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose : its upper

rment was of sheep-.skms, With the wool outward; a great Tartar

onnet on the head, With two horns growing through it; it was about
eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts.

This scarecrow was .set up at the outer side oi the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures--
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinction
by their habits--all lymo' flat upon the ground round this formidable
b ock of sha eless wood; I saw no motion among them any more
than if they ad been all logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I
really thou ht they had .been so; but, when I came a little nearer
they starte us upon their feet, and raised a bowling cry, as if it had
been so many eep-mouthed hounds, and walked away, as if they were
displeased at our disturbing them. A httle way off from the idol, and
at.the door of a tent or but made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins
dried, stood three butchers --I thought they were such. when I came
nearer to them, for I found they ha long knives in their hands; and
in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young
bullock or. steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless
log of an idol; the three men were priests belonging to it, and the
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the offer-
in? and were making their prayers to that stock. .

confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worshi
of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my hfe,---to see God 8
most glorious and best creature to whom He had granted so many
advantages, even by creation above the rest of the works of His
hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that soul adorned With
faculties and capacities adapted both to honour his Maker, and be
honoured by Him, sunk and evenerated to a degree. so very stupid as
to prostrate itself to a frightful nothmg, a mere imaginary o Ject,
dressed up by themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their
own contrivance, adorned only with clouts and ragS,-and that this

should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish
A
devotion by the devil himself. who, euvviug his Maker the homage and
adoration of His creatures. had deluded them into such sordid and
bmtish things as one would think would shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts?
And thus it was, amt 1 saw it before my eves, and there was no room
to wonder at it. or think it impossible; all my admiration turned to

e, and I rode u l to the image or monster--call it what you will--
an with my SWOI't made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its head.
and cut it in two: turd one of our men that was with me took hold of
the sheep-skin that covered it, amt pulled at it. when, behold. a most
hideous outcry and howling ran through the village. and two or three
hundred people came about my cars. so that. l was glad to scour for
it, for we saw some had bows and arrows; butl resolved from that
moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at. the town. which was about
four miles oll', in order to provide. some horses which they wanted,
several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the baduess
of the way and long march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. l communicated it to
the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose cOurage 1 had sullieieut tes-
timony; I told him what 1 had seen. and with what indignation I had
since thought that human nature could he so degenerate; l told him
if I could get but four or live men well armed to go with me. .1 was
resolved to go and dcstrov that vile, abominable idol, and let them see
that it had no power to help itself, and consequently could not h'. an
object of worship, or to he prayed to, much less help them that oll'ered
sacrifices to it.

He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be good. but what. do
you repose to yourself by it?"---" Propose! " said 1. " to vindicate.
the ionour of God, which is insulted by this dm'il-worship." --"lSSut
how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he. " while the people
will not b: able to know what you in 'an by it. unless you could speak
to them, and tell them so? and then they will light you. and beat you,
toe. I assure you; for they are desperate fellows, and that especmlly
in defence of their idolatry."---" Can we not." said i. "do it in the
night, and then leave them the reasons and the causes in writing in
their own language? "---"Writiug ! " said he; "why, there is not. a
man in five nations of them that knows anything of a let ter. or how to
read a word any way."--"\l'retchcd ignorance! " said 1 to him;
"however, 1 have a great mind to do it; perha )8 nature. may draw
inferences from it to them, to let. them see how irutish they are to
worship such horrid things."--" Leek you, sir," said he. " if your zeal

rompts you to it so warmly, you must. do it; but, in the next place.
f would have you consider these wild nations of movie are subjected
by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominion; am if you do this, it is
ten to one but they will come by thousands to the governor of Next-
sinskay and demand satisfaction; and if he cannot give them satisfac-
tion, it is ten to one but they revolt, and it will occasion a new war
with all the 'l'artars in the country."

This, Iconfcss, put new thoughts into my head for awhile; but I
harpcd upon the same string still; and all that day 1 was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening, the Scots mer-
chant met me by accident in our walk about the town, and desired to
speak with me. " I believe," said he, " I have put you off your good
design; ] have been a little concerned about it since, for I abhor ido-
latry as much as you can do."--" Truly," said I, " you have ut off a
little the execution of it, but you have not put it out of m t ougbts,
and I believe 1 shall do it before I quit this lace, thong l I were to
be delivered up to them for satisfaction."--" 0, no," said be, "God
forbid they should deliver you up to such acrew of monsters! they
shall not do that either; that would be murdering you, indeed."--
"Why," said 1, "how would they use me ? "--" Use you! " said he;
"I'll tell you how they served a cor Russian who afl'ronted them in
their worship just as you did, an whom they took prisoner, after th
had lamed hun with an arrow that he could not run away: they too?
him and stripped him stark naked and set him upon the top of the
idol-monster and stood all round rim, and shot as many arrows into
him as would stick over his whole body; and then they burned him
and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the ldo ."--" And
was this the same idol?" said l.----"Yes," said he, "the ve same."--
"W ell," said I, " 1 will tell you a story." So 1 related t e sto of
our men at Madagascar, and how they burned and sacked the vil age
there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of
our men, just as it is related before ; and 1 added that I thought we
ought to do so to this village.

lie listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked of
doing so to that Village, said he, "You mistake very much; it was
not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but it
was the same ulol for the carry him about in procession all over the
country."---" Well," said , " then that idol ought to be punished for
it; and it shall," said 1, " If I live this night out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the desim, and told me I
should not go alone, but he would go with me, butthe would go first
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us,
" and one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you can desrre any one
to be against such devilish things as these." In a word he brought
me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain Richardson-
and I gave him a full account of what I had seen, and also whatI
intended; and he told me rcadil he would go with me if it cost him
his life. So we agreed to go on we three. .I had, indeed, proposed
it to my partner, but he dec inc it. He said he was ready to assist
me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence; but this
was an adventure nite out of his way; so, I say, we resolved upon
our work only we t ircc and my man-servant, and to. put-it 1n execu-
tion that night about midnight, with all the sceresy imaginable. _

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay 1t tillthe
next night, because the caravan being to set forward 1n the morning,
we supposed the governor could not pretend to give them any satis-
faction upon us when we were out of lns power. The Scots merchant,
as steady in his resolution for the enterprise as bold 1n executing,
brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-slims, and a bonnet,
with a bow and arrows, and- hadzprovzided the same for himself and his

A
countrymen, that the people, if they saw us, should not determine who
we were.

All the first night we spent in mixino' up some combustible matter
with aqua vita, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get;
and having a good quantity of tar. in a little pot, about an hour after
ni ht we set out upon our expedition.

WVe came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that
the peo le had not the least Jealousy of danger attendino their idol.
The nio t wascloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to see that
the idol stood Just in the same posture and place that it did before.
The people seemed to be all at their rest; only that in the great hut,
or tent, as we called it, wherewe saw the three priests, whom we miss.
took for butchers, we saw a light, and gomg up close to the door, we
heard people talking as if there were five or six of them ; we concluded,
therefore, that if we set Wildfire to the idol, these men would come out
immediately, and run up to the place to rescue It. from the destruc-
tion that we intended for gt; and what to do with them we knew net.
Once we thought of carrying it away, and settnig fire to it at a dis-
tance, but when we came to handle. it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss <<rain. The second Scotsman was for
setting fire to the tent or hut, an knocking the creatures that were
there on the head when they came out; but I could not JOInOWlth
that; I was against killing them if it were poss1ble to av01d it.
"Well, then," said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we Will
do; we will t to make them prisoners, tie their hands, and make
them stand an see their idol destroyed."

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us,
which we used to tie our firelocks together with: so we resolved to
attack these peo 1e first, and With as httle nOise as we could. . The
first.thing we di , .we knocked at the door, when one of the priests,
coming to _It we immediately seized u on him, stopped his mouth,
and tied his hands behind him, and le him to the idol, where we
gagged him that lie mlillt not make a noise, tied his feet also
to ether, and left him on t e ound.

o of us then waited at t e door, expecting that another would
come out to see what the matter was; but we waited so longhtlill the
third man came back to us: and then nobody coming out, we ocked

ain gently, and immediately out came two more, and we served
t em Just in the same manner but were obliged to go all with them,
and lay them down by the idol some distance rom one another; when
finer back, we. found two. more were come out t9 the door, and a
t (f stood behind them Within the.door. We seized the two, and
immediately tied them, when the third ste ping back and cryingoont,
my Scots merchant went in after them, an taking out a compOSition
we had made that would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it and
threw it m among them: by that time, the other Scotsman an my
man, taking char e of the two men already bound, and tied together
also by the arm, ed them away to the idol, and left them there to see
if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us. .

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut With so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind which flamed like a candle, and followin
it in, we fonnd there were . ut four people, and, as we sup ose has
been about some of their diabolic sacrifices. The appeare , in s iort
frightened to death, at least so as to sit tremb ' g and stupid, and
not able to speak either for the smoke.

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all Without any nmse. I should have said we brought them out
of the house or hut first; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than theg were. When we had done this, we carried
them altogether to the 1 01: when we came there, we fell to work.
With him; and first we daubed him all over and his robes also with
tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with
bnmstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of
gunpowder; then we .wragfied up a great piece of wildfire in his

nnet; and then stickm the combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, we looked a out to see if we could find anything else to
hel to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered that by the tent
or ut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry forage whether
straw or rushes I do not remember ~ away he and the other Scotsman
ran and fetched. their arms full of that. When _we haddone this, we
took all our (prisoners, and brought them, 113va untied their feet
and ungagge their mouths, and made them stand 11 , and set them
before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the w ole. .

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the
powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, as
we could perceive, .had spht and deformed the shape of it; and, m a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or 0g of wood; and
settingbdry forageto it we found it would be soon quite consumed;
so we egan to think of gomo away: but the Scotsman said, " No, we
must not go, for these poor deluded wretches Will allth themselves
into the fire, and burn themselves With the ido ." So we resolved to
ftftythm the forage was bumed down too, and then came away and
e em.

After the feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among
our fellow-travellers, exceedingly busy in etting ready for our Joni-o
ney - nor could an mm.sug0est that we been anywhere but In
our beds, as trave ers might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for
the fati es of_the. day's Journey.

But t e afi'air did not end so; the next da came a great number
of the country people to the town tes,.an in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the ussmn governor for the insult-
ing their riests, and burning their great Cham Chi-Thaungu. The
peo 1e of ertsmskay were at first in a eat consternation, for they
saidp the Tartars were already no less t thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and

ve them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he

ew nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from anybody there; but if tleely could
let him know who did it, they should be exemplarilg punish . They
returned haughtily, that all the count reverence the t Cham
Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, an no mortal would ve dared
to ofi'er violence to his imafie but some Christian miscreant - and
they therefore resolved to enounce war a'amst him and all the
Russxans, who, they said, were miscreants an Christians.

The governor, still patlent, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of. war alleged to be glven by him, the Czar havmg
stnctly'charged him to treat the conquered country wrth gentleness
and c1v1hty, gave them still all the good words he could. At last he
told them there was a caravan gone towards Russra that_mormng
and perhaps 1t was some of them. who had done them this myui; an
that if they would be satisfied w1th that, he would send after t em to
in mre mto 1t. This seemed to appease them a httle; and accord-
mey the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account
how the thing was ' intimating withal, that if any m our caravan had
done _1t, they shou d make them escape; but that whether we had
done it or no, we should make all the haste forward that was possi-
lilo; antral that, inthe mean time, he would keep them mplay as long as

e co .

This was very friendly in the governor; however, when it came to
the caravan, there was nobody. knew anything of the matter - and as
for us that were guilty, we were least-of all suspected. owever,
the captain of the caravan for the tune, took the hint that the
govemoriave us, and we travelled two days and two mohts w1thout
any cons1 erable stop, and then we lay at a Village called Tlothus:
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastene on towards J ara-
wena, another of the Czar ot Muscovy's colomes, and where we
expected we should be safe. But upon the second day's march from
Plothus, by the clouds of dust behmd us at a great distance, some of
our people began to be sensnble we were ursued. We had entered a
great desert, and had passed I? a great e called Schaks Oser,.when
we erceived a very great b0 y 0 horse appear on the other Slde of
the e, to the north, we travelling west. We observed they went
away west, as we Clld, but had supposed we would have taken that
side of the lake, whereas we verg happily took the south side; and in
two days more they disappeare again: for they, behevmg we were
still before them, pushed on till they came to the river Udda, a very
great river when it asses farther north, but when we came to it, we
tound 1t narrow an fordable. _ . .

The third day they had either found their mistake, or had mtelli--
gence of us and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
eve 0'. Ve had, to .our great satlsfactlon, Just pitched u on a;
place or our camp, Whlch was very convenientOfor the night deg or as
we were upon a desert, though but at the begmnmg of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, .we had no towns to lodge at, and,
indeed, expected none but the c1ty Jarawena, which we had yet. two
days' march to; the desert however had some few woods 1n 1t on
this side, and httle nvers which ran all into the great river Udda - it
was in a narrow. stra1 , between httle but very thick woods, that
we pitched our httle camp for that mght, expecting to be attacked
before mommg.

NdegbdeguSSf knew but ourselves what we were. pursued for: but as it
was as for the Mogul Tartar: to go about 1n troops m that desert;
so the caravans always fortify themselves every night against the
gs against (armies of robbers; and it was, therefore, no new thingnt3'
e ursue .

ut we had this night, of all the nights of our travels a most
advantageous camp; for 'we lay between two woods with a little
nvulet running Just before our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We took care
also to make our front as strong as we could, by placing our packs,
With our camels and horses, all m a hne, on the mside of the river
and felling some trees in our rear. .

In this posture we encamped for the mght; but the enemy was
upon us before we had fimshed. They did not come on us like
thieves, as we ex _ected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand
the men to.be de vered tothem that had abused their priests and
burned their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they might urn
them With fire; and upon this, they said, they would go away, and
do us no further harm, otherwise they would destroy us all. Our
men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare at one
another to see who looked With the most guilt in their faces; but
nobody was the word--nobody did it. The leader of the caravan
sent word he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceful merchants, travelling on our business;
that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and that there-
fore, they must look farther for their enemies who had injured them,
for we were not the peo 1e; so they desrred them not to disturb us,
for 1f they did we shoul defend ourselves. .

They were far from bemg satisfied With this for an answer; and 3

eat crowd of them came running down 1n the morninv, by break of

ay, to our camp; but semg us in such an unaccountable Situation,
they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, where they
stood, and showed us such a number that mdeed temfied us v
much; for those that s oke least of. them 5 oke of ten thousan
Here they stood and 100 ed at us awhile, and t en setting up a great
howl, they let fly a crowd of arrows among us; but we were well
enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage, and I
do not remember that one of us was hurt. . .

Some time after this, we saw them move a httle to our right, and _
expected them on the rear: when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
J araweno, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, " I'll go send all these people awayto S_1heilka."
This was a.c1ty four or five days' journey at least to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and gettmv on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were back to.
Nertsinskay- after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on t e army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express to '
tell them a long story that the )people who had burned the Ohm
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Siheil a, with a caravan of miscreants, as '
he called them,--that is to say Christians: and that theyhad resolved
to burn the Schal-Isar be ongmfivto the Tongueses. . '

As this fe ow was himself a mere artar and erfectly spoke their
language, he counterfeited so well that they beheved him; and-1
away they drove in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, which, it seems,
was five daysf Journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight and we never heard any more of
them, nor whether they went to Silieilka or no. So we passed awa
safely on to J arawena, where there was a son of Muscovites, an
there we rested five days; the caravan eing exceedingly fatigued
with the last day's hard march, and with want of rest in the night.
horn this city we had a fri htful desert, which held us twenty-
three days' march. We furnis red ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteencarriages or waggons ef the country,
for carrying our water or provrsions; and these cama s were our
defence, eve night round our httle camp: so that ha the Tartars
appeared, ess they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us. . .
. We may well be su posed to have wanted rest agam after this long
Journey; for in this esert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce
a bush; though we saw abundance of . the sable hunters, who are all
Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no numbers of
them together.

After we had gassed this desert, we came into a country pretty
well inhabited; t at is to say, we found towns and castles, sett ed by
the Czar of Muscovy With gamsons of stationary soldiers, to protect
the caravans, and de end the country inst the Tartars, who would
othermse make it very dangerous trave 'ng; and lllS czansh majestg
has 'ven such stnct orders for the well guarding the caravans an
mere ants, that, if there are an Tartars heard of in the count ,
detachments of thegarrison are wa s sent to see the travellers e
from station to station. And thus t e governor of Adinskoy, whom
I had an opportumty to make a visit to by means of the Scots mer-
ehant, who was acquainted wrth him, ofi'ered us a guard of fifty men,
if we thou ht there was any danger, to the next station.

I thoug t long before this, that ae we came nearer to Europe, we
should find the country better_mhab1ted, and the people more civil-
Ised; but I found myself mistaken m both~ for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to pass throu h, where we saw the same
tokens of pagamsm and barbarrty as be ore; only, as they were con-
quered by the Muscovrtes, they were not so dan erous, but for rude-
ness of manners, and idolat , no people in t e world ever went
beyond them; they are clothe all m skins of beasts, and their houses
are built of the same; you know not a man from. a woman, neither
b the ruggedness of their countenances nor their clothes; and In
t e winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live under
ground m vaults, which have cav1t1es.going from one to another.

If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole yillage or
country, these had idols in every hut and every cave: besides, the
worship the stars, the sun the water, the snow and, m a wor
everything they do not understand, and they understand but very
httle; so that every element, every uneommen thing, sets them sacrio
ficmg. I met With nothmg pecuhar myself in all this country, which
I reckon was from. the desert I spoke of .last at least four hundred
miles, half of . 1t belpi another desert, WlHCll took us up twelve days'
severe travelhng, wrt out house or tree; and we were obhged again
to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. After we were
out of the desert, and had travelled two days, we came to J anezay,
a Muscovrte city or statron on the great river J anezay, which, they
told us there, parted Europe from Asia. .

Here I observed ggnoranee and pagamsm still prevailed, except in
the Muscovrte garrisons; all the country between the river Oby and
the nver J anezay Is as entirely pagan, and the peofple as barbarous,
as the remotest 9f the Tartars; nay, as any nation, or aught I know,
1n Asra or America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovlte
governors whom I had an opportumty to converse mth, that the poor
pagans are not much Wiser or nearer Chnstiamty for bemg under
the Muscovrte governmen , which they acknowledged was true
enortgh; but that, as they said,.was none of their business; that If
the zar expected to convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar sub-
Jects, 1t should be done by sending elergymen among them, not
soldiers; and, they added, mth more smcenty than I expected, that
they found 1t wasnot so much the concern of their monarch to make
the people Christians as 1t was to make them subjects. .

. From this river to the great nver Oby, we crossed a Wild unenl-
trvated .country, barren of people and good management, otherwrse
1t Is 11} Itself a most (pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What
inhabitants we foun 1n. 1t are all pagans, except such as are sent
among them from Russia: for this 1s the country--I mean on both
sides the river ObK--whither the Muscovtte criminals that are not ut
to death are hams ed, and from whence 1t 18 next to impossrble t y
should ever iii; away. . , . .

I have not ' g .materral to say of my partlcular afi'airs till I came to
Tobolsln, the capital city of Siberia, where I contmued some time on
the followmg account. . .

We had now been almost seven months on our Journey and wmter
began to come on apace; whereupen my partner and I called a
council about our fiicular affairs, in which we found 1t dpro , as
we were bound for glland, and not for Moscow, to consr er ow to
dispose of ourselves. hey told us of sled es and remdeer to can-g
us over the snow m the winter time; an , mdeed, they have sue
thin that It would be incredible to relate. the particulars of, by
whic means the Russians travel more m wmter than they can 1n
summer, as .in these sledges they are able.to run mght and day;
the snow, bemg frozen, Is one universal covenne; to nature, by which
the hills, vales, nvers, and lakes are all smoot and hard as a stone,
"((11 theythrun upon the surface, wrthout any regard to what 13
un emea . . .

But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of thrs kind: Iwas
bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route la two ways : erther
I must go on as the caravan went, till I came to aroslaw, and then
go off west for NarvaI and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzrc
where I might possib y sell my China cargo to d advantage; or
must leave the caravan at a httle town on the wma, from whence I
had but six days b water to Archangel, and from thence might be
sure of shipping eit ier to England, Holland, or HamburOh.

Now to go any of these journeys m the wmter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dantzrc, the Baltic would .have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage; and to go by land in those countries
was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likeWise, to go to
Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence, and-
even the. merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the wmter, when the ships are gone ;. so that I could hare
nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, wrth a scarcity of pm
Visions, and must he in an empty town all the wmter: so that, upon
the whole, Ithought it much my better way to let the caravan go, and
make dprovisron to winter where I was, at TObOlSkl, in Siberia, in the
latitu e of about sixty degrees where I was sure of three things to wear
out a cold winter with, viz,, plenty of provrswns, such as the country
afforded, a warm house, With fuel enough, and excellent company.

I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my 1 (rue: on the contrarv,
I had much to. do to bear any clothes on my back, and never made
any fire but wrthout doors, which was necessary for dressing my food,
&c. Now I had three good vests, with large robes or gowns over
them, to hang down to the feet and button close to the wrists; and
all these lined with furs, to malre them sufficiently warm.

As to a warm. house, I must confess I greatly disliked our_ way in
England of making fires in ever room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the fire was out, ways kept the arr in the room cold as
the climate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the town, I
ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre of six
several rooms, hke a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up
one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and all the
rooms were he t equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they beat the
bagmos in Eng d. By this means, we had always the same climate
in all the rooms and .an equal heat was preserved: and how cold
soever 1t was w1thout, It was always warm Wlthln; and yet we saw no
fire, nor were ever meommoded mth smoke. .

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to
meet Wltll good company here, m a country so barbarous as that of
the most northerly parts of Europe near the Frozen Ocean, within
but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this being the coun
where the state criminals of Musco , as I observed before, are
banished, this city was full of nob emen, gentlemen, soldiers, and
court1ers of Muscovy. Here was the famous Prince Galitzin, the old
General Robostiski, and several other persons of note, and some
ladies. B means of my Scotch. merchant, whom, nevertheless, I
parted Wit here, I made an ac uamtance with several of these gentle-
men: and from these, in the ong wmter mghts in which I stayed
here, I rece1ved several very agreeable visrts.

.It was talking one mght wrth Prince -- one of the banished
mmisters of state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that the dis-
course of my fgirrticular case began. He had been. telling me
abundance of e things of the greatness, the magnificence, the
dominions, and_the absolute power of the Emperor of the Russians:
I interrupted him, and told him I was a greater and more powerful
prince than even the Czar of Muscovy was, thou h my dominions
were not .so large, .or my geople so .many. The uss1an grandee
looked a httle sur need, an , firing-his eyes steadily u on me, began
to wonder what meant. _I told him his wonder wo d cease w en
I had explained myself. First, I told. him I had absolute ' osal of
the lives and fortunes of all my subjects; that notwithstan ' g my
absolute power, I'liad not one person disaffected to my government,
or to my person, in all m dominions. He shook his head at that,
and said, there, indeed, .outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him
that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my subjects
were not only my tenants, but tenants at Will; that they would all
fight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant, for such I
acknowledged mgself to be _was ever so umversally beloved, and yet
so horribly feare by hissubyects. .

After amusing him With these riddles in government for awhile,
_I opened the case, and told him the storyfat large of my living in the
island; and how I managed both myse and the Tfieople that were
under me, Just as I have Since minuted it down. . ey were exceed-
ingly taken With the story, and especially the prince, who told me,
With a Slgl], that the true greatness 0 life was to be masters .of
ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a state of hfe
as mine, to be Czar of Muscovy- and that he found more felicity in;
the retirement he seemed to bebanislied to there, than ever he found
in the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of. his master the
Czar; that the height of human Wisdom was to bring our tempers
down to our circumstances, and'to make a calm within, under the
weight of the greatest storms Without. When he came first hither,
he said he used to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from
his back, as others had done before him; but a httle time and con-
sideration had made him look into himself as well as round him, to
things Without: that he found the mind of;m_an, if it was but once
brought to reflect uponthe state of umyersal hfe, and how httle this
worl was concerned in its true felicity, was erfectlycapable _of
making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to_its , and suitable to its
own best ends and desires, With but very httle assistance from the
world; the air to breathe in, food tof sustain hfe, clothes for warmth,
and hberty for exercise in order to health, completed, in his opinion,
all that the world could do for us; and though the greatness, the
authority, the riches, and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the
world, had much _in them that was agreeable .to us, yet all those
things chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affections, such as our am-
bition, our particular pride, avarice, vamty, and sensuahty; allwhich,
being the mere Eroduct of the worst part of man, were. in them-
selves crimes, an had in them the seeds of all manner of crimes; but
neither weie related to, nor concerned Wltll, any of those virtues that
constituted us Wise men, nor of those graces that distin . hed uses
Christians - that being now deprived 0 all the fancied ehcity which;
he enjoyed in the full exercise. of all those Vices, he said he was at
leisure to look upon the dark Slde of them, where he found all manner
of deformity; and was now convinced that virtue only makes a man
truly_Wise, rich and great, and presence him in the way to a superior
happiness in_ a future state- and in this, he said, they were more
hfgfipy in their banishment than all their enemies were, who had the

possessmn of all the wealth and power they had left behind them.
" Nor, sir," says he, " do I bring my mind to this pohtically from
the necessxty of my circumstances, which some call miserable ; but if
I know anything of myself, I would not now go back thou h the
Czar my master should call me, and reinstate me in all mv. ormer
grandeur: I say, I would no more go back to it than I believe my
soul, when it shall be delivered from this prison of the body, and has
had a taste of the lorious state beyond hfe, would come back to the

19f flesh and b ood it is now enclosed in, and leave Heaven, to

eal in the dirt and crime of human affairs. .

He spoke this with so much. warmth in his temper, so much
earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evulent it was the
true sense of his soul - there was no room to doubt his smeerity. I
told him I once thouililt myself a kind of monarch in my old station,
of which I had given m an account: but that I thought he was not
only aOmonarch, but a great_conqueror; for he that had 'got a victory
over his own exorbitant deSires, and the absolute dominion over him-
self, he whose reason entirely governs his will, is certainly eater
than_he that conquers acity. ." But, my lord," said I, " sh I take
the hbert to ask you a. question?" " With all my heart " says he.
" If the cor of your hberty was 0 ened,'f said I, " would you not
take hold of it,_ to deliver from t s exile ? ". ' Hold}: said .he;
" your question is subtle, and re uires some serious, Just distinctions
to give it a Sincere answer - and W111 give it you from the bottom of
mvheart. Nothing that I know of . in the world would move me to
deliver myself from this state of banishment, except these two 3 first,
the enJoyment of my relations ; and, secondly, ahttle warmer chmatc:
but I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the court, the
glory, the power the hurrv ot a minister of state; the wealth the
galety, and the pleasures of a courtier; if mimaster should sen me
word this moment that he restores to all e banished me from, I
protest if I know myself at all, I would not leave this Wilderness,
these deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace. at Moscow."
" But, my lord," said I, "dperhaps you not only are. banished from the
pleasures of the court, an from the power, authority, and wealth you
emoyed before, but you may be absent, too, from some of the con-
veniences of life: your estate, perha s, confiscated and your efi'ects
plundered; and the Slljlfpllcs left you ere ma not .e suitable to the
ordinary demands of .e." " Ay," says he 'that is as you suppose
me to be a lord, or a prince, &c.; so, mdee , I am; but you areonow
to eonSider me on] as a man, a human creature, not at all distm-

lied from anot er; and so I can suffer no want, unless I should

'e mated with Sickness and distempers._ However, _to gut the ques-
tion out of dispute, you see our way of life: we are, in t is place, five
persons of rank ~ we hve perfectly retired, as suited. to a state of
namshment ;. we ave somethin rescued from.the shipwreck of our
fortunes, which keeps us from t e mere necessity of hunting for our
food; but the poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live in as
much plant as we, who go into the. woods and catch sables and
foxes; the abour of a month w111.maintain them a year; and as the
way of hvin is not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient for
ourselves. that objection is out of doors."

I have not room to give a full account of the most eeable con-
versation I had With this truly great man; in all whic he showed
that his mind was so inspired With a superior knowledge of things, so
supported b religion as well as by a vast sharc of Wisdom, that his
contempt o the world was real] as much as. he had expressed, and ,
that he was always the same to t ie last, as Will appear in the story I
am gtoing to tell. _

I ad been here eight. months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought it - the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad Without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face .or rather a hood, With only a hole for breath, and two for sight :
the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned for three months not
above five hours a dig and six at most; only that the snow lying on
the ground continu ly, and the weather being clear, it was never
quite dark. Our horses were kept or rather starved, under ground;
and as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves
and horses, we had, every now and then, their fingers and toes to
thawand take care of, lest they should mortif and fall off.

It is true within doors we were warm, the iouses being close, the
walls thick, the li hts small, and the glassall double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh o deerndried and _cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes, which is pretty good meat. All the
stores of proviSions 'for the Winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vitae instead of
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wme, which however, they
have very good. The hunters,_ who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brou ht us in fine vemso and sometimes bear's-flesh, but
we'did not muc care for the last. eohad a good stock of to? With
which we treated our friends, and we hved very cheerfully an well,
all things considered. .

It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to prepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get things read to be
going; but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Are angel,
and not for Muscov? or the Baltic, I made no motion; knowmg very
well that the ships rom the south. do not set out for that part of the
world till May or June, and that if I was there by the begmmng of
Au t, it would be as soon as an ships would be ready to. go away;
an therefore I made no haste to e gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many pe0ple, nay all the travellers go away before me.
It seems ever year they go from. thence to _Muscon for trade, to
carry furs, an buy necessaries, which they bring back With them to
furmsh their shogs: also others went on thesame errand to Arch-
an 1; but then t ey all being to come back again above eight hundred
mifees. went out before me.
In the month ofMay I began to make all ready hijack up; and,
as I was domg this, it occurred to me that seeing these people
were banished by the Czar. of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet when they
came there, were left at liberty to go whither they would, why they
dld not then go away to any part of the world, wherever they thought
fit; and I began to examine what should hmder them from making
such an attempt. But my wonder was over when I entered upon
that sub ect \Vlth the person I have mentioned, who answered me
thus: " nsider, first, sir," said he, " the lace where we are; and,
secondly, the condition we are in- espec y the generality of the
peOple who are banished hither. We are surrounded with stronger
things than bars or bolts; on the north Slde, an unnavroable ocean,
where ship never sailed, and boat never swam: every other way we
have above a thousand miles to pass through the Czar's own domi-
nions, and by ways utterly impassable, except by the roads made by
the government, and through the towns "amsoned by 1115 troops; so
that we could neither pass undiscoveredtby the road, nor subsrst any
other way; so that it is in vain to attem t it."

I was silenced, indeed, at once, an found that they were in a
prison every jot as secure as If they had been locked upun the castle
at Moscow :_ however, it came mto my thoughts that 1 might certainly
'be made an mstrument to procure the escape of this excellent erson;
and that, whatever hazard I ran, I would certamly try if I co d carry
him off. U on this, I took an occasion, one evemng, to tell him my
thoughts. Irepresented to him that it was very easy for me to carrv
him away, there being no guard over lum 1n the country; and as I
was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went in the
retinue of a caravan, by which I was not obhged to lie m the station-
ary towns in the desert, but could encamp every mght where I would
we might easily pass uninterru ted to Archangel, where I. would
immediately secure him on boar an Enghsh ship, and carry him safe
along with me: and as to his subsistence and other particulars, 1t
shorfid be my care till he could better supply himself.

He heard me very attentively, and 100 'e earnestly on me all the
while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face that what I said put
his spirits into an exceeding ferment; lns colour frequently changed,
his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered,_ till it. might be even
perceived in his countenance; nor could he immediately answer me
when I had done, and, as it were, hesitated what he would. say to it:
but after he had paused a httle, be embraced me, and said, " How
unhappy are we, un arded creatures as we are, that even our
greatest acts of frien hip are made snares unto us, and we are made
tempters of one another? My dear fnen ," said be, "your offer is
so Sincere, has such kindness 1n 1t, 1s so disinterested in itself, and is
so calculated for my advantage, that 1 must have very httle know-
ledge of the world if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge
the obligation I have upon me to you for 1t. But did you belleve 1
was sincere in what I have often said to you of my contempt of the
world? Did you believe I spoke my yery soul to you, and that I
had really obtained that degree of fehcity here that hadplacedme
above all that the world could give me? Did you behevel was
sincere when I told you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to
be all that I. once was in the court, with the favour of the (her my
master? Did you beheve me, my friend, to be an honest man; or
did you believe me to be a boasting h ocrite P" Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I wouldsay ;. _ut, indeed, I soon after per-.
ceived that he stopped because his spirits were in motion, his great
heart was full of struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess,
astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and I used some argue
ments With him to urge him to set himself free; that he ought to
look upon this as adoor Opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a
summons by 1?rov1denee, who has the care and dis osition of all
events, to do himself good, and to render himself usef in the world.

.He had by this time recovered himself. "How do you know,
sir," says he, warmly, " but that instead of -a summons from Heaven,
it may be a feint of another .instrument - representingl in alluring
colours to me the show of felicity as a deliverance w ich may in
itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin? ere I am free
from the temptation of returmng to my former miserable greatness;
there I am not sure but that all theseeds of pride, ambition, avarice,
and luxury, which I knoworemain in nature, may revive, and take
root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and then the hap y
prisoner, whom yousee now master of his soul's liberty, shall be t e
miserable slave of his own senses, in the full en oyment of all {emanal
liberty. Dear Sir, let me remain in this blesse confinement anished'
from the crimes of Me, rather than purchase a show of freedom at the
expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the future he iness
which I now have in my view, but shall then, I fear, quic ylose
sight of; for I. am but flesh; a man, a mere man; have passions and
affections. as hkely to possess and overthrow me as any man: 0, be
not my friend and tempter both together!" .

K1 was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood Silent,
looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I saw. The struggle
in his soul was so great that, though the weather was extremely
cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to
Give vent to_his mind; so I said a word or two, that I would leave
him to conSIder of it, and wait on him again, and then I Withdrew
to my own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of
my room, and I was oing to 0 en the door, but he had Opened it
and come in. "My ear frien ," says'he. " on had almost oversct
me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill t at I do not close 'w1th
your offer; I assure you it is not for want of sense of the kindness
of it in you; and I came to make the most Sincere acknowledgment
of it to you- but I hope I have got the victory over myself." " My
lord," said I, " I ho e on are ully satisfied that you do not resrst
the call of Heaven.' ' Sir," said be, "if it had been from Heaven,
the same power would have influenced me to have accepted it: but
I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline
it, and I have infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave-
me an honest man st though not a free man." .

I had nothing to 0 but to acquiesce, and make professmns to
him of my having no end .in it but a sincere .desire to serve him.
He embraced me ve passronately and assured me he was sensible
of that, and should ways acknowledge it; and with that he offered
me a very fine resent of sables,--too much indeed, for me to accept
from a man in s Circumstances, and I would have avorded them, but
he would not be refused. .

The next mormng I sent my servant to his lordship with a small
present of te and two ieces of China damask, and four httle wedges
of Japan gol , which .(1 not all weigh above srx ounces or there-
abouts, but were far short of the value of his sables, which, when I
came to England, I found worth near two hundred pounds. He
accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the pieces
of gold, which had a fine stamp 11 on it, of the Japan coinage, which
I found he took for the rarity o it, but would not take any more :
and he sent word by my servant that he desrred to speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him an more in that affair-
but.that, smc_e I had made such a generous 0 er to him, be asked
me if I had kindness enouOh to ofl'er the same to another person that
he would name to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I
told him that I could not say I inclined to do so much for any but
himself, for whom I had a particular value, and should have been glad
to have been the instrument of his deliverance; however, if he would
please to. name the person to me, I would give him my answer. He
told me it was his only son; who, though I had not seen him, yet
was mthe same condition With himself, and above two hundred miles
from him, on the other side of the Oby; but that, if I consented, he
would send for him. . _

I made .no hesitation, but told him I'would do 1t. I made some
ceremony mletting him understand that it was wholly on his account;
and that, seemg I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect
to him by my concern for hls son; but these things are too tedious to
repeat here. He sent the next day for 1113' son; and m about twenty
days he came back_ w1th the messenger, bringing an or seven horses,
loaded wrth verv rich furs, which in the whole, amounted to a ve
geat value. His servants brought the horses into the town, but .le

e young lord at a distance till mght, when he came mcogmto mto
our apartment, and his father presented him to me ;. and, m short, we
concerted the manner of our travelhng, and everything proper for the
Journey. .

I had bou ht a considerable quantity ofsables, black fox-skins, fine
ermmes, an such other furs as are very mob in that city, m exchan e
for some of the goods 1 had broufht from China: in particular or
the cloves and nutmegs, of which sold the greatest part here, and
the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a muc better price than I
could have got at London; and my partner, who was sensrble of the
profit . and whose busmess, more particularly than mme, was mer-
chan e, was rmghtily pleased With our stay, on account of the traffic
we made here. . .

It was the beo'inmng of June when I left this remote place; a city
I beheve, httle heard of in the world; and, indeed. it 13 so far out of
the road of commerce that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a veHIsmall caravan, haying only thirty-
two horses and camels in all, and ' of them passed for me, though
my new guest was proprietor of eleven of them; it was most natural
also that I should take more servants With me than I had before; and
the youngklord passedfor m . steward; what great man I passed for
myself, I now not neither d it concern me to inquire. We had
here the worst and the lat est desert to pass over that we met With
in our whole Journey; I it the worst, because the way was very
deep m.some places, and very uneven in others; the best we had to
say for it was, that we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers
to fear, and that they never came on this Slde the river Oby, or at
least very seldom; but we found It. othermse.

MyOyoung lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was perfectly
acquainted with the country, and led us by private roads, so that we
av01ded comi into the Princrpal towns and cities upon the great
roadMsuch as en, So oy'KamskOi, and several others; .because
the .uscovite ' ons which are kept there are very curious and
strict in their 0 servation upon travellers, and searchmo lest any of
the bamshed persons _of note should make their escape that way into:
Musco ;.but, by tlus means, as we were kept out of the cities, so:
our. who e Journey was a desert, and we were obhged to encam't and>>
he in ountents, when we might have had very good accommo ation
in the cities on the way: this the young lord was so sensible of, that
he would not allow us to lie abroad when we came to. several cities
on the way, but lay abroad hinmelf, w1th his servant, in the woods,
and met us. always at the appomted places. . .
0 We had Just entered EurOpe, having fiassed the river Kain which
in these parts is the boundary between urope and Asia, andt e0first
city on the European Slde was called Soloy Kamskor, which is as
much as to say, the great cit on .the.river Kama; and here we
thou ht to see some evident teration in the peopllie- but we were
mist en; .for as we had a vast desert to pass, w ch is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it, so till we came past that homble place we
found very little difference between that country and the Mogul ar-
tary; the peopleare mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
of .America - their houses and towns full. of idols, and their way of
livmg wholfy barbarous, except in the cities and the villages near
them, where they are Christians, as the call themselves, of the Greek
church; but have their religion mingle With so many rehcs of super-
stition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere sor-
es and Witchcraft.

passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must after all our dan-
gers were,toou.r imagination, escaped) have been plun cred and robbed,
and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves ; of what coun they
were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were all on horsebac car--
ned bows and arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number;
they came so near to us as to be Within two musket-shots, and, asking
no qluestions, surrounded us With their horses, and looked very ear-
nest y upon us twice; at length,9they placed themselves Just In our
way; upon which we drew up in a little line, before our camels beino
not above sixteen men in all; and, being drawn up thus, we halted;
and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who
they were :. his master was the more Willing to let him go, because he
was not a httle apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out
after him. The man came up nearer them with a flag of truce, and
called to them; but though he spoke several of their languages or
dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word they
said; however, after some signs to him not to come near them at his
3:11, the fellow came back no wiser than he went; on] that by their

ss, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of 'almuck, or of
the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of them upon the
great desert, though he never heard that any of them were seen so far
north before. ,

About an hour after, the again made a motion. to attack us, and
rode round our little woo to see where they nught break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again: and we
resolved not to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no_rcmcdy: there
was, on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road: 1 immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees and fortify ourselves as well as we could
there; for first, I considered that the trees would in a great measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in .the next place t cy could not
come to char e us in a body: it was, indeed, my old_1'ortugese pilot
who propose it, and who had this excellency attending him, that he
was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us in cases
of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with w at speed we
could, and ined that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves, for we
knew not w at to call them, kee ing their stand, and not attempting
to hinder us" When we came t ither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy iece of ground, and on the one side a
very eat spring of water, w ich, running out in a httle brook, was
a litt e farther Joined by another of the like Size - and was, in short,
the source of a cons1derable river, called afterwards the Wirtska ; the
trees which grew about this spring were not above two hundred, but
very large, and stood retty thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw
ourselves perfectly s e from the enemy unless they attacked us on foot.

.While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some hours,
Without erceivmg that they made any movement, our Portuguese, with
some he p, cut several arms of trees half off, and laid them banning
across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in. About
two hours before night, they came down directly upon us; and though
we had not perceived it, we found they had been 'omed by some more
so that they were near four-score horse; whereo , however we fancie
some. were women. They came on till they were within half-shot of
our httle wood, when we fired one musket without ball, and called to
themmthe Russian tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them
keep off ;. but they came on with a double fury u to the wood side,
not imagining we were so barricaded that the co (1 not easily break
in. Our old pilot was our captain, as w as our engineer, and
desired us not to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that
we might be sure to h l, and thatwhen we did fire we should be sure
to take good aim ~ we bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two ikes' length
of us when we let fl . We aimed so true, that we ki ed fourteen
of them and wound several others, as also several of their horses;
PSng wet had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three bullets
a eas .

They were terribly s rised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundre rods from us; lll'Wlllch time we loaded
our pieces "sin, and seem them keep that distance, we sallied out
and caught our or five 0 their horses, whose riders we su posed
were killed; and conung up to the dead, we Judged they were artars
{mt kfiiew not how they came to make an excursmn such an unus
en .

V eslept little, you may be sure, but s entthe. most part of the
night in strengthening our Situation, and arr-leading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed;
for the enemi, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met wit , were now greatly increased, an had 'set up eleven or
twelve huts or tents as. if they were resolved to .besiege us; and this
little camp they had pitched upon the open plain about three-quar.
ters of a mile from us. We were indeed surlprised at this discove ;
and now, I confess, I Save mvself over for ost, and all that I had;
the loss of my effects id not lie so near me, though very considerable,
as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians, at the
latter end of my 'ourney, after so man difficulties and hazards as I
had gone throng , and even in sight 0 our port, where we expected
safety and dehverance.. As to my artner,_ he was ragin , and
declared that to lose his goods wo d be his rum, and t at he
mould rather die than be starved, and he was for fighting to the last

0 .

ie young lord, a gallant youth, was for fighting to the last also-

and my old pilot was of opinion that we were able to reSist them a
in the Situation we were then in; and thus we .spent the day in
debates of what we should do: but towards evening we found that
the number of our enemies still increased, and we did not know but '
by the morning they might still be a greater ii mber ;_ so I began to
inquire of those eople we had brought from obolski, if there were
no rivate ways y which we might avoid them in the night, and
er aps retreat to some town, or get he] to guard us over the
esert. The Siberian, who was servant to t e young lord, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would envage to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, towar s the river
Petrou, by which he made no.question but .we nnght get away
and the Tartars never discover it; but, he said, his lord had tod
him he wouid not retreat but would rather choose to. fight. I told
him he mistook his lor ; for that he was too Wise a man to,
love fighting for the sake of it; that I knew his lord was
brave enough, by what he had2 shogved already; but that his lord

B
knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to fight
five hundredhunless an unavordable necessity foreed them to it;
and that, if e thought possible for us to escape in the night we
hadnothmg else to do bu to attem t 1t. He answered, if his lord-
8111p gave him such ord he woul lose his hfe If he did not -
form it :. we soon brought lordto .ve thet order, though pnvagemly,
and we immediately prepared for at it in practice. .

Andfirst,asSSoon as it began . be hwehndledafiremour
little camp, which we kept . , and repared so as t9 make it
burn all mght, that the Tartars mig t con uded we were still there;
but as soon es it was dark,.and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels rea loaded.
woettielleged our new guide, who I soon found steered him by the
n s .

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it be to be lighter
still; .not that it was dark all mght, but the moon . egan to use, so
that, in short, it was rather hghter than we w1shed1t to be; but by
six o'clockthe next mormng we had t above thirty miles, ha '
almost spelled our horses. Here we ound a Russian village, name
Kermazmsko , where we rested, and heard nethmg of the halmuck
Tartars that sf. .About two hours before mght, we set out again
and travelled ti lelght the next morning, though not quite so ard
as before; and about seven o'clock, we Kissed a httle river, called
Kirtza, and came to a good large town in bited by Russians, called
Ozomoys; there we heard that several troops of Kalmucks had been
abroad u n the desert, but that we were now com letely out of
danger 0 them, which was to our great satisfaction. ere we were
obliged to get some fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we
stayed five da 3; and my tKlartner and I agreed to give the honest
Siberian who rought us ther the value of ten pistoles. .

In five days more we came to Veushma nelon the river Wirtzogda,
and running into the Dwma: we were t ere, very ha pily, near
the end of our travels by land, that river bemg navrgab e, in seven
days' passage, to Archangel. From hence, we came to Lawren-
skoy, the 3rd of July; and, pronding ourselves with two In ga e
boats, and a barge for our own convemence we embarke t e
7th, and arrived all safe at Archan el the 18th; having been a
year, five months, and three da 3 on t e Journey, including our stay
of eight months at Tobolskl. e were obliged to stay at this place
six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer,
had not a Hamburgher come m above a month'sooner than any of
the English shi s; when, after some consrderation that the city of
Hamburgh mig t happen toobe as a good a market for our goods
as London, we all took freight With him; and, having put our

on board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on

to take care of them; by which means, my young lord had_a
sufficient opportumtyto conceal himself, never commg on shore again
allthe time we sta ed there; and tins he dld that he might not be
seen in the city, w ere some of .the Moscow merchants would cer-
tain] have seen and discovered him.

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same|

aonmson causes. 873

or; and after no extraordin bad voyege, arrived solo in the
Elbe the 18th of September. gore my partner and I found a very
good sale for our goods .as well those of Chine. as the cables,

0. of Siberia; and, dm the produce, my share amounted to
PS33,476. 173. .8d. meludm about six hundred pounds' worth of
diamonds, which i purchase at Bengal.

Here the young lord took hrs leave of us, and went n the Elbe, in
order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolve to seek pm-
teetion, andpould correspond wrth those of hisfuther's friends who
were left crime. He did not part without testimonies of gratitude
goghthe semoe I had done him, and for my kindness to the prince his
a er.

To conclude, haviim stayed near four months in Hamb h, I come
from thence by land to the Hague where I embarked in t to pocket.
and arrived in London the 10th of lunuary, 1705, havmglbeen absent
from En land ten years and nine months. And_here. resolved to
prepare or a longer journey than all these, harm hired a life of
mflmte variety seventy-two years, and learned 3 .cicntly to know
the value of retirement, and the blessing of endnig our days in

peace.