The Baldwin Library

, Anselm: A null.
[thuflnfiubnm'mm

mnw

\'CHVIMIIE C'B'I', V! f} 'Wan>>

THE COCKATOO'S STORY.

vwmm'A GRIEDV DOG.

Pap 611.THE

GOGKATOO'S STORY.

By

MRS. GE 01? GE C UPPLES.

 

WITH 12 ILLUSTRATIONS.

 

I'aonhmt:

T. NELSON AND SONS, PATERNOSTER ROW.
EDINBURGH; no mew YORK.

1881.
 

atoo, as he sat on his perch one

 

day. Then he gave himself a
good shake, and after walking up and
down once or twice, he continued, "I
think it vexes the boy, and I can see he
means to be kind. And, oh dear, dear!
I see now I brought the troubles on
myself."

" Kind ! " screamed a small gray parrot
from a perch on the opposite side; "of
course he means to be kind. You won't8 SEVERELY THREATENED.

often meet a kinder; let me tell you that,
sir. If I could only get this chain of my
foot, I'd come over and give you as good
a pecking as ever you got in your life,
you sulky, ungrateful bird you! And
then Master Herbert stands, day after
day, trying to tempt you with the dain-
tiest morsels, and there you sit and sulk,
or take it with your face turned from him,
when hunger forces you."

"There is no need to be so angry, old
lady," replied the cockatoo. " Didn't you
hear me say, I begin to be ashamed of
myself? But if you only knew how I

have been used, you would not wonder
at my sulks."

" Oh, if you have a foundation for your
conduct, then I'll be happy to retract,"
said Mrs. Polly, walking about her perch
very fast indeed, and ruffling up her fea-
thers as she walked. "No bird I everA FAIR QUESTION. 9

had the pleasure of living beside could
say I was unreasonable; so please state
your case, state your case--I'm all atten-
tion, at-ten-tion ; " and she lengthened out
the last word with a shrill scream peculiar
to parrots.

" But it would take ever so long to tell,"
said the cockatoo, " and my feelings or my
nerves have got the better of me at this
moment, and I really couldn't; only if you
heard my history you would think it very
wonderful indeed;" and here Mr. Cocka-
too lifted up his foot and scratched his
eye.
"A history, did you say?" said the
gray parrot, pausing in her walk along
her perch, and looking at him over her
back. " Pray, how old are you, may I
ask ? "

" Well, I'll be about two years old," said
the cockatoo, straightening himself up, and10 A WONDERFUL HISTORY.

looking over to the gray parrot, as if he
expected the news would surprise her
greatly.

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Mrs. Polly;
"two years old, and has a history! Oh
dear! my old sides will split. What a
youth he is, to be sure, ha, ha, ha!"

" I don't see anything to laugh at," said
the poor cockatoo, collapsing into his sulky
state once more. "I tell you I have a
history, and a wonderful history too. I
wish you would stop that chatter."

" Boy, boy, you'll be the death of me,"
said Mrs. Polly, not in her own language,
but in the words taught her by Master
Herbert.

"Oh, if you are going to speak in the
language used by these abominable people
who keep us here as prisoners and slaves,
I've nothing more to say," said the poor
cockatoo, scratching his eye once more.AN OLD BIRD. '11

"Well, I won't then," said Mrs. Polly
graciously. " I have been told it is the
height of bad manners to speak in a
foreign language, if it is not understood
by your companion, so I shall confine
myself, when addressing you, to my
mother tongue. And now, since you
have told me your age, would you like
to know mine ? "

"Yes," said the cockatoo, for he really
was a little puzzled as to Mrs. Polly's
behaviour.

" Well, I'm seventy years old!" replied
Mrs. Polly, drawing up her neck as far as
its limited length would permit. "And
now you can understand why I laughed,
sir; for it did look a little absurd to hear
a. bird of your tender years speaking of a
history. Think what mine must be, and
what I must have come through and seen
in my long life I "12 mus. POLLY'S ADVICE.

They were here interrupted by the
appearance once more of Master Herbert,
who brought a most tempting piece of cake
in his hand. Going up to the cockatoo, he
said, "I suppose I needn't offer you this,
Cockatoo. You are determined not to be
friends." The cockatoo put out his claw
for it, and took it gently from Herbert's
hand, who could not fail to see there was a
marked difference in the bird's appearance.

"Good boy, good boy!" sln'ieked the
gray parrot from her perch, quite forget-
ting she had promised never to speak the
English language, in her eagerness to mark
her approval of his conduct. "Now, if
you really would like to please Master
Herbert," she continued in her own parrot
tongue, "I'd say the words he has been
trying to teach you for days. Come, out
with it, old boy; " and again she relapsed
into the English language.Page 12.

CAKE FROM MASTER HERBERT.PRETTY COCKY. 15

The cockatoo looked into Herbert's
kind eyes, and said as plainly as he could,
"Pretty Cocky." 1

"Oh, you can speak after all," said
Herbert. "Well, now, that's jolly; I
thought you were going to be a good-for-
nothing stupid creature. Come now, say
it again; but give us the whole of the
word."

Assisted by Mrs. Polly's " Out with it,
old boy," the cockatoo tried his best, but
could only get the length of " Pretty
Cockat--" However, Herbert was con--
tent with this for a beginning, and turned
to the gray parrot with a kind inquiry after
her health ; who instantly replied, anxious
perhaps to make up for her companion's
tardiness, " Thank you, sir; how d'ye do?"

" I'm glad you're clever, Mrs. Polly,"
said Herbert. " Uncle James was just
saying to Lucy the other day, you were16 MUCH GRATIFIED.

the cleverest parrot he ever saw, and he
has brought home dozens now." Mrs.
Polly did not understand all her young
master said; but she knew by his voice
and eye he was praising her, so she said,
with a pretty courtesy, "Thank you, sir
which made Herbert laugh very heartily ;
and when he further requested her to
dance, she did so at once, whistling a
tune to herself for an accompaniment.
"Do you know, Mrs. Polly, you are to
have another companion very soon '2 " said
Herbert, giving the gray parrot another
piece of cake. "He's a great scarlet
macaw, and Uncle James says he is
getting him sent from South America.
Oh dear! I should like to be able to
understand your chatter--I mean your own
language, Polly--because you could tell-
such a great deal about the difl'erent
countries you have come from. There's

1"A TINY VISITOR. 17

Cockatoo, he could tell us about the
Indian Islands, and Borneo ;--that was
where Uncle James brought you from,
sir, when he was on his voyage to Cam
ton. He got ever so many birds of para--
dise, too; for, luckily for him, they had
just come over from New Guinea, and
the other islands Where they generally
stay. Oh dear! I do wish I understood
your language," he repeated again.

At this moment, a great humble-bee
came humming in at the window; and on
looking up, what should Herbert see but
a tiny fairy sitting on its back! In a
moment the bee lighted on the table, and
stopped its humming; and then the fairy's
voice could be distinctly heard, as she stood
up on the back of the humble-bee, saying,--

" Little boy, With eyes so blue,
You are kind and you are true

To the birds, the beasts, the flowers,
Their language we will make it yours:

(671) .7

.118 THE REWARD OF KINDNESS,

Then listen to Miss Polly's speech.
And hear what lesson she will teach."

With these words she waved her shin--
ing silver wand, and touching him first on
one ear, and then on the other, as she rode
past him, was borne away out of the win-
dow once more, on the back of the humble-
bee.

Herbert didn't know very well what
had happened, and thought- ho was dream-
ing, till he heard Lil's. Polly saying to
the cockatoo, " N ow, sir, if you sulk,
Master Herbert will know what it's for."

" I say, Polly," said Herbert, "am I
really to understand your language? Did
you see the fairy too ?"

"Oh yes, sir," replied Mrs. Polly. " I
saw her, and heard what she said; and
let me tell you, sir, it isn't every boy that
receives such a reward ; but you must
have pleased the fairy Fauna, by beingCRUEL CHILDREN. 19

kind to all the creatures, great and small.
Yes, she has heard no doubt how you
open the window, and put the bees and
the blue-bottle flies out, instead of killing
them. I shouldn't wonder if it was that
great spider whose life you spared who
told her. You remember your cousin
Dick wanted to kill it; and I noticed she
guided the bee with threads from a
spider's web."

"Well, I'm very glad," said Herbert
laughing. "I must say the reward is
greater than I deserve, for it seems an
easy thing to be kind to animals and
insects."

" It's not such an easy thing as you
think, sir," said Mrs. Polly. " I've lived
seventy years in this world, and I've kept
my eyes wide open, and I've seen boys,
ay, and girls too, do very cruel things
to dumb animals."20 A PROPOSAL.

" Dear me, Polly, have you lived seventy
years 'l" replied Herbert in much astonish-
ment; "I had no idea of it. Uncle James
says parrots live to a great age--he knew
one that was a hundred years old; but
somehow I thought you were quite young.
I mustn't ask you to dance quite so often,
for your legs must feel rather stiff at times.
But what was that the fairy said you could
teach me ? Is it a story ? I must hear it."

"Very well, sir," said BIrs. Polly,
courtesying again, just to show how agile
she was, for she did not like the idea of
her old legs being thought stiff. " But
before you came in, hIr. Cockatoo was
preparing to tell me his history, the his-
tory of his life. He is two years old,
NIastcr Herbert, and as he fancies the
world has ill-used him, I think it would
make him more comfortable to tell his

story first, if you don't mind, sir."A SATISFACTORY ARRANGEMENT. '21

'; Oh, very well," said Herbert, delighted
to think that he, could understand the
cockatoo also. "But I must not forget
my lessons. I shall go now and learn
them ; and in the afternoon, when you are
in your cages, I will bring the fish-hooks
I have got to make, and while I do them
we can listen to the story."

" We shall be all the better of a few
quiet hours," said Mrs. Polly, who was
very fond of a nap in the afternoon, espec-
ially after partaking of rich cake. " Dear
me, Master Herbert, one gets quite stupi-
fied looking back into one's life. We'll lay
our brains in steep, sir, While you're at
your lessons. Good-day, good-day." Out
of compliment, she finished of]? with Her-
bert's own language, though had she said
it in her own he would have understood

it quite well. But Polly hadn't lived for
seventy years for nothing.22 MR. coemroo's STORY.

In the afternoon the cockatoo's cage
was placed at the open window, Polly pre-
ferring to have hers on one side, to be
away from the draught; and when Her-
bert had got his box of hooks, and his
coloured feathers, and reels of silk placed
conveniently, he bade Mr. Cockatoo begin
his story.

" You said some time ago, Master Her-
bert," began the cockatoo, "that I was
brought from the Indian Islands; and I
suppose you're right, sir, though I can't
say I ever heard the name before to-day:
all I can say is, I remember the place well.
When I popped my head out of my shell,
I found other three heads had done the
same, so I was the youngest of my family.
A sad circumstance for me, as you will
see. There we lay, without a single
feather, and not even a particle of down
to cover us, our heads feeling far too largeA BAD TEMPER. 25

for our naked bodies. We had to be as
' patient as we could, down in our nest in
an old rotten tree, till the down began to
come; but it was three or four months
before we were fairly covered with
feathers. Somehow, being the youngest,
my feathers were longer of coming than
were the others; and when our mother
was out of hearing, my brothers would
laugh at me, and make fun of my big head
--for it certainly was a very large head.
This treatment spoiled my temper, and I
would sit and sulk by myself, taking a
delight in refusing to join in any of their
sports when a fourth was required. I
used to creep up to the top of the tree,
and sit trimming my feathers, spreading
them out and trying to make the most
of their scanty appearance, till my patience
was rewarded ; for beyond a doubt, at the
end of the fifth month my plumage was26 A MOTH en's CARE.

something wonderful to behold for beauty.
As for my head being large, it new helped
to show off the splendid yellow crest ; and
the awkward look was quite gone. Still
my temper hadn't improved; indeed I
think it was worse, for conceit was added
to my other bad qualities; and when I
would have liked to be amiable and join
the merry flock of cockatoos that lived in
the trees near us, they would have nothing
to say to me. My mother used often to
moan and vex herself about me, and she
did her best to keep as near me as she
could, warning me that it was not safe for
a cockatoo to wander far from his home.
And then she would tell me of wonder-
ful escapes she had made in her day, both
from wild animals and the snares of wicked
men. Though these stories frightened me
terribly, I must own, making my crest
stand up with fright to hear her, still IHAPPY DAYS. 27

used to beg her to tell me more, for it was
often a change from the dull hours I
spent; and I must say my mother be-
haved in a most amiable manner towards
me.

" Then she would take pains to show
us What kind of fruits to eat, warning us
particularly against the fruit of the cotton-
tree, which, though pleasant to the taste,
was a~ dangerous one for taking away the
senses. Ah, if I had only followed her
advice! Still, with my mother for com-
pany now and then, my days were very
happy, in spite of the coldness and dislike
of my brothers and their young compan-
ions. Indeed, living in my lovely home,
it would have been strange if I had felt
anything else. How often since, while
sitting in this cage or on my perch, have
I thought of those happy days of free-
dom I Forests of woods and grasses, bear-28 AN ALARM.

ing the most lovely flowers and the most
delicious fruits, from the edge of the sea
to the top of the mountain. And then
the clear cool water, where we could
plunge ourselves several times a day ;--
how different from the small quantity
lVIaijory allows me! We lived close to
the banks of a small river; and Oh, it was
so delightful, after plunging into the water,
to keep shaking my plumage, until the
greater portion of water was out, and then
sit in the sun till I was quite dry! There
were no men on our island, else I should
have remembered seeing them ; and noth-
ing ever disturbed our slumbers, save the
wild pigs that sometimes went about rout-
ing and grunting, or a cry from one of
our band.

" And so time passed on, till we were a
year old, when one day we were startled
by hearing screams from a thicket not farIN GREAT DANGER. 29

off. On getting along as fast as I could,
I met my brothers flying from one branch /
to another in the direction I was coming
from, who screamed to me to escape, for
an enemy was at hand. One of them said
something about my mother, but what, I
could not make out clearly; only I knew
she was in danger somehow. I was in
such a hurry to get to see what had hap--
pened to her--for I did love my mother
----that I positively took a good long
flight, and landed on a tree some distance
off. Then, what was my astonishment to
see a great large face, quite different from
anything I had ever seen before, looking
at me from round the trunk I And there,
too, at the bottom of the tree, lay my poor
mother, evidently dead. I heard him cry
to another man below to hand him up his
bow and arrow; but before he had got it I
flew off once more, taking a longer flight30 THE OLD HOME.

than before. An old cockatoo told me
afterwards that very likely my mother
was not dead, but that she had only been
stunned, as those men would have a but-
ton on the arrow to prevent it from killing
her. It took me ever so many days to
find my way back to my old home; and
when I did find it, not one of my old com-
panions was there. Gloomy though my
disposition was, still I did not like the
idea of living alone, and I set out to try
to find them. On my way I met an old
cockatoo who had been a friend of my
poor mother's, and who like me had lost
her companions, so we agreed to go on
together. I found her a most intelli-
gent companion, and she was very useful
in showing me what fruit was good for
eating, for there were many new kinds.
She showed me some curious birds'-nests,
and told me that men ate them; and aDANGEROUS COMPANY.FRIENDS, on FOES ? 33 '

good hearty chuckle we had over it, you
may be sure. We regaled ourselves by
picking out the pulp of the banana, the
palm, the lemon, and the berries from the
coffee-tree; and coming upon an almond-
tree, we stayed under it for a whole
week. Then we proceeded on our jour-
ney. We must have travelled miles, and
we were beginning to despair of ever
seeing the flock again, when we heard a
great chatter chatter, and in a few min-
utes we came in sight of a great number
of birds of different colours, in earnest
conversation.

" ' Stop, my boy,' said my companion;
' we had better not show ourselves for
a little. They may be friends; but birds
though they are, if they see anything
strange in our appearance, they will fall
upon us, and may peck out our feathers,

if not our very eyes.'
(671) 334 .-\ KIN DL Y R ICCEPTION.

"After waiting for a little," continued
the coekatoo, "and after listening very
hard, my companion explained to me she
thought we might venture to join the
group ; for if they weren't cockatoos, they
were our cousins the parrots; and in a
minute more she spread out her wings,
and alighted in the midst of them. They
were somewhat startled at first; but on
her explaining why she was there, they
received her very kindly; and she then
called out to me to approach, for I had
waited in a bush out of sight, feeling a
little shy and nervous. They were greatly
delighted with my appearance, and I fear
they quite turned my head by their
praises. I know I gave myself airs, and
strutted about in a manner that would
have vexed my poor mother, could she
but have seen me. My companion over
and over again reminded me to beware ofFOUND OUT. 35

conceit, saying that even in a cockatoo it
was a dangerous thing to carry about with
one; and that though our cousins were
pleased with me at present, they would
tire of praising me by-and--by, if they saw
how foolish it made me. But I was only
a year old at that time, and had always
been a little headstrong and difficult to
manage.

" As my old friend had said," continued
the cockatoo, "my newly-found cousins
were not long in finding out my bad
qualities, and they were almost harder
upon me than my own brothers had been ;
which caused my temper to give way
again, and from being a very frank,
obliging bird, I became quite a cross, ill-
natured one. One day I had retired to
the woods, and was sitting sulking by
myself in a bush, when the old cockatoo
came and perched herself on the branch36 UN WELCOM E ADVICE.

above me. For some minutes she sat
looking at me without uttering a sound;
but every now and then she would shake
her head, or raise up her crest in rather
a fierce manner. At last I couldn't stand
it any longer, and I cried out in a very
angry tone of voice, ' Why, what do you
mean by looking at me like that? I
would rather not be disturbed.' And I
gave a very ugly and angry screech.

" ' Cockatoo,' said she, ' I am grieved to
the heart by your behaviour. Take my
advice, sir, and mend your ways, else I
fear something bad will come of it.'

" 'I will not be interfered with,' I said ;
'and I don't care if you never speak to
me again;' and I screeehed louder and
uglier than before.

" I must say she was very good to
me, though I couldn't or wouldn't see it
at the time; and seeing that I was deter-
I'agtjdTHE DISCON '1' EN TED PARROT. 39

mined to be sulky and ill-natured, she left
me. Two or three days after, a green
parrot, that my friend had warned me
against, came and sat in a bush near me.
He kept chattering away to himself,--
speaking about the hard way he was used
by the other parrots, and threatening to
fly away and see them no more. Now,
I had noticed they were rather severe
upon him, but I also knew he was not a
welLbehaved bird by any means; but in
my present state of mind I couldn't help
pitying him

"Creeping along the branch, I ven-
tured to inquiie what was the matter,
when he poured into my ears a perfect
shower of complaints against his brothers
' and sisters, friends and companions, and
even against his parents. Two or three
times I tried to get in a word of inquiry
as to whether some of his trouble had not40 PURPLE WITH RAGE.

been brought on by his own conduct; for
at that moment I remembered how gently
my mother used to speak to 'me when I
used to rage against all the cockatoos in
my happy home by the bank of the river.
However, it was useless to interfere with
him, for the mere mention of the idea
made his rage something fearful to wit-
ness. The sight of him called to mind,
too, what my mother used to say to us
when we lay curled up snugly in our nest
in the old tree, before my brothers had
learned to tease me. ' Children,' she used
to say, 'a beautiful plumage is all very
well, but a happy-looking face, and a kind,
amiable disposition, are to be prized far
before the loveliest coloured feathers.'
"This parrot now before me was as
lovely a bird of his kind as one would wish
to see ; but his face was purple with rage,
and his lovely feathers were all ruffledA PROPOSED FLIGHT. 41

and rumpled with passion, so that any
kind of feathers might have served him
equally well.

"I cannot tell how it was," said the
cockatoo, "but from that time I was
always meeting the discontented parrot;
and we gradually got more and more
intimate. My good friend, the old cocka-
too, did not hesitate to warn me against
my companion; but I was angry with
her, because I fancied she lectured me,
having no right to do so, and treated me
as if I had been a perfect baby. Then
one night, after a long conversation with
the parrot, I agreed to fly away with him,
and seek our fortunes on some other part
of the island. It was arranged that we
should set out the next morning before
the sun was up; for the parrot thought
if he went away in open daylight, his
father, who was a very fierce parrot, would42 FILLED WITH ALARM.

interfere with our flight. I cannot tell
you why I felt sorry, after the parrot left
me, at the idea of leaving my good, kind
friend, the old cockatoo ; but I really was.
She had been so good to me, and had so
much to tell me about what she had seen
during her long life, and in her travels,
that time passed very quickly indeed.
That evening, too, when I had retired to
the branch I had selected for my sleeping--
place, I overheard a conversation between
a very large mother parrot and her three
young ones, that somewhat filled my heart
with alarm. ' Be contented, children,' the
mother parrot was saying. ' I have known
many parrots come to an untimely end,
because they were always wanting to see
what was beyond the trees and bushes of
their own home. I remember my grand-
father telling me about how a brother
and he had strayed away far into theA LESSON IN CONTENTMENT.

"It"! 4 .-THROUGH THE FOREST. 45

woods, and' they were overtaken by the
darkness, and were forced to remain in a
tree all night. But he had not fallen
asleep long when he heard a great shriek ;
and on opening his eyes, what should he
see but an immense ape clutching his
brother by the throat, and carrying him
away up to the top of the tree out of
.sight. It was all my grandfather could
do to get his wings to carry him home,
he was so weak and faint with the fright ;
and never again did he wander from his
companions.'

" Oh, that I had listened even then to
the old mother parrot's wise advice !" said
the cockatoo, as he scratched his eye.
" Ah, sir," he said, turning to Herbert,
"it's harder to bear troubles when they
come upon us by our own folly.

" The sun was scarcely up when the
green parrot was beside me ; and as I had46 WHAT IS THE MATTER?

promised to join him, I did not like to
hesitate or draw back now. So we set out
on our travels, without even saying good-
bye to any one. For days we travelled
on through the forest, and a happy enough
time it was; for my companion was ap-
parently delighted at the idea of his free-
dom, and chattered away in a very amiable
manner. But toward the end of the third
day we were startled by hearing strange
sounds; and on peering down from the
branches, we saw a man. I did not know
he was a man at the time; but I found
out to my cost what he was only too soon.
He had some dogs with him, and seemed
to be waiting for something, for he peeped
cautiously round a tree every now and
then, bidding the dogs lie close. Then in
a moment came a fearful crack from a gun
he carried, and something gave a great
roar and a wild snort, and I nearly lostEATING COTTON SEEDS. 47

my senses with the fright. It was all I
could do to clutch on by the branch, my
legs shook so with fear; and as for my
companion, if it hadn't been for falling
into a cleft in a branch, he would have gone
straight down on to the man's wide-spread-
ing hat. The cry had come from a boar,
which lay dead or dying; and in a very few
minutes the man had fastened something
to his legs, and began dragging him away,
while the dogs capered, and danced, and
barked round them.

" You may well believe we felt no
anxiety to continue our travels, for a little.
There were not many trees near us with
fruit that we cared for, except a cotton-
tree; and I ate and ate, wondering why
my mother could have been so stupid as
to say its fruit was not safe. But all at
once I began to feel my eyes shutting;
and to rouse myself I flew on to another48 A PRISONER AT LAST.

tree, where my companion soon joined me.
Though it was broad daylight, I was as
sleepy as if it had been the dead of night;
and I recollect nothing more, till, on
opening my eyes, I found myself in a
dark, dingy place, and heard strange
noises--grunts coming from under my
feet, cries from every side; and then such
a number of strange-looking creatures all
about, and one quite different in colour
from the others standing near where I
was tied; for I soon found I was securely
fastened by the foot."

"That was my uncle," said Herbert;
" and he told me how he had found you
and your companion quite stupified with
eating the cotton seeds; and that was a
Dyak log-house you were in."

"When I recovered my senses," said
the cockatoo, " I had been taken on board
ship, and placed in a large wicker-cage.
There were ever so many more birds in
the ship, but I did not see them then,
and thought I was quite alone. How-
ever, I had not been many hours in my
cage when, to my horror, a large monkey
came and stared at me, putting his ugly
hairy face so close to the cage, that it was
all I could do to scream with fright. At
first the men drove him away, but they
were soon too busy to pay any attention
to my cries; and somehow I got to be less
frightened, when I saw that he couldn't
get near me, though he tried ever so hard.
Round and round he went, tugging at the
bars in vain; then he mounted on the top,
and peered at me through the openings,
grinning in a very ugly manner. Now,
I had always been considered a bold cock-
atoo, and anything but a coward; and so,
when I saw his tail sticking between the

bars, I flew down to the bottom of the
(671) 450 A FRIEND IN NEED.

cage, and seizing it, gave it such a bite
that I nipped the piece quite out! Away
he went, howling and yelling; but though
he showed it to ever so many of the men,
they said it served him right for teasing
me.

"It was, no doubt, very dull, but I
was greatly cheered by the company of a.
little girl, the daughter of one of the
passengers. She used to come down every
morning, and chatter away to me about all
sorts of things, not one of which I under--
stood, except that she always called me
Pretty Cockatoo, as you do, Master Her-
bert. She knew, too, what I liked to eat,
and would bring me almonds, and fruit,
and sweet cake, and would stay chattering
away to me while I ate them. Soon I
began to weary for her coming, and would
sit counting the hours, and forgetting my
wrongs, while waiting for her to come
Page 50.MISS MAUD's LECTURE. 53

again. I liked the almonds, of course;
but I liked to see her face, and hear her
kind voice, far more. And I think I was
less sulky and unhappy during that time
than I had been all my life. It was the
parting from her that upset me, and made
me fall into a gloomy and sulky state of
mind. I well remember the last day we
were together. She came to me with a
piece of cake she had saved for me from
her own lunch; and I seemed somehow
to understand What she was saying. I
felt at the time she was asking me to be
a good bird; but now that I have known
you, sir, so long, and am better acquainted
with the English language, I know she
told me how much happier I should be
if I were good. 'Oh fie, Cockatoo,' I
think I hear her saying, 'how naughty
of you to bite the captain's finger; you
ought to be a good bird, sir,------and he is54 LONGIN G FOR FREEDOM.

so kind to you, and all the birds aboard.'
It was all very well for Miss Maud to
speak of the captain being good; but I
could not forget he had taken me from
my home, and made me a prisoner. Ah,
sir, you would not like to have your liberty
taken from you; you would feel it hard;
and you would look upon the person who
held you captive, however kind he was,
as a foe instead of a friend."

"And are you still longing for your
freedom so much, Cockatoo?" said Her-
bert, who could not bear the idea of any
of his pets being unhappy.

"Oh yes, sir," said the poor cockatoo.
" I often feel how delightful it would be if
I could get this ring off my foot and fly
away to the shrubbery; and how I should
rejoice to plunge in that little pond where
you have your gold-fish."

" Now, I should like to give you yourPROMISED HAPPINESS. 55

heart's desire, Cockatoo; but if I set you
at liberty in this country you would die.
We have no orange, lemon, or coffee trees
in our garden ; and though we have apples
and pears in plenty, you could not stand
the long cold nights. But I'll tell you
What I will do: if you will make a pro-
mise not to fly far, and to return to your
cage when I call you, I shall let you free
to fly about in the shrubbery; and you
can bathe in the pond, if you do not harm
the fis ."

" Oh, thank you, Master Herbert," cried
the cockatoo. " I'll come back at a mo-
ment's notice,--I really will."

" Mee-a--ow, mew," cried Polly, imitat-
ing the cry of a cat. "Beware of Miss
Puss."

"You're right, Polly; that is very
amiable of you," said Herbert. "Now,
here goes, Cockatoo, and I shall expect56 RATHER COQUETTISH.

you to report yourself, as uncle might say,
in an hour's time." With that he opened
the cage door, and with a glad scream
away flew the cockatoo.

" I don't know if I have done right or
not, Polly," said Herbert. "I hope he
will return, else my uncle will be very
angry. He thought Cockatoo was the
finest bird he had ever seen of the kind.
Come now, Polly, you promised to tell
me your history after Cockatoo had told
his."

" Oh no, sir, I made no promise," said
Mrs. Polly, walking up and down the
perch very fast, turning at each end with
a graceful and coquettish air. "After
such a wonderful story as we have heard,
it would quite spoil it to listen to such an
old, humdrum affair as mine."

" Now, Polly, don't be cross," said Her-
bert; " the fairy must have fancied youFREEDOM FOR AN HOUR.A SLY HIT. 59

could tell a good thing, else she wouldn't
have said what she did."

" Oh, she had no idea I could tell a
story," said Polly; " she only meant that,
considering my great age, I ought to be
able to give you a word of good advice.
She only said it out of politeness."

"A fairy would be sure to know all
about you," said Herbert, "and would
never say what she didn't mean."

"Ah, there's more than fairies do that,"
said Polly, pausing to shake her head.
" I once knew a little boy who said to his
cousin, 'Oh, I hope your mamma will let
you come again on Saturday ;' and then,
when his cousin was out of hearing, he
turned and said, ' I hope he won't get
leave to come, he's such a cross-patch.' "

" O Polly, what a sly rogue you are ! I
see I shall have to be careful what I say
before you," said Herbert.60 A FINE TRICK.

" I hate deceit," said Polly. "Ah, I
knew a man who was well punished for a
fine trick he played; and about a bird of
my species, too."

" Do tell it me, Polly, there's a dear,"
said Herbert.

"Well, I was once the favourite Polly
of an old bird-stufl'er," said Mrs. Polly;
" and great pains he took to teach me
many songs and words of your language,
and very proud he was when I managed
to say them. He was so very fond of.
me, that after I had gone to bed, with my
head on my back, he would creep down-
stairs and repeat the words he had been
dinning into my ears all day ; and just to
get rid of him, more than to please him,
I used to say them correctly, and so ofl' he
would go to bed as pleased as possible.
One day a gentleman brought two birds

to be stuffed, and I heard him say theyTHE BIRD-STUFFER REPROVED. 61

were trogons. Now, they are very rare
birds ; and after the gentleman went away,
my master exclaimed, ' I have long been
wanting a bird of this kind. I think I
could manage to make one to myself out
of some of the feathers I'

" N ow, the very night before, my master
had come down with his red night-cap on
his head to teach me to say, 'Honesty is
the best policy ;' because he wanted me to
call out to the servant-maid, 'Who stole
the tea ? ' and finish off with the other as
a warning. So I said under my breath,
but loud enough for him to hear, ' Honesty,
sir, is the .best--; ' and then screamed out,
" 'Who stole the--'2 Oh, fie for shame 1'

" You should have seen how he started,
Master Herbert; but he went on with his
Wicked intentions, and actually kept back
every third feather, making a bird to re-
semble a trogon out of them. When he62 POLLY'S FIRST HOME.

tried to get me to say that about honesty,
I never would do it again, but kept saying
instead, 'Oh fie ! Who stole the feathers '9'
And the more he wanted me to change
the word into tea or sugar, the more I
cried ' feath--ers.' He was so angry with
me about it that he sold me to an old lady,
who took me away in her carriage."

"But where did you come from first of
all, Polly ? " said Herbert. "Where were
you born ?"

" I really cannot tell you, sir," said
Polly. " I have heard the old bird-stuffer
telling people I was a native of Western
Africa, but whether that was true or not
I do not know. All I can recollect of my
first home was sitting beside an old parrot
like What I am myself now, who, I sup-
pose, was my mother; and on looking
round, I saw a strange animal glaring at
me from the trunk of the tree behind. IHER BEREAVEMEN T. 63

fluttered and screamed, but my mother did
not seem to fancy there was any danger,
till, all at once, she was pounced upon
by the animal, and dragged away, and
I never saw her more. Then I crept
back into the nest, and lay half-dead with
fright, moaning and crying at times for
very loneliness ; but she never came. And
even now, Master Herbert--would you
believe it ?--I keep thinking of that dread-
ful time, and I have to shriek out for some
relief to my feelings. You often ask me
what I am crying for, but you will know
now. And you often wonder why I won't
be friends with the cat, and try to bite her
when I get a chance. Well, the animal
that stole my mother was so very like a
cat, that I cannot help hating everything
that looks like one--But don't you think,
sir, Mr. Cocky is staying out beyond his
time. I am not sure of him, sir. Re-64 CAPTURED.

member, by his own showing, he was an
ill-behaved, ungrateful bird in his youth."

"Yes; but, Polly, don't you think he
has some good qualities too ? " said Master
Herbert. " I liked to hear him tell how
he went to look for his mother, when the
rest were running away, leaving her to her
fate. I really think, if his brothers had
been kinder to him he would have been
more amiable. And papa often tells me
that if he sees a boy kind to his mother,
he is pretty sure to turn out a good man
in the end. But tell me, Polly, how you
got on after your mother left."

" Well, sir," continued Polly, " as I sat
looking out of the nest in the tree, another
parrot came and sat beside me, asking all
sorts of questions as to where my mother
had gone ; and when I told him, he stayed
and took care of me. I suppose he must
have been my father. But before I wasA KIND LADY. 65

many months older, I was knocked down
ofi' the tree, just in the same way as Cock-
atoo says his mother was knocked down,
and I was put into a cage and carried away
along with ever so many birds. I've
scarcely any recollection of living out of a
cage, sir, or ofi' a perch, the time I stayed
in my native woods being so short, and
so very long ago."

" And how did you like the old lady,
Polly?" inquired Herbert.

"Oh, very well indeed, sir," she re-
plied. " I had plenty to eat and drink,
and a very fine brass cage to live in, and
a servant to attend to my wants along
with the other birds my mistress had. I
cannot say I was ever troubled with a
restless disposition,----owing, I suppose, to
my having been taken from my native
land when I was so very young,--and I

always felt very happy. My mistress took
(671) 566 THE MAID 0F LODI.

a great deal of notice of me, teaching me
a great many things, and particularly
songs. I used to sing a verse of an old
song called ' Crazie Jane,' and another
called ' The Maid of Lodi,' which used
to be a great favourite with my mistress ;
and when I saw her coming in with some
dainty bits from the dessert after dinner,
I used to dance about my perch, and cry

out,--

' I sing the Maid of Lodi,
Who sweetly sung to me,'

which used to make her so happy, poor
old lady. But I am sorry to say my
singing led me into some trouble. I used
to be put in the kitchen at night to
benefit by the heat of the fire, and I used
to be teased a good deal by the Servants to
sing. Now, it was past my usual bed-
hour when I was taken to the kitchen,
and as I always went to bed at sunset, IVERY TEASING. 67

used to be quite angry with them, and
would say all sorts of impudent things
instead of singing. But, as they would
then walk away with my dishes, and
threaten to pour water on me if I didn't
do what they said, in desperation I would
sing my songs to get rid of them. One
young woman, the lady's--maid, was par-
ticularly tormenting in this way ; and when
Tom, the footman, tried to teach me a new
song, I could not help noticing she was in
a great fright. I pricked up my ears at
once, and showed Tom I was all atten-
tion. In a very few days I could say it
quite correctly, but no one knew of it
except Tom. Seeing the lady's--maid pre-
paring to go out one day, and dressed in
her very finest clothes, I took the oppor-
tunity to ask her for a drink of water, my
dish being empty ; but she was in a hurry,
and cross at something, and instead of re-68 THIRSTIXG FOR REVI'Zi'G E.

plying civilly, she made such an ugly face,
and fiapped her handkerchief at me. My
mistress, who was going out too, had her
back turned at the moment, else the maid
had not dared to do such a thing. But I
had not learned to bear insults quietly
then, and was young and hot-headed, so,
thirsting for revenge, I screamed out what
Tom had taught me :

' How happy you shall be
\Vitll your bold soldier boy!'

How frightened she did look, to be sure!
Up she came to the cage, and in the most
coaxing voice said, ' Pretty Polly! would
Polly like some fresh bread and milk ?--
Oh, please, madam, wait till I get Polly
some food! Her dish is quite empty,
poor, dear bird! ' and away she flew to
fetch me some.

"'thy, what's Polly saying, Emma,
about a soldier?' said my mistress sol-
emnly. ' Now, you know I abhor sol-
diers.'
" ' How happy you shall be!
Come with me--you shall see

Your bold soldier boy!'

I sang out again, dancing about my perch
in great :delight at the mischief I was
causing.

" ' Emma, what do I hear ? ' said my
mistress. ' Have you still anything to
do with that soldier, after what I said ? '

" And now I began to feel sorry for poor
Emma, who fell a-crying, and held up
her hands in despair or entreaty. Then
I thought to myself, what good had my
revenge done me '2 So hoping to help her
out of the difficulty, I called out, 'Tom,
Tom, Tom! Come here, sir! Oh fie!'

" Tom was at the door waiting for our
mistress, I knew; and being a kind-
hearted lad, he came in at once; and see~
ing Emma in tears, and hearing the story,70 IN THE GARDEN.

told he had taught me the song, and she .
knew nothing about it. Though my mis-
tress said she was satisfied with Tom's ex-
planation, she was still angry, and ordered
poor Emma to take of? her finery and re-
main at home. After she was gone,
Emma took my cage into the garden,
where I was often allowed to remain for
hours. But I was very much surprised
when she took me out and allowed me
to sit on her hand, much to little Dido
the Italian grayhound's indignation, for he
was always a jealous animal. I really
believe she wanted me to fly away then
and there. But, as I told you before,
Master Herbert, I never was of a rest--
less turn, and had no ambition to leave
my home. Seeing this, she gave me a
great twist by the toes to put me back
into the cage ; but as she pinched me very
hard, I tried, in self-defence, to bite her,
and in the scuffle she broke a piece of my
toe off, which has never grown on again.
But whenever I look at it I am reminded, '
if revenge is sweet, it doesn't escape With-
out something bitter too ; and Miss Emma
no doubt felt the same, because I left my
mark for ever upon her soft white arm."

" Thank you, Polly," said Herbert. " I
see the fairy is right in saying you have
many useful lessons to teach; but I must
now go and see what Mr. Cockatoo is
about. I do hope he hasn't flown away,
for Uncle James would never forgive me
for letting him off, he thinks so much of
his beautiful plumage."

Herbert had a good hunt all over the
grounds for the cockatoo, and was just-
going to give him up, when, as he ap-
proached the summer-house, he heard him
chattering, and trying to say, " Pretty
Cockatoo."72 A NARROW ESCAPE.

"Oh, you're there, are you ? " said Her-
bert. " It's past the time I allowed you
to stay out, so come along, old fellow,--a
bargain's a bargain." '

"Just one more flight, sir," said the
coekatoo. "My wings are so stiff, I've
only taken a very few."

Herbert having consented, away flew
the coekatoo down on to the path; but
at that moment a huge cat, which lived
outside, and which had a lively young
family of five kittens, under the summer-

house, saw the bird and made a pounce
at him, catching him by the feathers of

his tail. Fortunately Herbert saw what
had happened, and before the. coekatoo
had time to scream, he had pitched his
cap at Mrs. Puss, and then drove her
away with the branch of a tree lying near.
Mr. Cockatoo was shaking with fright,
and was thankful to find himself insideTHE TWO VISITORS. 73

his cage once more, with the door securely
shut. For some time after, when Herbert
urged him to take a little exercise, he
refused, saying that he agreed with Mrs.
Polly in thinking that, as they were now
in a foreign country, flying about did not
seem to suit his health, and that there
were worse places than his cage.

Some days after, Herbert's cousins came
to pay him a visit; and as Minnie was
recovering from a severe illness, the sofa
was taken out of doors, and placed under
the spreading branches of an oak-tree.
There she lay, enjoying the fresh cool air
that \vafted along under the branches; while
Herbert read aloud her last new book to
her and her sister Grace. Polly, who had
taken a great fancy to Minnie, had re-
quested Herbert to place her perch close
to them; for, though she liked to be out
of doors, her terror of cats was so great,74 THE HUMMING-BIRD.

that unless she was closely guarded she
preferred to remain in her cage. It was
a book on natural history Herbert was
reading from. In the midst of a dry.
description of the habits of the humming-
bird, he suddenly broke out with----

" ' The humming-bird! the hummingbird!
So fairy-like and bright
It lives among the sunny flowers,--
A creature of delight!

" ' In the radiant islands of the East,
Where fragrant spices grow,
A thousand thousand humming-birds
Are glancing to and fro!'

" Oh ! how beautiful they must be 1W
exclaimed Herbert, pausing in the reading.
" How delightful it must be to visit for--
eign countries! Only think of ' a thousand
thousand humming-birds ! ' "

" Do you know," said Grace, "when I
was a little thing, I used to lie awake at
night and think of all the different animals
and birds and fishes there are in the world,THE GREAT MACAW. 77

till I declare I got so frightened I used to
scream out. Nurse used to call it the
nightmare; but it was no such thing.
I wish I could have thought of only
the humming-birds--it would have been
lovely." .

" Cheer up, Sam!" sung Mrs. Polly
from her perch, in a very pathetic voice,
which set the children laughing heartily;
for somehow, as Minnie said, Polly always
knew how to bring in her wise sayings
just when they were wanted,--and there
was no doubt she was the very cleverest
parrot that ever lived.

It was during the visit his cousins paid
Herbert, that the great macaw arrived
from? Uncle James; and Herbert was
delighted to find he was not a wild speci-
men, as he had supposed, but quite an
educated one. They called him the .
" Great Mogul ; " but though he was78 msn's DISCOVERY.

tamed, he had learned so many bad words
from the sailors, that Herbert thought it
would be better to keep him separate from
Mrs. Polly and the cockatoo till he had
forgotten them. He was a very greedy
bird, and ate so fast that he was con-
stantly dropping the best parts in his
hurry to get some more. Dash, a little
terrier belonging to Herbert's cousins, was
not long in finding this out; and whenever
he saw the boys feeding the parrots, off he
would go and seat himself at the foot of
the perch. He used to sit up and beg all
the time, and evidently thought the pieces
were thrown down to him out of pure
good-nature; for he was always exceed-
ingly polite to the parrots, and when
he heard them shrieking at sight of
the cats, would bark and drive them
away.

" I can't say I admire the appearanceGREAT MOGUL."

4.

THE

/ 'age 7 A
of the 'Great Mogul,' " said Charley laugh-
ing; "he has such ugly bare cheeks." -

" Oh ! but look at his beautiful tail; and
could anything be more beautiful than
those scarlet feathers ?--and see to his
blue wings! I don't wonder he is consid-
ered the most magnificent of the parrot
tribe."

" It is certainly a very beautiful bird,"
said Charley; " but I've read somewhere
about it looking like a richly-liveried foot-
man, and whoever said so was not far
wrong."

Dash had slipped away when he found
there were no more pieces to be got from
the macaw; and when Herbert and Char--
ley went into the room where Mrs. Polly
and the cockatoo stayed, there they found
him, sitting at the foot of Cockatoo's
perch begging for a dainty morsel. The

cockatoo was chattering away to him; but
(671) 6
had Dash only known all the severe names
he was being called, he would scarcely
have sat there so calmly. Polly, how-
ever, who had a greater command of the
English language, was doing her best to
restrain his greedy disposition. " Oh fie,
sir!" she kept saying. "Greedy Dick!
--Who stole the sugar ?--Leave the room
this moment I--Oh fie, sir!"

Dash did lay back his ears and look
round, a good deal ashamed of himself;
but he could not tear himself away so
long as the cockatoo held that tempting
morsel. The greedy dog knew that both
the cockatoo and Polly never held any-
thing long, and that if he only had pa-
tience he would get it in the end. Polly
was calling out for the twentieth time--
" Leave the room, sir l--Greedy Dick 2--

~ Oh fie! fie !" when Herbert and Charley
entered.THE CHILDREN'S vow, 83

" Why, what's the matter, Polly '4 " said
Herbert. " It's not a good thing to lose
your temper in that way. Come, tell us
who this greedy Dick is, that you are
always sending out of the room."

Charley was always delighted to be
with Herbert when he fed the parrots; for
though he did not understand their lan-
guage, as Herbert did, his cousin acted as
interpreter, and some of the stories were
really very entertaining. The other chil-
dren were often there too; and over and
over again they vowed to be kind to all
living creatures, in the hope that they too
would be allowed to understand the lan--
guage of the birds.

"Yes, sir; I shall be most happy to
tell you about greedy Dick," said Polly.
"But I should like to see the new par-
rot. Cockatoo there says he is so beau~
tiful that we are thrown quite into the84 POLLY AND THE PICTURE.

shade, and he has been mourning ever
since."

" Well, at present I really cannot let
you see him," said Herbert. " He says
such naughty words, that I am forced to
keep him in a room by himself; but if you
like, I can show you a picture of him, or
of some birds like him in their native
woods." Here Herbert ran off for his
book on natural history; and while he
was gone, Polly entertained Charley as
well as she could till Herbert's return.
Polly admired the picture very much; but
said, though his plumage was very fine, no
doubt, she did not like the expression of
his face--though she dared say it was not
a good likeness. She said this out of civ-
ility, but all the time she thought the
" Great Mogul" a most unlovable-looking
bird, and she was very glad to find herself
a gray parrot instead.A SAD STORY. 85

"And now, Polly, since I have shown
you the picture," said Herbert, "tell us
about greedy Dick."

"It is a sad story, Master Herbert,"
said Polly, shaking her head and moving
about her perch very slowly. " Oh dear !
--oh clear!" she continued in English;
"I'm really quite--oh fie! fie!" Then
in her own language she went on to say 2
" Dick came to stay with a lady I had the
pleasure of residing with, after I left my
old friend who had the maid. I was
really a fine-[looking bird at that time ;"
and here Polly flounced out her feathers
coquettishly, as if she were still a young
bird. " I did like living there; no ser-
vants ever were allowed to wait upon me,
for the young ladies of the house were so
fond of me they fed me with their own
fair hands. Dick was their nephew, and
a nice-looking boy,----clever, too,-----very;86 WHAT A SIGHT!

but he had one bad habit that grieved his
aunts very much. At all his meals he
would keep stuffing and stuffing himself,
just like a little pig feeding for market.
He always chose the daintiest dishes, and
would look so ill-natured if any of his
aunts happened to say, ' Why, Dick, you
will die of apoplexy ; you have been
helped to that pudding three times.'

" He never knew when to stop, and oh
dear! though he was a good-looking boy
enough, how ugly he did look when he
was eating! His Aunt Mary, and my
favourite mistress, used to say so often,
' Greedy Dick,' that I very soon picked
up the words; and when I saw him slip-
ping into the press to steal the sugar, I
would call out--' Oh fie! fie !----who stole
the sugar ? ' His aunts used to tell him
that even a bird had more sense, and used
to beg him to take an example from me;" PRETTY MARY." 87

for I did not gobble up everything I got
at once, but put it in my tin dish till I
was hungry. Ah! Master Dick knew that
very well indeed; and many a time had
he slipped up and stolen my piece of
sweet-cake, or other dainty.

" One day his Aunt Mary came to my
perch and said, ' Come now, Polly; you
shall have this nice piece of sugar if you
will say ' Pretty Mary.' I had tried
hard for ever so long to say it, but some-
how my tongue would not twist out the
exact words. But I was not pleased with
Miss Mary for asking me to say it for a
bribe; she ought to have known me better,
I thought, and I sat quite silent, deter-
mined not even to say ' Pretty Polly.'

" ' Oh now, Polly, that is naughty!' she
said, seeing my sulky looks. 'Well, you
shall have it if you take it out of my
mouth.'88 CAUGHT IN A MOMENT.

" Of' course I could not object to that,"
said Polly with a laugh; "So I stepped
on to her finger as desggd, and took the bit
of sugar from her pretty red lips, and put
it into my tin dish. Then, to show her I
was grateful for her kindness, I cried out,
' Mary! pretty Mary!' and she was so
pleased, she wanted me to have another;
piece of sugar as a reward; but I would
not have it. N o; I made my little
speeches for love, and not for sugar.

" When I was sitting quietly thinking of
things in general, and my mistress in par-
ticular, Master Dick, who had been sitting
at the window all the time, and saw what
his aunt had given me, and where I had
put it, came stealthily across the lawn; and
putting up his hand took hold of my piece
of sugar.

" N 0W, I had determined in my own
mind I would punish him the very first\/PUNISHMENT AWARDED. 91

opportunity; so I flew upon him in a
moment; and catching hold of the sleeve
of his coat, held it fast with my claws.
He tried to shake me off, but I flew on to
his head before he could get away ; and I
do not know who screamed the'loudest.
Aunt Mary and one or two of the ser-
vants came running out; but though they
tried to get me on to my perch, I kept
calling, 'Who stole the sugar? Oh fie!
greedy Dick ! '

" The boy had been so frightened that
he forgot to drop the sugar; and on his
aunt opening his hand, there it was, safe
enough. She had seen him from her
room window take it out of my dish; and
when I at last allowed her to lift me on
to my perch, she gave Master Dick such a
beating that he did not steal my sugar
any more--But, Master Herbert, there is
something the matter with the cockatoo,", 92 UNKIND WORDS.
Vsaid Polly; "I hear him saying some

angry words to somebody in the gar-
den."

On looking out of the window, Herbert
saw his cousin Grace standing with a
young visitor before the cockatoo's perch.
Jane, the visitor, was calling him " Ugly
Cocky! bad Cocky! ugly Cockatoo!" and
telling him that all the nice things would
be given to the pussy cat, and everything
disagreeable to him. She was doing this
for no reason whatever, except that she
once heard her brother speaking to a par-
rot in this manner to see it made angry;
and poor Cockatoo, who always considered
himself a very pretty bird, and had never
been spoken to so unkindly before, was
certainly ruffled enough.

"Pretty Cockatoo," he said in reply,
looking from Jane to Grace, who could

not bear to annoy the poor bird.THE LANGUAGE OF ANIMALS. 93

" Oh, don't speak so, Jane," said Grace;
" Cockatoo is such an amiable, pretty bird!
He has been so good-natured ever since
we came; and Herbert says he is trying
to be contented, though of course he greatly
prefers to live in his native woods, poor
bird."

" But how does Herbert know the cock-
atoo likes that?" said Jane.

" Oh, because a fairy gave him permis-
sion to understand the language of the
birds," replied Grace; " and the cockatoo
told him his whole history."

" Oh dear ! how funny ! " said Jane.
" I wonder if the fairy would give me per-
mission ! "

" N o, I don't 'think so," said Grace ;
" people must be very kind to all the
animals, both great and small, else the fairy
will not give them that power. But
Herbert says, if we are very kind to the '94 A CRUEL GIRL.

animals, even although we do not under-
stand their language exactly as he does,
we will get to understand a different kind;
and by the expression in their eye, and by
their voice, will know when they are
happy or sad. N 0w, you always kill

every insect and fly you see."

" I really can't help killing them. I won>>-
der why they were made at all," said
Jane.

"But, Jane, do you never think how
displeased God must be if you kill even a
beetle '4" said Grace. " I remember read-
ing somewhere----

' The poor beetle that we tread upon,
In corporal sufi'erance finds a pang as great
As when a giant dies.' "

" I can't help it," said Jane ; " I do hate
beetles; and even if they do suffer, I
must kill them."

By this time the two girls had comeGOOD RESOLUTIONS. 95

close to the place where Herbert and
Charley were, and they heard what Jane
said quite plainly. Herbert was about to
express his indignation, when Polly called
out, " I'm shocked! leave the room! mur-
der! oh dear! oh fie!"

"You may well say so, Polly," said
Herbert. " I cannot understand how any
one can kill one of God's creatures--more
especially a girl."

That afternoon, when the children were
busily engaged playing at blowing soap
bubbles, Jane stole out into the garden,
and crossed over to where Polly was sit-
ting among the bushes. Of late Mrs.
Polly had rather enjoyed being set at lib-
erty, and, with Cockatoo, would some-
times defy the cat and her kittens. Coni--
ing up to her now, Jane began to tell
Polly she never meant to kill an animal
or an insect again ; and that she meant to96 NATURAL HISTORY COMMENDED.

strive very hard, in the hope that the
good fairy would let her understand the
language of the birds.

Herbert, who had been playing as
busily as any of his cousins, began to
notice that the cockatoo was a good deal
afraid of the airy soap bubbles--especially
when they lighted on his back--and so he
took him off his perch as quietly as pos-
sible, not to disturb the game, and carried
him away, to place him beside Mrs. Polly.
By this means he had overheard Jane's
speech.

" I am very glad to hear you say so," he
said. " I am sure if you would only
take the trouble to examine a little more
closely the insects you are so fond of kill-
ing, you would be surprised at their
beauty. I will lend you my book, if you
like. I really cannot understand why
boys and girls take such little interest inPOLLY'S LAST WORDS. 97

natural history. Speaking of fairies, you
will read of them there in the shape of
the butterflies--what can be more fairy-
like ?--and I will tell you What mamma
often says : if we only knew what pleasure
we could draw from common objects around
us, rainy days would be less dreary, and
we should have happier hearts and more
contented minds."

"I feel you are right there, Master
Herbert," said the cockatoo. " I have felt
twice as happy since Mrs. Polly per--
suaded me to make the most of my pres-
ent condition; and I ought to have
known it by experience--having brought
all my troubles upon myself by cherishing
~ a discontented spirit."

" Ah, children, children," said Mrs.
Polly, with a wise shake of her head,
"when you come to look back upon life

from as long a pilgrimage, you will see
(671) 798 GOOD-BYE.

that the busier you are, and the more
good you do, there will be less inclination
to be discontented. And with such a
beautiful world around you, and so much
to learn about it, and the wise lessons it
can teach, who would be anything but
contented ?--But I am keeping you from
your companions, Master Herbert, so I
must wish you good-day, sir. Good-
day, miss," said Polly in English; " I'll
now take a nap ; " and with that she laid
her head on her back, and went off to
sleep.

As Cockatoo followed her example, Her-
bert knew by experience no more could
be got out of them; and with a united
"Good-bye, dear old Polly! Good-bye,
Cockatoo!" Herbert and Jane returned
to the house and were soon sending a

whole fleet of soap-bells up into the sun-
shine.ART GIFT-BOOKS.

A SERIES OF FIRST-CLASS AND leI-ILY ILLUSTRATED BOOKS ON NATURE
AND NATURAL HISTORY.

THE BIRD WORLD-DESCRIBED WITH PEN AND
PENCIL. By the Author of "The Arctic World," &c. Beautifully
Illustrated with Fifty-one Full-pa? and upwards of One Hundred
other Engravings, from designs y GIACOMELLI, and engraved by
Rouget, Berveiller, Meaulle, Sargent, Whymper, and Morison. Im-
perial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt edges. Price 103. 6d.

Not intended to usurp the place of a manual of zoology; but in
language full of beauty and tenderness, it presents us with sketches
of bird life. Beautiful as many parts of the text are, the chief chami
of the book lies in the illustrations which adorn its pages. They
were drawn and engraved expressly for this work, and from their
admirable fidelity to nature, their combined grace, and strength,
and delicacy, constitute the claim of the present volume to the
public favour.

THE IBIRD. By J (mas MICIIELET, Author of " History of France," 8w.
Illustrated by Two Hundred and Ten Exquisite Engravings by GM-
COMBLM. Imperial 8vo, full gilt side and gilt edges. Price 103. 6d.

Not a book of ornithological science, but a history of the Bird in its
most picturesque and poetical aspects, from the egg in the nest to
the "triumph of the wing" in the sea-eagle. We have described
here birds of the Polar Regions and of the Tropics; birds of assage,
birds of prey; the song of the nightingale and of the ro in, 6m.
The exquisite illustrations introduce varied kinds of landscape
scenery.

THE INSECT. By JULES MICHELET. With One Hundred and Forty
Illustrations, drawn specially for this edition by Gucounu, and en-
graved by Rouget, Berveiller, Meaulle, Jonnard, Whymper, Sargent,
3.3;! ggher eminent Artists. Imperial 8vo, cloth, richly gilt. Price
1 . .

This volume treats of the poetry rather than the science of ento-
mology. Three "books" describe groups of insects, in regard to
their metamorphoses, their industries, their social communities. The
fiautiiul illustrations combine flowers and landscapes with insect
1 c.

NATURE; or, The Poetry of Earth and Sea. From the
French of Mn. monster. Vith upwards of Two Hundred Illus-
trations drawn specially for this Work by Giacouenm (Illustrator of
" The Bird"), an engraved by the most eminent French and English
Artists. Imperial 8vo, cloth, richly gilt. Price 105. 6d.

A volume of picturesque descri tion, beautifully illustrated, of
garden scenes, pastoral and wood and landscapes, mountains and
valle s, lake and river scenery, and the sea-coasts, in many and
wide y varying lands.

'1'. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDISBURGH, AND NEW YORK.
RICHLY ILLUSTRATED.

THE FAMOUS PARKS AND GARDENS OF THE
WORLD, Described and Illustrated. With upwards of
Eighty Fine Engmvings. Imperial sto, handsomely boundin cloth,
full gilt. Price 155.

A popular description of Remarkable Parks and Gardens, public
and private, ancient and modern, interspersed with illustrative
anecdotes and notes on the history of Gardening. Be inning with
the Gardens of Antiquity, those of Rome and Greece an the Eastern
World, we pass on to the Medieval Gardens, the Gardens of the
Renaissance, the Modern Gardens of Europe and Great Britain, and
those which are now most celebrated abroad and at home.

THE ARCTIC WORLD ILLUSTRATED: Its People.
Plants, Animals, and Natural Phenomena. With a
Historical Sketch of Arctic Discovery, and a Narrative of the British
Expedition of 1875--78. By the Author of "The Mediterranean lllus-
trated." With Twenty-five Full-page and One Hundred and Twenty
other Engravings, and Map of the Polar Regions. Royal folio, cloth
extra, gilt edges. Price 155.

A volume of picturesque rather than scientific descriptions of
Arctic scenery, with its " wonders of sky and sea and land;" in-
tended to "place before the reader, with bold touches, apicture of
that Polar World which is so awful and yet so fascinating."

THE MEDITERRANEAN ILLUSTRATED. Picturesque
Views and Descriptions of its Cities, Shores, and Islands. By the
Author of "Pompeii and Her culaneum," " Catacombs of Rome," &c.
The Illustrations in this Beautiful Volume comprise Thirty Full-
page, and upwards of One Hundred and Forty other Engravings, &c.:
and also a Tinted Map. Royal folio, cloth extra, full gilt. Price 153.

It has been the writer's aim to record the events that have had the
greatest influence on the world's history, and not to gather up every
local detail; to recall those recollections which are of apicturesque or
chivalrous character, and not to imitate the copiousness of the chroni-
cler. He has not sought to be exhaustive, for that would be impos-
sible; but rather to touch upon such points as necessarily become
conspicuous in any boldly-painted picture.

FOR. THE YOUNG.

THE WORLD AT HOME: Pictures and Scenes from
Far-off Lands. By MARY and Euzans'm Kmar. With 100 En-
gravings. Small 4150, gilt edges. Price 6s.

A book for the young, containing, in a number of short conver-
sational sections, a great variet of geographical information, facts of
natural history, and personal venture ; intended to bring the world,
so full of wonders, to our own firesides.

THE SEA AND ITS WONDERS. By M. and E. Kmnr. With
174 Illustrations. Small 4to, gilt edges. Price 6s.

A book for the young, not strictly scientific, but giving, in a. con-
versational style, much varied information regarding the sea, its
plants and living inhabitants, 8w.

SHAKESPEARE'S STORIES SIMPLY TOLD. By Mrs.
Seaman. With 130 Engravings. Square 12mo, gilt edges. Price 33. 6d.

 

 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.WORKS BY DR. HODGE, PRINCETON.

 

SYSTEMATIC THEOLOGY. By the late Cmstss Hones, D.D.,
Professor in the Theological Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey. Three
Vols. Royal 8vo. Price PS2, 23. Index Vol, 33. 6d. extra.

"The comprehensiveness and lucidit ' of this work make it an in-
valuable book of reference to every stu ent of Biblical Theology. If
we were called to name any living writer who, to Calvin's exegetical
tact, unites a large measure of Calvin's grasp of mind and transparent
clearnoas in the department of systematic theology, we should point
to this Princeton Professor. He possesses, to use the words of an
English critic, the power of seizing and retaining with a rare vigour
and tenacity the great doctrinal turning-points in a controvers ;
while he is able to expose with triumphant dexterity the various su -
terfuges under which it has been sought to elude them."

COMPANION VOLUME TO "SYSTEMATIC THEOLOGY."

THE CHURCH AND ITS POLITY. By the late CHARLES
Hom3,D.D. Royal 8vo, cloth. Price 123. 6d.

(burners--Idea. of the Church--Theories of the Church--Visibility
of the Church~Perpctuity of the Church--Principles of Christian
Union--Province of the Church--Relation of the Church and State
--Prcsbyterianism--The Church of England--The Presbytery--The
General Assembly, &c., &c.

PRINCETON SERMONS. By the late Cnmtss Hones,D.D. One
Volume, Royal 8vo. 390 pages. Price 105.

This remarkable Work consists of Outlines of Two Hundred and
Forty-nine Sermons delivered at Princeton Theological Seminary on
Sabbath afternoons.

IVEW EDIT/0N, [PE-WRITTEN AND ENLARGED.

OUTLINES OF THEOLOGY. By the Rev. A. A. Home, D.D.,
Princeton. One Volume, Royal 8vo, cloth. 678 Pages. Price 10s.

"Since the first publication of this book, the evidences of the fact
that it metapublic need have been multiplying. Its sale in Great
Britain and America has continued. It has been translated into
Welsh and Modern Greek, and used in several theological training-
schools. It 18 again offered to the Christian Church, notes a com-

lete treatise of Systematic Theology, for the use of the proficient,

ut_ as a simple Text-Book, adapted to the needs of students taking
their first lessons in this great science, and to the convenience of
many earnest workers who wish to refresh their memories by means
of a summary review of the ground gone over by them in their earlier
studies."--Author's Preface.

 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.DEVOTIONAL AND RELIGIOUS WORKS.

FROM DAY TO DAY; or Helpful Words for Christian
Life. (Daily Readings for aYear.) By the Rev. ROBERT MACDONALD,

D.D., Leith. In one volume. Crown 8vo, handsomely bound in
cloth. 650 pages. Price 75. 6d.

CHRISTIAN DAILY LIFE. By III-2m Bomux, Author of
" Life : its Duties and its Discipline." Royal lsmo. Price 1s. 6d.
THE STILL HOUR; or. Communion with God. By the

Rev. Ausnx Puma-s. Royal 18mo. Price Is.
LITTLE THINGS. Little Duties--Little liindnesses--Little Efforts
FLitt-ie Cares--Little Pleasures--Little Sins. Royal 18mo, cloth.
rice 5.
PASTOR'S SKETCHES- or, Conversations with Anxious

Inquirers on the Way of Salvation. By the Rev. J. 5.
SPENCER, D.D. Complete Edition. Post Svo. Price 3s. 6d.

WITHIN THE GATES; or Glimpses of the Heavenly
Jerusalem. By the Rev. J. 15. BURNS, Author of " Vision of Pro-
phecy," sac. 18mo. Price Is. 6d.

THE EVENING HYMN. By the Rev. J. D. Bums, Author of
"Vision of Prophecy," 830. 181110. Price 1s. 6d.

PALEY'S HORE PAULINE; or, The Truth of the
Scripture .History of St. Paul evznced by a. Comparison
of the Epistles which bear his name with the Acts of
the Apostles, and with one another. A New Edition,
with Introduction, Notes, and Questions by WILLIAM BINSIE, D.D.
Post 8v0. Price Is. 6d.

PATERlsoslg ON THE SHORTER CATECHISM. 181x10.

rice s. .

BOGATSKY'S GOLDEN TREASURY. Edited and Enlarged
by the late Rev. JAMES Sm'rn. 24mo. Price 1s. 6d.

BOgATSKY'S GOLDEN TREASURY. 32mo, red line edition.

rice 5.

DAILY BIBLE READINGS. By the late Rev. JAMES Smrn.

321110, red line edition. Price Is. 6d.

WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OI' "EZEKIEL."

ELIJAH, AND OTHER POEMS. Crown 16mo. Cloth extra,
gilt edges. Price 35. 6d.

EZEKIEL, AND OTHER POEMS. By B. M. Square 16mo,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Price 33. 6d.

WORKS BY THE LATE REV. WILLIAM ARNOT.

LAWS FROM HEAVEN FOR LIFE ON EARTH. Crown
8vo, cloth. Price Ts. 6d.

THE lngABLES OF OUR LORD. Crown Svo, cloth. Price
73. .

THE ANCHOR OF THE SOUL, and. Other Sermons.
Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 55.

LESSONS FROM LIFE. A Book of Stories and Teachings for
the Young. Foolseup Svo, cloth. Price 25. 6d.

 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH. AND NEW YORK.THE "SGHONBERG-COTT " SERIES.

 

Grown 800, cloth. Price 68. 60!. each.

CHRONICLES OF THE SCHONBERG--COTTA FAMILY.
A tale of German family-life in the times of Luther, including much
of the personal history of the great Reformer.

JOAN THE MAID: Deliverer of England and France.
A Story of the Fifteenth Century.

THE VICTORY OF THE VANQUISHED. AStory of the
First Century.

DIARY OF MRS. KITTY TREVYLYAN. A Story of the
Times of Whitefield and the Wesleys.

THE DRAYTONS AND THE DAVENANTS. AStoryof
the Civil Wars.

ON BOTH SIDES OF THE SEA. A Story of the Common-
wealth and the Restoration.

WINIFRED BERTRANI, AND THE WORLD SHE
LIVED IN.

SKETCHES OF CHRISTIAN LIFE IN ENGLAND IN
THE OLDEN TIME.

TALES BY ANNIL' LUCAS.

WENZEL'S INHERITANCE; or, Faithful unto Death.
.11; Tale ofegohemia. 1n the Fifteenth Century. Crown 8110, cloth extra.
rice 65

THE CITY AND THE CASTLE. AStory of the Reformation
in Switzerland. Crown 81'0, cloth extra. Price 68. 6d.

LEONIE; or, Li ht Out of Darkness: and. WITHIN
IRON WALL. A Tale of the Siege of Paris. Twin- Stories
of the Franco- German War. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 65. 6d.

BY M. PILLEUL.

PENDOWER. A Story of Cornwall in the Reign of Henry the
Eighth. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 65. 6d.

 

TALES BY THE

AUTHOR OF "THE SPANISH BROTHERS."

UNDER THE SOUTHERN CROSS. ATaIe of the New World.
Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 65. 6d.

THE SPANISH BROTHERS. A 'Ihle oi the Sixteenth Century.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 65. 6d.

NO CROSS NO CROWN; or, The Dark Year of Dundee.
giTalePof th; Sgfitish Reformation. With Seven Illustrations. Post
vo rice 5

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.THE A. L. Q. E. SERIES.

RICHLY ILLUSTRATED. AND ELEGANTLY BOUND.

At FIVE sH/LLI/VG'S each. Crown 8uo.

EXILES 1N BABYLON. With Thirty-four Engravings.

THE SHEPHERD OF BETHLEHEM. With 40 Engravings.
RESCUED FROM EGYPT. With Twenty-seven Engravings.
HEBREW HEROES. With Thirty Engravings.

THE TRIUMPH OVER MIDIAN. With 28 Engravings.
PRIDE AND HIS PRISONERS. With Forty Engravings.

At THREE SHILLING'S and SIXPE/VCE each. Post 800.

THE YOUNG PILGRIM. A Tale Illustrating the "Pilgrim's
Progress." With Twunty-seven Engraviugs. Gilt edges.

A WREATH OF INDIAN STORIES.

ON THE WAY; or, Places Passed by Pilgrims.

THE CITY OF NOCROSS, and its Famous Physician.

THE LADY OF PROVENCE; or, Humbled and Healed.

CYRIL ASHLEY. ATale.

CLAUDIA. ATale.

HOUSE BEAUTIFUL: or, The Bible Museum Opened.

IDOLS IN THE HEART. ATale.

THE SPANISH CAVALIER. AStoryof Seville.

THE HAUNTED ROOM. ATale.

PRECEPTS IN PRACTICE. Stories Illustrating the Proverbs.
Gilt edges.

At THREE SHILLINGS each. Post 800.

RAMBLES OF A RAT. Gilt edges.

THE MINE, or, Darkness and Light. Gilt edges.

THE SILVER CASKET; or, Love not the World

MIRACLES OF HEAVENLY LOVE IN DAILY LIFE.

THE CROWN 0F SUCCESS; 01, Four Heads to Furnish.

FLORA; or, Self- Deception. Gilt edges.

THE GIANT-KILLER; or, The Battle which All must
Fight. Gilt edges.

THEE) ROBY FAMILY; or, Battling with the World. Gilt

ges.
THE ROBBERS' CAVE. AStory of Italy.
WAR AND PEACE. ATale of the Retreat from Cabul.

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.
RICHLY ILLUSTRATED. AND ELEGANTLY BOUND.

 

At TWO SHILL/NGS and SIXPE/VCE each. Post 800.

FAIRY FRISKET; or, Peeps at Insect Life. Cloth extra.

FAIRY KNOW-A-BIT; or, A Nutshell of Knowledge.
Cloth extra.

OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES. Plates. Gilt edges.
MY NEIGHBOUR'S SHOES. Gilt edges.

 

 

At TWO <<SW/LUNGS each. Post 800.

THE HOLIDAY CHAPLET. A Book of Stories.
THE SUNDAY CHAPLET. A Book of Stories.

At 0/VE 8H/LLl/VG and SIXPE/VCE each. Royal 78mo.

THE STORY OF A NEEDLE. Illustrated.
WINGS AND STING-S. With Sixteen Engravings.

STORIES FROM THE HISTORY OF THE JEWS. With
Coloured Frontispiece and Vignette, and Thirty Engravings.

 

At ONE SHILLIIVG each. Royal 78mo.

UPWARDS AND DOWNWARDS, and Other Stories.
With Coloured Frontispiece, and Four Illustrations.

THE OLIVE-BRANCH, and Other Stories. With Coloured
Frontispiece, and Sixteen Illustrations.

A FRIEND IN NEED, and. Other Stories. With Coloured
Frontispiece, and Seven Illustrations,

THE HYMN MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME, and other
Stories. With Coloured Frontispiece, and Twenty-four Engravings.

EDITH AND HER AYAH, and Other Stories. With
Coloured Frontispiece, and Sixteen Engravings.

TRY AGAIN, and Other Stories. With Coloured Frontispiece,
and Seventeen Engravings.

GOOD FOR EVIL, and other Stories. With Coloured Fron-
tispiece, and Seven Illustrations.

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.BOOKS OF HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY.

BY ROBERT MACKENZIE.

THE JfiTH CENTURY. A History. Crown 810. 464 Pages. Price
75.

'3. * Presenting in a handy form a History of the great events and
movements of the present century, in our o11n country, throughout
the British Empire, on the Continent of Europe, and' in A111e1ica.

BY W. F. COLLIER, LL.D.

HISTORY OF ENGLAND. To which is added a History of Our
Colonial Empire. Crown 8110, cloth extra. Price 7s 6d.

BY THE REV. J. O. RYLE, D.D.

THE CHRISTIAN LEADERS OF THE LAST CEN-
TURY; or, En nSS1and a. Hundred Years Ago. (.r011n 81o,
cloth. l1ice 7s. 6

 

THOMAS CHALMERS. D.D.: His Life and its Lessons.
By the Rev. Nommx L. \VALKER, Author of " Robert Buchanan, an
Ecclesiastical Biography." Post 81'0, cloth. Price Is. 611.

RECOLLECTIONS OF ALEXANDER DUFF, D.D. and
of the Mission Colle%e ewhioh he Founded in Calcutta.
By the Rev. LAL BHHARI .311 Author of "Govinda Samanta: " Pro
iessorin GovernmentCollcge, Hooghly. Post 81,0 cloth. Price 33. 6d

THE STORY OF SIR DAVID WILKIE: His Life and
Works. By ADAM L. Smrsox, D.D., Derby. With Sixteen En-
gravings. Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 25.

SELF-TAUGHT MEN. A Series of Biographies. With Four Illus-
trations. Post 81'0, cloth. Price 25. 6d.

STORIES OF THE LIVES OF NOBLE WOMEN. By
W. H. nun-1.1110111 ADAMS. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 28. 6d.

JANE TAYLOR: Her Life and. Letters. By Mrs. H. C. Kxicm,
Author of "No Pains, No Gains," <<SLO. Post Svo, cloth. Price 25.

HEROES OF THE DESERT. The Story of the Lives and
Labours of Morn-r and L11'1sz'roxz. With Frontispiecc and Vignette.
By the Author of "Mary Powell. " Post 810, cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.

"ABOVE RUBIES;1" or, Memorials of Christian Gentle-
women. 81' Miss C.L .Bmou'rwsbt. Post 81 o, cloth extra, gilt
edges. Price 35. 6d.

LIVING IN EARNEST: Lessons and Incidents from the
Lives of the Great and Good. By Josrrn Jouxsox. Post
81-0, cloth. Price 25. 6d.

LIVING TO PURPOSE. A Book for Young Men. By JOSEPH
Jomsox. Post 810, cloth. I'1ice 2s. 6d.

MEMORIALS OF EARLY GENIUS, AND REMARK-
ABLE RECORDS OF ITS ACHIEVEMENTS. By the
Author of " Success' in Life. " Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 25. 6d.

RECORDS OF NOBLE LIVES. By W. H. D111 3.1110111 ADAMS.
Post 81'0, moth. Price 23. 6d.

'1'. SELSON AND SOXS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.BOOKS FOR BOYS.

 

ALMOST A HERO; Or, School Days at Ashcombe. By
ROBERT RICHARDSON, Author of "The Young Cragsman," "The Boys
of Willoughby," ($20. With Seven Engravings. Post 8m, cloth extra.
Price Ss. 6d.

THE BOY'S COUNTRY BOOK. By WILLIAM l-Iown'r. Post
8m, cloth. With lllustrations. Price 35. 6d.

From " Edinburgh Review," July 1879.--"'1'o our mind William
llowitt's 'Boy's Country Book' is the best of the kind that has
ever been written, and the publishers would do a. kindness to the
boys of the day if they were to bring it out in a. new edition. It
describes the life of a country lad some sixty years ago, and the
descriptions are for the most part as true to nature now as then.
Like all his later works, it has the force of most faithful delinea-

tion ; and there is a fresh exuberance of hearty appreciation of those
innocent pleasures in which his days flew by."

CULM ROCK. Foolscap 8vo, cloth extra. Price 23. 6d.

THE CASTAWAYS. A Story of Adventure in the "'ilds of Borneo.
By Captain MAYNB REID. With Twenty-six Engravings. Post 8vo,
cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.

THE ADVENTURES OF MARK WILLIS. By Mrs. GEORGE
Currmzs. Author of "The Little Captain," Ste. With Forty-five

Engravings. Royal ISmo, cloth. Price 1s. 6d.

THE YOUNG CRUSOE. By Mrs. Hormxn. With Fourteen
Engravings. Royal 18mo, cloth. Price Is. 6d.

WHAT SHALL I BE? or, A Boy's Aim in Life. Illustrated.
Foolscap 8vo, cloth. Price 25.

HOME PRINCIPLES IN BOYHOOD, and Other Stories
for the Young. Post Sro, cloth. Price '25.

FRANK MARTIN; or, The Story of a. Country Boy.
With Coloured Frontispiece. Foolscap Sro, cloth. Price ls. 6d.

NED'S MOTTO; or, Little by Little. With Coloured Frontis-
piece, and numerous Engravings. Royal 18mo, cloth. Price ls. 6d.

TOM TRACY; or, Whose is the Victory? Illustrated.
Foolscap Svo, cloth. Price 1s. 6d.

NUTS FOR BOYS TO CRACK. By the Rev. Joux T'onn, D.D.,
Author of "Simple Sketches," "The Student's Guide," 8w. Royal

181110. Price ls. 6d.

THE STORY OF LITTLE ROBINSON OF PARIS; or,
The Triumph of Industry. Translated from the French by
Lucr LAxnox. Foolscap Svo, cloth. Price ls. 6d.

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON; or, Adventures of a.
Father and his Four Sous on a. Desolatc Island. With Twenty En-

gravings. Foolscap Sro, cloth. Price 2s. 6d.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. With Twenty-two Illustrations. Foolscap
8vo, cloth. Price 2s. 6d.

'1'. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW] YORK-
BY W. H. G. KINGSTON.

IN THE EASTERN SEAS; or. The Regions of the .Bird
of Paradise. A Tale for Boys. With One Ilundred and Eleven
Illustrations. Crown 8i'o, cloth, richly gilt. Price (is.

IN THE WILDS OF AFRICA. With Sixty-six Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth, richly gilt. Price (is. .

ROUND THE WORLD. A Tale for Boys. With Fifty-two En.
grarings. Crown Svo, cloth extra. Price 55.

OLD JACK. A Sea. Tale. With Sixty Engravings. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra. Price 53.

MY FIRST VOYAGE TO SOUTHERN SEAS. With Forty-
two Engravings. Crown Svo, cloth extra. Price 55.

THE SOUTH SEA WHALER. A Story of the Loss of the
Champion, and the Adventures of her Crew. With Thirty Engrav-
ings. Crown 8ro, cloth extra. Price 53.

SAVED FROM THE SEA; or, The Loss of the "Viper,"
and the Adventures of her Crew in the Desert of
gahara. With Thirty-two Engravings. Crown Svo, cloth extra.

rice 53.

THE YOUNG RAJAH. A Story of Indian Life and Adventure.
With Forty-four Engravings. Crown Svo, cloth. Price is.

THE WANDERERS' or, Adventures in the Wilds of
Trinidad and u the Orinoco. With Thirty-one Engravings.
Crown Sm, cloth. 'rice 5s.

TWICE LOST. A Story of Shipwreck, and Adventure in the Wikls
of Australia. With Forty-six Engravings. Crown 8m, cloth. Price 59.

THE YOUNG LLANERO. A Story of War and Wild Life in
Venezuela. With Forty-four Engravings. Crown Sro, cloth. Price 55.

IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS. A Tale of Adventure. With
Forty-one Engravings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 3s. 6d.

IN NEW GRANADA; or, Heroes and Patriots. A Tale
for Boys. With numerous Eugmvings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 33. 6d.

AFAR IN THE FOREST. ATale ofSettler Lifein North America~
WiteiiForty-one hill-page Engravings. Post Svo, cloth extra. Price
35. .

STORIES OF THE SAGACITY OF ANIMALS. With
Sixty Illustrations by I-IARmsox "'EIR. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 33. 6d.

ILLUSTRATED EDITIONS.

THE LIFE AND STRANGE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN-
SON CRUSOE, OF YORK, MARINER. Written 13y Hm.
SELF. Carefully Reprinted from the Original Edition. With an
Introductory Memoir of Daniel De Fee, a MemOir .of Alexander
Selkirk, an Account of Peter Serrano, and other Interesting Additions.
Illustrated with upwards of Seventy Engravings by KEELEY HALS-
WELLE. With a Portrait of De Foe. a. Map of Crusoe's Island, De
Foe's Tomb, Facsimiles of Original Title-Pages, &c., 85c. Crown 8m,
cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON; or, Adventures of a.
Shipwrecked Family on a. Desolate Island. Un-
abridged. With upwards of Three Ilundred Engravings. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra. Price 33. 6d.

 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.
TALES OF ADVENTURE AND ENTERPRISE.

 

 

BY R. M. BALLANTYNE.

HUDSON BAY; or, Everyday Life in the Wilds of North
America. With Forty-six Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra.
Price 53.

THE YOUNG FUR-TRADERS. A Tale of the Far North.
With Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth. Price 35. 6d.

UNGAVA. A Tale of Esquimaux Land. With Illustrations. Post
8\'o, cloth. Price 35. 6d.

THE CORAL ISLAND. ATalc of the Pacific. With Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth Price 35. 6d.

MARTIN RATTLER; or, A Boy's Adventures in the
Forests of Brazil. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth. Price

35 6d.

THE DOG CRUSOE AND HIS MASTER. ATalc of the
Western Prairies. With Illustrations. Post 8\'o. cloth. Price 35. 6d.

THE GORILLA HUNTERS. A Tale of Western Africa. With
Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth. Price 33. 6d.

THE WORLD OF ICE; or, Adventures in the Polar
Regions. With Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 35, 6d.

THE OCEAN AND ITS WONDERS. With Sixty Engravings.
Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 33.

 

TALES FOR THE HOME CIRCLE.

LOOK AT THE BRIGHT SIDE. A Tale for the Young. By
JOANNA H. MArrm-rws, Author of " Little Sunbeams." Post Svo, cloth

extra. Price 23. 6d.

ISABEL'S SECRET. By the Author of "The Story of a Happy
Little Girl." Foolswp 8vo, cloth. Price 39.

THE STORY OF A HAPPY LITTLE GIRL. By the
Author of " Isabel's Secret." Royal 18mo. Price 1s. 6d.

THE BASKET OF FLOWERS. A'l'ale for the Young. With
goloureLIGg'rontispiece and numerous Engravings. Royal 18mo.
rice ls. .

"OUR FATHER WHICH ART IN HEAVEN." AStory
Illustrative of the Lord's Prayer. By aCLERGl'MAN'S Wmow. With
Coloured Frontispicce and Sixteen Engmvings. Royal 18mo. Price Is.

'2. NEISON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.TRAVEL AND RESEARCH IN BIBLE LANDS.

.--_...____.

THE LAND AND THE BOOK; or, Biblical Illustrations
Drawn from the Manners and Customs, the Scenes
and Scenery of the Holy Land. By the Rev. W. M. Tnonsox,
D.D. Crown 8vo, 718 pages. With Twelve Coloured Illustrations,
and One Hundred and Twenty Woodeuts. Price 7s. 6d., cloth.

THE GIANT CITIES OF BASHAN, AND SYRIA'S
HOLY PLACES. By Professor PORTER, Author of "Murray's
Handbook to Syria and Palestine." With Eight Beautiful Engrav-
ings. Post Svo, cloth extra. Price Ts. 6d.

BOOKS OF VOYAGES, TRAVEL, AND ADVENTURE.

RECENT POLAR VOYAGES. A Record of Adventure and
Discovery. From the Search after Franklin to the Voyage of the
Alert and the Discovery (1875--76). With Sixty-two Engravings.
Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 55.

GREAT SHIPWRECKS. A Record of Perils and Disasters at Sea
--1544--1877. With 58 line Engravings. Crown Svo, cloth. Price 55.
KANE'S ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS. The Second Grinnell
Expedition in Search of Sir John Franklin. With Sixty Woodcuts.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. Price 53.

WRECKED ON A REEF; or, Twenty Months in the
Auckland Isles. A True Story of Shipwreck, Adventure, and
Suffering. With 40 Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth extra. Pricc 3s.6d.

ON THE NILE. A Story of Family Travel and Adventure in the
Land of Egypt. By SARA K. Huxr. With Sixteen Engravings. Post
Svo, cloth extra. Price 35.

ROUND THE WORLD. A Story of Travel compiled from the
Narrative of Ida Pfeifier. By D. MURRAY SMIrII. With Thirty-six
Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 2s.

PICTURES OF TRAVEL IN FAR-OFF LANDS. A
Companion to the Study of Geography--CENTRAL AMERICA. With
Fifty Engravings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 23.

PICTURES OF TRAVEL IN FAR-OFF LANDS--Sour"
AMERICA. With Fifty Engravings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 25.
HOME AMID THE SNOW; or, Warm Hearts in Cold
Regions. By Captain CHARLES EDE, R.N. Wit-h Twenty-eight

Engravings. Royal 18mo, cloth. Price 15.6d.

THE FOREST, THE JUNGLE AND THE PRAIRIE'
or Tales of Adventure and Enterprise in Pursuit of
1YVjildPSZ Agilimals. With Numerous Engravings. Post Svo, cloth.

rice 3. .

SCENES WITH THE HUNTER AND THE TRAPPER
IN MANY LANDS. Stories of Adventures with Wild Animals.
With numerous Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 25. 6d.

DR. KANE, THE ARCTIC HERO. A Narrative of his Ad-
ventures and Explorations in the Polar Regions. By M. Jones. With
Thirty-five Engravings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 23.

THE CHILDREN ON THE PLAINS. AStory of Travel and
Adventure in the Great Prairies of North America. By the Author

of "The Babes in the Basket." With Sixteen Illustrations. Royal
18mo, cloth. Price Is. 6d.

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.NEW SERIES OF PRIZES AND PRESENTATION BOOKS.

.___C/.___

THE EUPHRATES AND THE TIGRIS. A Narrative of
Discovery and Adventure. With a Description of the Ruins of
Babylon and Nineveh. With Eighteen Full-page Illustrations. Post
8vo, cloth extra. Price 23.

I/IOUNT SINAI, PETRA, AND THE DESERT. Described
and Illustrated. With Twenty-three Full-page Illustrations. Post
Svo, cloth extra. Price :25.

THE JORDAN AND ITS VALLEY, AND THE DEAD
SEA. By the Author of " The Mediterranean Illustrated." Forty-
fire Engravings. Price 2s.

THE STORY OF IDA PFEIFFER AND HER TRAVELS
IN MANY LANDS. With Twenty-five Full-page Engravings.
Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 25.

THE STORY OF THE LIFE AND TRAVELS OF ALEX-
ANDER VON HUMBOLDT. With Twenty-seven Full-page
Engravings. Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 25.

THE AMAZON AND ITS WONDERS. With Illustrations of
Animal and Vegetable Life in the Amazonian Forest. With Twenty-
six Full-page Engraving-s. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 25.

IN THE FAR EAST. A Narrative of Exploration and Adventure
in Cochin-China, Cambodia, Laos, and Siam. With Twenty-eight
Full-page Engravings. Post 8ro, cloth extra. Price 25.

GIBRALTAR AND ITS SIEGES. With a Description of its
Natural Features. With Eighteen Full-page Illustrations. Post Svo,
cloth extra. Price 23.

CALIFORNIA AND ITS WONDERS. By the Rev. Joux
TODD, D.D. A New Edition, carefully revised and brought down to
the present time. With Seventeen Full-page Illustrations. Price 2s.

TEMPERANGE TALES.

FIRST PRIZE TEMPERAIVOE TALE, 7879.

SOUGHT AND SAVED. A Tale. By Miss M. A. PAULL, Author
of "Tim's Troubles; or, Tried and True," "The Vivians of Woodi-
ford," 85c. \Vith Six Engravings. Post are, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d.

5*: To this Tale was awarded the FIRST PRIZE (PS100) offered by the
United Kingdom Band of Hope Union.
SECOND PRIZE TEMPERANCE TALE, 1879.
LIONEL FRANKLIN'S VICTORY. By E. VAN SOMMBR. With
Six Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.
*3 This Tale secured the Secoxr) PRIZE (PS50).

FRANK OLDFIELD; or, Lost and Found. By the Rev. '1'.
P. WILSON, M.A. With Fire Engrai'ings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price

33. 6d.

TIM'S TROUBLES; or, Tried and True. By M. A.'PAL'I.I..
With Fire Engravings. Post Svo, cloth. Price 33. 6d.

TRUE TO HIS COLOURS; or, The Life that Wears Best.
By the Rev. T. P. \VILSON, M.A., Vicar of Pavenham, Author of
glf'rarek (gliifield; or, Lost and Found." Illustrated. Post Bro, cloth.

rice 5. .

 

 

'1'. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NEW YORK.BOOKS OF PREOEPT.AND EEUUKPLE.

 

LIVES MADE SUBLIME BY FAITH AND WORKS.
By the Rev. ROBERT STEEL, D.D., Author of "Doing,r Good," &c. Post
8vo, cloth. Price '25. 6d.

DOING GOOD' or, The Christian in Walks of Usefulness.
Illustrated by Examples. By the Rev. ROBERT STEEL, D.D. Post
8vo, cloth extra. Gilt edges. Price 35. 6d.

WILLING HEARTS AND READY HANDS; or, The
Labour's and Triumphs of Earnest Women. By JOSEPH
Jouxsos. Post Svo, cloth extra. Price 3s. 6d.

THE THRESHOLD OF LIFE. A Book of Illustrations and
Lessons for the Encouragement and Counsel of Youth. By W. H.
3:3;me ADAMS. With Six Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price

SEED-TIME AND HARVEST- or. Sow Well and Reap
Well. A Book for the Young. fly the late Rev. W. K. Twzsom,
D. D. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 25. 6d.

SUCCESS IN LIFE. A Book for Young Men. Post 8vo, cloth
extra. Price 35.

THE BOY MAKES THE MAN. ABook of Example and En-
couragement for Boys. With Coloured Frontispiecc, and numerous
Engravmgs. Royal lSmo, cloth. Price Is. 6d.

STORIES OF NOBLE LIVES

EACH WITH COLOURED FRONTISPIEGE.
Royal 18mo, cloth. Price 13.

STORY OF AUDUBON, the Naturalist.
STORY OF HOWARD, the Philanthropist.
STORY OF PALISSY, the Potter.

STORY OF JOHN SMEATON and the Eddystone Light-
house.

STORY OF DR. SCORESBY, the Arctic Navigator.

STORY OF CYRUS FIELD, the Projector of the At-
lantic Cable.

STORY OF BENVENUTO CELLINI, the Italian Gold-
smith.

STORY OF SIR HUMPEREY DAVY and the Invention
of the Safety Lamp.

STORY OF GALILEO, the Astronomer of Pisa.
STORY OF THE HERSCHELS.
STORY OF THE STEPHENSONS, Father and Son.

STORY OF SAMUEL BUDGETT, the Successful Mer-
chant.

 

 

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND NE'V YORK.
lww>~<\\\SS\\x\\x\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ NW Y=
\ WW%\\WWW\\WNMSSWSSSSSS\W"3'
0/?
u/
33
f;
A?
3:1,...

 

,_

3...:\'\\hl 'a 9' "I _
f" '$3\s\ . IF ' 1 1'
9 n 'wt":b:"'\,'.:.\s f3>>: \ >rfi :
-- \'bvv-ww" .. sh." ..
< r~xC/.->~r.-.:~;;z-<\;.:C/C/;;5.: , 7" {9
'0 {25%.3kz .f~.'g'\'&,r4* 1' " 'lr:
'<< V' ~"~J""&~ "3-3" '1 "z":
a 1>>,- 7 - I l t ..
1 {\w'vsaw <<an? s.
Cw" ' W\ 3" ' " ' 4" .. m'.
. r _ _>> "EUR53" .-

3 ,
2.3 '
N ..

If- 1 - g .
'1. *F't
.r?'

:i'fr' "

'3'..'_~" " "
is.>> i :1-

"v

1::- 'c; a. i 4 w ' 2:319
:3 '&' \'qN'-$ '3'":~"?\1 P 45. fi;SSw :1

h 's \\ \Yilrk" '3 * Y." v- :JV'>> {,
" ' FAQ" '13 {Liam
: g ' ' Ki l \. Q' $SS4SSdegSShf:'PS{oqt