THE

ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.Robinson ('mlsoe's C' alondmxfle army
day cut a notchinhis Post .
[hit/1'>> 72 .

.Z'm'JIIr/ml :VnVILJKL'I-Ill' Ill/17%: (hi'lu'l'ufJ'TfiIu/x. . ~

ITH E

ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

A

NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION.

WITH ENGRAVINes"

 

LONDON:
JOHN HARRI$ ST.PAUL% CHURCH:YARD.L 0 N D 0 N:
PRINTED BY cox AND mums, GREAT QUEEN STREET.PREFACE.

FEW prefatory observations can be neces-
sary on presenting to the public a new edi-
tion of a work so generally known through-
out Europe as " The Life and Adventures
of Robinson Crusoe." As it will be found,
however, that the present edition deviates
in some degree from the plan adopted by
Several respectable editors in this and other
countries, it would appear to be incumbent
on the publisher to submit some brief re-
marks, Concerning the character and intell-
tion of the undertaking. '

It has been the constant endeavour of
the author of this abridgment to bring the
whole of the incidents and sentiments with-
in the comprehension of youthful readers, by

a clear and simple, rather than by a puerile
A 3
and familiar, manner. In pursuit of such
a design, the most leading circumstances
likely to amuse the .fancy have been re-
tained; but chiefly those which combine
Instruction with Entertainment, and which
most forcibly inculcate the great lesson for
which this work is eminently calculated;
namely, that however severe the trials in-
flicted by an extremity of adverse fortune,
they may be eventually surmounted by the

AID or RELIGION, AND THE EXERCISE or
PATIENCE AND INDUSTRY.

The importance of adapting so grand a
lesson to the minds of the youthful is not
likely to be denied; and the publisher
anxiously hopes that the execution is not
unworthy of the design, and will meet with
public approbation.CONTENTS.

Chap. I. Robinson Crusoe gives an account of his
firsterrors..................................-.

Chap. II. TheShipwreck.....................
Chap. III. Robinson Crusoe swims to the ship.. . . .
Chap. IV. Robinson Crusoe returns totbe ship. He

constructs a fortified habitation on the island.. . .
Chap. V. Industry of Robinson Crusoe.. .. . . ..
Chap. VI. An earthquake. Illness of Robinson

Crusoe... o...coco-coo...-use-ooosooagg.....

Chap. VII. Recovery of Robinson Crusoe. He visits
difl'erentpartsof the island.. .... .. .. ...... ....
Chap. VIII. Great labours bestowed by Robinson

Crusoe making a boat. . He provides himself with
fresh clothes.. ..............
Chap. IX. Robinson Crusoe succeeds in launching
his boat, and determines to sail round his island. .
Chap. X. Robinson Crusoe returns to his cave and
resumes his work. His dog dies. . He sees the print
of a foot on the sand, and finds the remains of a.
cannibal feast" ..

Page

1
18
27

38
44

58

61

76

88

'38viii ('ON'I'EN'i'S.
Page
Chap. XI. Robinson Crusoe attacks the cannibals
and delivers one of their victims. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95
Chap. XII. ' Robinson Crusoe gives the name of Fri-
day to the savage whom he rescued, and who
learns to assist him in his labours. New compa-
nions in misfortune.. .. .. .. ...... .. .. 112
Chap. XIII. Arrival of an European ship, the crew
of which had mutinied.... .. .. .. .. .. 130
Chap. XIV. Robinson Crusoe assists the captain in
recovering his ship, and embarks for Europe.. . . 144
Chap. XV. Robinson Crusoe arrives in England.
Meeting with his father.... .. .... .... .. .. l67
OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

a; ._.--

CHAP. I.

ROBINSON cnuson GIVES AN ACCOUNT or ms
gins? muons-

THE sun was descending towards the hori-
zon, and shed with magnificence its depart-
ing rays over the great waters which bathe
the coast of America. The heat had been
excessive throughout the middle of the day,
but it was now tempered by a gentle breeze,
which carried'rapidly over the waves a ves-
sel on a voyage from San-Salvador, a sea-,
port of Brazil, to the coast of Guinea in
Africa, for the purpose of carrying on the
slave trade. This vessel, which was laden
with iron-ware, mounted six cannon. The

crew consisted of fourteen men, including '
. B
the captain, his son, and the supercargo, or
person appointed to superintend the inte-
rests of those at whose expense the vessel
had been fitted out. This person was named
Robinson Crusoe. He was seated on the.
deck, and appeared absorbed in profound
and melancholy reflection. The captain,
having a few moments' leisure, sat down
beside him. " \Vell, Mr. Englishman,"
said be (for thus the Portuguese composing
the ship's crew always addressed Robinson
Crusoe, who was a native of England),
" well, what think you of our voyage? Has
it not commenced in a way that may induce
us to hope for a favourable result? We liave
been tWelve days at sea, and have not yet
experienced a single accident."---" But,"
replied Robinson Crusoe, "one moment of
misfortune may bury in oblivion whole years
of prosperity."------" Oh, oh!" said the Por-
tuguese, " your thoughts are gloomy to--
day."--" It is because this day revives sad re-
collections in my mind."--" How so ?"--" It
v was this day seven years...yes, seven years
ago this very day...when, by the vilest in-
gratitude, I abandoned the best of fathers
and the fondest of mothers."----" So much
the worse, Mr. Robinson; such recollections
are not very pleasant at sea. But you are a
young man, you may again return to your
native country; your parents are perhaps
still living; you may obtain their forgive-
ness, and be happy yet...come, come, think
no more about it."---" I would willingly fol-
low your advice," replied Robinson Crusoe,
" but since I pass the whole year without
ever thinking on my faults, it is but just
that I should devote at least one day to re-
pentance...and I know not how it is, but
the affliction which weighs upon my mind,
is to-day more insupportable than ever: it
appears as though some terrible misfortune
was hanging over me.'_'--" It is merely regret"
that disturbs you thus," said the captain;
" but take courage, and hope for the best:
your father will forgive you."--" Alas !" re-
plied Robinson Crusoe, "I do not doubt
the goodness of his heart; I have experi-
enced a thousand proofs of it: I am well
convinced, that should I ever enjoy the hap-
piness of seeing him again, he will fondly
press me :to his bosom; but, though he
B 2
should utter the words, ' I forgive you !' can
I ever forgive myself for the injury I have
done him, for the sorrow with which I have
embittered his old age, and the tears which
my conduct has forced from him ? If I had
had any reason for quitting the home where
so much tenderness was bestowed on my
infancy! but far from it: I was too kindly
treated, and at length became weary of per-
fect happiness. such is the dissatisfied na-
ture ofman !...

" I was born in the city of York, in Eng-
land. My father, after having made a
handsome fortune in trade, retired to a beau-
tiful country-house, to spend the latter part
of his life free from care and trouble. 4 He
was then about the age of fifty, and might
reasonably hope to see many happy years.
I was his only child, and in me all his dearest
affections were centred. If he congratu-
lated himself on the thought of possessing
a handsome competency, it was more for
my sake than his own. ' Robinson,' he said,
'if you are wise, you may be the happiest
of men; you possess every thing that can
render you comfortable, and your situation
in life will not be so elevated as to excite
envy.'

" Alas ! he spoke to a person who was un-
worthy to enjoy the happiness he had pre-
pared for him. From the very moment when
my understanding first began to unfold it-
self, I was tormented by a restless spirit and
a thirst for novelty; the desire of going to
sea and visiting distant countries was my
ruling passion. I even ventured to disclose
my wishes ; but the first words I uttered
spread consternation through my family. I
beheld the tears of my mother--that alone
might for ever have closed my mouth on the
subject; but I returned to it repeatedly, reg .
gardless of wounding the heart of the best
of parents. My father, who had at first
threatened me with his displeasure, now en--
deavoured by reasoning to overcome the
silly wishes that had entered my mind: he
drew a flattering picture of the situation in
which Providence had placed me, and as-
sured me that whatever country I might vi-
sit, or whatever degree of fortune I might __
enjoy, I should never find the'happiness I' '
was about to forsake. ' And what would

13 3
you seek in distant countries ?' pursued he;
'do you imagine you will find more tran-
quillity there than in this house, or meet
with more tenderness than in the society of
your mother? Leave adventurers to seek
their fortunes, my son, and enjoy that which
Heaven has enabled me to bequeath to you.
Your imagination torments you, or rather
you are weary of a life of idleness. Well !
seek for occupation; enter into business.
Though you do not need the assistance of your
country, your country needs yours. Let others
serve her for interest; you may serve her for
honour; it is your duty to do so. I say nothing
of your mother and myself; but, my son, do
you imagine that we can separate from you
without regret? Have you reflected on the
sorrow we shall experience when you forsake
us? 'Ve shall be alone, abandoned; and
shall die when you are not near to close our
eyes. But whatever distress you may occa-
sion us, we can never cease to pray for you:
yet Heaven may not bless you as we could
wish; yOu may, perhaps, become a prey to
remorse for having despised our counsel ;
and if you be doomed never to see us more,
the recollection of your imprudent conduct
will pursue you wheresoever you go, and
will prove the torment of your old age.'

" Such were the words which my father
addressed to me. I was deeply moved; the
tears fell from my eyes; my parents hoped
that I had abandoned my error, and for a
short time I sincerely relinquished all inten-
tion of going abroad. But the chimeras
which I had so long cherished in my mind
by degrees revived, and ruled me as pow-
erfully as before. I rejected every proposal
that was made to me respecting the choice
of a profession: I listened with ill-humour
to the prudent advice which was given to
me, and threatened to quit hOme without
the consent of my father. My heart became
hardened, and I even regarded the aflliction
of my mother with indifference.

" However, it would probably have been
a long time ere I should have attempted to
put my design into execution, had not an
opportunity unexpectedly presented itself.
One day, when I chanced to 'be at Hull,
whither I had gone without any bad inten-
tion, I met one of my companions who was
on the point of departing for London by
sea, on heard his father's vessel. He in-
vited me to accompany him, and the better
to persuade me, he employed the usual al-
lurement of seamen, observing that my pas-
sage would cost me nothing. I then re-
solved to consult neither father nor mother;
I did not even take the trouble of writing a
letter to inform them of my departure. In
a transport of joy I went on board the vessel,
and as we departed from the shore I fancied
I had attained the summit of my wishes.
That day, the most fatal of my life, was the
1st of September 1651. As I before ob-
served to you, it was this day seven years.
I was then just twenty.

" But I had soon cause to repent of my
folly: a violent storm arose during the pas-
sage, and made us all despair of our lives;
to me it appeared a punishment of Heaven,
and filled me with a strong desire to return
home on the very first opportunity. Unfor-
tunately, those sentiments vanished with
the storm. On my arrival in London, I
wandered about the town without knowing
what to do with myself : very little would
have prevailed on me to return to my pa-
rents, as very little did actually induce me
to sail for the coast of Africa. This irreso-
lution arose not so much from the desire of
travelling, which had formerly harassed my
mind, as the shame I should have endured
on again seeing my friends and acquaint-
ances. I fancied I should be pointed at on
my return home, and that no one would ever
speak to me without a reproach.

"Whilst I was deliberating with myself
as to what course I should adopt, I learnt
that a vessel was on the point of sailing for
the coast of Guinea. The persons to whom
I spoke concerning this voyage described
it in the most agreeable point of view, and
assured me that I might make a fortune in
that part of the world with the greatest ease
imaginable. Another circumstance contri-
buted still more to fix my determination: I
became acquainted with the captain of the
vessel, and quickly found that he was an
honest and generous-hearted man. I placed
myself without hesitation under his guid-
ance. He gave me excellent advice, which
I had the gbod sense to follow: I embarked,~-... .o-- m,

10 ADVENTURES or

on a venture, a sum of money, which
though trifling was soon augmented through
the probity and disinterestedness of the cap-
tain. He informed me what goods it would
be advisable to carr V out, and how to dis--
pose of them to the best advantage. Every
thing succeeded to my wishes, and on my
return from Africa I found myself possessed
of the sum of three hundred pounds. This
success induced me to venture on plans
which I was totally unable to execute, and
at length brought about my ruin. Instead
of repairing home to solicit my father's for-
'giveness, I once again embarked for Gui-
nea, in the hope of making a rapid fortune,
and afterwards returning to my native coun-
try with what I considered greater honour.
But Heaven punished my ambition, which
made me forget every sentiment of nature.
Our voyage this time was extremely unfa-
vourable, and as we were sailing between the
Canary Islands and the coast of Africa, we
were overtaken by a Turkish corsair of Sal-
lee much more powerful than ourselves, who,
after an Obstinate engagement, captured our
vessel and reduced us to slavery.ROBINSON cnvson. lI \-

" I fell to the share of the Turkish cap- \
tain, who carried me to Sallee, a sea-port -
belonging to the Moors. My condition in
captivity was not so distressing as I had
imagined it would be, for my master was a
most humane man. He took me to his
country-house, which was on the sea-shore,
and entrusted me with the cultivation of his
garden. I occasionally went out to fish
with him or some of his domestics. This '
latter occupation very much pleased me, \
particularly as it afforded me the hope of \\

regaining my freedom. For such an enter- \

prize the greatest courage was of course re- .
quisite, but in that respect I was by nomeans \
deficient; and, besides, I thought it would ,'

be quite as well to die as to live in a state.
of slavery. For two whple years I anxiously
watched for the favourable opportunity
which might restore me to my natural free-
dom: it at length presented itself, and I did
not fail to embrace it.

" My master, with three or four of his
friends, one day intended to go out on a fish/

ing excursion; and he directed me to deposit
in the boat an abundant supply of provie

/
sions, together>> with several guns, as they

wished to amuse themselves by shooting 6

birds as well as fishing. I obeyed his orders,
and placed every thing in readiness. At
the appointed hour, however, he sent to in;
form me that he could not go; but as his
friends had promised to dine with him, and
they should want fish at table, he intended-
to send me, accompanied 'by a man and a
b0y,'to fish along the coast.

" This circumstance made an extraordi-
nary impression upon me. I fancied my

chains were already broken. My determi- .

nation was instantly fixed, and I began to
make arrangements for the grand enterprize
which I had so long meditated. I hastily
conveyed an additional quantity of bread
and biscuits into the little cabin of the boat,

not forgetting, at the same time, to augment

the supply of powder and shot.

" I had no sooner done this than the man
and the boy arrived. We untied the boat
' and rowed of? from the shore. My heart beat

violently at, the very thought of the project i

I was about to attempt. But Heaven was
pleased to assist me: a thick fog arose,

   

"1
E
i
g

E
a

i

I
!

 

l
'
a

\

i
J
,.
E
i
E

A

i
'2
S. .

\

J.

   

 
   

. a2.

.'l..---.

;

pagalfi.

1"

a...
1w.

l Or.
a. \m...

,

 

\
V .r...

25%

53."
x

m.
.

 

c alimo" frotm S

on. Crusoe es

Robins

dfleex

'0

Paul

L

n

7107' 071).

P. (b7

'1;

w

b y Jflm

.1318,

'1

7

726.1% V

.Z'nblir
which rendered it totally impossible for
those on shore to discern what was taking
place at a certain distance out at sea.

" Having reached the spot where we in-
tended to fish, I seized the opportunity, when
I observed my companion standing on the
edge of the boat, to plunge him suddenly-
overboard. He immediately rose above wa-
ter, for he was an excellent swimmer; he
called upon me, and entreated that I would
take him into the boat, vowing to follow me
from one corner of the world to the other,
if I would only save his life. Without
heeding his supplications, I took up a gun,
pointed it at him, and addressed him in the
following way: ' Hark ye, my friend, I have
done you no harm, and intend to do you
none, if you only promise to be quiet. You
can swim ashore very well if you please ,
the sea is calm, make the best of your way
to the coast, and let us part on good terms,
but if you venture to approach the boat, I
swear to discharge this musket at your head,
for I am resolved on obtaining my liberty'
He was probably intimidated by the ratios
lute tone in which I spoke; for he immedi-

c
ately turned and swam towards the shore,
which he reached in safety.

" The little boy, who was greatly terri-
fied, threw himselfat my feet and entreated
that I would spare his life: he doubtless
supposed I intended to kill him. I assured
him of the contrary, and promised to treat
him with kindness if he would second me.
He swore by Mahomet that he would do
whatever I might command.

" As I was well aware that the Moors
would pursue me towards the coast of Spain,
I took a contrary course, by proceeding to
the south along the coast of Barbary. In
this direction I could only meet with regions
either entirely desert, or inhabited by sa-
vages; but I entertained far less horror of
wild and ferocious beasts than of falling
into the hands of the Moors, who shew no
mercy towards their slaves who have escaped
from captivity.

" I shall not attempt to describe all I suf-
fered during upwards of twenty days which
I spent in sailing along the African coast:
I frequently went ashore to kill such ani-
mals as might serve for our support. At'A .4er

.amyw." .,, ___,.,,,,

mad/mm>> . ---

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15

length, as we were passing between Cape
Verd and the islands which bear its name,
we came within sight of a Portuguese ves-
sel, the crew of which immediately sent out
a boat to our assistance. The captain re-
ceived us with the utmost kindness, and was
greatly astonished on hearing the account
of my adventures. I offered him all I pos-
sessed, namely, my boat and its contents,
which was in truth no contemptible present.
He thanked me, and observed that he should
for ever reproach himself if he had saved
my life only to plunge me into a state of
misery worse than the situation from which
I had escaped. ' I will take charge of your
property,' said he, ' and will conduct you to
Brazil, whither we are now proceeding; but,
on our arrival there, every thing shall be re.
stored to you with the most scrupulous fide-
lity. I will treat you as I should myself
wish to be treated under similar circum-
stances. This is merely fulfilling the com-
mand of God, and it is a duty which I per-
form with pleasure.' .

" He kept his promise. At Brazil all my
property was restored to me, and the cap-

0 2
tain advised 'me to sell my boat and return
to England. I adopted only one-half of this
good advice; I disposed of my boat, and
with the money, joined to some other ar-
ticles in my possession, I purchased a piece
of land to form a plantation, in the hope
that fortune would smile on me as she had
smiled on others. This would have been a
prudent speculation for a man who had no
other resource; but what need had I to la-
bour for a fortune in Brazil, when I might
tranquilly have enjoyed one in my native
country? But I was resolved not to return
without wealth, that I might have to endure
the less reproach for having followed my own
inclination. So far from entertaining a
thought of returning to England, I availed
myself of a favourable opportunity of trans-
ferring to Brazil the funds which I had left
in London when I sailed on my second
voyage to Africa.

" This money, joined to the most inde-
fatigable industry, speedily rendered my
plantation profitable; during the four years
I have spent in Brazil my original stock is
quadrupled. But I am still unsatisfied; I
wish to incur fresh hazards which may per-
haps hasten the moment when I can return
with aflluence to my family and friends. I
recollect that I was very successful on my
first voyage to Africa; why may I not be so
again? I am tired of a planter's life, and
am more than ever anxious to return to my
country. I am perhaps to blame in this
new enterprize; some secret voice seems to
whisper that I am--but what can I do?
Though I have already reaped considerable
profits, yet it would require four years
more to realize the sum which I wish to lay
at the feet of my father; and four years ap-
pear like four centuries : I have not patience
to wait for their termination."--- _

" Well, well, Mr. Crusoe," said the cap-
tain, " take courage, and all may yet be well :
in one year at sea you may gain twice as
much as in the four years which it would be
necessary for you to spend on shore."

" Heaven grant it may be so, captain; it
is not interest that induces me to offer up
this prayer, but the wish of enjoying tran-
quillity of mind in the society of my parents.

I am convinced that I can never be happy'

03
until I hear my father say: ' I forgive you
for all the sorrow you have occasioned us.' "

CHAP II.

THE SKI PWRECK.

VVHILST Robinson Crusoe and the cap-
tain were thus conversing together, the sun
disappeared behind some thick clouds,
which it tinged with glowing red; night
began to overspread the ocean, and the
wind blew with greater violence than before.
The captain quitted the deck to proceed to
his occupation, and Robinson Crusoe retired
to his cabin, where he threw himself on his
hammock, overcome by the sad recollections
that crowded on his mind.

He at length fell asleep, and for a short
time forgot his sorrows; but he was suddenly
roused by the noise of the ship's crew; the
wind whistling among the sails, and the waves
dashing against the sides of the vessel.A.-.

.l. "31:2,...

 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19

He hastened to ascend the deck. A hurri-
cane had arisen during the night, and raged
with such violence that there was every rea-
son to dread it would be attended by some
fatal result. The storm was far from abating
with the return of daylight; and the seamen,
who were accustomed to the climate, plainly
foresaw that the danger would not speedily
cease. For the space of twelve days the ship
was driven about in every direction, a prey
to the fury of the winds; and the crew, in a
continual state of apprehension, expected
that every day would be their last. Three
men perished during the storm: two fell
overboard, and the third died of an inflam-
matory fever. The vessel, from the efl'ects
of the tempest, leaked in such a way as to
be completely unfit for the long voyage
which had at first been proposed. The dan-
ger augmented every moment.

At the conclusion of the twelfth day, how-
ever, the wind somewhat abated, and the
captain took advantage of that moment of
respite to ascertain the latitude and discover
the situation of the vessel. He held a con-
sultation with Robinson Crusoe, and they

4,",

1
S

.F-
'4'
both agreed as to the impossibility of pro-
ceeding farther; they accordingly resolved
to direct their course towards Barbadoes, or
some of the islands in the possession of the
English, in the hope of obtaining assistance.
But even this was impracticable: a second
tempest arose as violent as the former one,
and the ship was driven so far out of the way
of all human commerce, that even had the
crew escaped the fury of the waves, they
would have incurred a far greater risk of
being devoured by savages, than of finding
means to return to their country.

In this dreadful extremity the wind still
raged with violence; but day had no sooner
dawned than one of the seamen was heard
to exclaim " land ! land I" At these joyful
words every one hurried on deck to gain a
sight of the happy country for which they
had so devoutly prayed; but in one moment
the vessel struck against a sand-bank, and
her motion was completely stopped. The
sea broke over her with such Impetuosity that
immediate destruction was looked for. The
seamen, filled with despair, were driven into
their close quarters to shelter themselves from.~>>J.fn"'~a.-n{b-4\'.M

3..
1:;
:i
'1'
.5"
137
ii

 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 21

the fury of the sea. It was scarcely to be
hoped that the ship could remain in that situ-
ation, even for a few moments, without going
to pieces, if a calm did not arise by a sort of
miracle. All remained motionless, every in-
stant expecting death, and preparing for
another world.

Contrary to all expectations, the vessel
remained in this situation for some time With-
out breaking, and the captain, with a view
to encourage the seamen, declared that the
storm was subsiding. But even allowing it
had entirely abated, all hope seemed lost;
for the vessel stuck so fast in the sand that
it was impossible to get her out.

The first moment of terror having passed
away, the crew began to reflect on the means
of escaping, at least from death, and of seek-
ing refuge in the land which lay before them.
But this was a hazardous attempt, for the
long-boat which had been towed to the vessel,
was lost, and the cutter appeared too small
to encounter the fury of the waves: it was,
however, the last resource; and this re-
source was the more urgent, as the 'vessel
threatened every moment to go to pieces;
indeed, some declared that it had already
broken.

The pilot, with the assistance of some of
the seamen, speedily got out the cutter.
Eleven men, all that now remained of the
crew, joyfully leapt into it. They offered up
a prayer to Heaven, and then resigned them--
selves to the mercy of the ocean. Though
the storm had, in reality, considerably abated,
yet the sea rose to a dreadful height, and it
appeared certain that the frail cutter must
either be dashed to pieces on the rocks, or
sink beneath the furious waves. The wind
raged with such violence, that to guide the
boat was impossible. In spite of all the ef-
forts of the unfortunate men, they were driven
along at the mercy of the tempest, and they
pictured death in every wave that rose above
them. Pale, bewildered, unable to commu-
nicate with each other, they alternately in-
voked the mercy of Heaven, and uttered the
exclamations which terror forced from them.
Their danger was even increased by their
total ignorance of the situation of the boat
with respect to the coast, which they were
endeavouring to reach : they, besides, knew
not whether it Was low or high, rock or sand;
:1- whether the refuge they sought might not
prove as dangerous as the storms of the
' ocean; or, finally, whether it was entirely
1. deser t, or inhabited by savages or wild beasts.
Whatever might ensue, their destruction, 1n
' some way or other, seemed inevitable.

Finally, after rowing, or rather being
, driven along, for the space of a league and
5 a half, a wave like a mountain came rolling
along, and falling with a frightful noise, swal-
lowed up the boat and all Within it: the
-; unfortunate crew immediately disappeared
i beneath the enormous mass, scarcely having
sufficient time to recommend themselves to
EHeaven.

It were useless to attempt a description of
this moment of horror: it was a picture which
surpasses imagination. One man alone sur-
vived the dreadful catastrophe . that man
i was Robinson Crusoe. After being carried

IL..."

x'ze-Irl'

cast on the shore, though almost in a lifeless
state; animated by this prospect and theimpe-
rious desire of self preservation, which so for-
cibly appeals to every heart, he made an effort,
rose, and endeavoured to advance further on
the land before the waves should again over-
whelm him. But this seemed next to impos-
sible; for, on looking behind him, he beheld
another wave as furious as the former on the
point of breaking over his head. All he
could do was to hold in his breath, to endea-
vour to rise to the surface of the water, and
to float towards the shore, for there was
- every reason to fear that the Wave would '
once more wash him into the middle of the

sea. Whilst he was thus deliberating on the _
means of escaping death, he was over-
whelmed by a mass of water between twenty
and thirty feet in height, which carried him
with violence towards the shore. He held in ,
his breath to avoid being drowned; but had
this constraint lasted for any length of time
he would probably have been sufl'ocated.
Fortunately, he had power to raise his head
above the water, which afforded him time to
draw breath and to recover his strength. A
' moment after he was again hurried beneath
the water; but finding that the wave had
broken, he made an effort to dart forward,away on file rock.

cast

SOC

sum ('1'11

Robin

page .26.

,Z'ultllklml 33:1/1'1'1'5'1"). I) 1' Jlin'rllr , (Ivmzr (177$.wa .

\
E
if;
9-!
G
3;
'15
'43
a
,_
.'1'
;\
it

 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25

and joyfully felt the ground beneath his
feet.

He remained for some moments motion--
less to recover his breath, and to wait until
the water should flow back again. He then
rushed forward, and ran towards the shore
with all the swiftness of which he was capa-
ble. But this was not sufficient to rescue
him from the fury of the sea which was once
more on the point of overwhelming him ; it
rose and carried hinnforward with the same
violence as before, the shore being very flat.

This last misfortune had well nigh proved
fatal to poor Robinson Crusoe, for he was
dashed against a rock with so much violence
that he became insensible, and was unable to .
make any motion to save himself: he re-
ceived a severe blow on his breast, which for
some time deprived him of respiration. On
recovering. he heard the waves recede with
their accustomed roaring noise; the first .
thing he did was to grapple with all his
strength to catch a firm hold of the rock
against which he had been thrown. The
waves were not so high as at first, for he was
now near land, and he never quitted his

D
hold until they had passed and repassed over-
him. He made another spring, which brought
him so close to the shore, that though the
waves still covered him they had not suf-
ficient power to carry him off his feet. Fi-
nally, only one more efi'ort was necessary to
release him from his dreadful situation: his
feet touched the shore, and he ascended a
little rising ground, where he fell prostrate,
overcome by fatigue and exhaustion, for he
had no longer reason to dread the fury of the
waves. He was saved, and preserved from
a death which appeared inevitable. His'exg
traordinay deliverance filled his heart with
transports, which in some measure contri-
buted to restore his strength. He fell on his
knees, and with uplifted hands returned
thanks to Heaven for the happiness of being
still permitted to enjoy life.
CHAP. III.

ROBINSON CRUSOE SWIMS TO THE SHIP.

HAVING relieved his heart by this efi'u-
sion of gratitude, Robinson Crusoe rose to
look around him. He wandered along the
sea-shore reflecting on the fate of his unfor-
tunate comrades, who had all perished be-
neath the waves. He cast his eyes towards
the spot where the vessel had been Wrecked;
but the sea was so furious, and the sand-
bank at so great a distance from the shore,
that. it was impossible to distinguish any

.thi-ng.

However, as he entertained no hope of
deriving assistance from the ship, he began
to take a view of the coast, and found to
his sorrow that it was a wild and barren
country, which had apparently never before
been trodden by any human foot: all seem-
ed to announce a desert land. The joy he
had at first experienced was new entirely at
an end; and he beheld all the horrors of
his situation. He had no dry clothes to

D 2
substitute for his wet ones, no food to sa-
tisfy his hunger, nor a drop of water to allay
the thirst with which he was overcome: he
was even without arms to defend himself or
to procure food; and he could therefore ex-
pect only to die of starvation, or to become
the prey of some ferocious beast. A knife,
a pipe, and a little tobacco in a box, were
his only riches.

lVIeanwhile daylight began gradually to
disappear. This augmented the despair of
poor Robinson Crusoe, when he reflected
that it was chiefly in the darkness of night
that wild beasts roam in quest of prey.

He looked around him in vain for some
place of concealment, he beheld none ex-
cept an old fir- -tree, the thick branches of
which seemed to promise him a refuge.
But as he was dying of thirst, he resolved
first of all to look out for some water, and
he soon had the good fortune to meet with
an excellent spring. Having drank heart-
tily of the water, he put a little tobacco
into his mouth; this was his only repast,
and it made him fully sensible of the
destitute situation of the man who is cut
off from the society of his fellow-crea-
tures. He then ascended the tree, and
having fixed on a place where the branches
were strong and closely interwoven; he
stretched himself out as well as he was able;
and lest he might fall in his sleep, he tied
himself to the trunk of the tree by means
of his belt, which was tolerably long. His
extreme fatigue soon made him forget the
inconvenience of his resting-place, and he
slept soundly until he was awakened by the
chirping of a vast number of birds. The
sun had already risen above the horizon, the
sky was clear and the storm had dispersed.
He was very much astonished on observing
that, in consequence of the rising of the tide,
the ship had been disengaged from the sand-
bank, and driven close to the rock before-
mentioned, against which he himself had .
been dashed with so much violence. At this
he was overjoyed; he descended from the
tree, and hastened towards the shore, as
though he had expected to meet his unfor- '
tunate companions. When he found him-
self so near the vessel, and reflected that

the crew might all have been preserved had
D 3
they remained on board, he found it impos~
sible to restrain his tears. But, in his situa-
tion, tears were of no avail, and he accord-
ingly began to deliberate on the means of
reaching the vessel. He waited until the
ebb of the tide, when he stript off his clothes,
plunged into the water, and in a few moments
swam to the ship. A rope which hung from
the helm assisted him in mounting the
deck. The first thing he did was to
search for food to satisfy his hunger; he
found the remains of the last meal which
he had shared with his unfortunate com'
panions, and he eat with the utmost avidity,
whilst at the same time he arranged his fu-
ture plans, for every moment was then valu-
able. He drank a little rum which he found
in the captain's cabin, which revived his
spirits and inspired him with fresh courage
to sustain his severe trials.

Having thus satisfied the demands of
hunger, he began to inspect the ship; but
every object revived the recollection of his
ill-fated companions who were now no more.
He called on them aloud, as though be
imagined they could hear him, whilst he
shed a torrent of tears. " Oh! my friends,"
he exclaimed, "shall I never see you more?
I am for ever separated from the rest of my
fellow-creatures! Ah! I should be happy
were I doomed to pass my days in the so-
ciety of the man I least loved! . . . .But I am
myself the sole cause of, my misfortune; I
despised the wise counsels of my parents, I
brought affliction on their old age, and
Heaven now punishes me."

Only one living creature answered his com-
plaints; Faithful, the captain's dog, which
had been shut up at the beginning of the
storm, lest he should interrupt the seamen
in working of the ship. Faithful now an-
swered Robinson Crusoe, by howling and
scratching at the door of the closet in which
he was confined. He ran to liberate the pri-
soner, and the poor animal rushed out and
loaded him with caresses. Crusoe could not
forbear shedding tears: Faithful was a friend
whom Heaven had preserved for him; at
least he was not doomed to live in total soli-
tude.

Whilst Faithful ran to devour the frag-
ments which remained on the table, Robin-
son Crusoe continued his search about the
vessel. He found that she was bulged and a
great deal of water in the bold; but as she
had been driven against a bank of hard sand,
her stern laid lifted up, and her head low to
the water. Her quarter was therefore per-
fectly free, and all the contents of that part
of the ship were dry.

Crusoe immediately set to work. On board
the vessel were several spare yards, one or
two top-masts, and two or three large spars
of wood; of these he determined to form a
raft. For this purpose he threw overboard
all that were not too heavy and could be tied
together with ropes. He then'went down
the ship's side, tied together the largest
pieces of wood, and placed planks across
them, so that his raft, though rudely con-
structed, was capable of bearing a consider-
able weight. Necessity urged him to exert
his industry and courage; and in the space
of an hour he finished more work than he
would have done in half a day on any ordi-
nary occasion.

With respect to the articles which he wish-
ed to convey'to his island, he selected the7 '

\\\SS\\.\

\\\\\\\

 

f "Mix/2 "'1 T 0 "'r 1' L'q-'S' [VIEW r '1". I'M-n" :rfd'fl'rul/J. V x
most useful and not the most valuable. He
first took three sailors' trunks, which he
opened by forcing the locks, and having
emptied them, he lowered them down on the
raft by a rope. The first he filled with pro-
visions, such as bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, and
a small portion of corn that had been laid
aside for some fowls: the latter had, how-
ever, long since been killed. There was be-
sides a small quantity of barley and wheat
mixed together. He likewise found several
cases of bottles which had belonged to the
captain ; some were filled with cordial-
water, and there were about twenty-four
bottles of arrack. He arranged them sepa--
rately, for it was not necessary, nor even
practicable, to place them all in the trunk.
Whilst he was thus employed, he observ:
ed that the tide was beginning to flow, though
very gradually, and he soon had the mor-
tification of seeing his coat, waistcoat, and
shirt, which he left on the shore, floating
along the surface of the water. This acci-
dent led him to think of augmenting his
wardrobe, and he soon repaired, his loss with
interest. He likewise wished to take some
tools for working when he should go ashore;
and, after searching for some time, he dis-
covered the carpenter's chest. This was,
indeed, a treasure; and a treasure far more
valuable to him than a ship laden with gold.
He hastily let it down along with the rest of
the trunks, and placed it on his raft without
taking time to examine it; for he was well
aware that every thing it contained would be
of the utmost value to him.

In addition to what he already possessed,
he was anxious to obtain gunpowder and
arms. In the captain's cabin there were
two very good fowling-pieces, and a pair
of pistols; he carried them away, together
with a few horns filled with powder, a little
bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. He
searched a long time for three barrels of
gunpowder which he knew were on board
the ship; he at length discovered them, after
having ransacked every corner. The water
had penetrated into one of the barrels: but
the other two were dry, and in good con-
dition : he immediately conveyed them to
the raft, with the gun and pistols. He did
l
I

ROBINSON causoa. 35

not forget his new and only friend, poor
Faithful, and he gave him, as companions,
the two cats of the ship, whom he confined
in a cage, and who appeared to undertake
their new voyage with considerable reluc-
tance.

All being thus arranged, he began to
think on how he should regain the shore.
Without either sail or rudder, this was a
difficult undertaking, and a slight breeze
would have been sufficient to overset the
whole cargo. But the sea was calm; he
knew that the tide, which was rising, would
carry him toward the shore, and the wind,
though gentle, was in his favour. He had
the good fortune to see his raft float along
smoothly for the space of a mile. He however
remarked, that it deviated a little from the
point at which he had previously landed, from
which he concluded that there must be an
indraught of the water, and that he might
possibly find some creek which would answer
the purpose of a port to land his treasures.
He was not mistaken in this conjecture: he
was carried along by the tide into a little
river, where he had well nigh been wrecked
.36 ADVENTURES or

a second time : one end of his raft run
aground in the sand, whilst the other con-
tinucd to float, and thus his whole cargo
had nearly fallen into the water. Poor Ro-
binson Crusoe, almost reduced to despair,
leant with all his force against the chests to
prevent them from sliding into the water;
but his strength was insufficient to extricate
the raft. He dared not even alter his position,
and he remained in the same attitude nearly
half an hour, in the hope that the rising of
the tide would bring him a little more upon
the level. At length .the raft floated once
more, and Crusoe, with the assistance of an
old oar which he found in the cutter, arriv-
ed, though with considerable difficulty, at
a little creek, where he resolved to wait until
the ebbing of the tide should leave the raft
dry. He now, for the first time, found him-
self in secure possession of the treasures he
had conveyed from the vessel. In a trans-
port of joy he jumped ashore, and proceeded
to take a view of the country in search of an
habitation and some place of security to de--
posit his goods.

As he yet knew not whether he was on a' but.>> nag-.-

ROBINSON cnuson. 37

continent or an island, an inhabited country
or a desert, or whether he might not justly
dread becoming the prey of wild beasts.
About a mile from the spot where he stood
he observed a lofty and very steep mountain,
which appeared to rear its summit above
another chain of hills extending on the north.
He took up one of his guns and a pistol, and,
followed by his dog, proceeded to ascend
the mountain. After considerable trouble
and fatigue, he at length reached the sum-
mit. He then became fully sensible of all
the horrors of his situation ; for he found that
he was on an island, surrounded on every
side by the sea, without the possibility of
discovering any other object than a few dis-
tant rocks, and two islands, smaller than the
one on which he was, situated at a distance
of about three leagues to the west.

After this discovery he mournfully re-
turned to his raft, and began to carry ashore
the articles which he had brought from the
ship. This occupied him during the remain-
der of the day, and when night set in he
contrived to erect. a sort of bed-chamber, by
placing, one above another, the boxes and

E
planks which he had brought ashore. On
the following day he made a tent with the
sail which he had found on board the ship.

CHAP. IV.

ROBINSON CBUSOE RETURNS TO THE SHIP: HE
CONSTRUCTS A FORTIFIED HABITATION ON
THE ISLAND.

ROBINSON CRUSOE had been so success-
ful on his first voyage to the ship that he re-
solved to repeat his visit; he brought away
various articles, such as sugar, spices, flour,
biscuits, powder, cables, nails, a few ma-
thematical instruments, two telescopes, se-
veral books, pens, paper, ink--and, last of
all, money in gold and silver coin. Con-
sidering only his present situation, he was
once on the point of throwing it into the sea.
" Vile trash!" he exclaimed, " how con-
temptible it now appears to me ! it is scarcely
worth my while to stoop to pick it up! My
raft, once loaded, is to me a thousand times
more valuable than all the riches in the uni-
verse !" But he soon reflected that what he
had then despised might subsequently prove
useful, and he was right. They who sacri-
fice every thing to the present moment, with-
out ever bestowing a consideration on the
future, cannot hope to be happy at any pe-
riod of life.

He was preparing for another visit to the
ship, when the sky became overcast, and the
wind began to blow as at the approach of a
storm. This deterred him from venturing on
the sea; besides, the ship now contained no--
thing to excite his regret. He took shelter
beneath the tent which he had spread out at
a short distance from the shore. The storm
continued to rage with violence during the
whole of the night. On the following mornv
ing, when Robinson Crusoe cast his eyes to-
wards the sea, he no longer saw any traces
of the ship : it had sunk to the bottom. This
was another moment of despair. Though
the ship could not serve to convey him to
England, yet the very sight of it afi'orded
consolation to our unfortunate exile. When

misfortune separates us from the land that
E 2
gave us birth, we become endeared to every
object that serves to remind us of it; there
is, as it were, a point of communication
which approximates distances, and unites us
in imagination with those Who are happily
passing their days in the bosom of their na-
tive land.

But Robinson Crusoe was resigned to his
fate: it was possible to be far more unfortu-
nate than he really was, for he possessed
enough of all the necessaries of life to last
him for a considerable time. He thanked
Heaven for not having punished his faults
with more severity, and he sought to amelio-
rate his condition by the means which Pro-
vidence had left within his reach.

He immediately formed the design of erect-
ing a habitation to protect him against
the attacks of savages and wild beasts. One
can never be too prudent, and a wise man
provides against danger as well as want.
For these reasons Crusoe resolved not to fix
his abode beneath the little tent on the shore,
where the ground was low, marshy, and con-
sequently unwholesome, and there was, be-
sides, a deficiency of fresh water. Yet he
did not wish to go any great distance from
the coast, but to keep within sight of the
sea, so that, in case of any vessel appearing,
he might implore assistance by signals of
distress. .

At length, having carefully searched for a
considerable time, he met with a spot which
seemed likely to answer his purpose: it was
a little plain, situated at the foot of a high
hill, the front of which was as steep as the
side of a house. This plain was at one end
about a hundred yards wide, but it extended
to nearly double that width, with a gentle
declivity in the direction of the sea, forming
a vast carpet of verdure, watered by 3 lim-
pid serpentine stream: the hill sheltered it
from the rays of the sun. On this con-
venient and delightful spot, Robinson Cru-
soe determined to fix his abode. This was
very natural, for the hill being extremely
steep on the side of the plain, protected him
from all risk of an attack from the back of
his habitation. He had yet to secure him-
self against the approach of enemies from
the front and sides. Facing a cavity in the
side of the hill, close to which he had spread

15 3
out his tent, he fixed, in a semicircle, a
double row of strong-pointed stakes, about
six feet high, interwoven with branches:
they were supported on the inside by another
row of firm stakes, about two feet and a half
thick, so that neither man nor beast could
force a passage through them. It cost poor
Robinson Crusoe a vast deal of labour
and patience to shape the stakes and fix
them into the ground. He left no door or
aperture of any kind ; but he entered his
fortifications by means of a small ladder,
which, when he was in, he lifted over after
him.

In this little fortress, he enclosed his pro-
visions, gunpowder, 'arms--in a word, all he
possessed. He deposited beneath his tent
such . articles as were liable to be destroyed
by damp. His tent was double, and covered
over with tarred canvas, so that the rain could
not easily penetrate it. But he had, besides,
another place of refuge. The reader has al-
ready been informed that he had spread out
his tent in front of a cavity which appeared
in the centre of the hill. This cavity, though
not very deep, somewhat resembled the en-
trance to a cave. Crusoe undertook, with
the assistance of the tools he had brought
from the ship, to enlarge this hollow, so as to
convert it into a storehouse for such articles
as could not be deposited beneath his tent.
Time and patience enabled him to accomplish
his object. But a particular circumstance
c0ntributed to accelerate his labour :--one
day, during a severe storm, the lightning
seemed almost to have communicated with
his tent. Robinson Crusoe was less terrified
by the lightning than bya thought which
darted into his mind as swift as lightning it-
self. "Good Heaven l" said he, "all the
powder 1 brought from the ship is beneath
that tent. If the lightning should chance
to set it on fire in my absence, what would
become of me? Without my powder; how
can I defend myself? how can I provide for
my support when all my stock of provisions
is consumed?" He then applied himself
with double industry to the completion of
his cave. The stone was soft, and was there-
fore easily hewn out, and in a very short
time he formed several small apartments,
taking care to leave, in addition to the sup-
ports which served as partitions, large masses
in the middle of every room to support the
Weight of the vaults and roofs. He was
thus enabled to prevent the misfortune he
so much dreaded; for he distributed his
powder in a number of separate bags, so
that if; by any unforeseen accident, one por-
tion had exploded, the rest would have re-
mained uninjured.

CHAP. V.

INDUSTRY 0]? ROBINSON CRUSOE.

ROBINSON CRUSOE set the higher value
on his gunpowder, for he had on several oc-
casions experienced its utility. It would
certainly not have been prudent to have con-
sumed all the provisions which he brought
from the vessel, before he thought of pro-
curing a fresh supply; consequently, he had
frequently suspended the occupation in
which he was so busily engaged, to wage
war against the animals of his island. The
first he killed was a species of sparrow-hawk,
the flesh of which was by no means agree-
able , but he was soon compensated by
meeting with a sheogoat and her kid: their
flesh served to support him for a consider-
able time, and was a delicacy which in some
degree reconciled him to his solitude.

His situation was indeed a most hopeless
one; for, previous to the wreclt, the ship
had been driven, by the violence of the storm,
far from the ordinary course of European
vessels, so that there appeared no proba-
bility of a termination of his exile. But even
in this forlorn state, he was not entirely be~
reft of_ consolation ; others had been far
more unfortunate than he. "Well," he some-
times said, " my condition is indeed wretch-
ed; but where are my shipmates? eleven
of us got into the cutter in the hope of row-
ing ashore: I alone was saved. It is doubtless
better to be here than at the bottom of the
sea; it is right toview things on the good
as well as the bad side; and the blessings I
enjoy should console me under the misfor-
tunes that afliict me." These reflections
were not a vague display of philosophy by
which Robinson Crusoe sought to impose
on himself; he was really beginning to en-
joy content of mind. This was evident from
the regularity which then began to prevail
in his daily avocations; for it is a most just
observation, that order in a house is the
surest sign of the contentment and tranquil-
lity of its occupants. He spent two or three
hours every morning in shooting, and then
worked until eleven. At noon, after having
dined, he lay down to rest for a couple of
hours in consequence of the heat of the cli~
mate, and he then resumed his work until
evening. '

Having entirely finished his habitation, he
set about making different articles of, furni-
ture. He began with such things he stood
most in need of. Those which he completed
first were a table and chair. He next employ-
ed himself in mounting a grinding-stone
which he had brought from the ship, and
which was indispensable for keeping his tools
in proper order. Scarcely a day elapsed on
which he did not form and execute some new
plan. He was not discouraged'by difficulties;
he tried the same thing twenty times before
he gave it up, and would begin it forty times
rather than do it badly--unlike thoughtless
young persons, who, while studying the
sciences, or acquiring a profession amidst
all the comforts of life, are disheartened
by the slightest obstacle, and do things badly
for the sake of expedition.

The spirit of order essentially contributes
to our happiness, and Robinson Crusoe was
happy. He cheerfully went out in the morn-
ing to shoot, and returned with no less
satisfaction to his domestic labours; and
he was not without agreeable amusements.
His dog lay at his feet, and his parrot perched
on his shoulder; for he had lately surprised
a parrot in its nest, and it was now his con-
stant companion. Whilst he was at work,
he alternately conversed with his new friend,
and received the caresses of Faithful, who
was gay or sad, according as he saw his
master.

When evening approached, if he did not
feel inclined to lie down to rest, or if he had
any work to finish, he usually lighted his
lamp. This lamp was likewise the produc-
tion of his own hands. It wasa little earthen
vase, which he had shaped as well as he
could, and afterwards dried in the sun. The
oil which burnt in it was merely the fat of
the animals he had killed, and pieces of
ravelled rope served for the wick.

The ease with which he had made this
lamp, together with some other vessels
which he had never yet placed on the fire,
induced him to undertake a task of the same
kind, but much more important, which cost
him a great deal more trouble. He was fond
of soup, and had tasted none since the ship-
wreck for want of a pan to make it in; en-
couraged by his first success in pottery, he
resolved to attempt making a pan. The ves-
sel was speedily shaped, and to dry it in
the sun took but little time. Enjoying in
anticipation the excellent meals with which
he might thus regale himself, Robinson
Crusoe eagerly placed his pan on the fire,
having previously filled it with water, and
some portion of the flesh of a goat which
he had newly killed. But, alas ! the unfor-
tunate pan did not long retain its situation:
it was no sooner heated by the action of the
fire, than it cracked and fell in two, and
the meat and soup were mingled with the
ashes. Robinson Crusoe reflected long on
this accident before he devised the means
of preventing its recurrence. One day,
having kindled a large fire for cooking his
meat, he found, whilst he was stirring up
his wood in the fire, a piece of the same
pan, which had been baked as hard as a
stone and perfectly redf At sight of this,
a light seemed suddenly to break upon him:
" Certainly," said he, " my vessels may be
baked whole when they can be so well
baked in separate pieces; but how shall I
proceed ?"---He had no idea of the kind of
oven used by potters, nor of the way in
which they varnish the earthen-ware; , he
however knew that the lead which he had
brought from the ship would be useful for
the purpose. He accordingly ventured to
place one of his, newly-made pans on a large
fire: the flames soon rose round it on every
side, and became entirely red. He trembled
lest it should go to pieces, and on reflecting,
.he thought this very likely to happen if he
suffered the fire to abate too suddenly: after
having kept it up for about five or six hours
F
at the same degree of violence, he re-
duced it by degrees, until the pan became
so cool that he could take it up in his hand;
he then put it to the trial. It succeeded
beyond his expectations, and in a few
hours furnished him with some excellent
soup. He was overjoyed, and as heartily
congratulated himself as though he had
completed the most exquisite piece of
workmanship in the world.

By degrees his situation became more
and more supportable. Scarcely a day
elapsed in which he did not observe some
signal mark of the protection of Providence,
by leading him to discover some new source
of subsistence. He one day wanted some
bags for his gunpowder, and he shook at the
foot of the rock those which he had brought
from the ship; they had been used for hold-
ing corn to feed the fowls. He was not a
little surprised, some time afterwards, to
find ears of barley, corn and rice, springing
up on the spot where he had shook the bags.
He forgot the pains he had taken to clean
them before he applied them to a new pur-.
pose. Struck with this unforeseen event,
he regarded it as a miracle which Heaven
had wrought in his favour, and, throwing
himself on his knees, he uttered tran5ports
of gratitude towards the Deity. But when
he began to reflect on the circumstance, he
recollected the history of the bags, and
his pious gratitude to Heaven was soon at
an end; for superstition borders closely on
impiety. He did not reflect that it was only
through the guidance of Providence, that
he had scattered the corn on a part of the
ground that was shaded, instead of a spot
dried up by the sun; and instead of return-
ing thanks to Heaven for the blessing be-
stowed on him, he thought only of turning
it to the best advantage.

He had, on the preceding evening, been
lamenting his scanty store of biscuits, and
the necessity to which he was reduced of
consuming only a very small portion daily
until the moment when his stock should be
completely exhausted; but now his pre-
sumption and his hopes were boundless.
Without considering that his expectations
might be frustrated by the ordinary occur-
rences of nature, instead of praying that

r 2
Heaven would be pleased to bring to matu-
rity the seed he intended to sow, he was
already calculating the vast fields of corn
of which he would become the possessor,
and the granaries it would be necessary to
erect for storing the new riches, which would
every year increase a hundred-fold. It has
already been observed that Robinson Crusoe
was begining to enjoy content of mind ;
but the benign influence of religion had not
yet pervaded his heart. It is true he occa-
sionally repeated the name of the Almighty
through mere habit, but he constantly at-
tributed every thing to himself; and his ex-
traordinary success at length induced him to
believe that nothing was beyond his strength
and understanding. But the Sovereign of the
world severely punished this presumption,
which could only have arisen out of con-
tempt and neglect of his power; he prepared
for the ungrateful Robinson Crusoe a dread-
ful lesson, which for ever fixed him in the
path of duty.
CI-IAP. VI.

AN EARTHQUAKE.--ILLNESS 0F ROBINSON CRUSOE.

THE construction of his dwelling, together
with the skill and perseverance which had
been requisite to render it so extensive and
convenient, had excited the guilty vanity of
Robinson Crusoe; but Heaven thought fit
to make him sensible of his insignificance.

One day, whilst he was at work at the
back of his tent, the earth suddenly came
tumbling down from the edge of the hill
over his head, and two of the pillars he had
formed within the cavern, to support the
vault, fell with a tremendous crash. Not
knowing the real cause of this dreadful com-
motion, he supposed that part of the loof of
the cave had fallen m, which had happened
on a former occasion. He was afraid of belng
buried beneath the pieces of rock, and there-
fore made all possible haste to reach his
ladder. But he had no sooner crossed to
the other side of his fence, than he clearly
perceived that all the disorder was occasioned

F 3
by an earthquake. The earth three times
trembled beneath his feet, and the shocks
were so violent that the strongest buildings
must have been thrown down. A great
piece of the top of the rock fell with a noise
like thunder. Robinson Crusoe had never
before seen or heard of any thing to equal
it: he stood motionless with terror; but
his horror was increased when he beheld that
part of the hill fall in which all his riches
were deposited. At that moment he knew
not whether a fresh shock might not have
taken place in the interior of his cavern,
and he dared not venture to approach it.
He was seated on the ground, dreading to
make the slightest motion, but ready to fly
in case of danger, and looking anxiously
round him on every side. The sky was
quickly overspread with thick clouds; the
wind gradually rose, and in the space of
half an hour increased to a furious hurricane.
The sea was at the same time covered with
white foam, the waves inundated the shore,
trees were torn up by the roots; in a word,
Robinson Crusoe witnessed all the horrors
of a dreadful tempest. A calm at length
succeeded, but it was accompanied by a
tremendous fall of rain 3 it poured in torrents.
He took refuge in his tent, for it was no
longer possible to brave the fury of the storm,
and there appeared no signs of a return of
the earthquake. But the rain soon pene-
trated the tent, and he was compelled to seek
shelter in his cavern, though be every mo-
ment expected it to fall in upon him. There
he spent the remainder of the day and the
following night, a prey to anxiety and terror.

When the return of fair weather'enabled
him to quit the cavern, he began to inspect
his habitation and enclosure. One part of
his cavern was nearly filled with the masses
of stone which had been loosened by the
earthquake, and his tent had narrowly es-
caped being thrown down by a tree Which
the torrent of rain had swept down from
the hill. All his hopes of reaping an abun-
dant harvest now vanished: for the corn,
rice, and barley he had sown were completely

washed into the sea.
He was deeply afflicted by the losses he

had sustained; but he did not recognize the
hand that struck him, nor pray that the
wrath of Heaven might be averted. - He no
sooner recovered from the stupor occasioned
by the fatal event, than he resumed his con-
fidence and presumption. " I have," said
he, " lost all the seed I had planted round
my fence ; but at the distance of a gunshot,
I possess an abundant crop, uninjured by
the storm. It has even been benefited by
the vast torrent of rain. My tent has been
nearly destroyed, and my cavern filled with
rubbish: but these hands which created all,
can likewise repair the damage and restore
every thing to order. If earthquakes render
this part of the island dangerous, I can fix
my abode in some other quarter, where I
shall possess as much skill and strength as
I do here."

This arrogant language did not pass un-
punished. Robinson Crusoe had not long
reason to congratulate himself on the abun-
dant crop which he possessed at a gunshot
from his habitation: the animals of the
island in their search for food had devoured
every ear of corn.

As to his hands, on which he so confident-
ly relied for repairing the ravages of the
storm, and transporting his abode to some
more favourable situation, sickness soon de-
prived them of strength.

He had felt unwell for several days, but
he sought to persuade himself that his illness
was merely temporary, and would be at-
tended by no serious consequences. One
morning, however, he was seized with a vio-
lent fever, and was unable to rise the whole
of the day. He remained for several days
in a state of extreme debility, just having
sufficient power to call on Heaven for suc-
cour. The Almighty answered his prayers
by the following dream. He was just re-
covering from the first fit of fever, when he
fancied he was seated on the ground, on the
outside of his fence, on the very spot where
he had sat during the storm which succeed-
ed the earthquake. He thought he beheld
a man armed with a lance, descending in a
thick black cloud, surrounded by flame.
His figure was dazzling as the sun; his
majestic and imposing countenance too awful
to be described. Robinson Crusoe made an
effort to rise; but he seemed rivetted to the
spot by some supernatural power. He he
held the terrible phantom advance towards

him with the lance upraised, and in a voice

of thunder pronounced the following words: _
" Since thou hast not been brought to re-

pentance by Witnessing so many signs, thou

shalt die !" God is terrible and implacable

to those who forget his power; at least it

is in this point of view that they ever regard

him.

He started up overcome with terror. When
he had in some measure recovered, he began
to reflect on his dream in the hope of de-
stroying its fatal illusion: but his conscience
tormented him; he recollected all the bad
actions and evil sentiments which had drawn
down upon him the wrath of the Sovereign
Creator of the universe; the contempt he
had manifested for his father's counsels;
the aflliction in which he had plunged his
family for the sake of following his own
foolish fancies; the criminal enterprize in
which he had been engaged when he was
cast on the desert island ; finally, his ingra-
titude for the multiplied blessings . which
Providence had bestowed on him since his
shipwreck; and, overcome with remorse, heRobinson Crusoe reading Ehe Bible.
. page 60.

If..'t/;.c/I.-II','.\'.,>>1'1"; {flatlgx'f 17.3753. (hr/In- ('1'.'27511114'. .13
exclaimed, " Oh! I have richly merited all
I suffer !"

In vain did he endeavour to set his mind
at ease and compose himself to rest; where- .
ever he turned, the dreadful phantom was
before him; on whatever object he endea-
voured to fix his thoughts, they constantly
returned to the errors of his life and his
terrible dream. Not knowing what to do,
in a transport of violent agitation, he seized
a book which he had placed on a chair near
his bed, for the purpose of raising his lamp;
it proved to be a Bible: he opened, it and
with eager eyes glanced over several pages;
but his attention was soon arrested by the
following words, which seemed to have been
placed there expressly for his consolation:
--" Call upon me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
me." These words reminded Robinson
Crusoe that the God whom he had offended
was a merciful God; they relieved his af-
fliction, and diffused around his heart an
indescribable sentiment, which induced him
eagerly to continue reading the sacred vo-
lume. Every line furnished him with some
conSolatory assurance; his countenance be-
came serene, and his eyes lost their wildness.
The sweet smile of hope soon played upon
his lips; he heaved a sigh, and raised his
hands to Heaven. At that moment the
enormity of his errors was once more present
to his recollection; his blood boiled in his
veins, and his heart swelled with despair.
But the Holy Scripture had enabled him to
seek resources against himself. " Good
Lord !" he said, " have mercy on me; Thou
wilt not forsake me ! Thou, who hast par-
doned so many faults for the sake-of the
divine Redeemer of mankind l" He was so
weak that he could not continue kneeling;
he threw himself on his bed, addressing
fervent prayers to Heaven. Thus armed
with the shield of mercy, he gradually fell
asleep. His repose was tranquil, a smile oc-
casionally brightened up his countenance,
and he gently whispered the words : " Oh
Lord have mercy'on me; do not forsake
me l"
CHAP. VII.

RECOVERY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; HE VISITS
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE ISLAND.

ON the following day Robinson Crusoe
found himself considerably better; his fever
had greatly abated. The first thing he did
wasto return thanks to God and to implore
his assistance: this contributed to relieve
his sufferings. Prayer is not merely the
most sacred of all duties, but it is the
sweetest pleasure and highest recreation to
those in whom it is the effect of enlightened
piety and not servile fear; it leaves their
minds in a state of confidence and resigna-
tion, and makes the cares of life weigh lightly
on them.

He was perfectly free of fever the whole
of the day; but, being apprehensive of a re-
lapse, he began to reflect on the means of
effectually removing it. He knew nothing
of pharmacy, and was not provided with any
kind of medicine; but he recollected that
the people of Brazil in disorders of every

G
description scarcely ever employ any other
medicine than tobacco. Robinson Crusoe
had in his possession a roll of the Brazilian
tobacco; but how was it to be applied? He
immediately began to make experiments in
several different ways. He first put one of
the leaves into his mouth; he then steeped
a leaf in some rum and took a dose of it be-
fore he lay down to rest; and, lastly, he burnt
a quantity of tobacco leaves on the fire, and
held his nose and mouth over the smoke as
long as he could, without incurring the risk
of suffocation.

Having continued using the tobacco in
this manner for several days, he became en-
tirely free of fever; but many weeks elapsed
before he recovered his strength. He was
well convinced of the benefit he would de-
rive from exercise in the open air, and he
t00k advantage of the first moments of his
convalescence to go out and walk.

His strength was quickly restored, and he
determined to satisfy the wish he had enter~
tained of taking a careful survey of his
island. He directed his course towards the
little bay where he had first landed with his
raft. He walked along the sea-shore, and
having proceeded about two miles ascend-
ing, he found that the tide ceased to flow,
and that there was merely a little rivulet,
the water of which was extremely clear and
fresh.

This rivulet watered several beautiful
meadows, which were level and covered with
grass. At some distance from the sea, the
ground rose in the form of an amphitheatre.
Tobacco was growing in abundance on the
hills, and Robinson Crusoe likewise observed
many other plants with which he was un-
acquainted. " Alas," said he, " these plants
perhaps possess properties as salutary as the
tobacco from which I have derived so much
benefit; but they are lost to me-----my igno-
rance renders me incapable of applying them
to any useful purpose. If, during my youth,
I had devoted myself to the study of botany,
instead of wasting my time in idle amuse-
ments, I should now have been acquainted
with the virtues of these plants; for I recol-
lect having seen some of the same kind at
Brazil; but I trod them under foot without
even taking the trouble to inquire their

G 2
names." These reflections somewhat dis-
heartened our friend, and as night was ap-
proaching he returned to his habitation.

He walked out again on the following day;
he proceeded to a greater distance than be-
fore, and the discoveries he made inspired
him with fresh courage. On every side he
beheld trees loaded with various kinds of
fruit; the ground was covered with melons,s
and even luxuriant clusters of grapes were
hanging from the trees. With these exqui-
site productions of nature within his reach,
he would in all probability have plucked and
eat as many as he was able; but he recol-
lected that, when he was in Barbary, many
of the English slaves had died in conse-
quence of eating too freely of the fruits of
the country: he therefore checked his ap-
petite, justly reflecting that there is no salu-
tary food which may not become injurious if
taken in excess.

Robinson Crusoe, overjoyed at sight of
the abundance with which he was surround-
ed, still proceeded onward. Night, however,
soon overtook him, and as he was too far from
his habitation to think of returning, he
chose a resting-place similar to that which
had afforded him shelter when he'first land-
ed on the island. He climbed up a thick
bushy tree, among the branches of which he
reposed until morning, and then resumed his
Journey. _

After walking for some time he reached

an extensive open country which appeared

,, 340 descend in the direction of the west; at
little rivulet of fresh water, gushing from a
hill, flowed in a contrary direction, namely,
to the east: all this part of the island was
so verdant and blooming that it might have
been taken for a garden planted by human
hands, and it was easy to perceive that per-
petual spring prevailed there.

He descended a short way on the side of
this delicious valley, and chose a favour--
able point for surveying it at leisure. He
stood for some moments motionless with ad-
miration; and his sorrows were banished
by the gratifying reflection that all he saw
belonged to him alone; that he was lord
and absolute sovereign of this fertile region;
that he enjoyed a sacred right of possession,
and of transmitting it to his heirs as indis-

G 3
putably as though it were an English estate.
The cocoa-nuts, oranges, and citrons, were
not yet perfectly ripe; but he was amply
compensated by the' abundance of fruit on
the lime-trees. The limes were not only
agreeable to eat, but their juice, when mixed
with water, formed a most refreshing beve-
rage.

Robinson Crusoe, like the ant, though in
the midst of abundance, thought of pro-
viding against want. He accordingly heaped
together a quantity of grapes, limes, and
lemons, and carried away some portion of
the fruit, intending to return as soon as
possible provided with a large bag, in which
he could convey the remainder. He then
proceeded to his habitation, overjoyed at
being thus enabled to lay in a store of pro-
visions against the rainy season.

But he did not foresee and provide against
every disaster. On his return he had the
mortification 'of seeing his grapes all spoiled,
divided, and scattered about, and a great
portion half eaten. He immediately con-
cluded that this mischief had been the work
of some of the wild animals in the neigh-
bourhood ; and to prevent a recurrence of
such a misfortune, he hung on the branches

of the trees all the grapes he had gathered '
and was unable to carry away. They were

then dried and baked in the sun, and became

very agreeable food.

As he walked along he contemplated
with admiration the fertility of the valley,
the charms of its situation, and the refuge
it would afi'ord him in case of violent storms;
and he concluded that the spot on which he
had fixed his habitation was . beyond all
doubt the very worst on the whole island.
These reflections naturally led him to form
the idea of removing to this fertile ,and
agreeable valley, as soon as he could con-
struct a habitation as strong as the one he
possessed on the coast.

He had for a considerable time entertain-
ed this intention, so completely was he cap-
tivated by the beauty of the situation; but,
on more mature reflection, he began to con-
sider the advantages of his oldo abode, for -
as long as he continued to live near the sea-
shore, there was at least a probability of
some favoui able circumstance t1anspi1i11g, -
whilst, on the other hand, if he retired to
the centre of the island, he abandoned all
chance of ever returning to Europe: he
._ therefore determined ultimately not to quit
his old habitation.

Nevertheless, he had become so attached
to the beautiful spot, that he set about
erectingalittle bower, surrounding it by a
spacious enclosure, consisting of a double
hedge strongly staked. Here he occasion-
ally slept several nights together, crossing
and recrossing the hedge by means of a
ladder, the same way as at his old abode.
Thus he enjoyed the convenience of pos-
sessing two houses, one on the coast for
watching the arrival of vessels, and the
other in the country for gathering in his
harvest.

He had no sooner completed his fence
round this pleasant bower, than the heavy
rains drove him back to his fortress. For
the sake of amusement, as well as to employ
his time usefully whilst the bad weather
should keep him imprisoned, he began to
enlarge his cavern. He even succeeded in
digging completely through the rock, so as to
make an opening at the back of the fortifi-
cations. This was indeed rendering useless
all the precautions he had taken to prevent
his enclosure being entered, except with -.
the assistance of a ladder. But his fears
gradually vanished; forhe was now fully con-
vinced that the island Was uninhabited.
The largest animal he had hitherto seen was
a goat, and he was not yet aware that tribes
of cannibals who inhabited the neighbouring
islands, occasionally landed there to devour
their prisoners.

The 30th of September was the anniver-
sary of the fatal day on which he had been
cast on the island. He had formed for him-
self a singular kind of calendar. Ten or
twelve days after his shipwreck he fixed up
a large square post on the sea-shore, on
which he cut with his knife the following
words :--" I landed on this island on the 30th
" of September 1659." He every day out
a notch on this post; at the conclusion of
a week he made the notch double the usual
size, and he marked the months by a still
larger one. Having consulted his almanack
at the period above-mentioned, he found he
had lived exactly three years on the island.
He had now become a strict observer of his
Christian duties; he therefore celebrated
the day by a solemn fast, devoting it to re-
ligious exercises, humbly prostrating him-
self before God, and acknowledging his
righteous judgment upon him.

He had the more reason to congratulate
himself on having invented this mode of cal-
culating time, for the ink which he had
brought from the ship was now completely
exhausted ; so thathe would have been thrown
into a state of great embarrassment had he
trusted to keeping his calculations by writing.

He had moreover gradually become inured
to the climate of his island. He was no
longer taken unawares either by the rainy
or the dry season; and the experience he
had acquired in this particular enabled him
easily to repair the losses he had sustained
through his imprudence at the period when
the earthquake took place. He had now
only a very small quantity of barley, rice,
and corn, and that little he could not sow
for want of intruments to dig and prepare
the ground. Had he ventured to sow his
seed at the commencement of the dry season,
it would infallibly have been lost; he there-
fore sowed it in February, a short time be-
fore the vernal equinox, that is to say, before
the commencement of the heavy rains in
his island. His seed being well watered
during the months of March and April,
sprung up abundantly and yielded a plenti-
ful crop. By thus calculating the period
most favourable for sowing, he in course of
time regularly gathered two harvests every
year.

He succeeded, after considerable trouble
and perseverance, in making a wooden spade;
and with this instrument, though not the
most convenient, he dug up the ground and
prepared it for sowing his seed.

When his corn was perfectly ripe, he cut
it with a sabre which he had converted into
a scythe. The birds would willingly have;
spared him this trouble, and they at first ,
committed terrible ravages among his corn.
Robinson Crusoe knew not how to get rid
of them: at length he determined to try the
experiment of tying to a stake three or four-

of the birds which he had shot. This an-
swered the purpose of a scarecrow, and pro-
duced the best effect imaginable; he had
no longer occasion to dread the ravages of
the feathered tribe: but vast numbers of
quadrupeds, such as goats, which were very
common on the island, shewed a great incli-
nation to devour the corn as soon as it
sprouted from the ground. But after the
firSt attack, he enclosed his corn within a
- hedge and stationed his dog to guard it;
Faithful took especial care to suffer no living
creature, except his master, to encroach
within the boundary. '

But our friend had many difficulties to
surmount before he could enjoy the comfort
of eating bread. He wanted a mill to grind
his com, a sieve to prepare his flour, and
to separate it from the husks and bran, and
finally an oven to bake his bread in after it
should be made. Though he was unable to
procure all these conveniences, he deter-
mined, if possible, to contrive substitutes for'
them; and in this he succeeded.

A stone mortar, to pound or bruise his
corn, was the object to which he first turn--
ed his attention; for a mill, with all its com-
plicated machinery, was a thing which he
could never hope to complete. He searched
about for a long time before he found a stone
sufficiently large to convert into a mortar;
and he was at lastobliged to have recourse
to a block of strong wood, which he first
shaped with his hatchet, and then made the
hollow by burning. The pestle was easily
provided: for that purpose he procured a
piece of the hard and heavy kind of wood,
called iron-wood.

He made a sieve by stretching out two
cotton handkerchiefs in a frame.

With regard to an oven, Robinson Crusoe
spent a longtime in contriving one, ,At
length he adopted the following ingenious
expedient: He made several earthen vessels,
.tolerably wide and rather shallow: that is to
say, they might be about two feet in dia--
meter, and aboutnine inches deep; and he __
hardened them by his fire. Whenever he
wished [to bake bread, he began by heating
his oven, whichwas paved with square tiles.
When the firewood was nearly reduced to
.embers or live coals, he. carefully spread it
out, so as to make it cover every part of his

H
oven. After allowing it to remain for a few
minutes he swept it entirely away, and
placed his dough in the oven, which he im-
mediately covered over with one of the
earthen pots before described; he then con-
centrated the heat by heaping burning wood
and ashes round the oven. In this manner
he baked his bread as well as in the best
oven in the world. Not content with this,
he occasionally exerted his skill in making
pastry, and baked several cakes of rice.

In the meanwhile he had collected at his
farm a flock of goats and kids, which sup-
plied him with as much milk and meat as
he could possibly consume: he thus pos-
sessed an abundance of every thing neces-
sary for his existence.

He at first experienced considerable diffi-
culty in catching the goats and kids. He
spread out nets, but this method proved in-
effectual; for the animals, after eating the
food which had been placed to decoy them,
broke the nets and made their escape.

He next tried cages; but they likewise
proved unsuccessful. At length he had re-
course to traps; but even then he almost
despaired of success: however, by degrees,
he brought them to perfection, and they
completely answered his purpose. One
morning he found in one of the traps an old
goatof an extraordinary size 3 and, in another,
three kids, one male and two females.

The old goat was so fierce, that Robinson
Crusoe knew not what to do with him. He
dared not venture to take him from the cage
fiive. He might easily have killed him;
but why should he have done so? God per-
mits mankind to convert the flesh of other
animals into food; but only barbarians take
delight in inflicting useless torments. He
accordingly unfastened the trap and set the
goat at liberty.

For the kids, he tied them all three to-
gether with a piece of rope, and led'them
to his house.

Some time elapsed before he could induce
them to eat ; but, tempted by the corn which
he placed before them, they soon began to
eat and grow tame.

He next formed a kind of park to inclose
them in. This was a piece of ground, about

one hundred and twenty yards long, and two
H 2
hundred broad, which he surrounded with a
hedge. There his prisoners throve and
multiplied so rapidly, that in about a year
and a half he had a flock of' twelve kids,
male and female.

CI--IAP. VIII.

GREAT LABOURS I'LISTOWED BY ROBINSON CRUSOE
MAKING A BOAT.--HE PROVIDES HIMSELF WITH
I'RCSII CLOTHES.

ALL these advantages could' not make
the unfortunate Robinson Crusoe forget the
beloved country which had given him birth,
and those who, more fortunate than he, still
resided in it. To be deprived of all com-
munication with mankind, and perhaps for
ever, was a dreadful reflection; and, though
he endeavoured to banish it from his mnid,
yet he continually sighed for an opportunity
of again associating with his fellow-creatures.
Religion, to which he was now sincerely de-
voted, taught him the duty of suffering his
misfortunes with patience and resignation;
yet to cherish such a wish was by no means
contrary to religion. That mother of the
civilized world delights in seeing mortals
united by social bonds: her first care is to
teach them to live together, to afford each
other mutual assistance; and false devotion
can alone reconcile itself to retirement. But
Robinson Crusoe's wishes were not always
purified by the divine light of wisdom, and
he occasionally formed ridiculous plans and

impracticable enterprizes.
From this bower, which was situated on a

point of land bordering on the sea, he
thought he one day perceived land, at a dis-
tance of about fifteen leagues: this was, to
all appearance, a part of America; and, after
some time spent in reflecting on the subject,
he concluded that it must border on the
Spanish Colonies, and was perhaps inhabit-
ed by savages, who, had he landed there,
would doubtless have subjected him to a
more deplorable fate than he now had to
complain of. He soon, however, began to

think on the means of reaching this land.
H 3
He began by examining the cutter of the
vessel, which, after the shipwreck, had been
carried far in upon the shore, and tossed up-
side down. It might have answered for the
execution of his project, if he had had some
one to assist him in launching it: but for
Robinson Crusoe to repair it and get afloat
merely by his own strength, was as great an
impossibility as to move the island. He
nevertheless attempted it, and went into the
woods, where he cut down some wood for le-
vers and rollers, which he dragged to the
boat, convinced that if he could once extri-
cate her from the sand, it would not be dif-
ficult to repair the damage she had sustained,
and to render her a good boat, in which he
might put to sea Without the least fear.

He spent not less than three or four weeks
in this fruitless labour. At length, finding
his strength insufficient to heave up the boat,
he began to dig away the sand, with a View
to undermine it, and so to make the boat
fall, placing, at the same time, several pieces
of wood to guide it, and make it fall straight.
But this plan was no more successful than
the other.
It afforded him a useful lesson: but this
proved insuflicie'nt ; and it was followed by
a second. It is madness to struggle with in- ,
surmountable obstacles; and if we were only
aware how much labour and vexation incon-
siderate actions bring upon us, we should
certainly never attempt any thing without
deliberately reflecting on it. " Well," said
Crusoe, " I must at last abandon this boat;
but if I could only make a canoe of the trunk
of a tree, like those used by the original in-
habitants of this part of the world !" And,
losing sight of every difficulty, except that
of shaping the trunk of a tree into a boat--
forgetting that, unless he made this c'an0e
on the sea-shore, he could no more launch
it than the boat belonging to the ship--he
began to cut down a cedar in the neighbour-
ing forest, leaving a piece of rising ground
between the sea-shore and the place where
he worked at his boat.

He had made choice of an exceedingly
fine cedar: the trunk was about five feet ten
inches in diameter. Before he succeeded in
bringing it to the ground, he was employed
nearly twenty hours, cutting and hacking. at
the roots. It cost him fifteen hom's' labour
to lop oil? the branches, and to saw away its
vast spreading head. To shape and plane it
proportionally, so that it might float well,
was the work of another month.

Three months were scarcely sufficient for
completing the inside, and working the hol-
low in such way as to render it a perfect
boat. But at length he found himself in
possession of a very fine boat, large enough
to carry twenty-six men, and consequently
sufficient for him and all his cargo.

Delighted at the thought of having made
this little vessel, Crusoe fancied himselfrow-
ing across the sea. Nothing was now want-
ing but to launch it.

The first obstacle that presented itself
was the little hill which rose between the
shore and the spot he had chosen to work on.
But he was not dismayed by this obstacle:
he resolved to level the hill by means of
his spade. But when, after infinite labour, .
he overcame this difficulty, he found it quite
as impracticable to move the boat as the
cutter belonging to the ship.

He then measured the ground, and deter-
mined on digging a canal, so that the water
might come up to his canoe, since he could
find no. other means of launching it. But
having calculated the depth and breadth of
this canal, and finding, that it wOuld take full
ten years' labour and perseverance before he
could finish it, he deserted the unlucky ca-_
noe, shedding tears of vexation for his own
want of foresight.

But he did not long deplore his misfor-
tune. Though, on this last occasion, he had
not succeeded very well as a carpenter, he
resolved to try his skill at tailors' work. His
clothes were beginning to rot; and, however
warm it might be in his island, he could not
entirely dispense with clothes; for in that
case he would have suffered severely from
the heat of the sun. Joining all his rags to-
gether, he contrived, after a great deal of
pains, to make himself a kind of loose jacket,
and two or three new waistcoats.

It now struck him that the skins of the
animals he- had killed might become useful
materials for making clothes: he had a con-
siderable quantity carefully laid by, and he
first made himself a cap, turning the fur
outside, and afterwards a waistcoat and a
pair of pantaloons.

He had long wished to make an umbrella
of such a size as would effectually protect
him against the sun and the rain ; for in those
countries it is highly dangerous to be ex-
posed to either.

But this was an undertaking that cost him

more labour than all the rest. He made
several unsuccessful trials, for he wanted an
umbrella to open and shut as he might find
it convenient. At length he succeeded in
making one, and covered it with skins.
CHAP. IX.

ROBINSON CBUSOE SUCCEEDS IN LAUNCHING HIS BOAT,
AND DETERMINES T0 SAIL ROUND HIS ISLAND.

ROBINSON CRUSOE had not entirely re-
nounced the intention of making a boat
which might, one day or other, enable him
to sail from his island: but, profiting by
experience, he now set to work more pru-
dently. He made choice of a smaller tree,
and took care that the ground should be
perfectly level between the spot where he
felled it and the shore.

The boat being finished, he dug a canal,
about six feet deep and four wide, in order
to get it out to sea. This last undertaking
cost him two years' labour.

But another difliculty now arose. The
boat was at best only a frail skiff, and on
seeing it launched, he was well convinced it
would never enable him to perform the voy-
age he had'so long meditated. But it was'too
disheartening to think that all the labour
he had bestowed on it shOuld be thrown
away, and he therefore resolved to sail round
his island.

This was another imprudent undertaking;
for, as he was entirely unacquainted with the
coast, be exposed himself to the greatest dan-
ger by venturing in the boat. But that did
not deter him from making the attempt.

At the eastern extremity of the island
there was a great ledge of rocks, which pro-
jected about two miles into the sea; some
above water, and some below it. At the ex-
tremity of these rocks there was, besides, a
great dry sand-bank about half a mile long;
so that, in. order to double this point, it was
necessary to sail to a considerable distance
out at sea.

He had not proceeded very far on his ex-
pedition, when he found himself in a furious
current. This current, [which flowed out to
sea. carried him along with such force that
he found it impoSsible to keep his boat near
the shore. There was no wind stirring, and
all his efforts to guide the boat proved use-
less. He gave him'self up for lost. All the
provisions he carried along with him con-
sisted in an earthen vessel filled with water,
and a large tortoise. " How easily," said
.he, " can Providence augment our misfor-
tunes, even when our situation seems most
deplorable l"

He now looked back upon his island as
though it had been the most delightful spot
in the world. All the happiness he could
wish .forwas tobe there again. "Oh happy
desert !" he exclaimed, " shall I never see
.thee more? Wretch that I am! it Was the
fatal restlessness of my disposition that 1n-
;duced me to abandon the charming retreat;
but now, what would I give to be ashore
again!" " '

It is impossible to describe the horrors of
.his situation. He exerted all his strength
to manage the boat, and to endeavour to rev
sist the current which bore him along; but
he relinquished all hope of preservation, .for
he was already so far from the island that it
was no longer visible, and, to complete his
misfortune, he had left his compass ashore.

But a. smart breeze of wind unexpectedly
._arose from the south-south-east, and once
.more inspired him with hope and courage.

.It became by degrees more and more favour--
I
able, and soon enabled him to land on the
northern extremity of the island, exactly op-
posite to the point at which he had set out.
When he got ashore, he fell on his knees,
kissed the ground, and returned thanks to
Heaven for the unexpected aid he had re-
ceived.

His feelings, at this moment, were like
those of a man receiving a pardon at the
very instant when he was about to be led to
execution; or one unexpectedly rescued,
when on the point of falling a victim to the
fury of assassins.

He was overcome with fatigue; and having
guided his boat up a little creek shaded by
thick trees, where it could remain con~
cealed and in perfect safety, he hastened to
his bower, from which he knew he was at
no great distance. He soon reached it, and
without taking the trouble to prepare a bed
for himself, he lay down to rest beneath the
shade of his hedge.

It was not long before he fell into a sound
sleep; but what was his astonishment on be-
ing awakened by a voice calling 'him by his
name, " Robinson Crusoe !--Poor Robin-
son Crusoe l--where are you ?---where have
you been ?"---He heard these words pro-
nounced several times over; at first not very
distinctly, for he was so fatigued that he
did not immediately awake.

At length he rose, filled with terror and as-
tonishment; but the sight of his parrot soon
banished his alarm. The bird had escaped
from its cage during his absence, and at
sight of his master it perched on the hedge
and addressed to him the questions above
mentioned. When observed by Robinson
Crusoe, the parrot flew upon his finger, and,
as if delighted at seeing him again, repeated
the words that awoke him.

19

avCHAP. X.

ROBINSON CBUSOE RETURNS TO HIS CAVE AND BE-
SUMES HIS WORK.---HIS D09 DIESc-'HE SEES THE
PRINT OF A FOOT ON THE SAND, AND FINDS THE
REMAINS OF A CANNIBAL FEAST.

ROBINSON Censor. returned to his dwell-
ing on the sea-shore not very much satisfied
with the voyage he had attempted, and re-
sumed his domestic labours, at which he
daily became more and more expert. He
made a hoop, which enabled him to give a
more perfect form to his earthen vessels,
which were before extremely clumsy; he
moreover succeeded in making a pipe, which .
pleased him exceedingly, as he was particu-
larly found of smoking.

At length he met with a tree, the branches
of which were as flexible as the willow: he
made them into baskets, which, though ill-
formed, were nevertheless extremely useful.

Every thing was now prospering both in
his fortress and his bower, and, in proportion
as he abandoned all expectation of ever de-
parting from his island, he became more
and more reconciled to his fate. But ere
long a new misfortune arose to distress him.
He lost Faithful, his only friend, and the
constant companion of his labours. The
poor animal died of old age. Robinson
Crusoe saw him gradually decay without the
possibility of saving him. To the last mo-
ment of his existence, Faithful evinced the
strongest attachment to his master, and he
expired whilst making an effort to crawl to
his feet.

In great cities, such an event seldom makes
a powerful impression on us; we there pos-
sess so many friends that we set little value
even on the best of them. It is a great deal
if we shed a few tears over his grave; and
we soon dry those tears, lest we should be-
come subjects of derision to the rest of our
acquaintances. But after the death of F aith-
ful, Robinson Crusoe was alone, and he
sincerely lamented his loss. The parrot
could not supply his place ; a parrot is
merely a cold and servile imitator: he learns
to pronounce the words which he hears con-
stantly repeated, but he pronounces them
mechanically, and in such a manner that

proves he attaches no ideas to them.
1 3
A dog, on the contrary, though he can-,
not speak, is all sentiment and soul. He
takes a part in our sorrows and pleasures;
he jumps about when he sees us cheerful,
and hangs his ears when we are sad; finally,-

he seems to participate in all our senti-
ments. I

The two cats which Robinson Crusoe had
brought from the ship were still living. But
the cat is an animal very far inferior to the
dog.

For several days he was perfectly incon-
solable; he moved from one place to another,
traversing his island in every direction, With-
out the possibility of banishing a recollection
which so severely afllicted him.

The dress which Robinson Crusoe wore in '
his island gave him an air of ferocity which
would almost have excited the terror of an
European. Some notion of his appearance
may be gathered from the following descrip-
tion.----

His hat, which was made of goat-skin,
was extremely high and of a singular form;
to the back of it be fastened a large flap of
goat-skin, which entirely covered his neck,
so that'it protected him from the rays of the
sun, and prevented the rain from running
through his clothes.

He wore a kind of short jacket of the same
material as his hat; it descended only to
his knees. -His pantaloons were made of a
peculiarly fine goat-skin, the hair of which
was of an extraordinary length.

He had neither shoes nor stockings, but
wore a pair of short boots, which he fastened
in the same manner as gaiters. These, like
all the rest of his clothes, were of a singularly
rude form.

In addition to this, he had two belts, both
made of goat-skin. The first, he made use
of for carrying a saw and a hatchet, one on
each side: the second, to which two bags
were fastened, hung from his neck; one of ~
-the bags was filled with powder, and the
other with shot.

On his back he carried a basket, on his
shoulder a gun, and over his head an um-
brella. of very rude construction.

With regard to his skin, It was not so much
sunburnt as might have been expected In a
man who was constantly exposed to all kinds
of. weather, and who lived within eight or
nine degrees from the equinox.

He once suffered his beard to grow to a
quarter of a yard in length ; but as he had
both scissars and razors, he afterwards kept
it close cut, except what grew on the upper
lip. He wore whiskers in the Mahometan
style, such as he had seen worn by the Turks
at Sallee. \

But though his appearance was so calcu-
lated to excite terror in others, it did not
ensure him against a severe fright which he
received in his peregrinations.

One day, whilst he was proceeding towards
the spot where he left his boat, he distinctly
observed on the sand, the print of a naked
human foot. He stopped short, as though
he had been struck with a thunderbolt. He
listened and looked cautiously around him;
but he could neither see nor hear any thin".
He ascended a little hillock, and again de-
'scended to the shore; but he could perceive
no object that was new to him, and no trace
of a human being except that one.

He turned back, hoping that his alarm had
been occasioned merely by some workng ofBdb'm-son Crusoe}: terror at flleyrint
of flu' hum-.1" foot.

I'l{ll(' I!) 0'.

I'I:/'/i.-'/:u./,.\".u'.'fz. 1.5' 3.15m [Mir/ix. I Irrnxr .rl'.\'.'1'5:n/.:. 2
His fancy; but he beheld the same marks--
the toes, the'heel--in a word, every line of a
human foot distinctly traced.

He- repaired to his fortification, looking
round him at every step he advanced, and
imagined that an enemy Was concealed in
every bush. 0n reaching his castle, he
crossed the fence-with the rapidity of a cri-
minal flying from his pursuers.

He never closed his eyes during the whole
of the night: the further he was from the
cause of his alarm, the greater were his ap-
prehensions; the very opposite to what is
usually observable in similar circumstances.
So great was his agitation of mind, that be
for a moment fancied Satan himself had vi-
sited his island for the purpose of frighten-
ing him.

But he soon banished this silly notion;
and he once more. endeavoured to persuade
himself, that the subject of his alarm was a
mere chimera. " Now that I begin to re-
flect," said he to himself; " when I qu-itted
my boat I must have pursued the same path
as when I was about to return to it, and I
have been frightened by the marks of my
own footsteps." He returned once again to
examine the spot; but he was thoroughly
convinced that he never could have trodden
on that part of the shore. Besides, on mea-
suring the mark, he found it to be much larger
than his own foot, and this circumstance
filled his heart with new agitations, and his
brain with vapourish ideas.

He was now well assured that his island
was either inhabited by savages, or that it
had been visited by them; and as he was in
danger of being attacked unawares, he at
first resolved to knock down his enclosure
and drive his flock into the woods, lest the
savages should discover them, and thus sus-
pect his existence.

By degrees, however, his mind became more
calm, and he adopted the most probable-of
these two conjectures; namely, that his is-
land was not in reality inhabited by any
human being except himself, but that, to all
appearance, tribes of savages occasionally
landed on it, either intentionally, or through
being driven there by contrary winds; and
he therefore began to think on the best
means of concealing and protecting himself.
He regretted having made his cave so
large, and having made a back entrance to
his fortifications.

To remedy this inconvenience, which
might have proved fatal to him in case of an
attack, he determined to make a second
wall, in the form of a semicircle, on the spot
where, a few years before, he had planted
a double row of trees. These trees were so
close together, that it'was merely necessary
to place a few stakes between them in' order
to make a strong fortification.

He had two walls in front of his cave;
the outer one was thickened by pieces of
wood, old cables, and every thing calculated
to make it strong. He had, besides, made it
about ten feet thick, by laying down great
- quantities of earth, and walking on it to ren-
der it firm. In this wall he made five holes,
in which he placed the muskets he had
found in the ship, and they thus supplied
the place of artillery.

This task being completed, he covered a
large piece of ground without the wall with
the sprouts of the osier-wood, of which he
had previously made baskets, and which grew
and thickened with great rapidity in a short
time. In the space of one year he planted
nearly twenty thousand of these sprouts.

In two years they formed a beautiful grove,
and in six years they grew into a forest so
thick and strong that it was perfectly im-
penetrable, and no one would ever have
imagined that it concealed the habitation
of a human being.

As he had left no avenue to his castle, for
so we must hereafter style his habitation,
he went in and out by means of two ladders;
by the first, ascending to a. part of the
rock where there was room to place the
second.

When these ladders were removed, it was
impossible for any creature to enter it.

All he had now to do was to provide for
the safety of his herd of goats, which were
not merely a valuable resource to him in
present circumstances; but he hoped they
would in future spare the loss of the powder
and shot, which he must otherwise have em-
ployed in hunting wild goats.

He saw only two methods of effectually
guarding them against attacks.
One was to dig another cave below ground,
and to drive them into it every night.

The other was to enclose two or three
small pieces of ground at some distance from
each other, and as much concealed as pos-
sible; in each of which he might confine
half a dozen young kids, so that, if any dis-
aster should happen to the flock in general,
he might be able to repair it in a short time,
and with very little" trouble. .

He found one enclosure which seemed to
have been formed by nature expressly for the
purpose he wanted. He then began to look
out for another. and in so doing advanced
further towards the western extremity of the
island than he had ever done before, when,
on ascending a little height, he thought he
discovered a boat on the sea at a great dis-
tance.

He found a few telescopes in the trunks
which he had saved from the wreck of the
ship, but unfortunately he had not brought
one with him; he descended the hill, not
knowing whether to believe the'evidence of
his eyes.

But he did not long remain in this state

x a i
of suspense--a sight of horror soon con-
verted his doubts into certainty.

He had scarcely proceeded a few yards
from the hill, when he beheld the ground
strewed with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human beings. He observed a place
where a fire had been made, and a large hole
of a circular form dug in the ground.

CHAP. XI.

ROBINSON CRUSOE ATTACKS THE CANNLBALS AND
DELIVERS ONE OF THEIR VICTIMS.

CONVINCED by these unequivocal signs
that men had been feasting on the flesh
of their fellow-creatures, Robinson Crusoe
shrunk back with horror. He had often
heard accounts of similar barbarity, and yet
the sight shocked him as much as if no such
idea had ever before entered his mind. In
vain he turned his eyes from the disgusting
scene; his blood curdled in his veins, and

he would probably have fainted had not na-
ture relieved him by a violent fit of vomiting.
He made the best of his way to his habita-
tion, thanking Heaven for having given him
birth in a part of the world far distant from
such barbarians.

From that moment he entirely relinquished
the peaceable occupations in which he had
before been engaged. He thought only on
the means of fortifying his habitation, and
laying snares to entrap the savages; for the
sight of their barbarity had filled him with
so much horror, that he spent many days
and nights in contriving plans to destroy
some of them in the midst of their sangui-e
nary festivities.

He first thought of digging a hole beneath
the spot where they kindled their fire, and
to place within it five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they began to light
their fire, would immediately explode and
destroy all who were near it.

But this plan might have failed of pro-
ducing the desired effect; and, besides, he
had so little powder that it would have been
imprudent to incur the risk of wasting it
uselessly.

K 2 "'1,
He therefore abandoned this design, and
proposed to place himself in ambush, with
his three guns double-loaded, in a conve-
nient spot, from whence he might fire on the
savages in the midst of their horrible cere-
mony. Certain of killing or wounding at
least two or three at every shot, he might
easily overcome the rest, though they should
be twenty in number, by falling on them
unawares, and attacking them with his pistols
and sabre.

He spent several days in searching for a
convenient place for putting his design into
execution: he frequently visited the spot
where the cannibals had feasted, in order
to animate his courage by the sight of their
ferocity.

At length he found a place on the side of
the hill, where he might wait in perfect safety
for the arrival of their boats, intending, be-
fore they had time to land, to steal into the
thickest part of the forest: he moreover dis-
covered a hollow tree, capable of concealing
him entirely, from whence he could keep his
eyes on them and watch all their actions, and
when they should sit down to their sangui-
nary banquet it was next to impossible that
he could fail killing two or three at a single
shot. .

In this place, therefore, he determined. to
attempt the execution of his enterprize. He
provided himself with two muskets and his
fowling-piece; the former he loaded with
slugs and four or five pistol bullets, and the
latter with a handful of large swan-shot.

Thus provided with ammunition for a se-
cond and a third discharge, he laid wait for
the enemy; but the enemy never made his ap-
pearance. Every morning, for upwards of
two months, Robinson Crusoe regularly sta-
tioned himself on the top of the hill, without
discovering any thing, or even seeing a
single boat, either approaching the shore or
out at sea, as far as his eyes or telescope
could reach. He therefore abandoned his
post.

At length he became weary of these fruit-
less excursions: he began to reflect on the
danger of his enterprize; and his indignation
which had at first 'been so powerfully ex-
cited, soon yielded to fear. He began to
think that it would be more prudent, instead

K 3
of laying in wait to attack the savages, to
adopt means to prevent them from disco-
vering his retreat.

No precaution appeared to him suflicient,
no place secure. He was afraid of kindling
a fire lest the smoke should betray him; and
when he went a hunting he carried bows
and arrows to avoid the report of a musket ;
finally, he resolved at all events to seek out
a retreat which would be less calculated to
excite suspicion than his old habitation. He
soon found one; but on this occasion he met.
with a fright which it will be well to notice,
to prove to the youthful readers of this work
that they should never suffer themselves to
be overcome by fear without inquiring into
the cause.

He discovered a cave behind some broken
branches of trees in the forest. Overjoyed
and full of curiosity, he immediately entered
it; but he came out much quicker than he
went in, for he perceived at the further end
of the cave two great eyes twinkling like
stars; but whether they belonged to devil or
man he was at a loss to conjecture.

After long deliberation, he determined 'aosmson CRUSOE. 103

once more to enter it, with a lighted fire-
brand in one hand and a pistol in the other;
and he then discovered that the object of
his terror was nothing more than an old he-
goat, which was dying of mere old age.

This cave was about four times as large
as the one in which he had hitherto conceal.
ed his treasures, and the entrance to it was
infinitely better concealed: he carried thi-
ther all his most valuable property, at the
same time resolving to make it his hiding-
place in case of danger.

Meanwhile, parties of savages continued
occasionally to visit the island; and if Crusoe
did not sooner discover that his island was
the place where they were accustomed to
celebrate their victories, it was because he
did not earlier direct his course towards the
' point at which they usually landed.

One day, however, a circumstance occur-
red which so seriously alarmed him, that
all the plans of revenge which he had at
first formed against the savages were re-
newed. '

It was in the month of December, the
time when he usually gathered in his hat-
vest, when going out to work one morning
before sunrise, he perceived a great light
on the shore, not on that part of the island
where he observed the savages usually land-
ed, but on the side near his habitation. He
immediately returned to his castle, in which
he shut himself up, loading his pistols and
muskets, and making every preparation for
a courageous resistance.

The enemy, however, did not appear.
After waiting for two hours, Robinson Cru-
soe, having no one to send out to recon--
noitre, and no longer able to endure his
state of perplexing uncertainty, ventured
to ascend to the summit of his rock. He
then lay flat down, and with the assistance
of his telescope endeavoured to discover
what was going forward. He saw about
nine savages seated round a little fire, which
had not been kindled for the purpose of
warming themselves, for the weather was
then extremely hot, but apparently to cook
some pieces of human flesh which they had
brought along with them.

They had arrived in two canoes, which
were pulled ashore after them, and as the
tide had then ebbed, he conjectured that
they were only waiting for the flood in order
to row off.

This proved>> to be the case: whenever the
tide began to flow towards the west, they
jumped into their boats and rowed away.

As soon as Crusoe saw them depart, he
went out with his two muskets on his shoul-
ders, two pistols in his girdle, and his large
sabre by his side. He ascended the hill from
whence he had first discovered the marks of
the horrible feast of the cannibals, and he
plainly perceived that there were three more
canoes out at sea, along with the rest, all
making towards the main land.

He descended towards the shore, which he
found strewed with the remains of the hor-
rible banquet. This revolting sight, which
he now witnessed for the second time, filled
him with indignation; and, forgetting all the
dictates of prudence, he resolved once again
to attack the first party he should fall in with,
' however numerous it might be.

It was some time before the savages again
visited the island; but an opportunity at
length occurred, when he was enabled to take
revenge on the barbarians, and, by the per-
formance of a good action, to obtain a com-
panion in his misfortune.

One morning he beheld on the shore six
canoes, the people belonging to which had
landed and were out of his sight; after hav-
ing armed himself as usual, cap-a-pie, he
ascended the rock to observe them.

He discovered by the help of his tele-
scope that they were at least thirty in number;
that. they had kindled a fire to prepare their
food, and were dancing round it according to
the custom of their country.

In a few moments, he saw them drag two
miserable wretches from one of the boats.
One instantly fell, being killed apparently by
a blow of a club. Two or three of the sa-
vages without loss of time proceeded to cut
the body in pieces and prepare it for their
cookery; whilst the other was left standing
by, awaiting his turn to be slaughtered. The
unfortunate wretch now finding himself a
little at liberty, nature inspired him with
some hope of self-preservation; he started
away from his executioners, and ran with the
utmost swiftness towards' that part of the
island where Robinson Crusoe had fixed his
habitation.

Our hero was not a little alarmed on see-
ing him take this course. He imagined that
the whole party would follow him, and pursue
him into the little wood which he had plant-
ed round his habitation. He nevertheless
maintained his station, and he began to re--
cover from his fear, on finding that there
were only three men in pursuit of the fugi-
tive. He gained ground considerably on his
pursuers, and Crusoe was well assured that if
he could only keep running at the same pace
for half an hour longer, he must inevitably
escape.

There was between him and Robinson
Crusoe a little creek, where he could not fail
of being taken if he did not immediately
swim across it. But on reaching it, although
the tide was then up, he plunged in without
hesitation, and in about thirty strokes gain-
ed the opposite side, where he landed, and
then ran on with inconceivable swiftness.
When his three pursuers reached the creek,
Crusoe remarked that only two of them could
swim, and the third, after stopping a short
time on the edge of the water, returnedslowa
1y to the scene of slaughter. He observed
that the two who could swim took about twice
as long to cross the creek as the one who had
fled from them. A natural and irresistible
impulse now forced him to quit his post of
observation, and hasten to the assistance of
the poor creature who so well defended i'his
life. Robinson Crusoe was at this moment
between the fugitive and his pursuerS. He
immediately run towards the foremost of the
two, and fell him to the ground with the
butt-end of his musket, choosing to despatch
him this way rather than by firing, lest the
report should have been heard by the other
savages. The second seeing his comrade
fall, stopped short as if petrified ; but he soon
began to prepare his bow and arrow to shoot.
Crusoe then advanced towards him, and for
getting the reason which had at first prevent--
ed him from firing, discharged his musket
and laid him dead at the first shot.

. The poor fugitive seemed more terrified by
the report of the musket than inclined to
thank his deliverer; he remained immova-
ahle. His countenance was that of a- manFrflay's first iul'orvimv wiih RdhjusmL

1
( mm 00. "(4,- .113.

full/157144;") V."1,M'm'./':AHA/775' (I'm.'/' .771"! 31/111".
(Wercome by terror, and he shewed a dispo-
sition to escape again. Crusoe beckoned,
him to approach, and, after the invitation
had been several times repeated, the poor
savage ventured forward a few steps, and
then stopped short again. He doubtless
concluded that he had been made a prisoner
a second time, and that he was about to be
killed like his two enemies. Crusoe having
again beckoned to him, and shewed him
every sign of encouragement, he at length
approached, but very slowly, kneeling down
at every ten or twelve steps, in token of ac-
knowledgment to him who had saved his,
life. On coming close to Robinson Crusoe,
he again knelt down, and took one of his
deliverer's feet and placed it on his own
head, apparently acknowledging him as his
master, and swearng to be eternally his slave.
Crusoe consoled him by repeated caresses.
He by degrees began to recover from his
alarm, when hfiferceived that the savage who
had been kniajefed rdown by the musket was
not yet dead, and was making an effort to
rise. Terror was again depicted in his
countenance; but Crusoe soon eased his
L
apprehensions by effectually despatching his
enemy. In gratitude for this act of service,
he pronounced a few words which Crusoe
was delighted to hear, though he could not
understand them : to him it was an unspeak-
able happiness to hear the voice of ahuman
being; for many long years had elapsed
since he enjoyed that pleasure.

Robinson Crusoe was anxious to bury the
(lead bodies of the savages immediately, lest
the remainder of the party should come in
quest of them. Then perceiving that his
new guest was overcome by fatigue, he gave
him some refreshment, and led him to the
cave which he had newly discovered, in order
that he might lie down to rest.

The savage did not remain long in the
cave. In about half an hour he came run-
ning to Crusoe in his enclosure, where he
had been milking his goats. There he re-
peated all the signs of submission which he
had made at the moment of his deliverance.
Crusoe made him understand by signs that
he was well satisfied with him, and that he
would never forsake him.

He was a tall young man, between twenty
and twenty--five years of age, stout and well
made. His appearance was manly, without
any thing ferocious; on the contrary, his feet-
tures presented that gentleness of" expression
which is peculiar to the Europeans. His
hair was long and black, his forehead high,
his eyes animated, his complexion fresh, al~
though it had somewhat of an olive tinge. He
had a round face, a well-formed nose, thin
lips, and his teeth were well set, regular, and
as white as ivory.

L2
CHAP. XII.

ROBINSON CRUSOE GIVES THE NAME OF FRIDAY TO
THE SAVAGE WHOM 11E RESCUED, AND WHO LEARNS
TO ASSIST HIM IN HIS LABOURS.---NEW COMPANIONS
IN .'IISFORTUXE.

NEKT morning, after having ascertained
that the savages had departed, Robinson
Crusoe began to consider where he should
iodge his new companion. He did not yet
know him well enough to place entire confi-
dence in him: he thought the best thing he
could do was to build a hut for him between
the two walls of his fortification, taking care
not to leave within his reach any weapon of
which he could make abad use.

Happily this circumspection was not very'
necessar ; for never was there a servant
more faithful, or more 'full of candour and
love for his master. The young savage had
few faults, and possessed a thousand good
qualities; he was neither ill-humoured nor
obstinate, and was a stranger to fits of pas-
sion: he was intelligent, sprightly, had an
excellent memory, and great talent for in-
vention.
He soon learned to pronounce tolerably
well the name of every object which attracted
his notice, and in a short time was able to as-
sist Robinson Crusoe in his various occupa-
tions. In a few days he knew how to bruise
the wheat and make bread. In. a word, he
learnt much faster than many Europeans
could have done. Crusoe named him Friday,
which was the day on which he had delivered
him from the hands of his enemies; and
in a short time this name became as familiar
to the Caribbee as if he had borne it from
his infancy.

When Crusoe went, the morning after his
engagement with the savages, to visit the
field of battle, he discovered, from the most
unequivocal signs, that Friday was also a
cannibal, and that he would willingly have
feasted on the flesh of those monsters who,
the preceding day, had been preparing to
regale themselves on his. He hoped to
wean him from this appetite for human flesh, -
by making him taste other food. He led
him one morning into the woods, where he
intended to kill one of his own goats; but,

on entering, he perceived a wild goat and
L 3 '
two of its young asle'epin the shade. He
then beckoned to Friday not to make the
least motion, and he immediately fired at
one of the kids and killed it. The poor Sa-
vage, who three days before had seen one of
his enemies struck down at a distance with-
out knowing how, was again terrified, and-
trembled like an aspin-leaf: he did not ven-
ture to turn his eyes towards the place where
the goat lay, but opened his waistcoat to see
whether he was not wounded himself. In his
terror he doubtless supposed that Robinson
Crusoe had resolved to get rid of him; for
he threw himself on his knees, and made a
very long speech, of which his master under-
stood nothing, except that he supplicated
him not to take his life.

With the view of undeceiving him, Cru-
soe, smiling, took him by the hand, and
pointing to the kid, made signs to him to go
and fetch it. While he was endeavouring to
discover how the animal had been killed,
Crusoe reloaded his musket, seeing on a tree,
at the distance of a few paces, a parrot,
which he intended should be the means of
surprising Friday a second time. He calledFriday humming; the Gun no t to killhim.

['11qu 1,19.

I'll/I/IZr/ml ;\7u'."1.1.5'1.$'. [HAULU'I'IZ'V [Dr/Jar nr'J'EZ'auZo'.
to him, pointing first to the parrot, and then
to the ground under the tree, and made him
understand his intention of bringing down
the bird. He shot it, and the savage was as
much frightened as on the former occasion.
Not having seen him load the musket, he re-
garded it as an inexhaustible source of ruin
and destruction. For a long time he could
not overcome his terror; and if his master
had allowed him, he would have worshipped
the gun as well as himself. Many days elap-
sed before he ventured to touch it, but he
spoke to it as though the weapon had been
capable of understanding and answering him.
Robinson Crusoe learnt afterwards that he
was entreating it not to kill him.

The same evening Crusoe skinned the kid,
cut it up, and put some of it to stew in an
earthen pot upon the fire. Having taken
the broth himself, he gave a part of the flesh
to Friday, who, seeing Robinson Crusoe eat
it, began to taste it likewise. He liked it,
. but seemed to think it very strange that
Crusoe should season his victuals with salt.
In order to make his master understand how
disagreeable this was to his palate, he put
some grains of salt into his mouth, spit it
out again, and made a thousand wry faces,
and afterwards rinsed his mouth with fresh
water. Having regaled him with this kind
of food, Crusoe wished, on the following
day, to feast him with a piece of meat; this
he did by tying a piece of the kid to a line,
and letting it turn continually before the fire,
a method he had often seen practised in
England. Whenever Friday tasted it, he
made so many grimaces to express that he
thought it excellent, and that he would
never more eat human flesh, that he must
have been stupid indeed who could not un-
derstand him.

The good conduct of Friday, and the con-
fidence which it was calculated to inspire,
excited the most consolatory reflections in
the mind of Robinson Crusoe. " This
savage," thought he, " cannot be very far
from his own country; he owes his life to
me, and he proves that he is grateful for it;
if I could with his assistance depart from
the island and reach his native country, per-
haps there might still be a possibility of my
returning to Europe." This distant hope of
again beholding his native country became
instantly the fond subject of his thoughts,
the sole end of all his actions: from that
moment he thought of nothing but putting
Friday in a state to give him some informa-
tion respecting his nation and the people
who inhabited it. For this purpose it was
necessary to teach him the English language,
of which he knew only a few words, and
even them he was unable to connect. In a
short time Crusoe attained his object. As
soon as Friday knew so much English that
about one half of what he said could be com-
prehended, he began eagerly to interrogate
him. He learnt that his country joined the
continent of America; that the inhabitants
were fierce and cruel in war, but that they
knew how to practise the duties of hospi-
tality. " Master," said Friday, in his broken
English, " if you go to my country you will
not be the only white man there."--" How ?"_
inquired Crusoe. Friday then informed
him that, about a year before, a European
vessel had been wrecked upon the 1rocks
which surrounded his native island; that the
crew had swam ashore, and that they had sub-.-118 Anvnxrunns or

sisted since thattime upon the provisions with
which the natives of the country had fur-
nished them. At this agreeable and unex-
pected news, Crusoe was almost frantic with
joy: he embraced Friday, asking at the
same. time whether the hospitable land was
far distant. " Come, master, come with
me," replied Friday, " and me shew you my
country." He then proceeded at a brisk
pace towards that part of the island from
whence, some years before, Robinson Cru-
soe had discovered a continent, at the dis-
tance of about fifteen leagues. It was there
that Friday's native country was situated;
he pointed it out to his master, exclaiming
repeatedly, " There my country 1 there my
nation !"--" Well, my dear Friday," said
Crusoe, " would you not be very glad to see
your country again ?"----" Yes, yes, master 1
me very glad to see my country again, that
is, if you go with me; they caress you, they
embrace you much for having saved Friday 5
life: but great, great, great deal of water. and
me not strong enough to swim to my nation."
--" Comehither," said Crusoe, " and I will
show you how we can get to your country
)

without swimmino.' He then shewed him
his boat. Friday ran to the boat the instant
he perceived it, and manoeuvred it with such
dexterity as astonished his master; but he
declared at the same time that it was not
strong enough for so long a voyage, and that
it would be necessary to make another.
" How can we do that ?" inquired Crusoe.
Friday made him understand that he would
willingly undertake to do it.

Crusoe resolved immediately to put Fri-
day's zeal to the test. He led him to the
borders of a forest upon the sea-coast, and
told him to choose a tree of which he might
make a canoe fit for the voyage. Friday
soon pitched upon a tree, which was cut
down. He was for burning a hollow to make
it into a boat: but Crusoe having brought
him some tools, and shewed him how to use
them, he set to work so cleverly, that in six
weeks the boat was finished. All that now _
remained to be done was to get it to the sea,
from which it was not far distant: with the
assistance of some great rollers they ac-
complished this object in less than a fort-
night.
When it was afloat, Friday managed it
with as much dexterity as the other, though
it was full as large again. Having made a fair
trial of it, he declared that they might venture
to perform the voyage even in a strong gale.
Robinson Crusoe, wishing to render it more
fit for the enterprize, provided it with a mast
and a sail. He had then to teach his man the
management of the sail and rudder; but this
did not occupy him long, for Friday was an
apt scholar.

The rainy season set in whilst all these
preparations were going forward, and it was
therefore necessary to postpone the voyage.

Robinson Crusoe stowed his little vessel
in safety, and retired to his castle, accom-
panied by Friday. Master and servant lived
upon a footing of perfect equality: Crusoe
had received from Friday too many proofs of
devotion and affection to have any longer the
least distrust of him.

Crusoe employed this period of retirement
in cultivating those seeds of Christianity
which he had already planted in the breast
of Friday while they were labouring together.
Friday, at the period when his master pre--_
served his life, had but a barbarous idea of the
divinity; but he did not suffer him to remain
long in this state of ignorance. As soon as
they were able to understand each other, he '
endeavoured to make him sensible of the
truths of the Christian religion. In this he
easily succeeded, and Friday became a Chris-
tian in proportion as he became civilized;
and, as soon as he could distinguish good
from evil, he found it quite natural to adore
that God, who had submitted to all the
miseries of human nature, in order to teach
mankind to be virtuous, and to open to them,
at the price of his blood, the road to that
happy eternity to which virtue leads.

As soon as the rainy season was at an end,
Crusoe began to lay up a stock of provisions
for the vqyage; but an unexpected event
arose to derange all his projects.

One morning, Friday, who had gone to
the sea-shore to pick up tortoises, came back
running at full speed, and exclaiming, "Oh!
master, master ! Oh, sorrow! Oh, bad l--yon-
der one, two, three canoe." Crusoe en-
deavoured in vain to assure him there was no
danger; the poor fellow continued in a state

31
of violent agitation. From the place where
he saw the savages land, he recognized that
they were enemies of his nation, and be
imagined that they had come to search for
him, and that they intended to cut him in
pieces and devour him. He did not, how-
ever, want for courage. " Friday," said his
master, "I am in as great danger as you
are; if they take us they will. not spare
my life any more than your's ; it is neces--
sary therefore that we should both fight."
" Oh i " replied Friday, drawing himself up
proudly, " me quite ready to fight for mas-
ter; me quite ready to die when master order
me to die."

Crusoe, anxious to profit of this favourable
disposition, gave him three muskets loaded
with swan-shot and small bullets: he himself
took three others loaded in like manner, put
two pistols in his belt, and proceeded towards
the place where the savages had landed.
They were about twenty in number, and were
seated round a great fire, regaling themselves
with the flesh of one of their prisoners. At
some paces from them was another unfor-
tunate victim, bound and stretched out on
the sand; he was, in his turn, to be devoured
by the cannibals.

From his dress, Robinson Crusoe plainly
perceived this man was an European. Fired
with indignation at this discovery, he thought
no more of danger, but resolved to attempt
his deliverance whatever might be the conse-
quence. He was not more than four-and-
twenty yards from the cannibals : a wood
concealed him from their observation; but
did not prevent him from taking a good aim

at them. " Come, Friday," said he, "follow
my directions; do exactly what you see me
do." He then laid down two of his muskets,
and pointed the third at the savages. Friday
did the same. " Are you ready ?" said Robin-
son Crusoe. " Yes," replied Friday ; and
they both immediately fired.

At this shot three of the savages fell dead,
and five were wounded. The remainder of
the party rose precipitately, without knowing
whither they should fly to avoid danger, the
cause of which was unknown to them. Ro-
binson Crusoe and Friday, laying aside the
muskets they had discharged, took up two'
others, and, firing a second time, again killed

M 2
and wounded several, and the most indescrib-
able consternation prevailed among the rest.
The two assailants then rushed from the
wood, carrying with them their two remain-
ing loaded muskets. No enemy appeared----
they had all fled. Whilst Friday pursued the
fugitives, who sought to regain their canoes,
Robinson Crusoe ran to-the European, un-
bound him, and presented him with arms. He
proved to be a Spaniard, and thanking Cru-
soe for the signal service he had received from
him, he joined in pursuing the fugitives, lest
any of them should escape, and convey to
their countrymen an account of the adven-
ture. In a short time they were all extermi-
nated, with the exception of four, who con-
trived to reach one of their canoes, and pad-
dled of? as fast as they could. While the
conquerors were reloading their muskets, they
had time to get a good distance of. Crusoe
was 10th to waste powder and ball in firing on
them at such a distance; upon this, Friday
proposed that they should pursue them in
one of the canoes which they had abandoned.
This plan being approved of, Friday jumped
first .into one of the canoes. He there dis-fR If S 0 E o j'flr/ku.

     

Friday and. his Father.

/'lI.l/I' [29.

j'l/fi/Ar/m/ MW.:LIA'IA'.lgrl/lurrix (lunar ni".\'.'."":mf.-z
covered a man bound hand and foot. This
man, who proved to be a savage, was lying
at the bottom of the canoe, so that he was
not at first perceived. Friday, by Crusoe's
desire, stooped to unbind him; but he no
sooner beheld his countenance than he ut-
tered a loud cry, pressed the savage to his
heart, and embraced him: he then began to
weep, to laugh, to jump, and dance by turns,
as tl'iough he had lost his senses. It was some
time before he was able to explain to his
master the cause of all this: but having
come to himself a little, he informed him
that the savage was his father.

Far from checking transports thathad their
source in such honourable feelings, Crusoe
took a delight in witnessing them. Friday
jumped into the boat, then jumped out
again, excited by sentiments which pre-
vented him from thinking on what he did.
The poor old man stretched forth his arms
towards his son, and was so overcome with
emotion, that he could not utter a single
word: he wept for joy, and from time to
time expressed his gratitude to Robinson
Crusoe, of whose kindness and humanity

M 3
Friday informed him in the language of his
country.

This affecting scene put an end to the
pursuit of the savages; and as the day was
far advanced, they thought of quitting the
scene of action. The strength which the
Spaniard had shewn in pursuing the fugi--
tives proceeded entirely from his courage; it
continued no longer than the termination of
the battle. He had stretched himself out
at the foot of a tree, and he now endea-
voured in vain to collect his strength, to rise
and follow Robinson Crusoe, who wished
to conduct him to his castle. Friday's fa-
ther was no more able to walk than the Spa-
niard. Friday set his master an example:
he took his father upon his shoulders, and
Crusoe then did the same with the Spaniard.
But when they came to the double wall,
they were both at a greater loss than before:
they knew not how to get their friends
across. The reader is aware that Crusoe
could not cross "the wall himself without
the help of two ladders. They determined
therefore to erect a tent between the exterior
wall and the grove before-mentioned. T heynonmsox causes. 127

afterwards made two beds, upon which the
Spaniard and Fridays father reposed, after
having supped. They enjoyed a delightful
repast, each having a guest with whom he
could converse freely: Friday and his father
spoke the same language; and Robinson
Crusoe and the Spaniard conversed with
perfect ease in Latin.

This Spaniard was one of the Europeans
whom Friday had mentioned to his master;
he was taken whilst fighting for those who
had shewn hospitality to him and his com-
panions in misfortune.

Robinson Crusoe soon acquainted him
with the project he was on the point of exe-
cuting when the savages made their appear--
ance, and at the same time inquired whether
it was true that Friday's countrymen had
among them many other Europeans. The
Spaniard assured him there were fifteen Spa-
niards and Portuguese who had been ship-
wrecked upon their coast. " Well," said
Crusoe, " the period of our deliverance is
at hand; in a few days we will depart from
hence to join them, and with the protec-
tion and assistance of the savages, we will
set to work to build a vessel large enough
to carry us where we like, either southwards
to the Brazils, or northwards to the Spanish
Islands." The Spaniard in part disapproved
of this design: he told Robinson Crusoe
that the Europeans to whom he had alluded
were not on so good a footing with the sa-
vages as he seemed to think they were; that
these savages, who were not all of Friday's
disposition, appeared to have given them an
asylum at first only through dread of their
fire-arms, and that they continued to treat
them well only because they derived assist-
ance from them in their wars. He added,
that he was afraid, on that account alone,
that they would not suffer them to construct
a ship. In conclusion, he expressed a wish
that Crusoe could by any means rescue the
shipwrecked Europeans from the power of
the savages. " It is better," pursued he,
" to bring them here, than to go and join
them there: here, indeed, we may labour
to construct such a vessel as you wish for;
and, as we shall not be under the necessity
of continually guarding against the perfidy of
the savages, the work will go on much faster."
Robinson Crusoe yielded to this advice,
which he thought very sensible, and Friday's
father soon returned to his native Country,
accompanied by the Spaniard. The Spaniard
was the bearer of proposals from Crusoe to
the Europeans: the old savage undertook
to prevail on his countrymen to allow the
Europeans to depart on friendly terms; he
himself intended to accompany them.

Robinson Crusoe had no doubt the Euro-
peans would accept the proposals he made
them, of coming to his island to build a ship
fit to carr r them to their own country. He
awaited the return of his messengers with
that tranquillity of mind which usually ao-
companies the certainty of success; but it
was ordained that he should be delivered
from his solitude by other means, and by a
train of circumstances so extraordinary, that
the most incredulous cannot but acknowledge
that they were brought about solely by the
hand of God.
CHAP. XIII.

ARRIVAL OF AN EUROPEAN SHIP, THE CREW Ol'
WHICH HAD MUTINIED.

ONE morning, before the sun had well
risen, Robinson Crusoe was still sleeping,
when Friday hastily approached his bed,
exclaiming, " Master, master! they are
come! they are come i"

Crusoe jumped up, and having dressed
himself, proceeded through his grove, so
littie dreaming of danger that he went un-
armed : but what was his surprise, on look-
ing towards the sea, to observe at the dis-
tance of about a league and a haif, a boat
under sail, which, in order to reach his island,
pursued an opposite course to that which the
Spaniard and Friday's father would follow
on their return. He desired Friday to make
no signal, since they were not the persons
whom he expected, and it was impossible to
know yet whether they were friends or
enemies.

Robinson Crusoe went to fetch a teles---m-_--._.__--.~-._.__.___. . ..

ROBINSON ('RUSOE. 131

cope, and by means of his ladder, ascended
to the top of the rock; as he was accustomed
to do when he apprehended any danger, and
wished to make observations without being
discovered himself.

He had no sooner reached the summit of
the rock than he plainly perceived a vessel
at anchor at the distance of about two
leagues and a half ;' and from its structure,
as well as that of the boat, he had reason to
believe they were both English.

Although overjoyed at seeing a ship,
which to all appearance was manned by
his own countrymen, yet he felt some secret
doubts which induced him to keep on his
guard. He could not conceive what busi-
ness an English'vessel could have in that
part of the world, since it was not the way
to any country with which the English carried
on trade : moreover, he knew that there had
not been any storm to drive them on that
coast against their inclination ; consequent-
ly, he had reason to believe that they had no
good designs, and that it was better for him
to remain in his present solitary state than to
fall into the hands of robbers and murderers.
He kept himself on his guard, therefore, and
made no signal to attract their attention.

The boat drew near the shore, as if in
search of a creek for the convenience of
landing: but not perceiving one, the people
in the boat ran it ashore at a little more than
a quarter of a mile from Robinson Crusoe's
retreat.

\Vhen the crew landed, Crusoe plainly
perceived that they were Englishmen: be
counted eleven, three of whom were bound
and unarmed ; and when the first five orsix
of those armed and at liberty jumped ashore,
they took the others -out of the boat as
prisoners. One of the three exhibited a pic-
ture of grief and despair, almost bordering
on madness; the other two from time to
time raised their hands to Heaven, and ap-
peared deeply afflicted; but their grief was
far less violent than that of their companion.

Whilst in this state of uncertainty, unable
to divine the meaning of what he saw, Fri-
day called out in his broken English, " 0
master! you see Englishmen eat prisoners
as well as savages."--" Do you think they in-
tend to eat them, Friday?" replied Crusoe:nonmsoN cnuson. 133

" I am afraid they will murder them, but
rely on it they will not eat them."

He now regretted the absence of the
Spaniard and the old savage, and wished
that he could, undiscovered, come within
gun-shot of the insolent wretches, and deliver
the prisoners from their cruelty; for he did
not perceive that they had any fire-arms with
them, and he therefore hoped to master them
without much difficulty. But Providence
ordained that he should gain his object
another way.

While they were rambling through all the
island, as if they wished to view the country,
Crusoe observed that the three prisoners
were at liberty to go wherever they pleased;
but they were so downcast that they seated
themselves on the g1 ounc d, overcome with
grief and despair.

Their forlorn appearance reminded him
of what he himself felt when he first landed
on the island, giving himself up for lost,
turning his eyes on all sides, harassed with
the dread of becomino the prey of wild beasts,
and compelled to take refuge all night
among the branches of a tree.

N
He then little expected to see the ship
again next morning, and to obtain a provi-
dential supply for his subsistence; so, these
unhappy prisoners had not the least idea of
the speedy deliverance which Heaven had
prepared for them.

How many reasons have we in this world
to rely cheerfully on the mercy of the Crea-
tor, since we are seldom in such unfortunate
circumstances as not to have some cause
to be thankful, and our deliverance is very
often brought about by those very means
which appeared to threaten our destruction 1

It was high water when the Englishmen
landed; and partly in conversing with their
prisoners, partly in strolling about the coast, '
they staid until the water ebbed and left their
boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who,
in consequence of drinking too freely of
brandy, had fallen asleep. One, however,
started up sooner than the other, and finding
the boat too fast aground for him to move it,
he called his companions; but they alto-
gether had not sufficient strength to launch
it, the boat being extremely heavy, and the
shore on that part being as soft as a quick-
sand.

In this dilemma, like true seamen, who
are perhaps the most improvident of all man-
kind, they resolved to give themselves no
further trouble about it, and began to stroll
up the island. Robinson Crusoe then heard
one of them call out to another who remained
by the boat, " Come, Jack ! let her alone
there; the next tide will set her afloat."

All this while he kept himself within the
enclosure of his castle, without going a step
further than his observatory on the top of
the hill. He knew that the boat could not
be afloat before ten o'clock at night, and
that, as it would then be dark, he could ap-
proach them without danger.

In the mean time he made preparations for
a battle, but with more precaution than ever,
well knowing that he had to deal with ene-
mies more formidable than those whom he
had hitherto encountered on his island.

He promised himself great assistance from
Friday, who was become an excellent marks-
man. he gave him thiee muskets, and took
himself two fouling-pieces. His appearance

N 2
was fierce in the extreme; he had on his head
his formidable goat-skin cap; at his side
hung his great naked sabre, with two pistols
in his belt, and a gun on each shoulder.

He resolved not to make any attempt be--
fore night; but about two o'clock in the
afternoon, during the heat of the day, he
found that the sailors were all gone into the
woods, apparently to lie down to sleep; and
although anxiety of mind prevented the
prisoners from sleeping, he nevertheless ob-
served that they had laid themselves down
under the shade of a great tree, pretty close
to him, and out of sight of the others.

He then determined to discover himself,
and he accordingly marched forward. Fri-
day followed at a short distance, as formi-
dably armed as his master, but not making
quite so spectre-like a figure as he did.

"Then Crusoe approached the prisoners
he called to them in Spanish. " Who are
you, gentlemen ?" They made no reply, and.
appeared ready to take to flight. He then
addressed them in English, and said, " Gen-
tlemen, fear nothing; perhaps you have
found a friend where you little expectedone."Robins (m. ('ruxne (I is cmvr x Imus elf

m 11le 175mm Prismu'rs.
' /'1{:/r' 11],].

'24, -~ ;g .>.- I . . ., --.>>n./,
'ul'I/nfllll .ll'l. [ 11w :' --,,' ull.' 41" ... 1'! ."I(.'l.':.-'_;'.

ROBINSON onuson. l3"!

--" He must then be sent from Heaven," re-
plied one of them gravely, taking off his hat,
"for our misfortunes are past all human help."
---" All help comes from Heaven, sir," replied
Crusoe; " but inform me, though a stranger,
of the means of assisting you, for you ap-
pear to be in very great distress. I saw you
land; and, when you were discoursing with
the villains who brought you hither, I saw
one of them draw his sabre as though he
intended to kill you."

The poor man trembling, and his eyes over-
flowing with tears, replied with an air of
astonishment, " Am I speaking to a man, a
god, or an angel?"--~" Oh ! don't embarrass

yourself about that, sir," said Robinson

Crusoe; "__if God had sent an angel to assist
you, he would have appeared better clothed
and armed than you see me. I am really a
man, and moreover an Englishman, and dis-
posed to render you assistance. I have but
one servant, but we are both armed. Tell us
freely, can we serve you? Explain the nature
of your misfortune l"

" Alas, sfi'f': replied he, " the tale is too
long to be toldiwhilst our enemies are so near.

. *N 3

s;
Suffice it to say, that I had the command of
that ship. My crew mutinied against me;
I withdii'lieulty escaped being murdered; but,
what is almost as bad, they intend to leave me
in this desolate place with these two men, one
of whom is my mate, the other a passenger."--
" But," said Robinson Crusoe, " what has
become of the rebellious rascals ?"----" There
they are asleep," replied he, pointing to a
cluster of trees, " and I tremble lest they
should have heard us speak: if so, we shall
all be murdered to a certainty."

Robinson Crusoe inquired whether the
mutineers had any fire-arms, and learnt that
they had only two muskets, one of which
they had left in the boat.

" Then leave me to deal with them," said
he. " They are-asleep; it is an easy matter
to kill them all; but would it not be better
to take them prisoners?"

The captain replied, that there were two
desperate villains among them of whom no
good could be expected; but he thought if
they were secured the rest would willingly
return to their duty. He added, that at that
distance he could not describe them, but

- 'E

'4

"nwm '

'1 "5-..." .

"we! .1- "

1'4- '.,u'lrimming-r ,-

fl.
nnnmsox causoe. 139

that he was ready to obey his orders in every
thing.

" Well," said Crusoe, "let us retire, lest
they should wake and perceive us: follow
me to a place where we may deliberate With-
out interruption."

When they had concealed themselves in
the wood, Crusoe resumed the conversation.
" Sir," said he to the captain, " I am resolved
to risk every thing for your deliverance, but
on two conditions; whilst you remain on
this island you shall renounce all sort of
authority, and if I put arms into your hands,
you shall return them to me the moment I
require them; you must punctually obey
my orders, and never attempt to do any
thing to my prejudice. For the second
condition, I require, that if we succeed in
retaking the vessel, you shall carry me
and my man to England, without demand-
ing any thing for our passage, after having
also taken on board sixteen Europeans who
have been cast by shipwreck on a neigh-
bouring island. The captain accepted these
conditions with transport, protesting his
readiness to obey all Robinson Crusoe's
directions, and to brave every danger for
his sake.

Crusoe then gave him and his companions
in misfortune three muskets, with powder
and ball, desiring them to march forward and
to act as circumstances might render neces-
sary.

At this moment two of the mutineers awoke
and started up. Crusoe asked the captain
if they were the two men of Whom he had
spoken? He answered, " N o."--" Well then,"
said Crusoe, "let them escape, since Pro-
vidence seems to have awakened them for
the purpose of saving their lives; as to the
rest, if you do not make sure of them, it is
your own fault."

Animated by these words, the captain ad-
vanced with a musket in his hand and a
pistol in his belt. His two companions, who

were going first, made a slight noise, which '

roused one of the sailors, and he began to
cry out to wake his comrades; but the mate
and the passenger immediately fired and
killed him on the spot. The other, although
dangerously wounded, rose and called for
help; but the captain ran uplto him, telling
him it was too late to implore assistance, and
instantly knocked him down with the butt-
end of his musket.

There still remained three more, but they
begged for mercy. The captain promised to
forgive them on condition that they should
express their abhorrence of the crime they
had committed, and assist him faithfully in
recovering the ship and carrying her to Ja-
maica, from whence she had come. They
gave him all the protestations of their re-
pentance and future good behaviour that
could be desired. He then bound them
hand and foot. .

Friday afterwards went with the mate to
the boat, in order to secure it and to bring
away the sails and oars: they did so, with-
out meeting with any resistance.

Three sailors, who had separated from the
others before all this took place, returned
on hearing the report of the muskets. Find-
ing that their captain, who was before their
prisoner, had now become their conqueror,
they submitted to him, and allowed him to'
bind them like the others.

The victory being now complete, Crusoe
conducted the captain and his companions
to his castle. After they had taken some
refreshment, he related to them his history,
and shewed them all the inventions he had
put in practice during his abode on the is-
land.

All that he told the captain, and all that
he showed him, appeared equally to excite
his amazement; above all, he admired. his
fortification, and the manner in which he con-
cealed his retreat by means of the trees which
he had planted there many years before.
Crusoe informed him, that what he then saw
was his castle, the place of his residence;
that he had a country-house besides, which
he would show him in due time; but at pre-
sent it was necessary to consider on the
means of recovering the ship. The captain
was of the same opinion, but confessed that
he did not know how to efi'ect that object.
" There are yet," said he,' " twenty--six men
on board, who knowing that by their mutiny
they have forfeited their lives, will persist in
it through desperation. How then can we
attack them with a number so very inferior
to theirs ?"u... .,--...u

'1'. n

ROBINSON cnvsos. 14-3

Crusoe couid not deny the justness of this
conclusion, and he saw that the only thing
to he done was to lay some snare for the crew,
and at least to prevent them from landing.
He was certain that in a short time the sai~
lors, astonished at not seeing their comrades
return, would launch the other boat to go in
quest of them.

He told the captain, therefore, that the
first thing they had to do was to stave the
boat, and prevent them from carrying it off.
The captain approved of this advice, and

' they instantly set to work. They took from

the boat every thing the sailors had left
there; one bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, some biscuits, a horn full of powder,
and a. loaf of sugar of about sixpounds' weight,
wrapped up in a piece of canvass. They
afterwards knocked a large hole in the bot-
tom of the boat and left her on the beach.I44- A D Y F. )3 TI] 12 F. s o 1-"-

CHAP. XIV.

ROBINSON ('RL'SOE ASSISTS THE CAPTAIN I.\' RECOVER-
ING HIS SHIP, AND EMBARKS FOR EUROPE.

WHAT Robinson Crusoe had predicted
soon took place: the sailors who remained
on board the ship were astonished at not
seeing their comrades return: they fired a
gun and made the usual signal for the boat.

At the same moment, Crusoe and his par>>
ty, with the help of their telescopes, saw
them hoist out their other boat and row to-
wards the shore. As the boat approached,
they discovered that there were ten men on
board, and that they all had fire-arms with
them : they could even distinguish their
countenances during a very long time, be-
cause, being driven by the tide, they were
obliged to row up under shore to come to the
same place where the first boat had landed.

The captain thus had a full view of them,
and he observed to Robinson Crusoe that he
saw among them three very brave fellows,
whom he was sure the others had forged into
_ the conspiracy; but as for the boatswain,
' who was the chief officer among them, and

the rest, they were the greatest villains in
the whole crew.
Crusoe smiled, and replied, that men in

' their situation should be above fear; that it

was worth while to run some hazard to ren-
der his life, which had been subject to so
many reverses, more happy. " Where,"
continued he, "is your conviction that Pro-
vidence has preserved me in order to save

' your life? Take courage, I see but one emu

mmwwqw-<<mxm-um u--m -.--------... --. n. . .

barrassing circumstance in the whole busi-
ness."--" What's that?" said the' captain.
" It is," replied Crusoe, " that there are
three or four honest men among them, whose
lives should be spared. Had they all been
rogues, I should have believed that Provi-'
dence had singled them out, in order to de-
liver them into your hands; rely upon it, all
those who have landed will be at our dispo-
sal, and shall die or live as we think fit."
These words, pronounced with a firm voice
and animated countenance, inspired the cap-
tain with fresh courage, and he actively set
to workfi'o assist Crusoe in making preparaa
- o
tions for the attack. As soon as the second

boat was observed advancing towards the "

island, they took the precaution of separat-
ing the prisoners, and of placing them
in security. T wo of them, of whom the
captain entertained particular suspicion,

were by Crusoe's desire conducted to his '

cave, guarded by Friday and one of the cap-
tain's companions. They left them some
provisions, and assured them that if they re-
mained quiet, they should in a few days he
set at liberty; but if they made the least at-
tempt to escape, no mercy would be shewn
them.

The other prisoners were better off; two,
indeed, on whom the captain could not
place reliance, were kept pinioned ; but the
other three, Crusoe took into his service,
on the recommendation of the captain, and
upon their giving a solemn promise to live
and die in the service of their master.

The men who arrived in the second boat
pushed her ashore after them when they
landed. Crusoe was glad to see this. He
was afraid lest they should leave it at an-
chor, with some hands to guard it, in which

 

-'>>2x.&art..,.i
'1:
1
5;

ROBINSON causon. 147

case it would have been impossible for them
to gain possession of it.

They immediately ran to the other boat;
but finding a hole knocked in her bottom,
and all her tackle carried off, they appeared
in great consternation. They then gave
two or three loud shouts to make their com-
panions hear; but finding it was of no avail,
they made a general discharge of their fire-
arms.

All was silent, except the echo which re-
peated the report of the discharge. They
at first seemed inclined to return to the ship;
they launched the boat, and all jumped into
it. They had not however rowed far, when
they again returned. Three of them were
left in .the boat; the others proceeded up
the country in search of their companions.
Crusoe was greatly disappointed on seeing
this: it would have been to no purpose for
him or his people to seize the seven men
who had landed, if the rest escaped, for in
that case the boat would not fail to give the
alarm, when a fresh party would either be
sent ashore, or the ship would set sail.

However, the evil was without remedy;

o 2
the boat rowed from the shore, and cast an-
chor at some distance. All that could now
be done, was to await the event.

The seven sailors who had landed kept
close together walking by the side of the
hill, at the bottom of which lay the habita-
tion of Robinson Crusoe. On reaching the
top of the hill, from which they could see
a great part of the Woods and vallies of the
island, especially on the north--east side,
where the land was lowest, they began to
shout again till they were tired; and not
daring to penetrate further into the country,
they sat down to consult together. Had
they taken it into their heads to go to sleep,
as the first party had done, they would have
rendered an essential service to Robinson
Crusoe and his companions; but they were
too full of terror, although they had no idea
of the kind of danger they had to fear.

The captain thought he could guess the
subject of their conversation, and, suppos-
ing they meditated a second discharge of
their fire-arms to make their comrades hear,
proposed that they should fall upon them a1-
together as soon as they had fired, and thusamalgam--emu" '

"imp-.1 _. ~

ROBINSON cnuson. 149

force them to surrender. Crusoe thought
this was a very good idea, provided it was
cleverly executed ; but, unfortunately, an
opportunity did not present itself. '

After a long consultation, the sailors arose
and marched down towards the sea. They
had apparently formed such dreadful appre-
hensions of the dangers which awaited them,
that they 'gave their companions over for
lost, and determined to return to the ship
and set sail.

The captain, seeing that they were really
about to depart, was reduced to despair;
but Crusoe soon thought of a stratagem to
bring them back again, which perfectly
succeeded.

He ordered the mate and Friday to pro-
ceed to the western side of the island, and
when they should come to some rising
ground, to halloo as loud as they could, and
then stop, and to begin again as soon as the
sailors answered them; and to continue-do-
ing so at certain intervals, until they brought
them into the woods, and then to return to
him.

The sailors were jus tgetting into the boat

0
when the mate and Friday first called out.
' They heard them instantly, and ran towards
the part of the island from which the sound
appeared to proceed. Finding a creek in
their way they called for the boat. Having
rowed across the creek, they placed the boat
under the guard of two of their party.

This was just what Crusoe wished for;
leaving Friday and the mate to execute his
orders, he and the rest of his companions
marched round and surprised the two sailors
who guarded the boat. One of them was
in it--the other was lying on the beach half
asleep. He started up suddenly on the ap-
proach of Crusoe and his party. The cap-
tain, who was nearest, rushed upon him,
knocked him down with the butt-end of his
musket, and then called to the one who was
in the boat to surrender, or he was a dead
man. He did not hesitate long, on finding
himself attacked by five men, his comrade
killed, and besides he was one of those of
whom the captain had spoken favourably: he
not only surrendered, but even joined the
captain, and promised to serve him faithfully.

They then dragged the boat ashore, and
threw the body of the sailor who had been kill-
ed into the sea, in order to prevent his com-
panions from knowing what had happened.

It is impossible to express the aStonish--
ment of the sailors whom Friday and the
mate had enticed into the woods, when, on
their return, they saw the tide had ebbed,
the boat stuck fast in the sand, and without
guards. They heard them call to one ano-
ther, in the most pitiable manner, that they
were in an enchanted island; that if it was
inhabited by men they should be all mur-
dered, and if it was haunted by spirits they
should be carried off and devoured.

They began to halloo again, and to call
their companions by name; but received no
answer. Crusoe and his party then saw
them, by the help of the little daylight which
remained, running about and wringing their
hands in deSpair. Some jumped into the
boat to repose, for they were much fatigued;
others ran up and down the shore, like men
who had lost their reason. '

Crusoe could easily have attacked them;
but his design was to take them at his ad-
vantage, in order that as few as possible
might be killed, and not to risk the lives of
his followers. He resolved therefore to wait,
in the hope that they would separate; but
that they might have no chance of escaping,
he drew his ambuscade nearer, ordering
every one to crawl on his hands and feet,
in order to get as close to them as possible
without being discovered.

The boatswain, who was the chief leader
of the mutiny, and who now proved himself
more terrified and cowardly than the others,
in a few minutes advanced towards their
hiding-place, with two of his companions.
The captain was so irritated against this
principal rogue, that he could scarcely allow
him to approach near enough to be sure of
him. He however checked himself; but after
having waited patiently for another minute
or two, he rose up suddenly with Friday and
fired at them.

The boatswain was killed on the spot;
one of the two who accompanied him was
wounded in the body, but he did not die
until two hours after; the other fled. On
hearing the noise of firing, Crusoe advanced
with all his army, which consisted of eight
ROBINSON cnvsox. 153

men; he was himself generalissimo ; Friday
was his lieutenant-general; their private:
were the captain and his two companions,
and the three prisoners whom they had
trusted with arms. '

The night was very dark, so that it was
impossible for the mutineers to know what
number they had to engage with. Crusoe
ordered the man whom they found in the
boat, and who surrendered, to call them by
their names, to learn whether they were
willing to capitulate.

The sailor began to cry aloud, " Tom
Smith ! Tom Smith l"--" Is it you, John ?"

' answered Smith. " Yes, yes," replied the

other. " For God's sake throw down your
arms, or you are all dead men this instant."

" To whom must we surrender?" said
Smith; " where are they ?"----" They are
here," replied John ; "it is our captain with
fifty soldiers he has obtained from the gover-
nor of the island. He has been looking fbr
you more than two hours; the boatswain .is
killed; William Fry is dangerously wound-
ed; I am a prisoner of war myself, and if
you do not surrender you are lost."
9"

" Will they give us quarter, 1nquired
Smith, " if we throw down our arms ?"------" I
will ask the captain," said John. The cap--
tain began to speak to Smith himself: " You
know my voice, Smith," cried he; " if you
surrender you shall all have your lives, ex-
cept Will Atkins."---" For God's sake, cap-
tain," cried Atkins, " give me quarter ?
What have I done more than the others?
they are all as guilty as I am." This, how-
ever, was untrue; for he was the first who

- had ill-used the captain, by tying his hands
and using the most insulting language. The
captain accordingly replied, that he would
promise nothing--that he must surrender at
discretion, and trust to the mercy of the
governor: by this high-sounding title he
designated Robinson Crusoe.

Upon this they all threw down their arms,
begging fo1 mercy, and Crusoe sent John
and two others to bind them: afterwards his
great army of fifty men advanced and'seized
them. As for the generalissimo, he kept out
of sight, for reasons of state.

The captain severely reproved them for
their bad conduct.
They all appeared very penitent, and
begged hard for their lives, in a very hum-
ble manner. He replied that they were not
his prisoners; but the governor's of the is-
land. " You intended," continued he, " to
leave me on a desart island; but it pleased
God to ordain that this place should be in-
habited, and even governed by an English-
man. T he governor could hang you all,
but having given you quarter, he6 probably
means to send you to England to be deli-
vered up to justice--Atkins however ex-
cepted; I am ordered by the governor to
advise him to prepare for death, as he will
be hanged to-morrow morning."

This fabrication produced a wonderful ef-
fect. Atkins fell on his knees, and entreated
the captain to intercede for him with the
governor, and the others conjured him for
God's sake to prevent their being sent to
England.

As Robinson Crusoe had determined in
his mind to employ these sailors as the in-
struments of recovering the ship, he con-
trived to play his part as governor, without

shewing himself. . In that capacity he gave
orders that the captain should come to him;
one of the men then called: " Captain, the
governor wishes to speak with you."--" Tell
his excellency," replied the captain, " that
I will this moment obey his orders." The
prisoners were now completely in the snare,
they doubted not that the governor was near
them with a numerous party.

. When the captain came, Crusoe commu--
nicated to him his design of seizing the ves~
sel. He approved it very much, and re-
solved to put it in execution next morning.
The better to effect their object, Crusoe was
of opinion that it would be advisable to divide
the prisoners: he directed the captain and
his two companions to take Atkins and two
of the worst of the party, and convey them
to his cave, where they would find two of
their companions who had been there for a
considerable time.

He sent the rest to his country-house,
which was surrounded by a strong enclosure,
as the reader has already been informed.

To the latter he sent the captain next
morning, instructing him to discover their
sentiments, in order to learn whether it

.i
i
i
N'HMD-'L'Ap ' r '

would be prudent to employ them in the
projected scheme. He spoke to them of
3 their bad conduct, and of the misery they
"a had brought on themselves; and he observed
33 that although the. governor had spared their
1' lives, they would certainly be hanged if he
e sent them to England. " Nevertheless,"
i added he, "if you promise to assist me in
E: the just attempt of recovering my ship, the
i governor will formally pledge himself to
E obtain your pardon."
3 It may easily be judged What effect such
' a proposition would produce on the unhappy
f} men: they threw themselves on their knees
before the captain, and promised with the
most solemn imprecations, that they would
5' be faithful to the last drop of their blood,
that they would follow him wherever he
3 wished, that they would always consider
him as their father, since they should owe
'1 their lives to him. " Well," said the cap-
j tain,' " I will inform the governor of your
.; promises, and will do all in my power to
El prevail on him to favour you." He then left
ethem, in order to report the conversation to

"' Robinson Crusoe.
rQ
158 ADVENTURES or

Not wishing to neglect any thing which
could ensure the success of the scheme,
Crusoe desired the captain to return and say
that the governor had consented to select
five of them to employ in the enterprize, but
that he would detain as hostages the two
others, with the three prisoners whom he
had in his castle; and that he would hang
them all five on the sea-shore, if their com-
rades were so perfidious as to fail in the
fulfilment of their promises.

There was in all this an air of severity
which convinced them the governor was in
earnest.

The five whom the captain selected joy-
fully accepted these terms; and the hostages
were as much interested as their commander
in exhorting them to do their duty.

The captain now had nothing to do but
rig and man the two boats for the expedition .
this was soon done.

He then embaiked with his party: in
one boat were the passenger with four of
the seamen; and in the other the captain,
the mate, and four of the sailors who had
surrendered.
It was about midnight when they disco-
vered the ship. As soon as they were within
hearing, he ordered John to call out and in-
form the crew that they had brought back the
first boat with the sailors, but that they had
been a long time before they found them.

, John in this manner held them in conver-
sation until the boat came up to the ship's
side.

The captain and the mate going first on
board, instantly knocked down the second
mate and the carpenter, and being faithfully
assisted by the others, they soon secured all
who were on the decks.

They then began to fasten the hatches, in
order to prevent those below from coming to
the assistance of their comrades, when the
sailors in the second boat, entering at the
fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship,
and took prisoners three of the omen whom
they found in the cook's cabin.

Thus being master of all above-board, the
captain ordered the mate to take three men
with him, and to force their way into the
cabin of the new captain. The latter, having

taken the alarm, rose, and assisted by two
P 2
sailors and a cabin boy, was preparing a
vigorous resistance.

The mate having, by means of a crow--bar,
forced open the door, the new captain and
his men boldly fired upon him and his com-
panions. Two were wounded by this dis-
charge; but the mate, although he had his
arm broken, shot the new captain through
the head, upon which his companions sur-
rendered. All opposition was now at an
end, and the captain recovered his ship
without further bloodshed.

He instantly informed Robinson Crusoe
of the success of his enterprize, by firing se-
ven cannon, as had been agreed upon be-
tween them. Crusoe was standing on the
beach, full of care and anxiety: he heard
the happy signal with transports of joy.

The next morning the captain wentashore.
He embraced Crusoe in the most tender
manner, and, pointing towards the vessel,
" 'My dear friend," said he, " my dear pre-
server, behold your ship; it belongs to you,
as well as we, and all we possess."

Crusoe cast his eyes towards the sea, and
there indeed he saw the ship, which was at\ ..

fg'"*\"SS'\SS:\'\:SSSS k 1'

~ a "$53.25" \\\"$~Y=;&~"SS-"u
' a :7. V3; \1. _<<.~

        
 
 

     

The Farrah. offers his Ship to Rabi nson

('rnsml . /w_u'r MW.

fizz/w 'ILV',/.1'.-:v."/.1131.9Inn/.r'lm'V'Lv (firm,- .1/ ', III/11ml".
ROBINSON causon. 161

anchor, and very near the shore, according
to the captain's orders.

He was so overpowered with joy, that for
a long time he was not able to utter a word.
When he came to himself he embraced the
captain in his turn, declaring him his de-
liverer, and saying .he regarded him as a
man sent by Heaven to his assistance. Byt
the captain denied that Robinson Crusoe
was under any obligations to him, and there
arose between them a long contest of gra-
titude and generosity. .

After these mutual protestations and ac-
knowledgments, the captain told Crusoe that
he had brought him some refreshments, and
he called to the men in the boat to bring
ashore the presents intended for the gover-
nor. They were indeed presents fit for a
governor, and for a governor who was to
dwell in the island, instead of one who, like
Robinson Crusoe, intended to quit it.

These presents consisted of a case of hot-
tles, filled with cordial waters. There were
also seven bottles of Madeira wine, each
containing two good pints, two pounds of
excellent tobacco, two great pieces of beef,

P 3
six pieces of pork, a sack of peas, and about
a hundred weight of biscuit; a box of sugar,
another filled with flour; two bottles of lime-
juice, and a great number of other things
both useful and agreeable. But what pleased
Robinson Crusoe more than all the rest, was
six shirts, quite new, an equal number of
good cravats, two pair of gloves, two pair of
shoes, a pair of stockings, a hat, and a com-
plete suit of clothes.

Crusoe, having caused all these presents
to be carried to his habitation, began to
consult with the captain respecting the way
in which they should dispose of their pri-
soners. This was very necessary, especially
with regard to the two leaders of the mutiny,
whose confirmed and incorrigible wicked-
ness was well known. The captain was
convinced that kindness was aetincapable of
reforming them as punishment, and that if
he took them on board, it must be for the
pui pose of conveying them in ilons to Eng- 1' '
land, or the first English colony they ar-
rived at, to be delivered OVer to justice. -

The captain being so humane as to regret
the necessity of 'this course of proceeding,
Crusoe observed that he would undertake to
bring the two men he spoke of to ask, as a
favour, permission to remain onthe island.

Having received from the captain full
permission to act as he pleased on this point,
he sent Friday and two sailors to the cave,
and desired them to bring the five prisoners,
bound, from thence to his country-house,
and to guard them until he came.

In a short time he proceeded to his coun-
try-house, dressed in the clothes which had
been p1esented to him by the captain, and
accompanied by that ofiicer.

He was then openly add1essed as the go-
vernor. He first caused the prisoners to 0be
brought before him, and told them that he
was perfectly acquainted with their conspi-
racy against the captain, and of their inten-
tion of comm"ting pi1 acy with the ship they
had seized; thatb they might see their new
captain hanging at the yard-arm as a reward '
for his villany, and that he wished to know
what they had to allege against being
punished as pirates taken in the fact.

One 'of them answered that they had no-
thing to plead, except that the captain had
promised them their lives, and that they im-
plored forgiveness. Crusoe replied, that he
did not know what to do for them, since he
was going to quit the island and to embark for
England; and that with regard to the captain,
if he took them with him, it could only be with
the intention of delivering them over to jus-
tice to be tried for mutiny, which would lead
them straight to the gallows. He added, that
he thought the best thing they could do was
to remain on the island, from whence he and
all his people intended to depart.

They received this proposal with gratitude,
saying, that they infinitely preferred staying
there to the fate which awaited them in Eng-
land; ,but the captain pretended to object
to this proceeding. Upon which Robinson
Crusoe replied with an air of assumed irrita-
tion, that they were his prisoners, and not
the captain's: that having offered them a fa-
vour, he was not a man to fail in keeping his
promise; that he would set them at liberty
as he had found them, and that the captain
might catch them again if he could.

He did as he had said, and unbinding
them, desired them to retire into the woods,42' .1; "fl

ROBINSON cnuson. 165

promising to give them fire-arms, ammuni-
tion, and the necessary directions to enable

them to live comfortably.

He then informed the captain that he in-
tended to remain one night longer on the
island, in order to prepare every thing for
his voyage, and urged him to return to the
ship to keep all in order.

When the captain was gone, Crusoe de-
sired the five sailors to come to his habita-
tion. Finding them still firm in their reso-
lution of remaining in the island, he gave
them a description of the place, and taught
them his method of making bread, planting
corn, and drying grapes; in a word, all that
was necessary to render them comfortable.

He left them his arms, namely, five mus-
kets, three fowling pieces, and three sabres,
and about a barrel and a half of gunpowder.

He also taught them his manner of rear~
ing goats, of milking and fattening them,
and making butter and cheese. He more-
over promised that the captain should leave
them a large supply of gunpowder, and some
kitchen-garden seed.

The next morning, when the boat rowed
up to the shore, Robinson Crusoe, accom-
panied by Friday, entered it to proceed to
the ship: he carried with him the jewels
and money that he had formerly regarded
with so much disdain. He did not forget
his umbrella, his large cap, his fur cloak and
' his old parrot; they were memorials of his
misfortune, which would do him honour,
and which he proposed to show to his old
acquaintances in England, if they were yet
alive.

The Englishmen whom he left in the island
accompanied him to the boat, repeating their
thanks, and promising to follow the direc-
tions he had given them.

When Crusoe arrived at the ship, he sent
a supply of provisions to the men on the
island.

The wind proved favourable, and towards
evening they set sail. Crusoe never turned
his eyes from the island as long as it re-
mained in sight: by habit we become at-
tached even to the scenes of our misfortune.
When he could no longer see the hospitable
shore which had shielded him from the fury
of the waves, he fell on his knees, and re-
 

turned thanks to God for his happy deliver-
ance. He had lived in exile twelve years,
two months, and nineteen days.

CHAP. XV.

ROBINSON CRUSOE ARBIVES IN ENGLAND. MEETING
WITH HIS FATHER.

As it had been previously agreed on, they
set sail for Europe. The vessel touched at
the island to which Robinson Crusoe had
sent the Spaniard and Friday' 3 father in quest
of the unfortunate men who had suffered
shipwreck. The captain took them on board,
having first informed them that their deliver-
ance was one of the conditions that Crusoe
had imposed on him. They embraced their
deliverer with transports of joy and grati~
tude, of which it is impossible to form a just
idea.

Friday's father, who was unable to part.
with his son and benefactor, embarked also.

The passage was very favourable. In
twenty-four days the vessel entered Cadiz
harbour, where the Spaniards and Portu-
guese having landed, it was but a very short
time sailing from thence to Portsmouth.

On his return to his native country, Ro-
binson Crusoe hastened to revisit the spot
where, twenty years before, he had left his
family, overwhelmed with sorrow and des-
pair. When he beheld the towers of Hull,
the most melancholy recollections crowded
on his mind. " Does my father still live?"
thought he, " or has he lingered into his
grave, pronouncing curses on an ungrateful
son, who proved the torment of his old
age?" A friend, at whose house he called,
and who with difficulty recognized him,
consoled him by the information that his
father was still living, though worn out by
' age and infirmities, and that he was some-
times heard to regret the son whom a pas-.
sion for useless travelling had, for a. long.
series of years, separated from his home.

Robinson Crusoe thought it best not to
appear suddenly in the presence of his fa--
ther, lest the agitation it might create should,
be attended with fatal consequences. He
acquainted him of his return through the
medium of a friend, who promised to com-
municate the circumstance with every ne-
' cessary precaution. The good old man
' wished to see him immediately. Fathers
1 are ever indulgent to the errors of their
f children: but Crusoe had expiated his
\ faults in so terrible a manner, that it was
I more natural to seek to afford him consola--
tion than to reprove him. " Oh ! my father!"
" Oh ! my son l" These, for a considerable
1 time, were the only words they could utter.
All Crusoe's family were overjoyed at g
l seeing him again, and every one was eager
to make him forget what he had suffered, by
shewing him marks of attention and friend-
ship. Friday and his father soon became a
part of the family, where every one wished
'. to serve as their guides and protectors.
Robinson Crusoe was now finally settled
in the country that gave him birth. His
history was generally known, and he be-
came the object of public curiosity. When
young people congratulated him on the re--
solution and skill with which he baffled ad>>
verse fortune in his island, he constantly

Q170 ADVENTURES or ROBINSON cnusorz.

replied :--" My young friends, all my strength
" proceeded from GOD; when I disregarded
" him, I was plunged into confusion and dis-
" order. By encountering dificulties in his
" name I overcame them ; by (firing up my
"labours to him they became fi'uitful. But
" notwithstanding all the mercy he has shewn
" me, the recollection of my sins still fills me
" with repentance. My young friends, if you
" wish to enjoy peace of mind, without which
" there is no real happiness, despise not the
" counsels of your Parents, and never lose
" sight of the homage due to T HE ALMIGHTY !"

THE END.

L0 N D 0 N:
PRINTED BY COX AND BAYLIS, GREAT QUEEN STREEL

 

 

fiM-'I'... 1.x..-
PUBLISHED BY JOHN HARRIS,
ST. PAUL'S CHURCH-YARD.

THE SON OF A GENIUS, a Tale. Price 25.6(1.
half-bound.

THE BLIND FARMER AND HIS CHILDREN,
3 Tale. Price 25. 6d. half-bound.-

ELLEN THE TEACHER, a Tale. Price 25. 6d.
half-bound.

THEODORE, OR THE CRUSADERS, a Tale..
Price 35. 6d. half~hound.

OFFICER'S WIDOW AND HER YOUNG FA-
MILY, a Tale. Price 25. 6d. half-bound.

ALFRED CAMPBELL, the Young Pilgrim; con-
taining Travels in Egypt and the Holy Land. With twenty-
four Engravings. Price 65. 6d. halllbound.

TRAVELS IN EGYPT AND ARABIA, Petra or
Alfred Campbell's second Pilgrimage. With sixteen En-
gravings.

WELCOME VISITOR;'or, The Good Uncle. A
Collection of Original Stories, containing several well-
authenticated Anecdotes, displaying striking Traits of Vir-
tue and Heroism in Early Life. Second Edition.

BIRDS ON THE WING; or, Pleasant Tales and
Useful Hints on the value and right use of Time. By
Miss Parker. Second Edition.

ALWAYS HAPPY; or, Anecdotes of Felix and his
Sister Serena, a Tale, written for her Children, by a Mo-
ther. Sixth Edition.

RIGHT AND W'RON G, exhibited in the History of
Rosa and Agnes. By a Mother. New Edition.

KEY TO KNOWLEDGE; or, Things in common
Use simply and shortly explained, in Dialogues. By a
Mother. Fifth Edition.Work: publuhed by Jolm Harm.

NURSERY MORALS, chiefly in Monosy "ables. By
a Mother. With twenty-four Plates. Third yEdition.

PLEASURES OF LIFE. By the Author of " Al-
ways Happy

GODMOTHER'S TALES. Fifth Edition.

COOPER'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the
earliest Period to the Present Time; on a plan recom-
mended by the.Earl of Chesterfield.

CHOSROES AND HERACLIUS, a Tale from the
ROman History. By Miss Sandham.

SOLDIER'S FAMILY, and other Tales.

POWER OF MUSIC; in which is shewn, by a
variety of plmsin and instructive Anecdotes, the Efi'ects
it has on Man an Animals. ..

LaEORTFOLIO' or a School--girl's Selection. By a

ROBINSON C RUSOE a new and improved Edition,
with twelve En'gravings.

THE ADOPTED DAUGHTER. By Miss Sand-
ham. New Edition.

THE STORY-TELLER; a collection of Original
Tales. With twenty -four Engravi ngs. Do.

CONSTANCE and CAROLINE, a Moral Tale. By
a Young Lady.

LE BABILLARD, an amusing Introduction to the
French Language. By a French Lady.

THE ESKDALE HERD-BOY.

MARGARY MEANWELL; or the interesting Story
of Goody Two.Shoes rendered into familiar Verse. With
twenty Eng gravings. Bound In coloured Cloth.

THE HISTORY OF WHITTINGTON AND
HIS CAT, in Rhyme. By the Author of "Margary
Meanwell. " With twelve Engravi ngs. Do.

CONVERSATIONS ON ASTRONOMY. With
several appropriate Engravings. Do

CHIT--CHAT; or, Short Tales In Short Words. By
the Author of " Always Happy. " Do. With thirty-nine
Engra vIn.gs
EASY RHYMES. Written by a Lady. With a variety
of elegant Engravings. Do.

 

_ u...r.::4~. ...,__~.m - '

' 'JWL. <<4.2: n... 4.4.. A ;