LIFE AND ADVENTURES D

ROBINSON CRUSOE.'

WHO LIVED TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS

ON AN

, UNINHABITED ISLAND,

WITH AN

gamut nf lgis gelihnram.

With Illustrations.

-' "WWQW Mb'w 'SSm"'"\"SSSSm

  
 
 
 

CINCINNATI:

PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES,
'No. 167 WALNUT STREET.. K .
. z ' .
. .. _ . . . .
. . m. . I. , .. < \
. _ . _ . . . . \\
1 . ' . I ; . n .
, . . . . . I
' . . . .. a
. , : . . . . _ ~ ,
K . , z _ . . V ' .
. , >> . . . . .. ., x"
. . 2 .
. .. ;. . H. . .. 5,." ' . . .. ..
.. . . l e V27 .. ... . T . , ..
.. . . . . u , . . n , 1. .
.c , . V. . V . ...., z . . ' , .
. \ ' 7 .. . ... . . .c L s' . , \ . .
. . .. _ . ; ' . . ' A. .
. . . I . . . . 4 V. .. ' .--
. . . ' . \
. . .. . . c. . s
. . . . . . ' . . '. n , r
u .. . . ..
. . .. . . , .. s . .u .1 .
. n . . . . . .. . . 1.
. .. ! ... . . . V . . 5Z / << '
. . . . {
. '. . . . . L i
.. n ' .. ' _' .. . m . u .
<<. . .. . >> E .
. . . A .. . . .. ..
. 1 ..\ . . 11,3. . 4 1 . ..
. . . . _. . ..
V . . .: . .. .... . .
.. u. . . . . _. ,
o . .. . V. . . ' .4. r
' . . . . .
. w l . . v
r I
. . I Q , . t
\ . .. , .
. ' I r
z r .. .. . . . .. u
. . .. .. . '

' . (.13.

I .- 1 ink."
,......' ,u...'. It... .. .
.1>>. 3/] ($3..2!!!

.LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

\
WHO LIVED TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS

ON AN

uninhabitcb 351mb.

WITH"

ACCOUNT OF HIS DELIVERANCE.

'Vifli mumtlom.

CINCINNATI:

PUBLISHED BY U. P: nuns,
No. 16'! WA>>?! 81315:.ADVENTUREfi

OF

ROBINSON ' CRUSOEQ

I WAS born at York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of Bre-p
men, who, by merchandising at Hull for some time,
gained a very plentiful fortune. He married my
mother at York, and, as her maiden name was Rob-
inson, I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; which not
being easily pronounced in the English tongue, we
are commonly known by the name of Crusoe. .

I was the youngest of three brothers. No
chargeor pains were wanting in my education.
My father designed me for the law, yet nothing
would serve me but I must go to sea, both agains:
the will of my father, the tears of my mother, and
entreaties of friends. One morning my father ex-
postulated warmly with me : " What reason," says
he, "have you to leave your native country with
a more certain prospect of content and happi-
ness, to enter into a wandering condition of un~
easiness and uncertainty! He recommended to
me Agar's wish, neither to desire poverty nor
riches; that a middle state of life was the most
happy; and that the high towering thoughts of
raising our condition by wandering abroad were
surrounded with misery and danger, and often
ended with Confusion and disappointment. l on-
treat you, nay, I command you (says he.) to
desist from these intentions. if you will go,
(added he,) my prayers shall, however, he offer-
ed for your preservation; but a time may come,
when desolate, oppressed, or forsaken, you may
wish you had taken your poor despised father's
oounsol.--lle pronounced these words with such
a moving and paternal eloquence, while floods of
cars ran down his aged checks. that it seemed
to stem the torrent of my resolution. llut this
soon Wore off; and a little after I informed my
mother that I Could not settle at any busmess,
my resolutions were so strong to see the world,
and begged she would gain my father's consent
only to go one voyage, which if it did not prove
rosperous, I would never attempt a second.
But my desire was as 'vain as my folly in asking.
My mother passionately expressed her dislike to-
this proposal, telling me that as she saw I was
bent on my own destruction, contrary to their
will and my duty, she would say no more, but
leave me to m selt'to do whatever I pleased.

I was then, think, nineteen years old, when
one time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of
mine going along with his father, who was mas-
ter of a ship, to London; and acquainting him
with my wandering'desircs, he assured me of a
free passage, and a plentiful share of what was
necessary. Thus, without imploring a blessing,3031an causes. 1.

artakzng farewellpt' myparents, 1 took shipping-
on the lst of September, 1651. _ ,

.Upon the. 6th day, we came to anancltor-in.
Iiarwich road, where we lay wind-bound with
some Newcastle ships; and there\ being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the. seamen for-
got their late toil and danger, and spent the time.
as merrily as if they had been on shore. But on
the eighth day, there arose a brisk gale of wind,
which prevented our tiding it up the river; and
it still increasing, ourship rode .forecastle in, and
shipped several large seas. -

It was not long before horror seized the sea-
men themselves, and I.heard the master express,
this melancholy ejaculation, Lord have mercy>>
upon us, we shall all he lost and undone! For,
my part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin, till
the unimrsal and terribly dreadful apprehensionJ.
of our speedy fate made me get upon deck, and
there I was atl'righted indeed. The .sea went
mountains high: I could see nothing but distress .
around us: two ships had cut away their masts,
and another had thundered; two more that had}
lost their anchors, were thread out to the mercy:
of the ocean; and, to save our lives, wewere.
forced to cut our foremast and mainmast quite

awe . - . .

.Wyho is there so ignorant as not to judge of ,
my dreadful condition! _ I was buts; fresh-water,
sailor, and therefore .scemed ' more terrified.
Our ship was very good, but overloaded; which
made the sailors often cry out, She will founders.
words I then was ignorant of. All-t,his,.while,
the storm continuing, ,and rather increasing, the-
master. and the more sober part of themen went
to prayers. expecting death every moments. In,
the middle of the night one cried. out, ,We had
sprung a leak: another, That there was. four feet,s' aonmsoucausos.

water in the hold. I was just ready to expire
with fear, when immediately all hands were call-
ed to the pump; and the men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their labor.
While thus employed. the master cspying some
colliers, fired a gun as a signal of distress; and
I not understanding what it meant, and thinking
that either the ship broke, or some dreadful thing
happened, fell into a swoon. Even in that con-
dition of woe, nobody minded rue, excepting to
thrust me aside with their feet, thinking me
dead; and it was agreat while before I reCovered.

ilappy it was for us, when upon the signal
given, they ventured out their boat to save our
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all our attempts been, had they not come
to our ship's side; and our men cast them a rope
over the stern with a buoy to it, which after great
ditiiculty they got hold of, and we hauling them
to us, got into their boat, and left our ship which
we perceived sink within less than a quarter of
an hour: and thusl learnt what was meant by
foundering at sea.' A nd now the men incessant-
ly labored to recover their own ship; but the
sea ran so high, and the wind blew so hard, that
they thought it Convenient to haul in shore,
which with great ditficulty and danger at last we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cromer,
not far from Winterton light-house; from whence
we all walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects of
pity, many good people furnished us with the
necessaries to carry us either to Hull, or London.

Strange! that after all this, I did not, like the
prodigal son, return to my father; who hearing
ofthe ship's calamity. for a long time thought me
entombed in the deep. No doubt but [should
have shared in his fatted calf, as the Scripture
expresscth it; but my way" ard disposition still1108le CRUSOE.' U

pushed me on, in spite of the powerful co'nvic"
tions of reason and conscience. When .wehad'
been at Yarmouth three days I met my old com-
panion, who had given me the invitation to go on'
board along with his father. H is behaviour and
speech were altered , and, in a melancholy manner.
he asked me how I did! telling his father who It
was, and how I had made this voyage for a triali
only to proceed farther abroad. Upon which the!
old gentleman turning to me. said, Young man,
you ought never to go to sea any more, but to
take this fora certain sign, that you will never.
rosper in a sea-faring condition. Sir,.answered.
, will you take the same resolution! It is a
different case, said he, it is my calling, and con-'
sequently my duty; but as you have made this
voyage for a trial, you see what ill luck heaven
has set before your eyeszvand perhaps our mi-
series have been on your account, like Jonah in
the ship of 'l'arshish. But pray what are cu,-
and on what account did you go to seal: . pon
which, I very freely declared my whole story; at-
the end of which he made this exclamation, -Ye'
sacred powers! what had I committed, that such
a wretch should enter into my ship, to heap upon'
me such a deluge of miseries! But soon recola'
lecting himself, Young man, said he,il' you do
not go back, depend upon it, wherever you go,
you will meet with disasters, and disappoint-
ments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon-
you. And so we parted. --, '
I thought at first to return home; but shame.
opposed that-good notion, as thinking'l should
he laughed at by my neighbors and acquaint.
ances. . So strange is the nature of -youth!'
They are not ashamed to sin, but yet-ashamed to.
repent; and so far from being sorry for those>>
aetions for which they may .be accounted foolsvIO ROBINSON causes.

they think it folly to return to their duty, which it
the principal mark of wisdom. In short. I tra-
velled up to London, resolving upon a voyage,
and a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaint-
ance with a captain who took a fancy to me, to
go to the coast of Guinea. Having some mo-
ney and appearing like a gentleman, I went on
board, not as a common sailor or foremastoman;
nay, the commander agreed that I should go that
voyage with him without any expensenthat-I
should be his messmatc and Companion, and that
I was welcome to carry any thing with me', and
make the best merchandise I could.

I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thande my captain for his oti'er, and acquainting
my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent
me, the greatest part of which my dear father
and mother contributed, with which] bought toys
and tritles as the captain directed me. My cap-
tain also taught me navigation, how to keep at'.
account of the ship's course, take. an observation.
and led me into the knowledge of several usefu
branches of the mathematics. And indeed this
voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant;
for I brought home five pound nine ounces oi
gold dust, for my adventure, which produced, at
my return to Londtn, almost three hundred
pounds; but in this voyage I was extremely
sick, being thrown into a violent fever, through
excessive heat, trading- upon the coast-from the
latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line
itself. '

But, alas! my dear friend the ca tain soon'
departed this life after his arrival. ' 'his was I
sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go~InO-'
ther Voyage with his mate, who had. now got
command of the ship. This proved a very un-
successful one; for though I did not carry a:ROBINSON 030931311 '

hundred pounds of my late acquired'w'e'althg: (00"
that I had two hundred'pounds left. which:l re- :
szed with the captain's widow, who was an ho. :
1) st gentl'ewomdn.) yet "my misfortunes initltis
unhappy Voyage were very great. For our ship:
sailin towards the-Canary Islands, we vene-
chaseg by a Salce rover: and in spite of all-.the
haste we could make,-hy crowding as much can.
vass as our ya'rd's could spread, or our- masts
carry, the pirat'e gained upon us, so that'we preo
pared ourselves to light. "They had eighteen
guns. and we had but twelve. About three in
the afternoon there was a desperate engagebent,
wherein'many were killed and wounded .on'both
sides: but finding ourselves overpoweredswith'
numbers," our ship disabled, and ourselvestoo.
impotent to have. the least hopes of success, we~
were forced to surrendcrz-and accordinglywe-
were all carried prisoners into thelport of Salon.
Uur men were sent tothe Emperor's- court to-
be sold there; but the'pirate captain'tahing now
tice 'ofme, kept me tobe his ownvslave. .. - . -
In this condition, I thought mysettT't-he most-
miserable creature on earth,- and the prophecy-of.
my father c'ame' afresh into my thoughts. diam.
ever, my condition was better than [thoug'htitr
to' be, as will soon appear. Some hopes, indeed;
I had that my new patron'would gotnsea again,
where he might-he taken by a Spanishsor Portuv.
guese man'of war; audathen'f'should.be:settat
liberty. But in'this 'I 'was mistakenrforhesnem:
er took me with lfimgbetdettme to look: afterliio
little garden, and do the drudgery ofi'hisihouse-
and'when he returned from-sea, Wouldmahe no
lie in the cabin and look afterthe ship; 'Ilthadmg
one that '1 could con'nmunicate mthhough'tszto;
irhich we're continually 'meditating-m'y'uca'pu
No Englishman, Irishmm, or Scotchnsan here
but myself: and for two years I could see no-
thing practicable, but only pleased myself with
the imagination.

After some length of time, my patron as I
found, grew so poor. that he Outlltl not fit out his
ship as usual; and then he used constantly, once
or twice a week, if the weather was fair, to go
out a fishing, taking me and a young Moorish
boy to row the boat; and so much pleased was
he with me for my dexterity in catching the fish,
that he Would often send me with a Moor, who
was one of his kinsmen, and the youth before
mentioned, to eatch a dish of fish for him.

One morning. as we were at sport, there arose
such a thick fog. that we lost sight of the shore;
and rowing, we knew not which way, we labor-
ed all the night, and in the morning we found
ourselves in the ocean, two leagues from land.
However. we attained there at length, and made
the greatest haste. because our stomachs were
exceedingly sharp and hungry. In order to pre-
vent such disasters for the future, my patron or-
dered a carpenter to build a little state room or
cabin in the middle of the long boat: with a.
place behind it to steer and haul home the main-
sheet, with other conveniences to keep him from
the weather, as also lockers to put in all manner
of provisions; with a handsome shoulder-of.
mutton sail gibing over the cabin.

In this. be freQuently took us out a fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions ex-
traordinary: providing also three fusees, with
powder and shot, that they might have some
sport fowling along - the sea-coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go
a fishing. for that his guests would certainly sup
with him that night. . .

And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor
to get some provisions on board, and to procure
some powder and shot, pretending to kill seao
curlews, which he innocently and readily agreed
to. In short, being provided with all things ne-
cessary,we sailed out.

When we had passed the castle, we fell to
fishing: but though I knew there was a bite, I
concealed the matter, in order to put farther out
to sea. Accordingly we ran a league farther,
when, giving the boy the helm, and pretending to
stoop for something, 1. seized Muley by surprise
and threw him overboard. As he was an excel-
lent swimmer, he soon arose and made towards
the boat; upon which I took out a fusee, and
presented it at him: "Muley," said I, "I never
yet designed to do you any harm. and seek no-
thing now hut my freedom. I know you are
able enough to swim to shore, and save your life;
but if you are resolved to follow me to the-en-
dangering of mine, the very moment you ro-
ceed, I will shoot you through the head." he
harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and i make no doubt, got safe to land
Then turning to the boy Xury, l perceived ho
trembled at the action; but I put him out of all
fear, telling him, that if he would be true and
faithful to me, I would do well by him and
not hurt him.

We then pursued our voyage: I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but in
the dark of the evening. I changed .my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having a
fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant smooth
sea, by three o'clock next day, l was one hundred
and fifty miles beyond the Emperor of Horde-
no's doininions. I continued sailing for five day.
lucoossively. till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward. maile we conclude. that if any
ressol was in china of me, they would proceed
no farther.

After so mnrh fatigue and thought. I anchored
at the mouth ot'a littlo river,l knew not what or
where. neither did I then see any people. "'hat
I prioripally wanted Was fresh water; and I Was
resolved about the dusk ot' the evening to swim
ashore: hut no sooner the gloomy clouds ot
night hegsan to sucrood tho declining day. than we
heard sneh harhing. marina. and howling of wild
creatures. that one mightme thought the very
strongest monsters of nature had their residence
tluero. l'oor .\'nr_\'. who Was almost dead with
fear. entroatvd me not to go on shore that night.
" Sltplmsv I don't Xury." said I. "arid in the
morning we should sen men who are worse than
those we fear. what then!" "0 den we may
give them the shoot gnu," said he, laughing,
"and the gun make them all run away." The
wit. and broken English whit'h tho boy had learn
od among the c-aptives of our nation. pleased mo
entirely. and made me still [under of him than
before. We could get but little sleep all night
for tho terrible howling: they made; and indeed
we were very murh atl'righted.

The next morning, "was resolved to go on
shore to get in fresh water. and venture myself
among the heasts or savages. should either at-
tack um. any said he would take one of the
jars and bring: me some. .I asked him why he
Would go and not I! The poor boy answered.
' lt' wild mans come. they eat me. you go away."
This. indeed. increased my affection for the
child. "Well, dear Kory," said I, "we willRoman>>: cansor. tls

both go ashore, both kill wild mans, and the!
shall eat neither of ns."- 86 giving Xury
piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore, carrying
notniug with us but our arms, and two jars for
water. I did not go out of sight of the boat, is
dreading the savages coming down the river
in their canoes: hut the boy seeing a low deo
scent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or pro-
tect him from danger. As he came nearer to me,
I Saw smuething hanging over his shoulder,
which was a creature he had shot, like a hare, but
diti'erent in color. and with longer legs, how-
ever we. were glad of it, for it proved wholesome
and nourishing meat; but what added to our joy
was, my lmy assured me there was plenty of
water. and that he "saw no wild mans." And
greater still was our comfort when we found
fresh water in the creek where we were when the
tide was out. without going so-far up into the
country.

In this place I began to hope that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take us in.

The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild
country inhabited only by a few, that lies he'-
tween the Emperor of Morocco'sdominions and
the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts, and
the Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From this
place I th'ought I'saw the top of the mountain
I'enerifl'e, in the Canaries, which made me try
twice to attain it, but-as often was I driven back,
and so forced to pursue my fortune along shore.

Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a l'ittle-'pe'rnt'otland. but pretty high; and
the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready to go
furthering but Xury. whose youthful and pene-
trating eyes were sharper than mine, in a sell
tone desired me to keep far from land, lest we
should he deVoured; " For look yonder, muster,
and see de dreadful monster fast asleep on de
aide ofde hill." Accordingly looking where he
potnted. I espied a fearful monster indeed. It
was a terrible great lion that lay on shore, cov-
ered as it were by a shade of a piece of the hill.
" .\'ury.H said I, " you shall go on shore and kill
him." lint the boy looked amazed. " ."1: kill
him!" says he, " he eat me at one month."--
meaning one mouthful. l'pon which lliid him
lie still. and charging my biggest gun with two
slugs, and a good charge of powder. 1 took the
best aim I could to shoot him through the head;
but his leg lying over his nose, the slug hrolte his
knee bone. The lion awaiting with the pain,
got up. but soon fell down. giving the most hide-
ous groan I ever heard; but taking; tny second
iece, 1 shot him through the head. and then he
ay struggling for life. l'pon this .\'nry took
heart, and desired my leave to go on shore.
" Go. then," said I. hymn which, taking a little
gun in one hand, he swam to the shore with the
other, and coming close to the lion put a period
to his life, by shooting him again through the
head. -
But this was spending our anununitibn in mm,
the tlesh not being good to eat. Xury was like
a champion, and comes on board for a hatchet
to cut otl' the head of his enemy; but wanting
strength to perform it, he cut oil and brought me
a foot. 1 hethought me. however, that his skin
Would be of use. This cost Xury and me a
whole day: when spreading it on the top of our
cabin the hot beams ot' the sun etl'ectuallv dried
it in two days time, and it afterwards served me:
for a bed to lie on. 1

And now we sailed southerly, living sparinglyi
on our provisions, and 'went no oftener on shore;
than we were obliged for fresh water, in hopes.
to meet some European ship. If providence did
not favor me, my next course was to seek for-
the islands, or lose my life among the negroes.
in a word, either I must meet with some ship, or
certainly perish.

One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people stand on the shore looking at us; we
could also perceive they were.black, and stark
naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but Xury.
cried, No, no; however, I approached nearer,
and I found they ran along the-shore by me a
long way. They had no weapons in their hands
except one, who held a long stick, which Xury
told me was a lance, with which they could kill
at a great distance. I talked to them by signs,
and made them sensible that I wanted some--
thing to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat,
while two of them ran up into the country, and
in less than half an hour came back and brought.
with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
which we kindly accepted; and to prevent any.
fears on either side, they brought the food to the
shore, laid it down, then went and stood a great-
way 08', till we fetched it on board, and- then:
came close to ins-again. . -;

llut while we were returning thanks to them,
being all we could afford, two mighty creaturesi
came from the mountains, one as it were pursue.
ing the other with great fury, which we-were-the:
rather inclined to believe, as they seldom-appear.
but in the night, and. both these swiftly passing.
by the negroes, jumped into the sea, wantonly>>

swimming about, as thoughthe diversionof. the
9I8' RDfllNSON CRUSOZ.

waters had put a s.op to their fierceness. At
last one of them coming nearer to my heat than
I expected, or desired, I shot him directly
through the. bend, upon which he sunk immedi-
stely, yet rising again, he would have willingly
made to the shore, but between the wound and
the struggling of the water, he died before he
could reach it.

It ts impossible to eXpress the consternation
the poor llt'g'l'tlt's were in at the tiring of my gun;
much less can I mention their surprise, when
they perceived the creature to he slniu by it. I
made signs to them to draw near it with a rope,
and then gave it to them to haul on shore. It
was a beautiful leOpard, which made me desire
its skin; and the neg-recs seeming to covet the
carcase, l freely gave it to them. As for the
other leopard, it made, to shore, and ran with a
prodigious swiftuess out of sight. The negroes
having kindly furnished me with water, and with
what roots and grains their country alforded, I
took my leave, and, after eleven days sail came
in sight of the Cape de Verd. But the great
distance I was from it, and fearing contrary
winds would prevent me reaching them, I began
to grow melancholy and dejected, when upon a
sudden Xury cried out. " Master, Master," look-
ing as afl'righted as if it was his master's ship
sent in search of us. But I soon discovered
she was a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove
for life to come up to them. But in vain had
it been, it' through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail to
let us come in. )ncotiraged at this, I set up my
patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both as signals
of distress; upon which they very kindly lay to,
so that in three hours time I came up with them.
They spoke to me in Portuguese. Spanish, and
French, but none of these did I understand, till
at length a Scots sailor called, and then I told him
I was an Englishman, who had escaped from the
Moore at Salee, upon which they took me kindly
on board with all my effects. ' - . '

Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we
arrived in the Bay de Todus los Santos, or, All
Saints Bay, in twenty- -two days alter. And
here I cannot forget the generous treatment of
the captain. He would take nothing for nly pasJ
sage, gave me twenty duoats tbr the loo ard'e
skin, and thirty for the lion' s. Every-ti: ngho
caused to be delivered, and what Iwould sell,
he bought. In short, I made 220 ieces of my
cargo, and with this stock I entered, once more,
as I may say into the scene of life.

To be brief, I bought a settlement next to an'
honest and kind neighbor, born at Lisbon, 0:
English parents, whose plantation joining:ll
mine, we improved very amicably together; otlI
our stocks were low: and for two years we'
planted only for food; but the third year we'
planted some tobacco, and each of us dressed'
a large piece of ground the ensuing year' {or
planting sugar-canes.

I was in some measure settled, before the es
tain who took me' up departed from the Brasis
One day I- went to him, and told him what stock
I had in London, desiring his assistance in' get-
ting it sent. out to me; to which the good gentle-
man readily consented, but would only have me'
send for half my money, lest it should lnisearry.
which, if it did, I might still have the remainder
to support me; and so taking letters of procure.
tinn from me, bid no trouble myself no fertile!"
about It.~ "

And indeed, be not only procured the money-
I- hadndrawn [an upon my csptsia' s widow, but"
sent me over a sdrvant, with a cargo proportion-
ableto my condition. lie also sent me tools at
all sorts, iron work and utensils necessary for
mylplantation. - A

V ealth now encreasing on me, and uncommon
succeu crowning my prosperous labor. I
might have rested happy in that .middle state ot
life my father so often recommended; yet no-
thing would content me. Having lived four
years in Brazil, I had not only learned the lan-
guage, but contracted acquaintance with. the
mast eminent planters, and even with the merc
chants of St.-Salvadore, three of whom came one
morning to me saying they had a se'cret proposal
to make. Alter enjoining me to secrecy, they
told me they had.a mind to fit out a ship to go' to
Guinea, in order to stock .the plantation with ne-
groes, which as they could not be publicly sold,>>
they would divide among them; andil' 1 would
go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part, Lehould have an equal share of the
negroes, without providing any stock. The thing.
indeed was fair enough, had I been in another
condition: however 1 could not resist the pro-
posal, but accepted the offer, upon condition of
their looking after my plantation. '

The ship being titted out, and all things read ,
we set'sail the first of September 1659. "a
sailed northward upon the coast, from whence
going farther into the ocean out of the sight of
land. we steered as though we were bound for
the island'of Fernand de Noremba, leaving the
island on the east, and then it was we met with
a terrible tempest, which continued for twelve'
days successiveiy, so that! the winds carried as
wheresoever they pleased. In this perplexdty;
onepfour men-died, and a man and a boy'wdre
washed overboard. When. the-weather cloned}.
up a little, we found ourselves upon: the'coa'st o!
. Guinea. Upon this the captain gave reasons-for
returning; which I opposed, counselliugt'him to
stand away for Berbadoes, which as! supposed
might be attained in fifteen days; So 'altering
our course, we sailed northwest and ' by was: in
order to reach the Leeward Islands, but a' second
storm succeeding,drove us to the westward, so'
that we were Justly afraid 'of falling into ' the
handset cruel savages, or the paws of' the de-
vouring beasts of prey. ' ' f
~ In this great distress, one of the men, early'i

the' morning, cried out, Land! land! which i)

had no sooner said, than our ship struck upoilf'af
sand bank, and, in a moment, the se'a'broke over
her in such a manner that we expected we
should perish immediately. We knew not where
we were, or upon what land we were drivengwhej
ther it was an island, or the miin, inhabited,-or
not inhabited; and we eould not: so much as hope
that the ship would-hold out many minutes, with-'
out breaking in pieces, unless the windi by a mir-
acle should' turn ~ahout=immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the'boa't,'
and with the help of the rest, got her flung ovexf
the ship's side: into this we all got, being eleven
in number, and committed ourselves' to God's
mercy,.and-the wild sea. And now we' saw that'
this last efl'ort would not be a sufli'cient.' protec-'
tion fromde'ath, so high did the se'a-rise,'that it
was impossible the boat should live. '-As'to'ma'-'
king a sail, we|hadgnone,-'lneither if we had could,
we make use of any. '80 that when 'we had row>>
ed'ior'ra'theriwere driven about-aleagiye and 'a3
hal!,.a ihging wave, like a lofty mountain, came
rolling astern-of us, and took us with su'ch fury','
that" once-it overset the boat. Thus" being
swallowed up in a moment. we had only time to
call upon the awful name of God, and to implore,
in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to re.
ceive our departing souls.

Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs ofdeath; but while I was
overwhelmed with water, I had the most dreado
ful apprehensions imaginable; for the joys of
heaven, and the torments of hell, seemed to prev
sent themselves before me in these dying ago-
nies, and even small space of time, as it were,
between life and death. I was going I thought
I knew not whither. in a dismal gulf unknown,
and as yet unpereeived, never to behold my
friends, nor the light of this world any more!
strove however to the. last extremity, while al
my companions were overpowered and ontomhed
in the deep; and it was with great difficulty]
kept my breath till the wave spent itself, and,
retiring back, left me on the shore halfdead with
the water I had taken in. As soon as 1 had got
on my feet, I ran as fast as I could, lest another
wave should pursue me. and carry me back again.
But for all the haste 1 made. I could not avoid it;
for the sea came after me like a high mountain,
or a furious enemy; so that .my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or thirty
feet deep, but at the same time, carried me with
a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore,
when raising myself, I held out as well as possi-
ble, till, at length, the water having spent itself,
began to return, at which I struck forward, and
feeling ground again with my feet,l took to my
heels. l'hue being served twice more,-I was at
last. dashed sgainst a piece of rock, in such a
manner as left me senseless, but recoverinv a
little before the return of the have, which no
tioubt would then overwhelm me, I hold fast b
the rock till those succeeding wares abated;
then fetching another run, was overtaken b a
small Wave, which was soon conquered. ' 0!
before any more could overtake me, I reached
the main land, where elamhering up the cliffs of
the shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the grass, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean. ' "' ~
. No tongue can exprens the transports that my
soul felt at this happy deliverance. l was wrap!
Ilp in contemplation, and often lifted upmy hande
with the profoundcst humility. to the Div'ino
Power for saving my life; when the rest of my
companions were all'drowned. And nowI-bev
gan to cast my eyes around, and to behold what'
place I was in, and what I had next' to do. '1'
could ace no house'n'or people; I wan not; yet
had no clothes to shlfl me; hungryanddhlflty
yet had nothing to eat or drink, no'weapon t

estroy any creature for my sustenance. herded
fend myself against devouring beasts: in short
I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco pipe; and 0
box half filled with tobacco. The 'darksom'u
night coming upon me', increased my fans of
being devoured by 'wild creatures; my mind was:
plunged into despairg'and' having no prospect, an
I thought, of life before role, I prepared-for eno
ther kind ot'death than what I had lately escaped '
I walked about a furlong,' to see if I could find'
any fresh water, which I did to my great joy
and taking a quid of- tobacco to pretent hunger,
I got up into a'thick bushy tree, and seating my--
self so that I could! not fall, a deep sleep ever-
took me. and for that night, buried my sorrow'a'
in a quiet repose.

lt'was broad day the next morning before 1
awoke. when I not only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
far as the rock before mentioned. which was
about a mile from the place where l was.--
"We: 1 came down from my apartment in the
tree. I perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
Waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water about
half a mile's breadth between it and me. I re,
turned again towards the ship. as hoping to find
something for my more immediate subsistence.
About noon when the sea was so calm that I
could Como within a quarter of a mile of her, it
was to my grief l perceived. that if we had kept
on board. all our lives would have been saved.
These thoughts. and my solitude. drew tears from
my eyes. though all in vain. So resolving to
get to the ship. I atripped and leaped into the
water; when swimming round her. I was afraid
I could not get any thing to lay hold of; but it
was my good fortune to espy a small piece of
rope hanging down so low. that, by the help of
it. though with great ditliculty. I got into the ship.
Here I found that the ship was hilged. and had
a great deal of water in her, her stern was lifted
up against a bank. and her head almost in the
water. All her quarter, and what was there,
were free and dry. The provisions 1 found in
geod order, and losing no time. ate while I was
doing other things. I also found some rum. of
which I took a little; and now I wanted for no-
thing except a boat. which indeed was all, to
carry away what was needful for me.

Necessity occasions a quickness of thought
"'0 had several spare yards. a spare topmast or
two, and two or three large sparsof wood. \Vith
these I fell to work, and slung as many of them
overboard as I could 'manage. 'tying every one of
them with a rope that they might not drive away.
This done. i went down the ship's side and tied
four of them fast together at both ends. in tom
of a raft. and laying tWo or three short pieces oi
plank upon them cross-ways, I found it would

ear me but not any considerable weight. Upon
which I went to work again. cutting a spare topi-
mast into three lengths. adding them to my rat!
with a great deal of labor and pains. I then.
first laying upon It all the planks and boards!
could get. next lowered down three of the sen--
ineu's chests after I had tilled them with bread;
rice. three Dutch cheese, five pieces of dried
goat's flesh. and some European corn. what lit.
tie the rats had spared: and for liquors. I found
several cases of bottles, in which were some car'-
dial waters. and four or live gallons of arraok.
By this time the tide beginning to flow. I per-
ceived my coat. waiscoat and shirt swim away
which-l had left on shore; as for my linen
brooches and stockings. I swam with them to
the shi ; but I soon found cloth'es enough,
though took no more than I wanted for the
present. My eyes were chiefly on tools to work
with. and aflcr a long search, I found out the
carpenter's chest. which I got safe down on my
raft. I then looked for arms and ammunition and
in the great cahin' found two good t'owltng pieces,
two pistols, several powder horns filled. a small
bag of shot. and two rusty swords I likewise
found three barrels of powder. two of which
were good, but the third had taken water, also
two or three broken oars. two saws. an axe._and
a hammer. I then put to sea, and in getting to
shore had three encouragernents. l. A smooth
calm sea: 2. The tide rising and setting into-the
shore: 3. The little wind there was. blowing
towards land. After I had sailed about a mile,
1 found the raft driving a little distance from the
place where I first landed, and when l perceived
an Opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which] kept the
middle of the stream. But great was my con-
cern, when on a sudden the forepart of my rah
ran aground. But after some time, the rising of
the water caused the raft to float again, and com.
ing up a little river, with land on both sides, I
landed in a little cove, as near the mouth as pose
sible, the better to discover a sail, if any such
providentially passed that way.

Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous height,
surrounded with smaller hills about it, and thi-
ther I was resolved to go and view the country,
that] might see what part was best to fix my
habitation in. Accordingly, arming myselfwith
a pistol, a fowling-piece, powder, and ball, I
ascended the mountain. There I perceived I
was in an island, encompassed by the ,sea, no
distant lands to be seen, but scattering rocks
that lay to the west; that it seemed to be a bar-
ren place, and as I thought only inhahited by
wild beasts. l perceived ahuudance of fowls,
but was ignorant of what kind, or whether goul
for nourishment. I shot one of them at my re-
turn, which occasioned a confused screaming
among the other birds; and I found it, by its
color and beak, to be a kind of hawk, but its
flesh was perfect carrion.

When 1 came to my raft I brought my effect:-
onshore, which work spent that day entirely.
and fearing that some cruel beast might devour
me in the night time while I slept, I made a kind
of hut, or barricade, with the cheats and boards
I had brought on shore. That night I- slept very
comfortably; and the next morning my thoughts
were employed to make a further attempt to the
ship, and bring away what necessaries .1 could
tind, before another storm should break her! in
pieces. Accordingly, I got on board as befdret
and prepared asecond raft far better than the
first; upon which I brought-away the carpenter's
stores, two or three bags of nails, a great jacks
screw, a dozen or ttvo of hatchets,'aud a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows, two
barrels of musket bullets, another fowling-piece,
a small quantity of powder, and a:large bag full
of small shot. Besides these,I tools all the men's
clothes I could find, a spare foretopsail, a hm.
mock and some bedding; and thus-completi
my second cargo, I made all the haste on shore
could, fearing somel wild beast might destroy
what I had there already. But I only found a
_little wild cat sitting on one of the chests, which
not seeming to fearzme or the gun that I present
ed at her, I threw her a piece of biscuit, which
she instantly eat and departed. .

W'hen I had got these effects on shore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with
the sail and some poles,-which Lhad cut for the
purpose, and having finished it,what things might
be damaged by the weather, I broughtin, piling
all the empty chests-and casks in a circleyftbe
better to fortify it against any sudden attempt 0!
man or beast. Alter this 1 blocked the doors with
some boards, and an empty chest' turned the
long way out. I then charged my gun and pistol,
and laying my bed on the ground, slept as com-
fortably till the next morning, as though I had
been in achristian country. . 2 '.

Now, though i had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance,
and fearing that both ammunition and provisions
might be spent before such a thing happened, I
sued as much as I could; and so leng as the ship
remained in that condition, I daily brought away
one-necessary or other: particularly, the rigging,
sails, and cordage, some twine, a barrel of wet
powder,some sugar, a barrel of meal, three casks
of rum, and indeed what was most welcome to
me, a whole hogshead of bread. .

The next time I went, I cutthe cables in
pieces, carried off a hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy burden
upon it, and I not being able so dexterously to
guide it as the former, both my cargo and myself
were overturned. For my part all the damage
I sustained was a wet skin; and at low water,
after much labor in diving, I got u most of the
cables, and some pieces of iron. l'hirteen days
had I now been on the island, and eleven days.
on board, bringing away all that was possible.
As I was going the twelfth time, the wind-began
to rise; however I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker, I found seve-
ral razors, scissors, and some dozens of knives
and forks, and in another, thirty-six pounds in
pieces of eight, silver and gold. I wrapt the mac
ney up in a piece of canvas, and began to think of
making another raft, but] soon perceived the
wind beginning to rise, a fresh gale blowing from
the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds and
darkness. So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let
myself into the water with what things I had
about me; and it was with great dili'iculty I got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.

That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tent, surrounded with all my efl'ects; but when I
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to
be seen. This much surprised me for the pre<<
sent: yet when I considered that I had lost no
tlr'ne, abated no pains, and had got every thing-
useful out of her, I cemforted myself In thehest
manner, and entirely suhmitt'ed to divine Prov>>!
d'ence. --

My next thoughts were, how I shouid defeudl
and secure myself from savages and wild heasts,
if any such were in the island. ~

When I considered the- ground where I was3
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water near
it, my resolutions were to search for a soil heah
thy and well watered, where I might not only be:
sheltered from the sun 's scorching heat, but be
more conveniently situated, as well to he secur-
ed from wild men, and beasts of prey, as more:
easily to discover any distant sail, should it' ever
.0 happen . . .

And indeed it was not long before I had my:
desire. I thund a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which} being as steep as at
house-side,- nothing could descend- -on me fromi
the tops '

0n the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling disentrance or door of- a cave
Just before this place, on the circle of the! green,
I resolved my tent should stand. This plain did!
not much exceed a hundred yards broad, and
about twice as long;- like a delightful green be-
fore my door, with a pleasing, though irregular
descent every way to theddw grounds by the sea
side, sheltered from the excessive heat of the
sun. After this, I drew a semicircle, twenty
yards in diameter, driving dowh two rows of
strong stakes not six inches from each otheru
Then, with the pieces of cable: which Ithad cut
on. board, I regularlylaid them in a circle be-
tween the piles, up to their tops, which were more -
than five feet out of the earth, and. then drove and
other rmd of piles, looking within sid'e againstLI) ROBIN")?! CRUSOE;

them,between two or three feet high which made
me conclude it a little castle, impregnable b'
men and beasts. And for my better securityI
would have no door, but entered in and come-out
by the help of a ladder, which I also made.

Here was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches. ammunition and stores.
Afterwhich, working on the rock, what with the
dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised my
ground two feet, but made a little cellar to my
mansion-house; and this cost me many days la-
cor and pains. One day in particular, a show
er ofrain falling, thunder and lightning ensued .
which put me in terror lest my powder should
take fire, and not only hinder my necessary sub-
sistence, by killing my food, but even blow up
me and my habitation. To prevent which I fell
to making boxes and bags, in order to separate
it, having by me near 150 lb. weight. ' And thus
being established king of the island, every day
I went out with my gun to see what I could kill
that was fit to eat. I soon perceived numbers of
goats, but very shy; yet. having watched them
narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot 03' the
rocks than when in the low grounds, I happened
to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid; which,
not thinking its dam slain. stood by her uncon-
cerned; and when I took the dead creature up,
the young one followed me even to the enclosure.
I lifled the kid over the pales, and would willing.
ly have kept it alive, but finding it could not be
brought to eat, I was fenced to slay it also for my
subsistence.

'l'hus, entered into ss-strange a state as ever.
any man was in, I had most melancholy appre--
hensions concerning my deplorable condition:'
and many times the tears would plentifnlly run
down my face, when I considered best I was-dcanamson 030505.: at

barred from all communication with human kindx
Yet while these despondingcogitations would,
seem to make me accuse Providence, other good
thoughts would interpese and reprove me after
this manner: " \Vell, supposing you aro.desqlate,.
is it not better to be so, than totally, perishl Why"
should you complain, when not only your lifeie
preserved, but the ship driven into your reachin.
order to take what was necessary out of her for
a subsistence!" But to proceed: it was,,by the
account I kept, the thirtieth of September, when
I first landed on this island. About twelve days
after, fearing lest I should lose my reckoning of
time, nay oven forget the sabbath-days for want-
of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with a knife up-
on a large post, in great letters, I came on shore,
Sep. 30, 1659, and set it up in the similitude of!
a cross, on the sea shore where I landed. Every
day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides
of the square post, and , that on find-sabbath ran
as long again as the rest, and every first day or
the month as long again as that long one. In
this manner I kept my calendar, \veeltly, month-
ly, or yearly reckoning of time. But had I:
made a more strict search (as I did afterwards.)I
I need not have set up this mark" For among:
the parcels helongin to the gunner,.carpenter,.
and captain's mate, found those .very thinga I
wanted; particularly pens, ink, and paper: do
so I found two or three. compasses,,some mathem
matical instruments, dials, persective glasses,
books of navigationnthree English Bibles, and.
sever l other good books, which I carefully put
up. {ere I cannotbutscall to mind, our havrng
a dog and two cats. on board, whom I made in-
habitants with me in mygcastle. Though one"
might thinkj had all:t.he necessaries that more:
desirable, yet still 1 found several things wanting. ..
My ink was daily-wasting: I wanted needles,
pins, and thread, to mend or keep my clothes to-
gether: and particularly a spade, pick-axe, or
shovel, to remove the earth. It was a year be-
for'ev'I finished my little bulwark; and having
some intervals of relaxation, after my daily wan
dering abroad for provision, I drew up this plan
alternately, as'creditor and debtor, to remind me
of the miseries and the blessings of my life, undet

so many various circumstances :

EVIL.

I am cast upon' a
desolate island, hav-
ing no prospect of a
welcome deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the

enjoyment or company
of all mankind.

Like a hermit (ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchorite.) am
I forced from human
conversation.

My clothes, after
some time will be worn
out, and then I shall
have none to cover
me. '

When my-ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
hall I remain without
any defence against

GOOD

But yet I am pre
served while my com
panions have perished
in the raging sea.

Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And he, who has so
preserved me can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.

However, I have
food to eat, and even
a happy prospect'ol'
subsistence whilst life
endures.

At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate is so hot, that
had I ever so many
I should hardly .wear
them.

Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as'in Africa;
and what ifIhad been '
wild men and beasts.

I have no creature,
no soul to speakto;
none to beg assistance
from. Some comfort
would it be to resound
my woes where I am
understood, and be
assistance where i
might hope for relief.

=23

cast away upon that
coast. .
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
not he able to deliver
thee! already has he at-
forded thee sustenance
and put it in thy power
to provide for. thyself,
till. he sends thee a.de-
liverance. ; ' 2

And now, easing my mind a little by these re-
flections, I began to render my life as easy as
possible. ._

I [must here add to the description. I have
given of my habitation, that having raised a. turf
wall against the outside of it, I. thatched it to
close as might keep it from the inclemencyof
the weather; I also improved it within, enlarged
my cave, and made a passage and a door in.the
.rock, which came out beyond the palm"!!!
fortification. I next proceeded tomakem chair
and table, and so began to study such mechanical
arts as seemed to me practicable. . When}
wanted a plank or board, I hewed down altree
with my hatchet, making it as thin with my axe
' as possible, and then smooth enough-with an ache,

to answer my designs; yet though could make no
more this way than one board out of a tree, in
length of time I got boards enough to shelter all
my stores, every thing being regularly placed and
my guns securely hanging against the side of ,a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to me,
being the result ofvast labor and great.diligencet
which leaving for a while, and me to the enjoy-
ment of, I shall give the reader an account of

some parts of my journal (run the day chin!
3
landing, till the setting of my. habitation, 'Is
heretofore shown.

JOURNAL.

September 30th, 1659, I, unhappy Robinson
Crusoe, having sutl'ered shipwreck, was driven
on this desolate island, which I named the *
Desolatc Island of Despalr, the rest of my cbvh- i
panions being swallowed up in the tempestuous i
o'cean. The next day I spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no pros-
pect but of death; either to be starved with hun-
"ger, or devoured by wild beasts or merciless
savages.

Oct I. That morning. with great. comfort, I
'eheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes l
'36, that when the storm was abated I might be

able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged, be-
'cause the ship did stand upright. At this time,
I lamented the loss of my companions, and our
misfortune in leaving the vessel. When I per-
ceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I waded
through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any
wind.

To the 14th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, getting
what I could out of the ship. The weather vei7
wet and uncertain.

Oct. 25.. My rat't, and all the goods thereon
-were overset: yet I recovered most again at low
Water.

Oct. 26. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing
was seen of her but the wreck at low water.
This day I secured my goods from the incleo
mency of the weather. - ' '
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient forlmy abode: :1 fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked outs-a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with "pieces of cables, and
covered with turf. ' ~.
Me.' 3. I shot two wild-fowls, resembling
ducks, which were good to eat, and in the after-
noon made me a table. 1 4' ' "-
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. Inithe
morning I allowed myself two or three hours to
walk out with my gun; I then worked .till near
eleren o'clock: and afterwards refteshed myself
with what I had to eat. From twelvetotficrl
would lie down to sleep. Extreme" enltry
weather. In the evening go to work agains' .
Nov. 5 "font out with 'my gun and Fdogfihot
a wild cat with a soft skin, but herflesh was good
for nothing. The skins of those killed I pre-
served. On my return I perceived'fiany wild
birds, and was terrified by some seals which
made cfl'to sea. ' - ~
Who. 6. Completed my table. .
Win. 7. Fair weather. I worked to then"),
but omitted the llth, which according to m
calculation, I supposed to be Sunday. '
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock. yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to supply
the place of the first, but with all my-'nrt I dould
not'makeawheel-barrow. ' 4 .
Noe. 19. It was my fortune to find aim-re-
sembling what the Brazilians call an 'ironltree
I had like to spoil'my am with cutting it, ii
being very hard, and exceedingly heavy; yel
with much labor and industry I made a sort of
spade out of it.

Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allowed
for enlarging my cave, that it might serve me,
not only for a ware-house, but kitchen, parlour
and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unless
the weather was so rainy that 1 could not lie dry.
80 wet would it he at certain seasons, that I
was obliged to cover all within the pale with long
poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves
of trees resembling a thatch.

Dec. l0. No sooner did I think my habitation
finished, but suddenly a great deal of the top
broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not buried
in the ruins. 'l'his occasioned a great deal of
pains and trouble to me before I could make it
firm and durable.

Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.

Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place,
then made a sort ofdresser, and another table.

Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, wounded another; I led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. 'l'his put me, in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food
after my ammunition was spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces-
sively hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part to keep within doors.

Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
genus, like our house-pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I brought them home, nursed them
till they could fly, and then they left me. Af-
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to'
make a cask: I may well say it was 'in_ vain, be-'
cause I could neither joint the staves, nor 5:, -
the heads, so as to make it tight; so' 'leaving
that, I took some goat's tallow I hadfhy me,
and a little oakum for the wick, and" 'rovi'ded'
myself with a lamp, which served instead xof
candles. ,' . '

But now a very strange event happenedl Foe
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed,) {or the (owls; so
immediately resolving to put gunpowder'into it

shook all the husks and dirt, upon one side of

rock, little expecting what the conse uen'cg
would be. The rain had fallen plentiully a'
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to loolf
out very green and flourishing; and'when I
came to view it more nicely, every'da as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears 0. green
barley ot' the very same shape and make as that
in England. - " ' '

I can scarcel express the a'gitatlon'of my
mind at this s ght. Hitherto I had looked
upon the actions of this life no otherwise than
only as the events of blind chance and fo'rtun'e.'
But now, the appearance of this barley, 'flonr-
ishing in a-barren: scil, and my ignorance in
not conceiving how it should come there, made
me conclude, "that miracles were not'yet c'eas-"
ed;" nay, I even thought that God had appointg
ed it to grow there without seed,'jpurely for
my sustenance in this'mis'erable and desolate

J
island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears
through a grateful sense of God's mercies; and
the greater still was my thankfulness, when I
perceived about this little field of barley, some
rice stalks, also wonderfully flourishing.

W'hile thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search,narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag
and then my admiration ceased, with my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was but
natural, and not to be conceived a miracle,
though even the manner of its preservation
might have made me own it as a wonderful
event of God's kind providence.

It was about the latter end of June when the
ears of the corn ripened. which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice;
epexecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labor; yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread,
and much longer time before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and indus-
try for three or four months, at last I finished
my house on the 14th of April, having no way
to go into it, but by a ladder against the wall.

April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended
it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on
the other side, and descended into my new ha-
bitation, where I had space enough, and so for-
tilied, that nothing could attack me without
scaling the walls. .

.But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labors? ' 0r who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm? Fer,
one time as l was at the entrance of my cave,
there happened such a dreadful earthquake,
that not only the roof of the cave came tumbling.
about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me'inta
great amazement; and running to the ladder
and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew
it was an earthquake, the place I stood on sus-
taining three terrible shocks in less than three:
minutes. But judge of my terror-when I saw
the tap of a great rock roll into the sea; I them
expected the island Would be swallowed up
every moment. and what made the scene still,
more dreadful, was to see. the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous accident;

For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, I
was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much afraid
lest the rock, under which'was-my fence and-
habitation, should owerwhelm me and it in a
lasting tomh. .

It was not long after, when a horrible tem-
pest arose at the same time attended with a
hurricane of wind, Three hours did thisst'orm
continue, and in so violent a manner as to teat
the very trees up by the roots, which was we.
ceeded by abundance of rain. W'hen the tent.
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain

oming on in a furious manner, I"was obliged
to take shelter in' the'cave, .where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification, to
let the water out. 'It continued raining- all that
night, and some time the next day. These ac.
cndents made me resolve,l as soon :as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
Open place, walled round,' to.detend.me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
fall on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels.

.dpril 16--20. These days I spent in con-
trivmg how and in what manner I should fix
my place of abode. All this while,I was un-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
I looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where l was, till I
found out a convenient place where I might
pitch my tent.

April 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchet: were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last I found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by help
ofa wheel and a string.

April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.

May 1. As I walked along the seaoshore
I found a barrel of gunpowder, and several
pieces of the wreck which the sea had flung up.

aving secured these, I made to the ship. whose
stern was torn off, and washed a great distance
ashore; but the rest lay in the sands. This, I
suppose, was occasioned by the earthquake. I
now resolved to keep my old place of abode:
and also to get to the ship that day, but found
it impossible.

Jllay 3. This day I went on board, and with
my saw sawed all one of the beams, which kept
her quarterodeck. I then cleared the sand till
Iood. I caught some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The same day,I also caught a
young dolphin. '

May 5. This day also I repaired to the
wreck, and sawed another piece of timber,
and when the flood Came, I made' a float of
three great planks, which were driven ashore
by the tide.

May 6--9. These days, I brought of the
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron crew
and carried two planks to land, having'made
way into the very middle of the wreck.

May 10--13. All this time I spent in bring'
ing of great quantities of iron and timber. '

Mag/15. Took with me two hatchets _'on
purpose to cut off some lead from the roll but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water. '

Jlfay 24. To this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so 'much with the crew, that at the'first
blowing tide, several casks floated out, and ae-
veral of the seamen's chests; yet that day no:
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork' in it. I con;
tinued working to the 15th of June;SSexcept
necessary times for food and rest,) an had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also near 100 weight of
sheet lead. ' .

June 16. As I was wandering towards tbq
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, be;
ing the first I had'seen on the island, thou' h'
as I afterwards found, there were many on e
other side of it. _ ' '

June 17. Thirday I spent in cooking it'
found in her threesc'ore' eggs, and her flesh fth
most savory and pleasant ever tasted in" _'
i e . , .. . .
June 18. I staid within this day, there be
ing a Continual rain; and it was somewhat
more chilly and cold than usual.

, June 19. l'lxceedingly ill, taken with a
trembling and shivering.

June '30. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain, and feverish.

June '2]. Sick unto death, and terrified
with dismal apprehensions of my Condition.
Prayed to God more frequently, but very con-
fusedly.

June '22. Something better, but still uneasy
in my mind. ,

June 23. Again relapsed much as before.

June 24. Mended a second time.

June'25. A violent ague for seven hours,
cold and hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.

June '26., Better, hut very weak; yet I scram
bled out, shot a she goat, brought it home, and
broiled some of it. I would willingly have stew-
ed it and made some broth, but had no pot.

June '27. All this day l was atllictod with an
sgue; thirsty. yet Could. not help myself to
water; prayed to (find in these words: " Lord,
in pity look upon me! Lord, have mercy upon
me--havc mercy upon me!" After this i fell
asleep, which, when I awakcd,l found had
much refreshed me. .

1 rose up, in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep: and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember that the Brazilians use
tobacco for almost .all diseases. 1 then went
to my chest, in order to find some, where heaven
no doubt, directed i'nefito find a cure, both for
soul and body; for there I found one of the
bibles, which, till this time! had neither lei-
sure nor inclination to look 'into: I' took bothnonmstm causes": 4:;

the tobacco and that out of my chest. and! laid.
them on the table. Several experiments did I.
try with. the tohacco. First. l,took s piece'of
leaf and chewed it; but it being very green; and.
strong,.almost stupified me: next, I. steeped it.
in .some rum an hour or two, resolving when I.
went to bed to take a dose of it: andmin. the.
third place, I burnt some over a pan of fire,
holding my nose over it so long as] couldenq
dure it without suffocation. .

In the intervals of this operation, though In t
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,'
took up the bible t8 read. No sooner didJaopen,
but there appeared. to me these words, "0th
on me in the dayof trouble and I will_ deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify;me.". _

At first, this sentence made a very deepirno;
pression on my heart: lbutit soon were off again~
when I considered the word "deliver'fswas.
foreign to me. And as the children ,0! :Israel,
said, when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can.
God spread a table in the ,wildernessl".in like,
manner I began to say, Can God liiumelfdeliver
me from this desolate island! However, the
words would still return to my mind, and after-
wards made a greater impression upon me. . As
it now was very late,.and the tobacco haddozed,
my head. I was inclined to sleep; but betbre I
would lie down,l fell on my knees, and implored
the promise that God had made to me in theme],
Scriptures, that," if I called- on .him' in the day,
of trouble, he would deliver me.", , _

With much ditficultyl afterwards drunk the.
rum, wherein I had steeped the tobacco, which,
flying into my head, threw me into. snchaprq-L,
found sleep. that it was three oiclocls'th10ext,
day before .I awoke, or rather I believe... ,slspt,

.5?"
two days, having certainly lost a day in my ac-
count, and I could never tell any other way.

W'hen I got up, my spirits were lively and
cheerful; my stomach much better, being very
hungry; and, in short no fit returned the next
day, which was the 29th, but I found myself
much altered for the better.

July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak.
In this condition, I often thought of these words,
"I will deliver thee;" and while at sometimes
I would think of the impossibility of it, other
thoughts would reprehend mg, for disregarding
the deliverancesI had received even from the
most forlorn and distressed condition. I asked
myself. what regard have I had to God for his
abundant mercies! Have I done my part! "He
has delivered me, but I have not glorified him;"
as if I had said I had not owned and been
thankful for these as deliverances, and how
could I expect greater? So much did this sen-
sibly touch my heart, that I gave God thanks
for my recovery from my sickness in the most
humble posture.

July 4. This morning I began seriously to
ponder dn what is written in the New Testa-
ment,-resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would en-
gage me.

As soon as I set about this work seriously, I
found my heart deeply affected with the impiety
of my past life. After this, I begged ofGod to
assist me with his Holy Spirit in returningto my
duty. One day, in perusing the Scriptures, I
came to these words, "He is exalted a Prince
and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give
remission:" Immediately I laid down the book,
and, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly cried,
" U blessed Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, th on
exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repen-
tance :" And now, indeed. I prayed with a true
sense of my condition. and a more certain hope,
founded on the word of God. Now I had a dif-
ferent sense of these words, "Call on me, and.I
will deliver thee"-that is, from the dreadful
load of guilt,which oppressed my sinful soul-
and not from a solitary life. In a word, I came
to this conclusion, that a deliverance from sin
was a much greater blessing than a deliverance
from affliction. .

To the 14th of July I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend them
to any one's practice. For though they carried
off the fit, they weakened me very much; and I
had frequent convulsions in m nerves and limbs
for some time. From hence I learned, that go-
ing abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of
wind was most pernicious to health. I had now
been above ten months in the island; and as dur-
ing that time I had seen none of human kind, I
accounted myself sole monarch; and as I grew
better, having secured my habitation to my
mind, I resolved to make a tour of my kingdom,
in order to make new discoveries.

The 15th of July I began my journey. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts
on shore; and travelling farther, found the tide
went no higher than two miles up, where there
was a little brook of running water, on the bank
of which were many pleasant savannahs,or mea-
dows, smooth, plain and covered with grass. On
the rising parts, where I supposed the water did
not reach, I perceived a great deal of tobacco
growing to a very strong stalk. Several other
plants I likewise found. the virtues ofwhich I did
not understand. I searched a long time for the
cassava root, which I knew the Indians in that
"climate made their bread of; but all in vain.
There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time I knew not what they were: likewise -
I saw several sugar canes. hut imperfect for
want of cultivation. With these few discoveries
I came back that night, and slept contentedly in
my little castle.

The next day, being the 16th. going the same
way. but farther than the day before. Ifonnd
the country more adorned with woods and trees.
Here I perceived ditl'erent fruits in great abun-
dance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground. and
clusters of grapes. ripe and very rich. spread
over the trees. You may imagine I was glad of
this discovery. yet ate very sparingly. lost I
should throw myself into a lIItVt or fever. The
grapes I found ofexcellent use; for when I dried
them in the sun. which preserved them as dried
raisins are kept. they proved very wholesome
and nourishing. and served me in those seasons
when no grapes were to be had.

The night drawing on apnoe. I ascended up a
tree. and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I had slept out of my habitation
And when the morning came, I proceeded with
great pleasure on my way. travelling about four
miles. as I imagined, by the length of the valley.
At the end of this valley I came to an opening.
where the country seemed to descend to the
west; there I found a spring of fresh water. pro-
ceeding out of the side of the hill. with its Chrys-
tal sttcams running directly east. And indeed
here my senses were charmed with the most
beautiful landscape nature could atl'urd; for theseamsortbsvsoa. in

country appeared so flourishing, green and de-
lightful, that to me it seemed like a planted garb
den. 1 then descended on the side of that deli-
crous vale, when I found abundance of' cocoa,
orange, lemon, and citron trees, but Very wild
and harren at that time. As for the limes, they
were delightful 'and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
was resolved to carry home and lay up astore
of grapes, limes, and 'lemons, 'against the ap-
preaching wet season. So laying them up in
separate parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me, I returned to my little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey. Before
Igot home, the grapes were so bruised that they
were utterly spoiled; the limes indeed Were
good, but of those 1 could bring only a few. ' deg

July 19. Having prepared two bags,l return
ed thither again; but to my great surprise found
all the grapes Spread about, trod 'to pieces, and
ahundaneo eaten, which made me conclude
there were wild beasts thereabout. 'l'o prefien't
this happening againJ gathered a large quantity
of the grapes, and hung them on the out branch
of the tree, both to keep them unhurt, and that
they might cure and dry in the sun; and having
well loaded myselfwith limes and lemons; I re-
turned onee more to my old place of residence.

And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of this
valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its secuo
rity trout storms, and the deli htfulness of the
adjacent woods, I concluded was settled in
the worst part of the country, and therefore was
thinking to remove my habitation.

But when I considered again, that thou'ghit
was pleasant, it was ofl' from the sea-side,wher'e
there was a possibility, some time or outcry]
ship might either be driven or sail by; and that
to enclose myself among hills and woods must
certainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance;
I resolved to let my castle remain where Provi-
dence had first placed it. Yet, so delighted was
I with this place, that I made me a little kind
of bower, surrounding it with'a double hedge,
as high as I could reach, well staked and filled
with bulrushes: and having Spent a great part
of the month of July, I think it was the first of
August before I began to enjoy my labor.

August 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them from the trees, and they proved excel-
lent good raisins of the sun: the most of which I
carried to my cave; and happy for me I did so,
by whichI saved the best part of my winter
food.

August 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other, yet
having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms. nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I
was obliged to return" to my old castle. The
rain continued more or less every day till the
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I found my family to increases
for one of my cats that had run away from me,
and which I thought had been dead, returned
about August, with three kittens at her heels,
like herself. From these cats proceeded such
numbers, that] was forced to kill and destroy
them as I would do wild beasts or vermin.

_ To the 26th of this month, I could not stir out,
It raining incessantly: when, beginning to want
food, I was compelled to venture twice--the first
of which times I shot a goat, and afterwards
found a very large tortoise. The manner of regu-
lating my food was thus: a bunch of raisins ser-.aosmsox cxusox. to

red me: for my breakfast; a piece of goat's flesh
or turtle boiled for my dinner, and two or three
turtle eggs for my supper. While the rain lasted,I
.daily worked two or three hours at enlarging
my cave, and, by degrees, worked it on towards
one side of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond 'my fence or wall: and so I
came in and out this way. But after I had done
this, I was troubled to see myself thus exposed;
though I could-not perceive any thing to fear, a
goat being the biggest creature I had seen upon
this island.

. September 30. Casting up the notehes on my
post, they amounted to 365, I concluded this to
be the anniversary of my landing; and therefore,
humbly prostrating myself on' the ground, con
fessing my sins, acknowledging God's righteous
judgments upon me, and pra ing to Jesus Christ
to have mercy upon me, fasted for twelve
hours till the going down of the sun; and then
eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid me
on a bed, and with great comfort took my night'h
repose. 'l'ill this time, I seldom had distinguish-
ed the sabbath day; but now] made a longer
notch than ordinary for the days of rest, and di-
vided the weeks as well as I could, though I
found I had lost a day or two in my account
My ink {ailing soon after, I omitted in my daily
memorandum things of an indifl'erent nature, and
contented myself to write down only the mos!
remarkable events of my life. The rainy and
dry seasons appeared now regu ar to me, and
experience taught me how to provide for them,
yet in one thing I am going to relate, my expe-
rience very much failed me. You may call to
mind, what i have mentioned of some barley and
rice which I had saved--about thirty stalks of
the former, and twenty of the latter; and, at

4
that time, the sun's being in its southern posi
tion, going from me, together with the rains,
made me conclude it a very proper season to
sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground
with my wooden spade. and dividing it into two
parts, sowed about two thirds of my seed, pre-
serviogby me a handful of each. And happy it
was I did so; for no rains falling, it was choked
up, and never appeared above the earth till the
wet season came again, and then part ofit grew
as if it had been newly sown.

I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my
bower,l there sowed the rest of my seed in Feb-
ruary, which, by having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, yielded a noble
crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I had still
saved part of the seed, not daring to venture all.
and by the time I found out the proper seasons to
sow it in, and that I might expect every year
two seed-times and two harvests, my stock
amounted to above half apeck of each sort at
grain.

No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like wil-
lows, the first year after lopping their heads. I
was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but
they grew so regularly beautiful, that they made
a most lively appearance, and so flourished in
three years time, that I resolved to cut more of
them; and these soon growing, made a glorious
fence, as afterwards I shall observe.

And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided. not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe. but into wet-and
dry seasons, as in this manner:

From February 15, Rainy, sun coming near
To April 15, the equinox, 2 months.ROBINSON 080808. '5'!

From. April 15, Dry, eun getting ~mirth
To .4th 15, . from the line,4monthl.
From August 15, Wet, the run being then
'I'o October 15, come back 2 months.
From October 15, Dry, sun running eouth of
To February 15, the line 4 months. '
The wet aeasona would continue longer 9or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to blow
But having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, I took care beforehand to
furnish myself with provisions: and, during the
wet months, sat within doom as much as possible.
At this time I contrived to make manyihand
thinge that I wanted, though it cost me'mu
labor and pains before I could accompliah them.
The first I .tried was to make a basket; but all
the twigs Icould get, proved so brittle, that I
could not then perform it. It now proved of
great use to me. that. when a boy, I took great
delight in standing at a basket-maker's,sin the
same town where my father lived, to view hie
men at work: like other boys, being curioua to
see the manner of their working these. things,
and very officious to assist. I perfectly learned
the method of it, and wanted nothing but the
tools. And it coming into my mind,that the
twigs of that tree of which I made my etakes,
might be as tough as a sallow, willow, or onion,
growing in England, I resolved to make an. ex-
periment, and went the next day to my country
seat, and found some fit for my turn: and after
cutting down a quantity with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and when 6t toworkgwithmar-
ried them to my cave,where I employed myaelf
in making eeveral sorta of baskets, insomuch
that I could put in whatsoever 1 pleased. Itie
true, they were not cleverly made, yet they not
ved my turn upon all occauons. - . ;
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had
no cask to hold my liquor, except two almost full
'of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size, and
some square case bottles; neither had I a pot so
boil any thing- in, only a large kettle unfit to
make broth, or stew a bit of meat. I wanted
likewise, at the beginning of this dry season a
tobacco pipe; but for this I afterwards found an
'ex ient.

kept myself employed in planting my second
row of stakes. But remembering that when I
travelled up to the brook I had a mind to see
the whole island, I now resumed my intention--
and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two biscuit
cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, I began
my journey. Having passed the vale where my
bower stood, I came within view of the sealying
to the west; when, it being a clear day. I fairly
descried land, extending from the west to the
southwest about ten or fifteen leagues, as I con.
cluded; but could not say whether it was an
island or a continent. Neither could I tell what
this place might be; only thought it was part of
America, and where I might have been in a mis-
erable condition had I landed. Again,I con-
sidered, that if this was the Spanish coast, cer-
tainly, one time or the other, I should see some
'ships pass by; and if it was not, then it must be
the savage coast, between the Spanish country
and Brazil, which abounds with cannibals m
man-eaters.

As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
:fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made me long for one to be my companion; butnomxsoxe causes; is

it was' with great difficulty I could knack-one
down with my stick; and I kept him athomq
some years, before I could get him to calling by
name. : ,
- In the low grounds I found various sorts of
hares and faxes as I took them to be. but much
different from those in England. Several of deg
these I killed, hut-never ate them; 'ueither' in
deed had I;uy occasion; for .abiounding with
goats. pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I coulddefy
any market to furnish me a.hetter.ta,h_le.' In
this journey I did not travel above two mils: a
day, because I took several turns. and windings,
to see what discoveriesl oouldmake, "turning
weary enough to the placer where [designed to
rest all night, which was either in a tree; or tea
place which I surrounded "i'h'fitake', that no
wild creature might suddenly sul'plfite' me.
When I came to the seaoshore, I was amazed
to see the splendor of it. Its strand was cover-
ed with shells of the most beautiful fish, and
constantly aboundin with innumemhlfi. turtles,
and {owls of many k nds, which I was. ignorant
0!. except th8se called penguins. I might have
shot as many as I pleased, butmas sparing of
my ammunition, rather choosing-.40 ,kill a she.>>
goat, which I did with much dificutty,,oa account
ofthe fiatnessofthecountrye ' :t. .. . .
Now, though this-journey producedttheglmst
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitatipnwas so
much to my liking,tthat. I did not. region. at a;
being seated on- the worst pert-of therisland, I
continued my journey, travelling abouttwelre
miles further towards the east, when. I, set a
great pile on- the shore {or a math. concluding
that my .nextjourney should-hrinaame loath?
other :side of the island, east from reg-mastic. and
soround till I came-to my. postvalgaim uh! 1 MI,
a constant view ot the country, I thought I could
not miss my way; but scarce had I travelled
three miles, when I descended into a very large
valley, so surrounded with hills covered with
wood, that having no guide but the sun, and to
add to my misfortune, the weather proving very
hazy, I was obliged to return to my post by the
sea-side, and so backwards the same way I
came. In this journey my dog surprised a kid,
and would have killed it had I not prevented him.
As I had often been thinking of getting a kid
or two, and so raising a breed of tame goats to
supply me after my ammunition was spent, I took
this opportunity of beginning: and, having made
a collar for this little creature, with a string
made of rope-yarn, I brought it to my bower, and
there inclosed and left him; and having spent a
month in thisjourney, at length I returned to my
old habitation.

Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when I
returned to my little castle, and reposed myself
in my hammock. After my journey I rested
myselfa week, which time I emplo ed in making
a cage for my pretty poll. I nthegan to re-
collect the poor kid I had left in the bower, and
immediately went'to fetch it home. "'hen I
came there, I found the young creature almost
starved; I gave it some food, and tied it as
before; but there was no occasion, for it followed
me like a dog: and as I constantly fed it, be-
came so loving, gentle, and fund, that it com-
menced one of my domestics, and would never
leave me.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 30th of September
in the most solemn manner, as usual, at being
the third year of my abode in the island. I spent
the whole day in acknowledging. God's mercies,
in giving thanks for making this solitary life as
agreeable, and less sinful, than that of human
society; and for the communication of his grace
to my soul, in supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon his Providence, and
hope for his eternal presence in the world to
come. ' '

Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy I was, in this state of life, than in that
accursed manner of living I formerly used;
sometimes, however, when hunting, or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would break
out upon me, and my very heart would sink
within me; to think of the wOods, the mountains,
the-deserts] was in; and how I was a prisoner
locked up within the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
hope, and without redemption. In this condition
I would often wring my hands, and weep like a
child: and evhn sometimes in the middle of to
work, this fit would'often take me; and then
would sit down and sigh. looking on the- ground
for an hour or two together, till such time as my
grief got vent in a tiodd'bf tears. ~ ' '

One morning, as I wis fully employed in this
manner, I opened my Bible, when immediately I
fixed my eyes upon these words,-"I will never
iedve thee, nor forsake thee!" Surely, if God
does not forsake me, what matters it, since he
can make me mere happy in this state of life',
than if I enjoyed the greatest splendor'iu the
world! And wheneve- I opened or shut the
Bible, I blessed kind deg-~vidence, that directed
my good friend in England to send it among my
goods without my order, and for assisting'me to
save it from the power of the raging ocean.

And now beginning my third year, my several
=daily employ-merits were theserFiMf'my duty
to heaven. and diligently reading- the Holy
Scriptures, which I did twice or thrive everyday;
Secondly, Seeking provisions wi'th my gun, which
Commonly took me up. when it did not rain,three
hours every morning; 'l'hirclly. The ordering.
curing, preserving and Cooking what I had killed.
or catched for my supply, which took me up I
great part of the day; for in the middle of the
day. the sun being in its height, it wns so hot.
that I could not stir out; so that I had but
four hours in the evening to work in: and
then the want of tools, of assistntlce. and skill.
wasted a great deal of time to little purpose.
I was no less than two and forty days. making a
board lit for a long shelf which lWO snwyers, with
their tools and saw-pit, would have out out at
the same tree in half a day. It was of a large
tree, as my board was to be bread. I was three
days in cutting it down, and UN more in Iopping
0" the bnughs, and reducing it to a piece of tim
her. Thus I hacked and hewed otf each side,
till it became light to move; then I turned it.
made one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end, then turned it downward, cut-
ting the other side, till I brought the plank m be
about three inches thick, and sinooth on both
sides. Any body may judge my great labor
and fatigue in such a piece of work; but this]
went through with patience, as also many other
things, that my circumstances made necessary
for me to do.

The harvest months, November and Decem-
Jer, were now at hand, in which I had the plea-
sing prospect of a very good crop. But here!
met with a new misfortune; for the goats and
hares having tasted of the sweetness of the blade.
kept it so short that it had no strength to shoot up
into a stalk. To prevent this quclmud it with
a hedge. and by day shot some of its demure";
and my <<log. which I had tied to the fietdvgate,
keeping barking all night, so, frightened these
creatures that I got entirely rid of them.

But no sooner did I get rid of there, than
other enemies appeared: to wit, whole flocks
of several sorts of birds. who only waited tiIlJny
back was turned. to ruin me. So much did this
provoke me, that I let fly. and killed threeof the
malefaotora; and afterward served them as they
do notorious thieves in England, hung them up
in chains as a terror to othen. And, Indeed, so
good an ell'ect had thisrthat theynot only.forsook
the corn. but all that part of the island. so long
as them criminals hung there. .

-My corn having ripened apace. the latter .end
of December. which waa my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe. made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting down
my lint crop. it was so slender. The ears I
carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain out
with my hands. instead of threahing it: and.
when my harvest was over. found my half pack of
seed had produced nearly two bushels of rice,
and two bushels and a half of barley. And now
I plainly foresaw. that h God's goodness}, I
ahonld be furnished with read: but. yet In>>
concerned. because I knew not how to grind of
make meal of my corn. neither knew I how to
bake it into bread. I would not. however, taste
any of the crop. but resolved to preaerre it
against next season. and. in the mean whiiemse
my best endeavors to provide myself with other
food. . - ..

- But where were my labors to endl-the want
of a plough to turn up the earth. or. ahovel tom;
it, I conquered by making roe-a wooden spade.
'I'he want of a harness I aupplied. by dragging
over the mm a great hough of a tree. "'hen it
was growing. I was forced to fence it; when
ripe. to mow it. carry it home. throsh it. part it
from the chatI'. and save it And. at'er all. I
wanted a mill to grind it. a sieve to dress it. yeast
and salt to make it into hread. and an oven to
bake it. This set my brains to work. to find
some expedient for every one of these necessa-
ries. against the next harvest.

And now having more seed. my first care was
to pre'pare me more land. I pitched upon two
large at pieces of ground. near my castle. for
that purpose. in which I sowed my seed. and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months: by which time. tho wet season
coming on. and the rain keeping me within doors.
I found several occasions to employ myself;
and. while at Work. used to divert myself with
talking to my parrot. teaching him to know and

peak his own name Po". the tint welcome word
I ever heard spoken in the island. I had been a
long time contriving how to make earthen vos
sels. which I wanted extremely: and when I
considered the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but. if I could find such clay. I might
hotch up a pot. strong enough. when dried in the
sun, to bear handling. and to hold any thing that
was dry, as corn, mesh-and other things.

To be short, the clay I found; hut it would
occasion the most serious person to smile. to see
what awkward ways I took. and what ugly mis
shapen things I made; how many either fell out
or cracked by the violent heat of the sun, and
fell in pieces when they were removed, so that I
think it was two months before I could perfect
any thing; and even then but two clumsy things
in imitation of earthen jars. These, however, I
very gently placed in wicker baskets. made on
purpose for them. and between the pot and the
hasltets.atull'ed it full of rice and barley straw
and these I presumed would hold my dried corn.
and perhaps the meal. when the core was bruised.
As for the smaller things. I made them with
better success; such as little round pots.flat
dishes. pitchers, and pipklns. the sun baking
them very hard.

Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary. and that was an earthen pot. not only to
hold m liquid. hut also to bear the fire which
none 0 these could do. It once happened that
as I was putting out my tire I found therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt hard
as a rock. and red as a tile. This made me think
of burning some pots; and having no notion of
a kiln. or of glazing them with lead. I fixed
three large pipkius. and two or three pots in a
pile one upon another. The tire I piled round
the outside. and dry wood on the top. till I saw
the pots in the inside red hot. and found that they
did not crack at all: and when I perceived
them perfectly red. I let them stand in the tire
shout live orstx hours. till the clay melted by the
extremity of the heat. and would have run to
glass had I suffered it: upon which. I slacked
my tire by degrees. till the redness abated; and
watching them till the morning. I found I had
three Very good pipkins. and two earthen pots,
as well burnt and lit for my turn as [could desire.

The first use to which I turned my pipkins
was to make some salt. which I had long want-
ed. It'or this purpose. I filled them with sea-
water. and kept it slowly boiling over the fire
till the whole of the water had boiled away in
steam. leaving. at the bottom of the vessel. a
thin crust of salt. which I found very good for
time; a relish to my food". ~
0 The next concern I had, was to get me I
stone-mortar to heat some corn in, instead oil
will to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a great
loss, as not being fit for a stone-cutter; and
many days I spent to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar
and strong enough to hear the weight of a pesv
tle, that Would break the corn Without filling
it with sand. But all the stones of the island
being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look
out a great block of hard wood; which having
found, I formed it by my axe and hammer. and
then, with infinite labor. made a hollow in it,
just as the Indians of Brazil make their canoes.
When I had finished this I made a great pestle
of iron-wood, and laid them up against my
succeeding harvest.

My next business was to make me a sieve. tr
sift my meal and part it from the bran and husk
Having no fine thin canvass to search the meal
through, I could not tell what to do. What linen
I had was reduced to rags; I had goat's hair
enough, but neither tools to work it, nor did I
know how to spin it. At length] remembered
I had some neck-cloths ot' caliCo or moslin of
the sailors. which 1 had brought out of the ship,
and with these, I made three small sieves proper
enough for the work.

I come now to consider the halting part.
The want of an oven 1 supplied, by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep.
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great fire
upon my hearth, the tiles of which I had made
myself, and when the wood was burnt into live
coals, I spread them over it, till it became very
hot; then sweeping them awayJ set down my
leaves, and whelming down the earthen pets
upon them, drew the ashes and coals all around
the outsides ot' the pots to continue the heat;
and in this manner l baked my barley loaves, as
well as it] had been a complete pastry cook,
and also made of the rice, several cakes and
'puddings.

It is no wonder that all these things took- min
tip the best part of a year, since what inter-
mediate time I had, was bestowed managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the proper
season, I reaped my corn, carried home and
laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till'I
had time to rub, instead of thrashing it. And
now indeed, my oorn increased so much, that it
produced me twent bushels of barley, and as
much of rice, that not only began to me it
freely, but was thinking how to enlarge my barns,
and resolved to sow as much at a time as would
be sutllcient for a whole year. '

All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen on the other aide of the island, ran in
my mind. I still meditated a deliverance from
this place, though the fear of greater misfortunes
might have deterred me from it. For allowing
that I had attained that place, I ran the hazard
ot'heing killed and eaten by the devouring canni-
, bals: and if they were not so, yet I might be slain,
as other Euroneans had been, who fell into their
hands. Notwithstanding all this,'my' thoughts
ran continually upon that shore. I now wished
for the lung boat 'with the shoulder of'mutto'n sail.
I went to the ship's boat, that had been 'castfi
great way on the shore in the late storm. She
was removed but a little; and her bottom being
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with" all the
strength I had, and with levers and rollers Ihad
out from the wood, to turn her, <<drunk the
damages she had sustained. 'l'his worlt took me
up three or four weeks. when finding my little
strength all in vain. I fell to undermining it by
digging away the sand. and so to make it fall
down. setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide
it in the fall. llut after this was done. I was Itill
unable to stir it up. or to get under it. much less
to move it forward towards the water, and so I
was forced to give it over.

This disammintment. however. did not frighten
me. I began to thinlt.whether it was not possible
for me to make a canoe or I'erigua. such as the
Indians make of the trunk of a tree. llut here
I lay under particular inconveniences; want 0.
tools to make it. and want of hands to move it
into the water when it was made. However, to
work I went upon it, stopping all the enquiries I
could make with this very simple answer I made
to myself. let's first make it: I'll warrant I'll find
some way or other to get it along when it is done.

I first cut down a cedar tree which was live
feet ten inches diameter at tho lower part next
the stump. and {our feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet. after which it
lessened for a space. and then parted into
branches. 'l'wenty days was I hacking and
hewing it at the bottom. fourteen more in cutting
oll' the branches and limbs. and a whole month.
in shaping it like the bottom of a boat. As for
the inside, I was three weeks with a mallet and
chisscl, clearing it in such a manner. as that it
was big enough to carry '26 men. much bigger
than any canoe I ever saw in my life, and conse-
quently sutl'icient to transport mo and all my
etl'ects to that wished for shore 1 so ardently
desired.

Nothing remained new. but indeed the great-
est difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying
about 100 yards from it. To remedy the first in-
convenience, which was a rising hill between the
boat and the creek. with wonderful pains and
labor I dog into the surface of the earth, and
made a tlmzlivity. "til when this was done, all
the strength I had was insutlicient to move it,
as it was when I first made the attempt. Ithen
proceeded to measure the distance of ground,
resolving to make a canal, in order to bring the
water to the canoe, since I could not bring the
canoe to the water. But as this seemed to be
impracticable to myself alone. under the space
of eleven or twelve years, it brou ht me into
some sort of consideration; so that concluded
this also to be impossible. and the attempt vain.
I now saw. and not before. what stupidity it is to
begin work before we reckon its costs.or judge
rightly our own abilities to go through with its
performance.

In the heightof this work my fourth year ex
pired from the time I was cast on this island.
At this time ldid not forget my anniversary,
but kept it with rather groatcrdeVotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say. as father
Abraham said unto Dives. " Between me and
then there is a golf fixed." And indeed I was
separated from its wickedness too, having nei-
ther the lost of the flesh. the lust of the eye, nor
the pride of life; I had nothing to covet. being
lord. lting and emperor over the whole country
I had in mssession. without dispute and without
control: h had loadings of corn. plenty oftnrtle;
timber in abundance. and grapes above measure.
What was all the rest to me! the mace I had
lay by me as despicable dress. which would
freely have given for a gross of tobacco pipes ora
hand-mill to grind my corn: in a word," the
nature and experience of these things dictated
to me this just reflection. That the good things
of this world are no further good to us than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we may
heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we Use and
no more.

These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. E very time I sat down to meat, I did
eat with thankfulness, admiring the providential
hand of God, who, in this wilderness had s read a
table to me. And new I considered what enjoy-
ed, rather than what 1 wanted; compared my-pre-
sent condition with what I at first expected it
should be: how I should have done, if] had got no
thing out of the ship: that I must have perished
before I had caught fish or turtles; or lived had I
found them, like a mere savage, by eating therr
raw, and pulling them to pieces with my claws,
like a beast. 1 next compared my station to
that which I deserved; how undutil'ul I had been
to my parents; how destitute of the fear or
God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I
had received from heaven, beinlg fed, as it were
by a miracle, even as great as] .'lijah s being fed
by iavens; and east on a place where there are
no venomous creatures to poisOn or devour me;
in short, making God' s tender mercies matter of
great consolation, l relinquished all sadness,and
gave way to Contentment.

As long as my ink continued, which with wa-
ter 1 made last as long as I could, I used to ml
nute down the days of the month on which any
remarkable. thing happened.

The next thing that wasted alter my ink, was
the biscuit, which I had brought out or the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a day
for about a twelvemonth. yet I was quite octet
bread for nearly a year. before I got any cornof

In the next place. my clothes began to de-
cay. and my linen had been gone long before.
However. I had preserved about three dozen of
the sailor's chequered shirts which proved "r great
refreshment to me. when the violent beams ' ftha
sun would not under me to bear any of the seas
men's heavy watch-coats; which made me turn
tailor. and. after a miserable botching' manner
convert them to jackets. To preserve my head.
I made a cup of goatsltins. with the hair out:
words to keep out the rain: which indeed served
too so well. that afterward I made a waistcoat
and open-ltneed brooches of the same: and then
I contrived a sort of umbrella. covering it with
skins. which not only kept out the heat of the
sun. but the rain also. 'l'hus being easy and
settled in my mind. my chief happiness was to
converscwith (led. in most heavenly and corn.
fortahle ejaculations.

For five years after this. I cannot sa any ex:
traordinary thing occurred to me. y ohiet
employment was to cure my raisins. and plant.
my barley and rice. of both which I had a year'e
provision before-hand. But though I was dis<<
appointed in my first canoe. I made it at intel-b
mediate times. my business to make a second of
much inferior size: and it was two years before
I had finished it. lint as l perceived it would
in nowise answer my design of sailing to the
other shore. my thoughts were confined to taken
tour round the island. to see what further dis.
ooverios I could make. To this intent. after
having moved her to the water. and tried how!
she would sail. I titted up a little mast-to my
boat. and made a sail of'the ship's sails that lay

5
by me. I then made lockers or boxes at the
end of it to put in necessaries, provision and
ammunition, which would preserve them dry
either from the rain,or the spray of the sea; and
in the inside of the boat, I cut me along hollow
place to lay my gun, and to keep it dry, made a
cover for it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in
the stern, like a must, to keep the heat of the
sun off me. And new resolving to see the
circumference ofmy little kingdom, I victualled
my ship for the voyage. putting in two dozen of
my barley bread loaws. an earthen pot full 0!
parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a goat,
powder and shot, and two watch-coats. It was
the sixth of Novem am. in the sixth year of my
reign, or captivity. that I set out on this voyage;
which was much longer than I expected, being
obliged to put farther out, by reason of the rocks
that lay a great way in the sea.

And indeed, so much did these rocks surprise
me, that l was for putting hack, fearing that if]
ventured farther, IL Wulll-l be out of my power
to return: in this uncertainty 1 came to anchor
just oil the shore, to which I waded with my gun
on my shoulder. and then climbing up a hill,
which Over-looked that p.-int, I saw the full ex-
tent of it, and so resolved to run all hazards.

In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
close to the point; which I the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when I
came to it, I might be driven into the sea by its
force, and not able to return to the island: and
certainly it must have been so, had I not made
this observation; for on the other side was a
like current, with this ditlirence, that it set off at
a greater distance; and l perceived there was a
strong eddy under the' land; so that tny chief
business was to work out of the first current,
and conveniently get into the eddy. Two days I
staid here, the wind blowing very briskly east-
southeast, which being contrary to the current,
leaves a great breach of .the sea upon the point;
so it was neither fit for me to keep too near the
shore, on account of the breach; nor stand at
too great distance for fear of the streams. That
night the wind abating, it grew so calm, that I
ventured out: and here I may be a. monument to
all rash and ignorant pilots; far I was no sooner
Come to the point, and not above the boat's
length from shore, but I was got into deep
water, with a current like a mill-race, which
drove my boat along so violently, that it was im-
possible for me to keepnear the edge of it, for it
forced me more and more out from the eddy to
the left of me, and all I could do with my paddles
was useless, there being no wind to help me.

Now I began to look Upon myself .as quite
lost, since, as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no hopes but of perishing
for want, in the sea, after what provision I had
was spent, or before,if a storm should happen to
arise.

Who can conceive the present anguish of
mind at this calamity? with longing eyes did
look upon my little kingdom, and thought the
island the pleasantest place in the universe. Hap.
py, thrice happy desert, said I, shall I never see
thee more! \Vretched creature! wither am I
going? Why did I murmur at my lonesome
condition, when now I would give the whole
wide world to be thither again! While Iwas
thus complaining, I found myself to be driven
about two leagues into the sea; however,-I lag
bored till my strength was far spent, to keep my
boat as far north as l pinnihty eonld, to that aid.
of the current where the eddy lny. About noon
I perceived in little hreoze of wind, spring up
from the aouthosonthoenst. which ovvrjoyod my
heart; and I was still more eluted, when in about
hall'an hour. it blew it gentle lino gnlo. IIad any
thick weather sprung up. I had heon lost another
way: for having no eoinpnu on hoard, I Iliottld
never have found the wuy to steer toward: the
island il'onci: it had dixuppi-nred; hot it proving
the contrary, I not up my tlttt'tt ngain, uproad my
aaiI and stood nwuy northwnrd. as much "It I could
to get rid of the current. And no sooner did the
beat hegin tn stretch :iWny, hot I perceived hy the
clearneini ofthi- w uter. it change oftho onrront wnI
near; for. where it wan utrong the water wna foul,
Ind where it was elenrtho current ahatod.
Those who have been in tho like calamitie-
With my own. mny anoint my present exec" 0!
joy, how heartily I ran my heat in tho ntreumof
thia eddy, and how Joyt'nlly I upread my sail to
the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully before it
with a smart tide underfoot. Ily tho assistance
of this eddy, I was i-zirried ahovo a league home
again, when, being in the wake of the inland, bo-
twixt the two currents, I found tho water to he
in a sort of a stand. Alont t'onr o'clock itt tho
afternoon, I reached within a league of the island
and perceived the points of tho rock, which cattl-
ed this disaster, stretching out, an I ohitorvuI bo-
t'orc, to the southward, which throwing olI' the
current more southerly, had oceziuioned another
eddy to the north. Iizit having a fair brisk gale,
I stretched norms thin eddy, and in an hour came
within a mile ul'the shore, where I soon landed to
my unspeakable comfort; and after an IitttanO
proutratiou, thanking (.'ml for my deliverance.
with a. resolution to lay all thoughts of escaping
ulde. I brought my boat safe to a little core. and
laid me down to take a welcome repose. When
I awoke. I was considering how I might et my
hoat home; and coasting along the shore came
to a good hay. which ran up to a rivulot or brook.
where. finding a harbor. I stowed her as safe as
if she had been in a dry dock. made on purpose
for her.

I now perceived myself not far from the place
where het'ore I had travelled on foot: so takin
nothing with me. except my gun and umbrella.'
hogan my journey. and in the evening came to
my bower. where I again laid me down to rest.
I had ttot slept long before I awakened in great
surprise. by a strange voice that called me seve
ral tiuws. "Itobin. llohin. Ilohinson Crusoe.
mor Ilohinl \Vlit'ro two you. Ilohinson Crusoe'
Vhere are you! Where have you been!"

So fast was I asleep. that at first I did not
awake thoroughl : but half asleep. and half-
awake. I thought dreamed that somebody spoke
to me. Ilut as the voice repeated. "Robinson
Crusoe." several times. being terribly frighten-
ed. I started up in the utmost confusion: and no
sooner were my eyes fully open. but I beheld my
pretty poll sitting on the top of the hedge. and
soon ltnew that it was he that called me: for
just in such hewailing language. I used to tall:
and teach him; which he no exactly learned. that
he would sit upon my linger. and lay his bill cl0se
to my face. and cry. "poor Robinson Crusoe.
where are you! where have you been! how came
you here!" and such like prattle I had constan-
tly taught him. But even though I knew it to
be the parrot. it was a great time before I could
adjust myself: being amazed how the creature
gut thither. and that he should fix about that
place and no where else. But now being assure
ed it could be no other than my honest "Poll,"
my wonder ceased, and reaching out my hand,
and calling "Poll," the creature came to me fa-
miliarly, and perched upon my thumb, as he was
wont, constantly prating to me with "poor Ro-
binson Crusoe, and how did I come here, and
where had I been!" as if the bird was overjoyed
to see me, and so I took him home along with
me. I was now pretty well cured of rambling
to sea; yet I could wish my boat, which had cost
me so much trouble and pains, on this side the
island once more, but this, indeed was impracti-
cable. l-therefore began to lead a very retired
life, living nearly a twelvemonth in a very con-
tented manner, wanting for nothing but conver-
sation. As to mechanic labors, which my
necessities obliged me to, l t'ancied I could, upon
occasion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal. but good. Be-
sides, asl improved in my earthenware, I eon-
trived to make them with a wheel, which I found
much easier and better, making my work shape-
ly, which before was rude and ugly. But, I'
think I never was so much elevated with my own
performance or project as when able to make a
tobacco-pipe, which, though it proved an awk.
ward clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and
carried the smoke perfectly well, to my great.
satisfaction.

I also improved my wicker ware, made me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and conve-
nient to {etch things home in, as also for holding
my stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.

'My powder beginning to tail, made me exa-
mine after what manner I should kill the goats or
hints tn live on, alter it was all gone. Upon
which I contrived many ways to ensnare the
goate and see il' I could catch them alive, part1.>>
cularty a she-goat with young. .. '
At last I had my desire; for, making it-falls.
and traps, hailed with barley and rice, found, .
one morning, in one of them. an old he goat, and.
in the other, three ltids, one male, and two-foo
males.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. llut I forgot the old pro-
verb, "'l hat hunger will tame a liong" for, bad I
kept him three or four days without provisions,
and then give him some water with a little corn,
he Would have been as tame as a young kid.
The other creatures I bound with strings toge-
ther; but I had great ditficulty, before I could'.
bring them to my habitation. It was some time
before they would feed; but, throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them, that they-
began to be tamer. From hence lconcluded,
that il' 1 designed to furnish myself with goat's
flesh. when my ammunition was spent, the time-
ly breeding them up, lilse a flock ofsheep about.
my settlement. was the only method I. could take.-
I concluded also that I must separate. the wild-
from the tame, or else they would always run wild
as they grew up; and the best way for this, was
to have some enclosed piece of ground, well.
fenced. either with a hedge or pale, tokeep them
so effectually, that those withiu'might not. break'
out, not- those without break in. . Suchanundero'
taking was very great for one pair ofhauds, but'
as there was an absolute necessity for doing it.
my first care was to find a convenient pieceolg
ground, where there was likely to be. a herbage
for them to eat, water to drink, and cover to
kee them from the sun. . - . 5
Hire again. I gave another instance of myigo.
noraoce and inexperience, pitching. upon a piece>>
of meadow land so large. that had I enclosed it,
the hedge or pale. must have been at least two
miles about. This thought came into my head,
after] had carried it on. I believe, about fifty
yards: I therefore. altered my scheme. and re~
solved to enclose a piece of ground about 150
yards in length. and lot) in breadth. large enough
for as many as wouhl maintain me. till such time
as my flock increased. and then I could add more
ground. I now vigorously prosecuted my work,
and it took me about three months in hedging
the first piece; in which time I tethered the. three
kids in the best part of it. feeding: them as near
me as possible. to make them familiar: aed, in-
deed, I very often Would carry some ears f bar-
ley. or a handfull of rice. and feed them wt of
my hand; by which they grew so tame. tha' when
my enclosure was finished, and I had '0! them
loose, they would run after me for a handful of
corn. This indeed answered my end: and in a
year and a half's time, I had a flock of about
twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years af-
ter, they amounted to forty-three, besides what I
had taken and killed for my sustenance.

After which. I enclosed tivc several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that 'I might take them as I had occasion.

In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in the beginning. I did
not so much as think of. And, indeed, though I
had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or
seen butter or cheese made. yet, after some
essays and miscarriages, I made me both, and
never afterward wanted.

How mercifully can the Almighty comfort his
creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities! How can he sweeten the bittercst
evils, and give us reason to magnify him id
dungeons and prisons; what a bonnteous table
was here spread in the wilderness for me, where
I expected nothing at first, but to perish for
hunger.

3ertainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. 'l'here sat my royal majesty, an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom. at-
tended by my dutiful subjects. whom if] pleased,
I could either hang, draw. quarter, give them
liberty, or take it away. \Vhen ldined, [seem-
ed a king, eating alone, none daring to presume
to do so till I had done. Poll, as ifhe had been
my principal oonrt favorite, was the only person
permitted to talk with me. My old but faithful
dog, now grown exceedingly crazy, continually
sat on my right hand; while my two cats sat on
each side of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royalfavor.
'l hose wete not the cats I had brought from the
ship; they had been dead long before.and interred
near my habitatton by my own hand. But a
couple of their young I had made tame; the rest
ran wild into the woods, and in time grew so im-
pudent. as to return and plunder me of my stores,
till such time as I shot a great many, and the
rest left me without troubling me anymore. In
this plentiful manner did I live. wanting for no-
thing but conversation. One thing indeed con-
cerned me, the want of my boat; I knew not
which way to get her round the island. One
time I resolved to go along the shore by land to
her, but had any one at home met such a figure
it would either have afi'righted him, or made him
burst into laughter; nay, I could not but smile
myself at my habit, which I think in this place
will be very proper to describe.

The cap 1 were upon my head, was great
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, With a
'flap or pent-house hanging down behind. not
only to keep the sun from me, but to shoot the '
rain of? from runninginto my neck. nothing being
more perniciuos than the rain falling upon the
flesh in these climates. 1 had a short jacket of
goat's skin, whose hair hung down such a length
on each side, that it reached down to the calves
of my legs. As for shoes and stockings,l had
none, but made a resemblance of something,
I know not what to call them; they were made
like huskins, and laced on the sides like spatter-
dashes, harharously shaped, like the rest of my
habit. I had a broad belt of goat's shin dried,
girt round me with a couple of thongs. instead of
buckles; on each of which, to supply the delici-
ency of sword and dagger, hung my hatchet and
saw. I had another belt not so broad, yet fast-
ened in the same manner, which hung over my
shoulder. and at the end of it. under my left arm.
hung two pouches. made of goat's skin, to hold
my powder and shot. My basket I carried on my
back, and my gun on my shoulder; and over my
head a great clumsy ugly goat~skin umbrella,
which however, next to my gun, was the most
necessary thing about me. as for my face, the
color was not so swarthy as a Mulattoe's, or
as might have been expected from one who took
so little care ofit, in a climate within nine or ten
degrees of the line. At one time, my beard
grew so long that it hung down above a quarter
ofa yard; but as 1 had both razors and scissors
in store, I cut it all off. and suffered none to grow
except a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, the
like of which I had seen Worn by some Turks at
Salee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat upon,
but of such a monstrous size, as would have
amazed any one in England to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here,there.
being none to observe my behaviour or habit. -
And so, without fear and without control, I pro-
ceeded on my journey, the prosecution of which
took me up five or six days. I travelled along
the sea shore, directly to the place where I first
brought my boat to an anchor, to get upon the
rocks; but now having no boat to take care of,
I went over land, a nearer way to the same height
that I was before upon; when looking forward
to the point of the rock. which lay out, and which
I was forced to double with my boat. I was
amazed to see the sea so smooth and quiet, there
being no rippling motion, nor current, any more
than in other places. And now I was convinced
that by observing the ebb and flow of the tide, I
might easily bring my boat round the island
again. But when I began to think of putting it
in practice, the remembrance of- the late danger
struck me with such horror that I took another
resolution, though more laborious; and this was.-
to make a second canoe, and. so have one for one
side of the island, and one for the other.

I had now two plantations in the island; the
first my little fortification, fort, or castle with
many large and spacious improvements; for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind me with-
several little caves, one within another to hold
my baskets, corn, and straw. The piles'with
which I made my wall were grown so lofty and;
great, as obscured my habitation. And near this
commodious and pleasant settlement, lay my well
cultivated and improved corn fields, which kindly,
yielded me their fruit in their proper season. My.
second plantation was that near my country seat
or little bower, where my grapes flourished, and
where, having planted my stakesJ made enclo-
sures for my goats, so strongly fortifiedby labor
and time, that it was much stronger than a wall
and consequently, impossible for them to break
through. As for my bower itself, I kept it con-
stantly in repair, and cut the trees in such a man.
ner as made them grow wild, and form a most
delightful shade. In the centre of this, stood my
tent, thus erected: I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's
sail, beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailor's blankets. which I had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a
great watch-coat, I took up this place for my
country retreat.

Very frequently, from this settlement did I use
to visit my boat, and keep her in very good order.
And sometimes would I venture in her a cast or
two from shore, but no farther. But now I en-
treat your attention, whilst I proceed to inform
you of a new, but most surprising scene of life
which here befcl me.

You may easily suppose, that after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing
than to see a human creature. One day it hap-
pened, that going to my boat, I saw the print 0!
a man's naked foot on the shore. very evident on
the sand, as the toes, heels, and every part of it.
Had Iseen a monster of the most frightful shape,
I could not have been more confounded. My
willing ears gave the stlictcst attention. I cast
my eyes around, but could satisfy neither the
one nor the other. I proceeded alternately to
every part of the shore, but with equal effect;
neither could I see any other mark though the
sand about it was as suspectihle to take impres-
uion as that which was so plainly stamped. Thus,
struck with confusion and horror, I returned tc
my habitation, frightened 'at every bush and tree;
taking every thing for men; and possessed with
the wildest idea! That night my eyes never
closed. 1 formed nothing but the most dismal
imaginations. In a word, all my religious hopes
vanished, as though I thought God would not
now protect me by his power, who had wonder-
fully preserved me so long.

What various chains of events are there in the
life of man! How changeable are our affections,
according to different circumstances! "'0 love
to-day. what we hate to-mormw; we shun one
hour, what we seek the next. This was evident
in me in the most conspicuous manner; for I,
who had so much before lamented my condition,
in being banished from all human kind, was now
ready to expire, when I considered that a man
had set his foot on this desolate island. 'But
when I considered my station of life, decreed
by the infinitely wise and good providence of
God, that I ought not to dispute my Creator's
sovereignty, who had an undoubted right to go-
vern and dispose of his creatures as he thinks
convenient; and that his justice and mercy could
either punish or deliver me, I say , when I con-
sidered all this, I conformably found it my duty
to trustsincerely In him, pray ardently to him, and
humbly resign myself to his divine will.

One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came into my mind, "Call
upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this
sentence, rising more cheerfully from mpy bed, I
offered up my pIayers in the most devout man.
ner; and when 1 had done, taking up my Bible
to read, these words appeared first in my sight,
" \Vait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen lb: heart: Wait, I say, on
the Lord." Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon that
occasmn.

Thus, after a world ofapprchensions and fear:
for three days and nights, I at last ventured out
of my castle and milked my goats, one of which
was almost spoiled for want of it. 1 next (tho'
in great fear) visited my bower. and milked my
flocks there. also; when growing; bolder. I went
down to the shore again, and measuring the print
of the foot to mine, to see perhaps whether I my-
self had not oeeasioned that mark. I found it
much superior in largeness; and so returned
home. absolutely Convineed. that either some
men had been ashore. or that the. inland must be
inhabited; and therefore that 1 might be sure
prised before I was aware.

I now began to think of providit-g for my secu-
rity, and rerolved in my mind many ditl'erent
schemes for that purpose. I first proposed to cut
down my enclosures. and turn my tame cattle
wild into the woods,that the enemy might not
find them. and frequent the island in hopes ot
killing the same. Secondly. I was for digging up
my cornfields for the same reason. And, lastly, I
Concluded to demolish my bower, lest, seeing a
place of human contrivance, they might come
farther. and find out and attack me in my castle.

Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature. spent and tired, submitted to
a silent repose the next morning, and then join-
ing reason with fear, I Considered, that this de-
lightful and pleasant island might not be so en-
tirely forSaken as i might think; but that the in-
habitants from the other shore might sail, either
with design or from necessity, by cross winds;
and, if the latter circumstance, I had reason to
believe they would depart the first opportunity.
However, my fear made me think of a place of
retreat upon an attack. Inow repented that]
had made my door to come out beyond my forti-
fication; to remedy which I resolved to make me
a second one. I fell to work, the'efore, and
drove betwixt that double row of trees, which I
planted above twelve years before,severalstrong
piles. thickening it with pieces of timber and
old cables. and strengthening the foot of it with
earth which I dug out of my cave. I also made
me seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets
like cannon, fitting them into frames resembling
carriages. This being finished with indefatiga-
ble industry. for a great way everywhere, I plan-
ted sticks of osiers like a wood, about twenty
thousand of them. leaving a large space between
them and my wall, that I might have room to see
an enemy, and that they might not be sheltered
among the young trees, if they offered to ap-
proach the outer wall. And indeed, scarce two
years had passed over my head, when there ap-
peared a lovely shady grove, and in six it became
a thick wood perfectly impassable. For my safe-
ty I left no avenue to go in or out; instead of
which, I set two ladders, one to a part ofthe rock
which was low, and then broke in, leaving room
to place another ladder upon that; so that when I
took those down, it was impossible for any man
to descend without hurting himself; and if they
had, they would still be at the outside of my out-
er wall. Bnt while I took all these measures of
human prudence for my own preservation, has
not altogether nnmindful of other affairs. To
preserve my stock of tame goats, that the enemy
should not take all at once, I looked out for the
most retired part of the island, which was the
place where I had lost myself before mentioned.
and there finding a clear piece of land, contain.
ing three acres, surrounded With thick woods. I
wrought so hard, that in less than a month's time,
Ifenceil it so We" round, that my tlocks were
very well secured in it, and I put therein two he
goats, and ten she ones.

All this labor was occasioned purely by fear-
ful apprehensions, on account of seeing tne print
of a man's foot. And not contented yet with
What i had done, I searched for another place
towards the west part ot'thc island, where I might
also retain another tlock. 'l'hen wandering on
this errand more to the west of the island than
ever I had yet done, and casting my eyes towards
the sea, methought l perceived a boat at a great
distance; but could not possilzly tell what it was
for want ot'iny Spy-glass. I considered then. it
was no SU'RIIBB " ing to see the print ot'a man's
foot; and CilllCllllilug them cannibals, blessed
God for being cast on the other side of the is
land, where none of the savages, as I thought,
ever came. Ilnt Wlit'll I came d -wn the hill to
the shore, which Wus' the soutimwst point of the
island, I was soon continued in my opinion: nor
can any one describe my horror and amazement.
when I saw the ground spread with sculls, hands,
feet, and bones of human bodies; and particu-
larly, I perceive! a space like a circle, in the
tniJst of which had been a tire, about which I
conjectured those w retches sat. and unnaturally
sacrificed and devoured their fellow creatures.

The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful
spectacle, both confounded my senses, and made
me discharge frem my stomach in an excessive
manner. 1 then returned to my habitation;
and in my way thither shedding floods of tears,
and falling down on my bended knees.gare God
thanks for making my nature contrary to those
wretches, and delivering me so long out oftheir'
hands.

Though reason and my long residence here'-
had assured me, that the savages never came'up:
to the thick woody part of the country, and that I>>
had no reason to be apprehensive of a d iscovery',
yet such an ahhorrence did I still retain, that {On
two years after,l confined myselfonly to my three
plantations; I mean my castle, country seat, and!
enclosure in the woods; though in process of time!
my dreadful apprehensions began to wear away.-.
Thus my circumstances for some time remainv
ed very calm and undisturbed; thoughindeedy
the terror which the savages had put me in, spoil-t
ed some inventions for my own convenience.-
One of my projects was to brew me some been. '
a very whimsical one indeed. when it is consid>>
ered, that I had neither casks sufficient, nor
could Imake any to preserve it in; neither had:
I hops to make it keep, yeast to make it work.
nor a copper or kettle to make it boil. Perhaps;
indeed, after some years, I might bring- this to;
bear, as] had done other things. But now mye
' inventions were placed another way; and day
and night I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these cannibals, when
proceeding to their bloody entertainments; and
so saving avictim from being sacrificed, that he!
might afterwards become my servant. Many.
were my contrivances for this purpose. and-many:
more objections occurred. after I had hatched
them. I once contrived to dig a hole undertho.
place where they made their fire, and put therein
five or six pounds of gunpowder, which would:
consequently blow up all those that were near it;
but then I was loth to spend so much upon them,
lest it should not do that certain execution I dea
sired. and only afl'right and not kill them "an

6
i-ng laid this design aside, I again proposed to.
myself to lie privately in ambush in some conve-
nient place, with my three guns double loaded,

and let fly'at them in the midst of their dreadful
ceremony; and having killed tWo or three of
them at every shot,.fall upon the rest suddenly
with my three pistols, and let not one mother's
son escape. This imagination pleased my fancy
so much thatI used to dream of it in the night,
time. To put my design in execution I was not
long seeking for a place convenient for my puro
pose, where unseen I might behold every action
of the savages.' Here I placed my two mus-
kets, each of which was loaded with a brace of
slugs, and four or 'five smaller bullets about the
size of pistol bullets; the fowling piece was
charged with nearly a handful of the largest swan
shot, and in every pistol aboutfour bullets. And
thus all things being prepared, no sooner did the
welcome light spread over the element, butI
would-issue forth from my castle,and from a lofty
hill, three miles distant, try if I could see any
invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. -
But having waited in vain for two or three months,
it grew very tiresome to me.

I now argued with myself, it was better for me
never to attack,but to remain undiscovered as
long as I possibly could; that an opposite con-
duct would certainly prove destructive; for as it
was scarcely to be supposed I could kill them all,
I might be either overpowered by the remainder,
or that some escaping might bring thousands to
my certain destruction. And,'indeed, religion
tool: their part so much as to convince me how
contrary it was to my duty, to be guilty of shed-
ding human blood, innocent blood, innocent as
to me in particular, whatever they are to one ano-I
ther; that I had nothing to do with it, but leaveEgg ._ .

.
it tothe (End of all power and dominion, as l said
before. to do therein what seemed convenient to
his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore, on my
knees I thanked the Almighty for delivering me
from blood-gniltlness, and begged his protec-
tion that I might never fall into their hands.
'l'hus giving over an attempt which I had rashly
hegun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion
afterward; I only removed my boat, which lay
on the other side of the island, and every thing
that belonged to her, towards the cast. into a lit-
tle cove, that there might not be the h-nst shadow
of any boat near, or habitation upon the island.
My castle then became my Cell. lit't'plng always
retired in it, except when I went out to milk my
she goats, or my little flock in the wood, which
was quite out of danger: for sure I was, that
these savages never came here with OXpectation
to find an thing, and consequently never wander~
ed from he coast; however, as they might have
several times been on shore.as well before as after
mydreadful apprehensions, i looked back withhor-
ror to think in what state I mighthave been, had
I suddenly met them, slenderly armed with one
gun only loaded with small shot; and how great
would have been my amazement, if, instead of
seeing the print of one man's foot Ihad per-
ceived fifteen or twenty savages, who, having
once set their eyes upon me, by the swiftness at
their feet, would have left me no possibility of
escaping? These thoughts would sink my very
soul, so the" woufd fall into a deep melancholy,
till such time as the consideration ofmy gratitude
to the divine Being moved it from my heart. I
then fell into a contemplation of the secret
Springs of providence, and how wonderfully we
are delivered, when insensible ofit; and when
in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or he-
sitation, what secret hint directs us, in the right
way when we intended to go out of it, nay per-
haps contrary to our business, sense, or inclinao
tion.

Anxieties of mind, and the care of my preser-
vation, put a period to all future inventions and
contrivances. either for accommodation, or con-
venience, I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a
stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the
noise should he heard, or the smoke discover
me. And on this account I used to burn my
earthen ware privately in a cave, which I found
in the ivood,and which I made convenient for
that purpose; the principal cause that brought
me here was to make charcoal, so that I might

bake and dress my bread and meat without any
danger.

At that time a curious accident happened to
me, which! shall now relate.

\Vhile I was cutting down some wood for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind
a very thick branch of underwood. Curious to
look into it; I attained its mouth, and perceived
it sutlicient for me to stand upright in.

But when I had entered, having crept on my
hands and fet through this straitJ found the root
higher up. I think about twenty feet. But surely
never mortal saw suchaglorious sight before!
the roof and walls of this cave reflected a hun-
dred thousand lights to me from my two candles,
as though they were indented with shining gold,
precious stones, or sparkling diamonds. And
indeed it was the most delightful cavity or grotto
of its kind that could be desired, though entirely
dark. The floor was dry and level, and had a
kind of gravel upon it; no nauseous venomous
creatures to be seen here, neither any damp or
Wet aLout it. lcould find no fault. but in the
entrance, and I began to think. that even this
might be very necessary for my defence, and
therefore resolved to make it my principal mag-
azine. I brought hither two fowling pieces and
three muskets, leaving only five pieces at my
castle, planted in the nature of cannon. In a
barrel of gunpowder, which 1 took out of the sea,
1 brought away about sixty pounds of good pow-
der, which was not damaged; and this, with a
great quantity of lead for bullets. I removed from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified both by
art and nature.

1 fancied myself now like one of the giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them-
selves, or at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and strength
of the savages, either to find me out or to hurt
me.

I think] was now in the twenty-third year at
my reign, and my thoughts much easier than
formerly, having contrived several pretty amuse-
ments, and diversions to pass away the time in
a pleasant manner. By this time my pretty Poll
had learned to speak English, and pronounce his
words very articulately and plain; so that for
many hours we used to chat together after a very
familiar manner, and he lived no less than twenty-
six years. My dog which was nineteen years
old, sixteen of which he lived with me, died some
time ago, of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill
or drive them into the woods, except two or three
which became my particular favorites. Be-
sides these, 1 continually kept two or three house-
hold kids about me, which I taught to feed out of
my hand, and two more parrots which could talk
inditferently, and call Robinson Crusoe. but not
so excellently as the first, by my not taking so
much pains with them. Iliad also several sea
fowls which I had wounded and cut their wings:
and growing tame they used to breed among the
tow trees about my castle walls, all of which made
my abode very agreeable.

But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time in
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early in the mor-
ning, before it was daylight, there appeared to
me from the sea-shore, a flaming light, about two
miles from me at the east end of the island,
where I had observed some savages had been
before, not on the other side, but to my great
affliction it was on my side of the island.

Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself inva pos-
ture of defence, loaded my muskets and pistols,
and committing myself to God's protection, I
resolved to defend myself till my last breath.
Two hours after, impatient for intelligenceJ set
my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place, and then pulling the ladder after
me, ascended to the top, where laying myself-
on my belly, with my perspective glass I per-
ceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a small fire, eating as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes hauled on shore,
waiting for the flood to carry them off again.
The consternation I was in at this sight, espeo
cially seeing them near me, was very great; but

\
'.
"when I perceived their coming musthe always
with the current of the ebb,l became more easy
in my thoughts, being fully convinced, that]
might go abroad with security all the time of
flood, if they were not before landed. And, in-
deed, this proved just as I imagined; for no
sooner did they all take boat and paddle away
-but the tide made northwest. \Vhen I saw them
gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders, and
placing a couple of pistols in my belt, with my
great sword hanging by my side, I went to the
hill, where at firstl made a discovery of these
canmbals, and then saw there had been three ca-
noes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which with the rest, were making over to the
main land.

But nothing could be more. horrid to me, when
going to the place of sacritice, the blood, the
bones, and other mangled parts ofhuman bodies
appeared in my sight; and so fired was Iwith
indignation, that l was fully resolved to be re-
venged on the first that came there, though I lost
my life in the execution. It then appeared to
me, that the visits which they make to this island
are not very frequent, it being fifteen months
before they came again: but still l was very
uneasy,by ieason of the dismal apprehensions
of their surprising me unawares; nor dared I
offer to fire agun on that side of the island where
they used to appear, lest. taking the alarm, they
might return with many hundred canoes, and then
God only knows in what manner I should have
made my end. Thus was I a year or more
before I saw any of these devouring cannibals
again.

But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention, for awhile, eluded the force
of my thoughts in revenging myself ' on those
heathens.

On the 16th ofMay (according to my wooden
calendar.) the wind blew exceedingly hard, ac-
companied with abundance of thunder and light.-
ning all day, and succeeded by a very stormy
night. The seeming anger of the heavens made
me have recourse to my Bible. "'hilst I was
seriously pondering upon it. I was suddenly
alarmed with the noise of a gun, which I con-
jectured was fired upon the ocean. Such an un-
usual. surprise made me start up in a minute;
when. with my ladder, ascending the mountain
as before, that very moment a flash of fire pre-
saged the report ofanothergun, which I presently
heard, and found it was from the part of the sea
where the current drove me away, I could not
but then think, that this must be a ship in distress,
and that these were the melancholy signals fora
speedy deliverance. Great, indeed, was my ear.
row upon this occasion: but my labors to assist
them must have proved altogether vain and fruit-
less. However, I brought together all ,the dry
wood that was at hand, and making apretty large
pile, set it on fire on the hill. I wascertain they
plainly perceived it, by their firing another gun
as soon as it began to blaze; and after that seve-
ral more from the same quarter. All night long-
I kept up my fire; and when the air cleared up
I perceived something a great way at seadirectly
east, but could not distinguish what it was, even
with my glass. the weather being so very foggy
out at sea. However, keeping my eyes directly
fixed upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, l
presently concluded it must be a ship at anchor,
and so very hasty was I to be satisfied, that.
taking my gun, I went to the southeast part of
the island, to the same rocks where I had been
formerly driven away by the current; in which
time, the weather being perfectly cleared up, to
my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck ofa ship
cast away upon those hidden rocks I had found
when I was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of
my preservation.

When I considered seriously every thing con.
cerning this wreck, and could perceive no room
to suppose any of them saved, I cannot explain,
by any possible force of words, what longings
my soul felt on this occasion, often breaking out
in this manner: Oh! that there had been but
two or three, nay, even one person saved, that
we might have lived together, oonversed with,
and comforted one another! and so much were
my desires moved, that when I repeated these
words, Oh! that there had been but one! my
hands would so clench together, and my fingers
press the palms of my hands so close, that, had *
' any soft thing been between, they would have
crushed it,while my teeth would strike together.
and set against each other so strong, that it re-
quired some time for me to part them.

Till the last year of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or not any had been saved
out of the ship. I had the affliction,some time
after, to see the corpse ofa drowned boy come
on shore, at the end of the island which was next
the shipwreck; there was nothing on him but a
a seaman's waiscoat, a pair of open-kneed l'inen
drawers,and ablue linen shirt, but no particular
mark to guess what nation he was of. In his
pocket were two pieces of eight, and a tobacco
pipe, the last of which I preferred much more
than I did the first. And now the calmness of
the sea tempted me to venture out in my boat to
this wreck, not only to get something necessary
out of the ship, but perhaps, some living creature
might be on board, whose life I might preserve.
This had such an influence upon my mind, that
immediately I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for the voyage, carrying on board
my boat, provisions of all sorts, with a good
quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass:
so putting off,I paddled the canoe along the
shore, till I came to the northeast part of the
Island, from whence I was to launch into the
ocean; but here the current ran so violently, and
appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me; foreseeing, that if] was driven into any of
these currents,I might be carried not only out
of the reach or sight of the island, but even
inevitably lost in the boiling surges of the ocean.

So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek
on the shore, where, stepping out, I sat me down
on a rising hill, very pensive and thoughtful.
I then perceived that the tide was turned, and
the flood come on, which made it impracticable
for me to go out for so many hours.

That night, I reposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch-coat instead of a blan'g
hot, the heavens being my tester. I set out with
the first of the tide full north, till I felt the bene-
fit of the current; which carried me at a great
rate eastward, yet not with such impetuosity as
before, as to take from me all goverment of my
canoe: so that. in two hours I came up to the
wreck, which appeared to me a most melancholy
sight. It seemed to'be a Spanish vessel by its
building, stuck fast between two rocks; herstern
and quarters beaten to pieces by the sea; her
mainomast and foremast were brought'ofl' by the
board; that is broken short of. As I ape
preached nearer, I perceived a dog on board,
who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried: and
no sooner did I call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of which 1 took him up
almost famished with hunger and thirst: so that
when I gave him a cake ofbread, no mvenous
wolf could devour it more greedily; and he
drank to that degree ol'l'resh water, that he would
have bttrst bimselfhad l sutfered him.

The first sight I met with in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cook-room, orl'orecastle,
enclosed in one another's arms: hence I very
probably supposed, that when the vessel struck
in the storm, so high and incessantly did the
waters break in and over her, that the men not
being able to bear it, were strangled by the con
stant rushing of the waves. 'I'herc were seve-
ral casks ofliquor, whether wine or brandy 1
could not be positive, which lay in the lower hold,
as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing out of
the water, yet were too large for me to pretend
to meddle with; likewise l perceived several
chests, which I supposed belonged to the seamen,
two of which I got into my boat, without ex
amining what was in them. What became of
the sailors I could not certainly tell; and all her
riches signified nothing at that time to any body

Searching farther, ] found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
some labor I got into my boat; in the cabin
were several muskets, which] let remain there;
but took away with me a great powder horn,with
about {our pounds of powder in it. I took also
a fire-shovel and tongs, with two brass kettles, a
Copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron;
all which were extremely necessary to me,
especially the fire-shovel and tongs. And so
with this cargo, accompanied by my dog, [came
away the tide serving for that purpose: and the
-ame evening, about an hour within night i at-
tained the island, after the greatest toil and fa-
tigue imaginable.

That night i reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbor what
1 had gotten, in my new-found under-ground grot
to; and not carry my cargo home to my ancient
castle. Having refreshed myself, and got all
my effects on shore, l next proceeded to examine
the particulars; so tapping the cask, I found
the liquor to he a kind of rum, but not like what
we had at the Brazils, nor indeed near so good
At the opening ofthe chest, several things ap-
peared very useful to me; for instance, 1 found
in one, a very fine case of bottles, containing the
finest and best sort of cordial waters; each
bottle held about three pints, curiously tipt with
silver. l found also two pots full of the choicest
sweetmeats, and two more which the water had
utterly spoiled. There were likewise several
good shirts. exceedingly welcome to me, and
about one dozen and a half of white linen hand-
kerchiefs, and colored neckcloths, the former of
which were absolutely necessary for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the till, I found three
bags of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, I only found some
cloths of very little value, and about two pounds
of fine glazed powder, in three flasks, kept as I
believe, for charging their fowling pieces on any
occasion, so that, on the whole I made very little
of this voyage: The money was indeed as
mere dirt to me, useless and unprofitable, all
which I would have freely parted with, for two
or three pair of English shoes and stockings.
things that for many years I had not worn, except
those which I had lately taken off the feet of the
unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not so good as English shoes either for ease
or service. I found no gold in the second chest
so concluded that what I took from the first be-
longed to an officer, the latter appearingto have
a much inferior person for its owner. However,
as desPicahle as the money seemed,I likewise
lugged it to my cave, laying it up securely, as I
did the rest ofmy cargo, and intending to seek
out, and return it to the family of the unfortunate
owner, if ever I should return to Europe; and
after I had done all this, I returned to my boat
rowing or paddling her along till I came to my
old harbor, where Icarefully laid her up, and
so made the best of my way to my castle.
\Vhen I arrived there, every thing seemed safe
and quiet; so that now, my only business was to
repose myself after my wouted manner, and take
care of my domestic affairs. But though I
might have lived very easy, as wanting for no-
thing ahsolutely needful; yet still I was more
vigilant than usual. upon account of the savages,
never going much abroad; or ifI did, it was to
the east part of the island, where I was well as-
sured that the savages never came, .ud where I
might not be troubled to carry sut'h deg heavy load
of weapons for my defence, as I was obliged to
do ifI went the other way.

Two years did I live in this an:io.s condition;
in all which time, contrary to my former re-
solutions, my head was filled. with nothing but
projects and designs how I might escape from this
island; and so much were my wandering thoughts
bent upon a rambling disposition, that had I had
the same boat that I went from Salee in. I should
have ventured once more to the uncertainty 0.
the raging ocean. '

Having retired to my castle, after my late
voyage to'the ship, my frigatelaid up and secured,
as usual, and my condition the same as before,
except being richer, though Ihad as little oo
casion for riches as the Indians of Peru had for
gold, before the cruel Spaniards came among
them; one night in March, being the rainy season,
in the fourand twentieth year ofmy solitude, I lay
down to sleep. very well in health, without dis-
temper, pain, or uncommon uneasiness either of
body or mind; yet notwithstanding, I could not
compose myself to sleep all the night long. All
this tedious while, it is impossible to express what
innumerable thoughts came into my head. I
traced quite over, the whole history of my life in
miniature, from my utmost remembrance of
things till I came to this island; and then pro-
ceeded to examine every action and passage that
had occurred since I had taken possession of
my kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter,
I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs
in the beginning of my reign, to this life of
anxiety, fear,and coneern.since I had discovered
the print ofa foot in the sand; that while I con-
tinued without apprehension, I was incapable of
feeling the dread and terror 1 now suffered
How thankful rather ought I to have been for the
knowledge of my danger,since the greatest hap-
piness a man can he possessed of is to have
suflicient time to provide against it! How stu-
pendous is the goodness of Providence. which
sets such narrow bounds to the sight and kno w.
ledge of human nature, that while men walk in
the midst of so many dangers, they are kept
serene and calm, by having the events of things
bid from their eyes, and knowing nothitw a!
those many dangers that surround them, till per-
haps they are dissipated and vanished away.

About a year and a half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprised by seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed,l
lay still in my castle; which, however, I put in
a proper posture for an attack; and having for-
merly proiided all that was necessary, was soon
ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. Having waited for some time, my
impatient temper would let me bear it no longer;
I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and, as
usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at two
stages, standing, however, in such a manner, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not easily perceive me: and here, by
the assistance of my perspective glass, I ob-
served no less than thirty in number around a
fire, feasting upon what meat they had dressed:
how they cooked it, or what it was, I could not
then perfectly tell; but they were all dancing
and capering about the flames, using many fright-
ful and barbarous gestures.

But while, with a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my Spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dreadful
tragedy, as I supposed they had done before.
It was not long before one of them fell upon the
ground, knocked down as I suppose, with a club
or wooden sword, for that was their manner;
while two or three others went immediately to
work, cutting him open for their cookery, and
then fell to devour him as they had done the for.
mer: while the last unhappy captive was left by
himself, till such time as they were ready for him.
The poor creature lanked round him with a sari
rowful eye, trembling at the thoughts ofdeath;
yet seeing himsell'a little at libe'rty, nature, that
very moment, as it were. inspired him with hopes
oflife: he started away from them, and ran, with
incredible swiftness, along the sands, directly};
that part of the coast where my ancient and ve-
nerable castle stood.

You may well imagine I was drepdfully afo
frighted upon this occasion; when as thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running to-_
wards my palace. And now, indeed,I expected
that he would certainly fly to my grove for pro-
tection. However, my spirits beginning to re-
cover, I still kept on my guard; and I now
plainly perceived, there were but three men out
of the number that pursued him. I was infinitely
pleased at the swiftncss with which the poor
creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground upon them, that I plainly perceived, could
he thus hold it out. for half an hour, there was
not the least doubt but he would save his life from
the power of his enemies. .

Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with all
my effects from the wreck of the ship, on the steep
banks of which, I very much feared the poor
victim would be taken, if he could notswimfor
his escs pe: but soon was I out ofpain {or him,
when I perceived-he made nothing ofithtlhough
at fitll tide, but with an intrepid courage, spurred
on by the sense ofdanger, he plunged into the
flood, swimming over in about thirty strokes,
and then landing, ran with the same incredible
strength and swiftness as before. When the
three spursuers came to the creek, two of them,
who] perceived could not swim, happily for

7
themselves, returned to their company, while the
other, with an equal Courage but much less swift-
ness attained the other side, as though he was
resolved ne1 er to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, I thought, was the time for me to
procure me a servant, companion, or assistant,
and that I was decreed by Providence to be the
instrument to save this poor creature's lite. I
immediately descended my two ladders with the
greatest expedition; I took up my two guns,
which, Isaid before were at the bottom ofthem;
and getting 11p again with the same haste to-
wards the hill, 1 made nearer the sea. In a
word, taking a short cut down the hill, I inter-
posed between the pursuer and pursued, hal-
looing aloud to the latter, who venturing to look
back, was no doubt, as much terrified at me as
at the enemy from whom he fled. I beckoned
to him with my hand, to return back, and, in the
mean time, advanced towards the pursuer. I
was very unwilling to fire lest the restshould hear,
though, at thatdistance, I questioned whether they
could orno; and being'outof sight of the smoke,
they could not easily have known what to make of
it. 'I he savage stopped as if he had been amazed,
when, advancing towards him,I could perceive
him take his bow from his back, and, after fixing
an arrow to it, preparing to shoot at me and, with-
out dispute, he might have lodged it in my breast;
'but in this absolutely necessary case of self-
preservation, I immediately fired, and shot him
dead, just as his hand was going to draw the fatal
string. All this while, the savage, who had fled
'before, stood still, and had the satisfaction to see
his enemy killed, as he thought, who designed to
'take away his life; so afi'righted was he with the
'fire and noise of my piece, that he stood as it
Vere like lot' 8 wife, fixed and immoveable with-
out either sense or motion. This obliged me to
halloo to him again. making the plainest signs I
Could to him to draw nearer. [perceived he
understood these tokens, by his approaching to
me a little way, when as if afraid I should kill
him too, he stopped again. Severaltunee did he
advance, and as often stop in this manner, till,
coming more to my view. I perceived him trem-
bling, as ifhe was to undergo the same fate.
Upon which I looked Upon him witha smiling
countenance, and still beckoning to him; at
length he came close to me, and kneeled do'wn,
kissed the ground, laid his head upon it, and
taking me by the foot, set it'Upon his head;
which, as I understood afterwards, was a token of
swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him
Up, and making much of him, encouraged him in
the best manner I could. The greatest astOo
nishment that my new servant conceived,was
at the manner of killing the savage at such a
distance, without a bow and arrow; and such
was his longing desire to know it, that be first
pointed to the dead earcase, and then made signs
to me to grant him leave to go to it. Upon
which I bid him go, and, as wellasI could,
made him sensible l granted his request. But
when he came there how wonderfully was he
struck with amazement! First, he turned it on'
one side, then on another, wondering he could
perceive no quantity of blood.he bleeding in-
wardly: and after sufficiently admiring the
wound the bullet had made in the breast, he took
up his bow and arrows, and came back again:
upon which, I' turned to go away, making signs
to him to follow, lest the rest missing their com-
panibn, might come in pursuit of him, and this I
found he understood very well, by making me to
understand that his design was to buryit, that it
might not be seen; and which by signs again I
made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately he fell to work,and never was graveo
digger more dexterous in the world than he was;
for in an instant, as I might say, he scraped a
large hole in the sands with his hands, sufficient
to bury it in; there he dragged it, and, without
any ceremony, covered it over. I then called
him away,and instead ofcarrying him directly to
my castle at first, I conveyed him to my care
on the farther part ofthe island. -

\Veary and faint,hungry and thirsty, undoubt-
edly must this poorcreature be, supported chiefly
by the vivacity of spirit, and uncommon trans>>
ports .of joy that his deliverance occasioned
Here I gave him bread and a bunch ofraisins to
eat, and water to drink, on which he fed very
cheerfully, to his exceeding refreshment. I then
made him aconvenient bed, with a parcel of rice
straw, and a blanket upon it, (a bed which I used
myself sometimes) and then pointing to it, made
signs for him to lie down to sleep, upon which
the poor creature went to take a welcome rea-
pose.

Indeed he was a very comely, handsome,
young fellow,extremely well made, with straight
long limbs, not too large, buttall and well shaped,
and, as near as I could reckon, about twenty six
years of age. His countenance had nothing in
it fierce or surly, but rather a sort of majesty
in his face; and especially when he smiled, he
had all the sweetness ofa European. His hair
was not curled like wool,as many of the blacks
are, but long and black, with the most beautiful,
'et careless tresses spreading over his shoulders.

Ie had a very high and large forehead, with a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that of theI'

.1243:

2.93%.
._ .

. . . u: .. . .. ,. .:. z . A .... H . , .r.. \ \\
.222. 2 . _ _V . . . 372,22? \
Americans; but rather of a light dun olive
color, that hazl somethiugagrecable in it. though
not very easy to give a description of. His face
was round and plump, with a small nose; very
different from the flatness ofthe negroes, a pretty
small mouth, thin-lips, fine teeth, very well set,
and white as the driven snow. In a word, such
handsome features, and exact symmetry in every
part made me consider, that I had saved the life
of an Indian prince, no less graceful and accom-
plished than the great Oroonoke, whose memo-
rable behaviour and unhappy contingences of
life, have charmed the world, both to admiration
of his person, and compassion for his sufferings.

He had not, I think,slept above an hour, when
he awaked again,and while I was milking my
goats hard by, out he run from the cave towards
me in my enclosure, and laying himsell'down on
the ground in the lowest prostration, made all the
antic gestures imaginable, to express his thank-
fulness to me for being his deliverer. He laid
down his head again npon the ground, close to
my foot, and set my other foot upon his head, as
he had done before, making all the signs ofsub-
jection, servitude. and submission imaginable, to
let me understand he would serve me as long as
his life endured. As I understood him in many
things, I made him sensible I was very well
pleased with him; and, in a little time, I began
to speak to him, and teach him how to talk to me
again.

In the first place, I made him understand his
name was to be Friday, because it was upon that
day I saved his life; I then taught him to say
Master, which I made him sensible was to be my
name; I likewise taught him to say yes and no,
and to know what they meant. I gave him some
milk in an earthen pot, making him view me
whileI drank it before him, and soaked my bread
in it, I gave him a cake of bread, and ycaused
him to soak it likewise, to which he readily con
seated, making signs of the greatest satisfaction
imaginable.

All that night did I keephim there; but no
sooner did the morning light appear, than I order.
ed him to arise and come along with me, with cer-
tain tokens that I would give him some clothes
like mine, at which he seemed very glad, being
stark naked, without the least covering whatever
As we passed by the place where the man had
been interred,my man pointed directly to his
grave, showing me the marks ,that he had made
to find it again, giving me to understand, by
signs, that we should dig him up and devour him.
At this I appeared extremely displeased, express-
ed my utmost abhorrence, as ifI would vomit. at
the apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greatest
reverence and submission. After this, I con .
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the
rest of the savages were yet remaining there;
but when I looked through my perspective glass,
I could see no appearance of them, nor of their
canoes; so that it was very evident they never
minded their deceased companion whom we had
slain; which if they had, they would surely have
searched for or left one boat behind for him to
follow, after he returned from his pursuit.

Curiosity, and a desire ofsatisfaction, anima-
ting me with courage, to see this scene of barba-
rity, I took my man Friday with me to the place
of their bloody entertainment. But when I came
there, I was struck with the utmost horror at so
dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday was no way
concerned about it; being no doubt in his turn,
one of tnese dei ourers. Here lay several human
bones, there several pieces of mangled flesh
balfeaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams
of blood ran promiscuously as water from a
fountain. AsI was musing on this dreadful
sight: Friday took all the pains he could by par-
ticular signs, to make me understand that they
had brought over four prisoners to feast upon,
three of whom they had eaten up. and that be
was the fourth, pointing to himself: that there
having been a bloody battle between them and
his great king, in thejust defence of whom he
was taken prisoner, with many others; all of
these were carried off to different places to be
devoured by their conquerors; and that it was
his fortune to be brought hither by these wretches
for the very same purpose.

After I was made sensible of these things, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together upon a heap, which I
ordered to be set on fire,'and burnt them to
ashes: my man, however, still retained the na-
ture ofa cannibal, having a hankering stomach
after some ofthe flesh: but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appearance
ofit, that he durst not but conceal it; for I made
him very sensible. that if he attempted any such
thing, I would certainly shoot him.

This being done, I carried my man with me to
my castle, and gave him a pair of linen drawers,
which I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest
before mentioned; and which,with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well: in the next place, I
made him a jerkin of goat skin, such as my skill
was able to manage, and indeed I thought myself
then" a tolerably good tailor. I gave him also a
cap, which I made ofa hare's skin, very conve-
nient and fashionable. Thus being clothed to-
'lerably well, my man was no less proud of his
habit than I was at seeing him in it. Indeed he
went very awkwardly at first, but by use,at length
he took to them very well. '

My next concern was, where I should lodge
him; and that] might do well by him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself, [erected a tent for
him in the vacant place between my two fortifi-
cations, in the inside of the last, and the outside
of the first; and as there was an entrance or
door into my cave, I made aformal framed door-
case, and a door to open on the inside; I barred
it up in the night-time, taking in my ladders too,
so that, was my man to prove treacherous, there
could be no way to come at me in the inside of
my innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs waken
me; for my first wall had now a complete roof.
over it of long poles,sprcading over my tent,
and leaning up to the side of the mountain, which
was again laid across with smaller sticks instead
of laths, and thatched over to a great thickness
'with the rice straw, which was as strong as reeds;
and at the hole of the place,left on purpose to
go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of
a trap-door,which, ifit had been attempted on
the outside, would not have opened at all, but
have fallen down, and made a great noise; and
as to my weapons, every night I took them all to
my bed-side.

But there was no occasion for this precaution;
for surely never Master had a more sincere,
faithful and loving servant than Friday proved to
me. Without passion, sullenness, or design,
perfectly obliging and engaging, his afl'ections
were as much tied to me as those of a child to
his parents; and I might venture to say; he
would have sacrificed his life for the saving of
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.- and. in-
deed, the many testimonies he gave me of this,
suficiently convinced me that] had no occasion
to use all these precautions.

I had not been above two orthree days returned
to my castle, but my chiefdesign was, how I
should bring Friday off from this horrid way of
feeding; and, to take from him that inhuman
relish he by habit had been accustomed to,I
thought it my duty to let him taste other flesh,
which might the rather tempt him to the same
abhorrcnce I so often expressed against their
accursed way of living. Upon which, one morn-
ing, I took him out with me, with an intention to
kill akid out of the flock,and bring it home,
and dress it. As I was going, I perceived a she
goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. Immediately l catched hold of my
man Friday, and bidding him stand still. and not
stir,l presented my piece, and shot one ofthe kids.
My poor servant, who at a distance perceived
me kill his adversary, and yet did not know by
what means, or how it was done, stood trembling
and surprised, and looked so amazed, that I
thought he would have sunk into the earth. He
did not see the kid] aimed at, or behold I had
killed it, but ripped up his waistCoat to see it'he
was not wounded, thinking my resolution was to
kill him; for coming to me, he fell on his knees,
earnestly pronouncing many things which I did
not understand; the meaning of which at length
l perceived was, that I would not take away his
life. Indeed, so much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with didicultyl refrained
from tears. But, however, as another sort of
cmmtenance was necessary, and to convince him
that I would do him no harm,I took him, smiling,
by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing to
.the kid which I had slain, made signs to him . to
fetch it, which accordingly he did. No less cue
rious was he in viewing how the creature was
killed, than he was before in beholding the In.-
dian; which.while he was admiring, Icharged
my gun again. and presently perceived a great
fowl like a hawk, perching upon a tree within
shot; and, therefore, to let Friday understand
what I was going to do,l called him to me again,

ointing at the fowl, which I found to be a parrot.

made him understand thatl would shoot and
kill that bird; accordingly I tired, and bade him
look, when immediately he saw the parrot fall
down. Again he stood like one amazed, not-
withstanding all I land said to him: and themore
confounded he was, because he did not perceive
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in par-
ticular, he would not so much as touch it for
several days after; but would come and com-
municate his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if
the senseless piece had understood and answered
him; all this I could perceive him to do, when
he thought my back was turned, the chiefintent
of which was, to desire it not to kill him, as I
afterward came to understand.

I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor
hinder him from those comical gestures he used
on such occasions; but when his astonishment
was a little over, I made tokens to him to run
and fetch the parrotthat I had shot; which ac-
cordingly he did, staying some time Luger than
usual, by reason that the bird not being quite
dead, had fluttered some way farther from the
place where she fell. In the mean time, as. he
was looking for her, [took the advantage of
charging my gun again, so that I might be ready
for any other mark that otl'ered; but nothing
more occurred at the time. So I brought borne
the kid, and the same evening took off the skin,
and div1ded the carcase as well as] could. Part
of the flesh l stewed and boiled in a put I had for
this purpose. And then, spreading my table, I
sat down, giving my man smne of it to cat, who
was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to likeit
very well: but what was the most surprising to
him was to see me eat salt with it: upon which
he made me understand, that the salt was very
bad for me; when putting a little into his mouth'
he seemed to nauseate it in such a manner, as to
spit and sputter at it, and then washed his mouth
with fresh water: but to show him how contrary
his opinion was to mine, I put some meat into
my month without salt, and feigned to spit and
sputter as much for want ofit, as he had done
at it; yet all this proved of no signification to
Friday, and it was a long while before he could
endure any salt in his meat or broth, and even
then but a small quantity.

Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled
meat and broth at that time, the next day I was
resolved to feast him with a roasted piece ofthe
kid. And having no Spit to fasten it, norjack to
turn'it, I made use ofthat common artifice which
many ofthe people of England have, that is, to
set two poles upon each side ofthe fire. and one
across on the tap. hanging the meat thereon with
a string, and sr turning it round continually, till
it was sufficiently roasted. This practice caused
great admiration in my man Friday, being quite
another way than that to which the savages were
accustomed. But when he came to taste the
sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he ex-
pressed his entire satisfaction above a thousand
difl'erent ways. As I could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure I was as wonder-
fully pleased,especially when he made it also
very plain to me, that he would never, while he
lived, eat man's flesh more. -

It was now high time I should set mynew sen-
vant to work; so next day, I put him to beat out
some corn, and sift it in the same manner as I
had done before. And really the fellow was ye
.quick and handy in the execution of any thinng
ordered him to go about. I made him understand
that it was to make bread for us to eat, and after-
wards lethim see me bake it. In short, he did
every thing as I ordered him in a little time as
well as I could perform it myself. , -.

But now, considering that I had two months
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I
should provide more ground for my harvest,and
plant a larger quantity ofcorn than I commonly
used to do; upon which, I marked out a large!
piece of land, fencing it in the same manner as
I had done before; in the execution of which, I
must give Friday this good word, that no man
could work more hardy, or with better will than
he did; and whenI made him sensible that it
was for bread to serve him as well as me, .he then
very passionately made me understand,-.tbat.be
thought] had much more labor on his account
thanI had for myself; and that no pains or .dili-
gence should be wanting in him, it] would. but
direct him in those works wherein he might prep
ceed.

I must certainly own, that this wasthe most
pleasant ye-nrl ever had in the island; for. aftel
some time, Friday began to talk pretty .well, and
understood the names of those things which I
was wont to call for, and the places where I used
to send him. So that my long silent tongue.
which had been so many years unused..eicc,pt
when praying to God, or wovensing' withmy poll,
new began to be occupied in teaching andtalk.
ing 'to my man Friday; for indeed Ihad such a
singular satisfaction-in the fellow himself, 'so
innocent did his simple and unfeigned honesty
appear more and more every day, that I really
began 'entirely to love him; and, for his part, I
believethere was no love lost, and that his nature
had-been more charmed by my exceeding kind-
ness, and his affection 'more placed upon me, than
upon any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen. ' - '

I" once had a great desire to try ifhe had any
hankering inclination to his own country again":
{and by this time 'having taught him English so
well, that he could give me tolerable answers to
any question which I demanded, I asked him
whether that nation to which he belonged ever
conquered in battle"! This question made Friday
smile, and to which he answered, Yes, yes, we
alvvays fight the better; as much as to say, they
always got the better in fight. You say, said I,
that you always fight the better; why then, Fri:
day, how came you to be taken prisoner? '
5* '-Friday. But for all that. my nation beat much.
"slider. How, say you, beat! if your nation
beat then, how came you to be taken? >> "
-3Friday. The more many mans than mynab
tion,=in' the place where me was; they take 'one',
hm, "three and me; my nation much overheat
them in the yonder place where me no was, there
iny nation mans be'at one, two, three great thou-
san'ds.~ - '- ~ ' - '_ ' '
' Master. .'Then whydid not yourmen recover
you from the hands of your enemies! A - =

Friday" They run one, two, or three, and
meatbey make all go into' the canoe; my nation
have'no canoe that time. -
"dialer. 'Tis'rery well,- Friday; but' what
does your 'na'ti'on do with the prisoners they'take:ROBINSON c'mfi'o'i. 91"
Do th'q'earr'y 'them away and 'eat' <<minim
have done! Y ' ' "' '_ "' 2', ' '
"FHda . es, es, '11: 'na ion "twin?" o'o'
eat"? a3. . .y y I E . ':TDV.:I('II'51'PS
- ' Master. To what pl'aqe do" they cfity'fiekfi
to he devoured! ' " j .W ' "","""
Friday. Go to {other nations'Where' the}. my?
- Ma'ster. Do they Bring them when 3 '" ' _
Friday. ' Yes, "come"over' hither; sows-fave}
other place; 3' , '. i ' f ".33'3'
'3 Master. ' And have you been with themfli'er'e;
Friday! 3 ' ~ 3 ,3
3Friday.' 3 Yes, nae-met new, (pointin'g'to'. 1%
northwest ofthe isian'd, bein'gtLE'si'deW'vhe'
they'used to'land.) ' deg '1 'f"
Thus having'gotten What account I 'cpdrdmib
my mun, Ipiainty understood; that 59.115!" been
as had as any of the rest of the cannibatg,' Kiri};
heentormerly'ha'thng' th'e' saragesyho died"
come on shore on'thfiarthest part of:t'h:e'i's'iahd
h'pon the same 510 ' y ocduion8'3 as' '38" Hi:
brought hither't'or: and some time'afte'f'.'l' (Sarfie'd
him 'tO' that place. where he point'i'e'dE'and pt
sooner did he come there'jhut he presentiiktiefi
the ground,sigpifyi'ng to me that _' no ' as" '

-.. . ,-:<<'>>.ac'e
there when they ate up twenty mthivprqmn
and a you'flg'child; hut'ashe could"nSSt"e_i_1515in -
the 'dumher in English; he did it'h'f'so' 'ma'ni
sto'n'es in a row, muss; a's'it'n-tb' tne'td'"eSSun.
them., ' - ~ 3 _' . 3 3 3","
My next question has, how far it warm; 'th'e
island to the shore, and whethe'r'canode 'fier'e'hot
often lostin the obean! to'fihioh'iie'ianfifefi' '8}
there vias'no'dahger; that no canoeg' v.7: r'o' e. er
lost; but that afleralittle Way' o'dt to" h3"'s$'a",
there was 'a strong currentiandja Vihd': My.
one .i'va ,,in the'aflernoon.3,'_'l'his"l'th "t at
'first'to e id hibt'd'tha'ii th'e'iets'bftid'e'; 'hf ' K
.out or coming in; but I afterwards understood
itwas occasioned by the great draught and reflux
of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulph of which, I imagined my kingdom lay'
and that the land which I perceived to the'west,
and northwest must be the great island Trinidad,
on the north of the river.

\Vell, you may be sure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information ofmy man had led me
Q0, was very comfortable to me, and made me so
curious, as to ask him, how I might depart from
this Island, and get amongst those white men?
He told me, "Yes, yes,I might go in two canoes."
In two canoes, thought I, what does my man
mean. And, indeed it was a long time beforeI
understood his meaning, which was, that it must
be alarge boat, as big as two canoes, able to
bear with the waves, and not so liable to be over-
whelmed as asmaller one must be.

I believe there is no state oflife but what may
be happy, if people would but endeavor for their
part to make it so. He is not the happiest man
that has the most riches, but he that is content
with what he hath. Before I had my servant, I
thought myself miserable till I had him; and
now that I had enjoyedthe happy benefits of him,
I still complained, and begged adeliverance from
aplace of retirement,ease and plenty, where
Providence had sufficiently blessed me. In a
word, from this time, I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other, I might find an opportunity
to make my escapejrom this island, and that this
poorsavage might be a great furtherance thereto.

I now began to instruct my servant_,in the
saving knowledge of the true Deity,.in which
the directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.

Friday, said I, you must know, that before this
world was made, there was an Almighty Being
existing, by whose power all things were made,
and whose majesty shall have no end. To be
glorified and adored by beings of a heavenly
nature, he created angels and archangels, that
is, glorified spirits resembling .himself to en-
compass his thIone, eternally singing forth his
praise, in- the most heavenly sounds and divine
harmony.

I found it easy em ugh to imprint the right
notions in his mind at God: for nature assisted
me in all my arguments to show him plainly the
necessity ot a great and overruling, governing
power, ofa secret directing providence, and of
the equ: ty and reasonableness of paying adora-
tion to our Creator.

I then entered into a long discourse with him,
upon the subjectof the world's redemption by
the Saviour ofit, and the doctrine of repentance
preached from heaven, together with an holy faith
in our blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ.

By the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as I read them to my man Friday, I
earnestly endeavored to make him understand
every part of them as much. as lay in my power.
He also, on the other hand, by his very serious
questions and enquiries, made me a much better
proficient in scripture knowledge, than: I should
have been by my own private reading and study.

You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and] be!>>
came most intimately acquainted, and that there
was very little that I could say, but What Friday
understood; and indeed, he spoke very lfluently,
though it was but broken English. I now took
aparticular pleasure in relatingall my adventures,
especially those that occurred since my being
cast on this island. I made him understand that
wonderful mystery, as be conceived, of gunpowder?
and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I also
presented to him a knife, which pleased him ex-
ceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog hang-
ing thereto, like those in which we wearhangers
in England; and instead ofa hanger to put in
the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not
only as good, but even a better weapon upon many
occasions. In aword my man thus accoutred,
looked upon himself as great as Don Quixotte,
when that celebrated champion went to combat
the windmill.

I next gave him a wry particular description
of my misfortune in being shipwrecked; show-
ing him, as near as I could the place where the
ship lay, which had been gone long before; but
I brought him to the ruins of my boat, which, be-
fore, my whole strength could not move, but now
was almost rotten and fallen to pieces. I ob.
served my man Friday to view this boat with an
uncommon curiosity; which when he had done,
he stood ponderiuga great while, and said no-
thing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes you
ponder so much! He replied, "0 master, me
see like boat come to place at my nation."

It was sometime, inieed, before I understood
what my man meant; but examining strictly into
it, I plainly found, that such another boat, re-
sembling mine, had come upon the country where
he dwelt: that is to say, by his farther explana-
tion, that the boat wasdriven there throughstress
of weather.

Indeed Friday answered my demands very
well, making every thing plain to my understando
ing; but beyond measure was I satisfied when he
told me with great warmth and ardor, "O mas-
ter, we save white mans from drown;" upon
which I immediately asked him, if there were
any white mane as he called them, in the boat
"Yes, yes" said he, "the boat full, very full of
white mans." How many, Friday, said I. Here-
upon he numbered his fingers, and counted seven.
teen. And when I asked him what became of
them all, and whether they lived or not! he re.
plied, "Yes, master, they all live, they be live
among my nation." This information put l'resh
thoughts into my head, that these must be the
very men who before I concluded had been
swallowed up in the ocean, after they had left
their ship that struck upon the rocks of my
kingdom, and after escaping the fury ofthe deep,
landed upon the wild shore, and committed them-
selves to the fury ofthe devouring Indians.

The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which consequently. as I thought, must be acted
with greater barbarity to strangers,created in me
a great anxiety, and made me still more curious
to ask Friday concerning them. He told me, he
was sure they still lived there, having resided
among them above four years, and that the sav-
ages gave them victuals to live upon. But pray,
Friday, said I, whence proceeded all this good
nature and generosity? How came it to pass that
they did not kill and eat them, to please their
devouring appetites; and occasion so splendid
an entertainment among them! "No, no,"
said Friday, " they not kill 'em, they make bro- -
ther with 'em;" by which I understood there was
a truce between them. And then I had a more
favorable opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's
uttering the words: "My nation t'other nation
no eat man's but when mans make war fights"
as though he had said, that neither those of his
kingdom, nor any other nations that he knew of,
ever ate their fellow-creatures, but such as their
law of arms allowed to be devoured: that is,
those miserable captives, whose misfortune it
should be to be made prisoners of war.

Someconsiderahle time after, upon a very plea-
santday,-in most serene weather, my man and I
- stood upon the top of a hill, on the island, whence
I once before beheld the continent of Ame-
rica. I could not tell immediately what was the
matter: for suddenly, Friday fell ajumping and
dancing as if he had been mad; and upon my
demanding thc'meaning of his behaviour, "0 joy,
.said he, "0 glad! there see my country, there
.my nation, there white mans gether." And in-
deed such a rapturous sense of pleasure, ap-
peared in his countenance, that his eyes had an
uncommon sparkling and brightness, and such a
strange eagerness, as ifhe had a longing desire to
be in his own country again. This made me not
so well satisfied, with my man Friday as before;
- for by this appearance, I made no dispute, but
that ifhe could get back thither again, he would
not only be unmindful of what religion I had
taught him,hut likewise of the great obligation
"he owed me for his wonderful deliverance; nay,
that he would not only inform his countrymen of
me, but accompany hundreds of them to my
kingdom, and make me a miserable sacrifice, like
those unhappy wretches taken in battle.

Indeed I was very much to blame to have
these cruel, and unjust suspicions, and must freely
ownl wronged the poor. creature very much,
who was ofa quite-contrary temper. And had
he had that discerning acuteness which many
Europeans have, he would certainly have per~
ceived my coldness and indifference, and also
have been very much concerned on that ac-
count.

As we were walking up the same hill another
day, when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I
could not perceive the continent, Friday','said I,
don't you wish yourself to be in yourown country, -
your own nation. among your old friends and ac-
quaintances! "Yes," said he,"'me much 0 glad
to be at my own nation." And what would you
do there, Friday! \Vould you turn wild again, eat
man's flesh, and he a savage as you were for
merly? "No, no," (answered he, full of con-
cern, and shaking- his head,) "Friday now tell
them to live good, tell.them pray God, tell them
to eat corn, bread. cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man
again." But surely, replied I, if you should-
oll'er to do all this, they will kill you; and to-
manifest their contempt of such instruction,~eatt
you up when they have done. He then put on a:
grave, yet innocent and smooth countenance,
saying, " No, they no kill me, they willing lovev'
learuz" that is, that :they would be very willing
to learn. adding withal, " that they had learned-
very much of the bearded mans that came in the
boat." \Vill you, said I, go back again, Friday}:
He smiled at that, and told me,-that he .could not.
swim so far. llut said I, I will mak'ea canoe
for you: " Yes master," said he, " mego .ifyou.
go, me no go if you stay." lgo, Friday! why.
would you have them eat me up, and devour your.
kind master! " No, no," said he, " me- make-
them no eat master, and me make. them much&
love you;" that is he would tell them how-I had-
slain his enemies, and thereby saved his life, ,for'
which reason he would make them love inc: and-
then be related to. me, as well as he 'was able,
how exceeding kind those ofhis nation were to
the white, or bearded men,as he called .them,;
who in theirgreatca'lamity, were driven into their-
country. - ' '-
, It was from this time, indeed, I-had strong-jar
clinations to venture over, and use my utmost
eflorts, if possible, tojoin with these white beard
ed men, who undoubtedl were Spaniards or
Portuguese; for, thought , it must be certainly
a better and safer way, to escape when there is a
good company, than for me alone, from an island
forty miles off the shore, and without any assist-
ance. Some days after, Friday and I being at
work, as usual, at the same time diverting our-
selves with various discourses, I told him I had a
boat which I would bestow upon him, whenever
he pleased to return to his own nation: and to
convince him of the truth of what I said, I took
him with me to the other side of the island, where
my frigate lay, and then taking it from under
water, (furl always kept it sunk for fear of a
discovery,) we both went into it to see how it
would manage such an expedition.

And really never could any be more dexterous
in rowing than my faithful servant, making th
boat go as fast again as I Could. Well, now,
Friday, said I, shall we now go to your much
desired nation! But, instead of meeting with
that cheerfulness I expected, he looked very dull
and melancholy at my saying so; which indeed
at first surprised me, till he made me sensible,
that his concern was about the boat's being too
small to go so far a voyage. Upon which, I let
him understand I had a much bigger; and ac-
cordingly, the next day went to the place,where
the first boat lay, which Ihad made, when all the
strength'I had, or art I could use, failed me in
my attempt to get it into the water: but nowit
having lain in the sun two and twenty years, and
no care being taken of it all that while, it be-
came in a manner rotten. My man told me,
that such a boat would do very well for the
purpose, suflicient to carry " enough vittle, dring,
bread," for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent,
I very plainly told him, that we would both go
and make a boat full as big, and more propor-
tionable than that, wherein he might safely re-
turn to his own nation.

Go your way, since you desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved
your life.

Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words. " Go me away,
leave master away," said be, after a long silence.
" No, no, Friday die, Friday live not master
gone;" as though he had said,l neither can nor
will live, ifmy master sends me away from him.
Friday felt towards me the greatest gratitude,
and the most sincere love; he found me not only
his deliverer, but his preserver and comforter:
not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, loving,
and alfahle friend. He wanted for no manner of
sustenance; and when he was ill, or out at order
I was his physician, not only forhis body, but
his soul; and therefore no wonder was it, that
such an innocent creature, long since divested of
his former natural cruelty, should have an un-
common concern at so cruel a separation from
me, which pierced him to the very soul, and
made him desire even to die, rather than live
without me.

After] had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his liberty as soon
as the boat was made, the language of his eyes
expressed all imaginable confusion; when, im
mediately running to one of his hatchets, which
he used to wear as a defensive weapon,he gives
it into, my hand, with a heart so full,thathe could
scarcely speak. Friday, said I, what is it you
mean! What must I do with this! " Only kill-
Friday," said he; " Friday care not live long."
But what must I kill you for"! replied I again.
" Ah, dear master. what made you Friday save
from eat a me tlp,so keep long Friday, make F'ri-
day love God, and now Friday send away, never
see Friday more." And while he spoke thus, the
tears ran down his cheeks in such a plentiful
manner, that I had much ado to refrain from"
weeping also when l beheld the poor creature's
affection: so that l was forcei to comfort him in
the best manner I could. which i (lid, by telling
him, if he was content to abide with me, [should
be ever willing to keep him.

After Friday's grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his atl'ection, he
said, " 0 master, me not care to be in my nation,
leave you here, me desire nation learn good,
that's all:" meaning, that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with him. And indeed, I
began to desire to go also, from my late discourse
with Friday, about these seventeen white beard-
ed men, that had been driven upon the barbarian
coast; whom I designed to join, as the only
means to further our escape. To which intent,
my man and I went to search for a proper tree to
fell, whereof we might make a perigua or canoe,
to undertake the voyage; and, indeed, we were
not long in finding one fit for our purpose, there
being enough of wood in the island to have built
a fleet of large vessels, but the thing we prin-
cipally wanted, was, to get one so nearthe water,
that we might launch it after it. was finished, and
not commit so horrid a mistake as [had done
once before. '

\Vell, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, wlrosejudg
ment in such affairs was much superior to mineROBINSON' 0105083 391
pitches upon a kind of wood the most fitting'for
it. But though my nian exceeded mein' the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed
him a much better and cleaner way to "nuke 's'
canoe than ever he knew before; for he was for
burning the hollow or cavity of the tree, in ordei
to' make this boat; but Ithen told him how' we
[night do with tools, teaching him at the "same
time how to use them. which indeed he did very
dexterously; so that in a month's time we finish--
ed it, making it very handsome, by cutting thO'
outside in the true shape ofa boat. After this}
it took us a full fortnight before we could get her
into the water, which we did, as it were, inch by
ihch, upon great rollers: but when she was ih,
she would have carried twenty men, with'all the
ease imaginable.

As -I was very well pleased, you may be
sure, at the launching of this man ofwar ofmine,-
I was no less amazed to behold with what dex-:
terity my man could manage her, turn her, and'
paddle her along. \Vell, Friday, said I, what
do you think ofit now! Do you think this will
carry us over! "Yes, master," said he, " we"
venture over well, though great blow wind." But F
my design was yet farther, which he was inseno'
sible of: and that to make a mast and a sail,'
and provide her with an anchor and Cable. As
to a mast that was no difficult things at all-'to pror'
cure; so fixing upon a straight yo'ung cedar tree, '
which I found near the place. (great plenty of it"
abounding in the island ,) and setting Friday to3
out it down, I gave him particular directions how '
to shape and order it; but as to the sail, that I
managed myself. I very well knew I had some
old ones, or pieces of sails' enough, 'which had'
lain six and twenty years by me; but' not being}
careful to preserve them, as thinking I should-
have no occasion to use them any more. when I
came to look over them. I found them almost all
rotten. except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awko
ward tedious stiching for want of needles. at
length l finished a three-cornered ugly thing like
that we call in I'luglaud. a shoulder-of-mutton
sail. to go with a boom at the bottom. and a small
Spl'it at the (up. like tliusc which our long-boat!
use. and which I very well knew how to manage.
especially since it was like that whiehl had in
my patron's fishing-boat. when with my boy
Xury. I made my escape from the harliarian
shore.

it was nearly two months. l think. before]
completed this work. that is. the rigging. and
fitting up my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done. having made a small stay. and
asail, or foresail to it.to assist. it'we should
turn to the windward; and. which "as still more.
I fixed a [udder to the stern of her. to steer with;
and though I was but a very llltlllrt'rtflll shipwright.
yet. asl was sensible of the great usefulness
and absolute necessity ofa thing like this. 1 ap-
plied myself to it with such a constant applica-
tion. that at last I accomplished my design; but
what with the many dull eontrivanvea I had
about it. and the failure of many things. it cost
me as much pains in ordering as in making the
boat. Besides, when all this was done, I had
my man to teach what belonged to its navigation;
for though he very well understood how to pad-
dle a canoe alone. he was an utter stranger to a
sail and rudder. and was amazed when he saw
me work the buattooand again in the sea, by
them. and how the sail jibbed and filled this way
or that way. as the course we sailed changed.
After some time, and a little use, I made all these
things very familiar to him, so that he became an
expert sailor, except in relation to the compass
and that I could make him understand hutlittle
of. But as it happened, there was seldom oc~
casion for it, there being but little cloudy weather
and scarcely any fog in those parts; the stars
were always visible in the night, and the shore
by day, except in the rainy season, which con-
fined every one to his habitation. 'l'hus entered
into the seven and twentieth year of my reign
or captivity, which you please. (the last three of
which, blessed with the company of my man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned.) I kept the
anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies, as I
did before; and certainly as I had great cause
for thankful acknowledgment for my deliverance
at first, I had much greater now for such singular
and additional testimonies of the care of Provi-
dence overine, in all my distresses ofhoth body
and mind, and the great hopes "and of being
effectually and speedily delivered; for] had a
strong impression upon my mind, that] should
not be another year in this island. But, how>>
ever,l still continued on with my husbandry,
digging, planting. and fencing as usual: gather-
ing and curing my grapes, and doing all' other
things that were necessary. '

And now the rainy season beginning to corner
on, obliged me to keep the longer within doors:
but before this. I brought my new vessel into the :
creek,where lbad landed my rafts, from the
ship; so we waited for the months of November
and December, in which I designed to venture
over the ocean.

No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
to draw near, but so much was I elevated with
this new designed adventure, thatldaily pro
pared for the voyage. The first thing- that'l'i
thought on was, to lay by a certain quantity of -
provisions, as a sul'fiicent store-for such an expo. '
dition, intending in-a week or a fortnight's time -
to'open the dock, and launch out the boat for that
purpose. 'But one morning, as l was very. busy.
upon something necessary for this occasion. I
called Friday to me. and bid him to go to the
sea-shore, and see if he could find any turtle or
tortoise, a thing which weoommonly had once a
Week, as much upon account :0! the eggs, as' for
the sake of the flesh. He had not been long '
gone, but he came running back, as though he 3
was pursued for life, and as it were flew ovenmy
outer wall, or fence,' like one that felt not the '
ground, or steps he sat his feet on : before I had
time to enquire. the reasonof his precipitation,
he cries out, " O'ilear master, 0 sorrow! sorrow!
Bad! O'bad!"- \Vhy, what's the matter, Fri-
dayl- said I. " 0 yonder, yonder," said he,
" there be one, two, three canoes! two, three." -
Surely (thought I,) there must be six, by my .
man's way of reckoning; but on astricter. en-
quiry, I found there were but-three. Well, Frid ay,.
said I,don't be terrified. I warrant you we will
defend ourselves against them.---But though I
comforted him in the' best manner I could, the
poor creature trembled so, that I scarcely knew
what to do with hitm- ~" 0, master,"-said he,
".they come look Friday, cutpieces Friday, cut-
a~'me-up."- ~~ - ' n . . '- - .
--Why-,-'Friday, said 1, they will eat me up as.
well-as you, and my dangeris as great as your'su
But since it. is so,we tnust :resolve to tight. for-
our lives. What say you! Can you 'fightyFYi-v
day! " Yes," said be-rery2faintly, " me shoot,
me kill what Lean, but there come great many:
number." That's nomatter said I again; our3081160100!!an ' m

gun's"will*territ'y 'those ztwo-(lo'not kill; "Iain
very willing to staindby-yeu to thelast -'drop.'ot
tn blooda' .-'--'-' 7. "x .x -'-v w 9:.2:

ow; tell'me',' it' you wilt-doe thelike bygwmex
and obey my orders in- whatsoever?! command!
Frid ay' then answeredg': " O'masteryme lese life
for you, me die when'yon":bid'diea" Thus. cowb
eluding all questions cencerning- his fidelity-i
ordered him to take 'the two fowling pieces. which
we always-carried, and 'Ioad them with large
swamsh'ot, as big 'a'ssmall fpistol bullets; thenfll
tool: four musket: 3and'- loaded them 'gwith'twe
slugs, and five small bullets each; charging-"my
two pismls 'each with a brace. I hung raj-great
sword, as' customary, naked to my side,' and
'gave Friday his hatchet,~as' a most excellent
weapon for defence. - " ~ . ' 31'?! "I
- Thus prepared, '1 took my perspective-glam
and went tip-to the side ofthe hill;-to see-whim!
could discover; and l perceived verysoony'by
my glass, that there were'one and twenty sarages;
three prisoners; and three canoes, and'their'ehivef
concern'seemcd to be the triumphant: banquet
upon three poor human bodies, x .thing-whiclr-h'y
this time I had obeervediwas'very common with
them'. Upon which I called to Friday;r "and
shewing him a great tree,that wds jttstfiat on
corner of the. wood, near which they warez-<<l
ordered him to repair thither; and :bring me not",
if he could plainlyperceive their actionsg'accord's-
infily he did as'lcommanded-him,~a'nd 'cameihack
wieh'this melancholylstqry; that-Whey: were"!
about their -tire,'.ea'tingi the" flesh oflonerof (their
prisoners; 'anduthatfidhother'lay'bbundflponwth
'sand, aflittleirdistaioeitl'om. them,nxwhons they
designed -'t'orr : theih! next sacrifice; and! :thimhe
told me, was not one'ofltbeir' nation, un- ane so!
those very bearded men, who was driven by e
storm into their Country, and whom he had so
often spoken to me about. You may be sure
that, upon hearing this, my soul was readyto
sink wtthin me; when ascending up intoa tree,
I saw plainly, by myglass,a white man, who lay
upon the beachof the sea, with his hands tied
with flags or things resembling rushes, being
covered with clothes. and seeming to be an Euro-
pean. From the tree where I took this prospect.
perceived another tree.and a thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearerto them than where l was,
which by taking a small circle round, I might
come at undiscmered, and then 1 should be with-
in halt'a shot ofthese deVourers. I therefore
got behind some bushes, which hold all the way
till I came to the other tree; and then I ascended
to a little risinggronnd. not above eighteen yards
distance, and therel had afull view of these
creatures, and could perceive all their actions.
Such asight did then appear, as obliged me
not to lose a moment's time. No less than
nineteen of these dreadful wretches sat upon the
ground. close huddled together, eXpressing all
the delight imaginable at so barharous an enter~
.ainment: and they had just sent the other two
to murder this poor unhappy Christian, and bring
him limh by limb to their lire; t'orthey were then
just going to untie the hands from his feet.
Hereupou, immediately turning to my man,
Now, Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail in
nothing, but do exactly as you see me do. All
which he promising to perform, 1 set down one
of my muskets. and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the same by his; and
with the other musket I took my aim-at the sav-
ages, bidding him to do the like; are you ready
said I; " Yees, master," said be; why then fire at
them said I; and at that very moment] gave
fire liloewise.

I only killed one and wounded two; but m
man Friday, taking his aim much better than ,
killed two and wounded three. You may be
sure they were in a dreadful consternation, at
such an unexpected disaster; and those who had
yet escaped our penetrating shot, immediately
jumped upon their feet, but were in such a con-
fusion, that they knew not which way to run or
look; not knowing from whence their destruction
came. We threw down our pieces, and took up
others, giving a second dreadful volley; but as
they were only loaded with swan-shot or small
pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them
fall, though many were wounded who ran yelling
and screaming about like mad creatures. Now,
Friday, said I, lay down your piece, and take up
the musket, and follow me. He did so with
great courage, when showing ourselves to the
savages, we gave a great shout, and made direct-
ly to the poor victim, who would have been sa-
criliced, had not our first fire obliged the butch-
ers, with three others, to jump into a canoe
By my order, Friday fired at them, at which shot
I thought he had killed them all, by reason of
their falling to the bottom of the boat; however
he killed two, and mortally wounded a third. In
the mean time I cut the flags that tied the hands
and feet of the poor creature, and lifting him up
asked him in the Portuguese tongue, What he
was! he answered me in Latin, " Christianus:"

butso very weak and faint, that he could scarcely
stand or speak. And 1 next asked him, what
countrymen he was. He said "Espaniola," and
then uttered all the thankt'ulness imaginable for
his deliverance. Signior, (said I with as much
Spanish as l was master of,) let us talk afterwards
but fight. now; hora. take this sword and pistol.
and do what you can. And indocd ho did so with
Mich courage! and intrrpidity. that he cut tWool
thorn to pieces in an instant. I ordm'od Friday
to run for tho guns \Vv had Iott :it the true, which
ho brought mo \\ ith grout swit'tnvsx. :ind Iilt'li I
gchhim my mustn't. while Imulod tho rest.
Iiut now thvrr hzippvuod a tivrm' onvountor ho-
tWovu tho Spaniard and one ofth mun-grit. who
mudo at him with onr of tlwir thtit'lt swords;
and though tlw t'nrmvr mu us hravo as ho could ho
oxpi't'ti'd. huvtng tuiro Wulltttit'ti his vuomy in
tho lwud; yot imltig' Wt-uit and l'mnt. tho Indmn
had thrown him upon tho ground, and was
wrcstingmy sword out of hi-i hand. which tho
Spaniard wry w iM'Iy quitting.drmv out his pistol.
and shot him through tho body lwt'urv I ('utliii
(NHIIO ni-ur him. though I was running'. to his
assistnnvv. A: to Friday. he pursm-d tho liyinq
wrt'tuhus with hi'i hzitc'lwt.drspntvhing thrt'o. hul
the rust wvrv too nimhh- for him. 'l'ho Spuninnl
Itlititlg' one ot'thn t'uwlin): pivnw. wmmdod two,
who running into tho Wood. Friday pursuod and
killed; hut tlwothvr. Notwithstanding his wounds,
plunged himsrlt' into tho son. and swam to those
who worc loft in tho vauoo. which with one
woundvd, wore all that camped out ot'ono und
twenty.

. . .

lho savages in tho canon worked very hard
to get out ot'our roach. and Friday was an eager
in pursuing them: and. iudvvd, I was no loss
anxious about thoir osi'apkost nt'tor the now:
had been carried to their pooplo, they should
return in multitudos. and destroy us. So being
rosotvod to pursue thorn. ljumpod into one of
thoircanoou, and bid Friday follow me; but no
sooner was I in. than, to my surpriso,l found
another poor creature. bound hand and foot for
the slaughter,just as the Spaniard had been,
with very little life in him. Immediately! un-
bound him, and would have helped him up; but
he could neither stand nor speak,but groaned so
pitoously, as thinking he was unbound in order
to ho slain. llereupon I bid Friday to speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; when pull.
iug out my bottle, 1 made the poor wretch drink
a little, which, with the joyful news he had re-
coivcd, so revived his heart, that he sat up in the
boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him
speak, and look more fully in his face, it would
have moved any one to tears to perceive his
unCommon transports of joy: for he, kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hal-
looed, jumped about, danced, sung. then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his face and head,
then sung and jumped about again, like a disc
tracted creature: so that it wasa great while
before I could make him speak to me, or tell me
what was the matter with him; but when he
came to the liberty of his speech, at last he told
me it was his father.

Here, indeed,lwas infinitely moved to see
that dutiful and tender atl'ection this poor savage
had to his aged parent. He would sit down by
him in the boat, open his breast, and hold his
father's head close to his bosom, half an hour
together, to cherish him; then he took his arms
and ankles, which were stitf and numbed, with
binding. and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; by which means, perceiving what the
case was, lgave him some rum, which proved of
great benefit to him.

While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight; and' happy it
was we did not pursue them: for their arose

l'r no the northwest, such a violent storm..which
9
continued all night long, that I could not suppose
otherwise but that they were'alldrowned. After
this, I called Friday to me, and asked him, if he
had given his father any bread? He shook his
head, and said, " None, not one bit, me eat a
up all;" so I gave him a cake of bread out of a
little pouch I carried for this end. I likewise
gave him two or three bunches of raisins for his
father.

Away he then runs out ofthe boat as if he
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary swift-
ness, that he was out ofsight as it were in an
Instant; hut, at his return, 1 perceived him slack.
en his pace, because he had something in his
hand. And this I found to be, as he approached
nearer, an earthen jug with some water for his
father, with two more cakes of bread, which he
delivered into my hands. Being very thirsty
myself, I drank some of the water, of which
when his father had drank sufficiently, it more
revived his spirits than all the rum 1 had given
him.

I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry one of the cakes, and some water to the
Spaniard, who was reposing himself upon a
green place under the shade ofa tree, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which,l ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with mm, as
he did his father's. But every minute he was
employed .in this, he would cast his eyes towards
the boat, where heleft his father sitting; who
suddenly disappearing, he flew like lightning to
him, and finding he only laid himself down to
ease his limbs, he returned back to me presently,
and then I-spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday
helprhim, and lead him to the boat in order to be
conveyed to my dwelling, where-l .woul' take
care of him. Upon which. Friday took him
upon his back, .andso carried him to the canoe
setting him close by his father; and presently
stepping out again, launched the boat .ofi',and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could
walk, though the wind blew very hard too; and
having brought them safe to the creek, awayhe
runs to fetch the other canoe,which he brought
to the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that 'I
was forced to make a kind of hand-barrow;
sad when I came to my castle, not being willing
to make an entrance into my wall, we made them
a handsome tent, covered with old sails, and
Maghs of trees, making two good beds of rice
at aw, with blankets to lie upon and cover them.
'I ~us, like an absolute king, over subjects who
0 ed their lives to me, I thought myself vary
0 Isiderable. ..
['0 get provisions for my poor weak subjects,
I rdered Friday to kill me a yearling goat:
w ich when he had done, I cut ofi' the hinder
Qt trters, and choppingit into small pieces,boiled
at l stewed it, putting barley and rice into the
broth. This] carried into their tent, set a table,
dined with them, and encouraged them. Friday
was my interpreter to his father, and indeed to
the Spaniard too, who 3 oke the languages)!
thesavages pretty .well. Klter dinner I ordered
Friday to fetch home. all our arms from the field
of battle, and the next day to bury,the dead
bodies, whicb'he did accordingly. And new. I
made Friday enquire of his father whetherhe
thought those savaces had escaped the late atom.
on their canoe, an if so, whether they would not
return with a force too great for us to desist}.
fl -srSS.tPSd 8') . he thoughtit im'pouibleim;
could outlive the storm: or if they were driven
southwardly, they would come to a land where
they would as certainly be devoured, as if they
were drowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attained their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make them
tell their people that the rest ofthem were killed
by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of
man, but by two heavenly spirits meaning Fri-
day and me,) who were sent from auove to destroy
them And this, he said, he knew, because he
heard them say the same to one another. And
indeed he was in the right on't; forI have heard
sinee,that these four men gave out, that whoever
wentto that enchanted island,would be destroyed
by fire from the gods.

No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased;instead of
which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his nation. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more of
his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had been
shipwrecked, made their escape thither; that
though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries. When I'asked him about
the particulars of his voyage, he answered, that
their ship was bound from Rio de la Plata to the
Havana; that when the ship was lost only five
men perished in the ocean; the rest having and
themselves in the boat, were now landed on the:
main continent. And what do they intend to do,
there! said I. He replied, they had. concerted;
measures to escape by building a vessel, but
that they had neither tools nor" provisions, so
that all their designs came to nothing. sop.

posing (said I) I should make a proposal, andinvite them here, would they not carry me priso-

ner to New Spain! Heanswered no; for he
knew them to be such honest men, as .would
scorn to act with such inhuman baseness to
their deliverer: that, ill pleased, he and the old
savage would go over to them, talk with them
about it,and bring me an answer: that they
should all swear fidelity to me as their leader,
Upon the holy sacrament; and, for his part, he
would not only do the same, but stand by me to
theolast drop of his blood, should there he oc-
casion. _

These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over
for that purpose; but when every thing was ready,
the Spaniard raised an objection, which carried
agreat deal ofweight in it: "You know, Sir,
said he, that having been some time with you, I
cannot but be sensible that your stock of rice
and com may be sufficient, perhaps, for us at
present, but not for them, should they come over
presently, much less to victual a vessel for an
intended voyage. And therefore, my advice is,
to wait another harvest, and in the mean time,
cultivate and improve some more land, whereby

we may have plenty of provisions, in order to
execute our design."

This advice of the Spaniard I approved ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus we
all four went to work upon some more land, and
against seed-time, we had gotten so much cured
and trimmed up, as was sufficient to. sow 22
bushels of barley on, andl6 jars of rice, which
was in short all the seed we had to spare. .A'
we were {our in number, and by this time all in
good health, we feared not an hundred of Indians,
should they venture to attack us; and while the7134 nosm'sois- causes. deg'

corn-was growing, I pitched upon some trees,
fit to build us alarge vessel, in case the Span-
iards came orer; which being marked, I ordered
Friday and his father to cut them down, appoint-
ing the Spaniard, who was now my privy coun
sellor, to oversee and direct the work. I like-
wise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting
the wild dams, and bringing home their kids to
my enclosure; nor did I neglect the rape
season, but cured them as usual,'though had
such a quantity new, as would have filled. 80
barrels with raisins.

And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till harvest
came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it
so much, that from twenty-two bushels of barley,
we threshed out two hundred and twenty, and the
like quantity of rice, sufficient to victual a ship
fit to carry me and all the Spaniards to any part
of America.

Thus the principal objection being answered,
by a sutficient stock of provisions, I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, with a
regal authority to administer the oath of allegi-
ance and fidelity, and have an instrument signed
under their hands, though I never asked whether
they had pen, ink, or paper; when giving each
efthem a musket with eight charges of powder
and ball, and provisions enough for eight days,
they sailed away with a fair gale, on' a day when
the moon was at full.

Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head;
but impatient for their return, I laid me down to
sleep one morning, when a strange accident
happened, which Was ushered in by my man's
coming running to me, and calli'ng'aloud, " Mas-
ter, master, they are come, they' are came."
Upon which, not dreaming (if any danger, out 7
jumped from ms; bed. puton my.- clathu.>> $0.4
hurried: throughmy littlegrove; when looking
towards the seaylperceived aheat, ahotiulesguc
and a half distant, standing in br,the.shom,,with
afair wind. I beheld, they didinotcome from
the side where the: land la qu,'hpt from the south;-
most end of the island. 9 .these being nonezofi
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday tolie.still,
till such time as I came down fromrthe mountain,
which, with my ladderJ now ascended,in onder
to discover more fully what,th_e_y were; eminent,
With the help of- my. perspective (lash! ,9lainly
perceived an English ship, which! concluded it
to he, by the fashion of itsvloug boat; and, which
filled the with 'such uncommon transports. ot'joy,
that I cannot tell how ,to describe; and yet some
secret doubts hung about. me. proceeding from.I
know not what cause, as though i. had reason to
Be on my guard. . . , - . _, .,
. Not long. it was-,hefore I perceivedthehosh to
approach the shore, as though. they lookedrfan
a place where they might conveniently, land;
and at last they ran their boat on the shoraiupon
the beach, about half a mile distancee. which
proved so much the happierfor-mev since. had
they Come into the creek,they had: landed justat.
my door, and might not only hare (creed mount:
of my mstle, butplundered me ofiall I had in:
the world. Now I was fully, convinced: the]:
were all Englishmen, three of; whom were up
armed and bound; when immediately,,the. first.
four or five leaped on shore, and took those, three.
out of the boat as prisoners, one; of whom I could-
perceive used the mostpassionate gestures of.
entreaty, affliction and despair, .while't-he others:
in a less degree showed abundancepfconneru.

Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned.
to Friday, who was below, to ascend the; manner
tain, and likewise view this sight. " 0 master,"
said he to me, " you see Englishmans eat pris
oners as well as savage mans." And do you
think they will eat them, Friday? said I. " Yes,"
said Friday, " they eat a all up." No, no, said I,
Friday,l am much more concerned lest they
murderthem; but as for eating them up, that I
am sure they will never do

And now I not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and savage with me,
but also that I could not come within shot ofthem
unperceived, (they having no fire-arms among
them,) and save these three men, whom I thought
they were going to kill with their swords. But
some comfort it was to me, that l perceived they
were set at liberty to go wherethey pleased, the
rascally seamen scattering about as though they
had a mind to see the place; and so long did they
negligently ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low,
as to leave the boat aground. Nor were the two
men that were in her more circumspect: for
having drank a little too much liquor, they fell
fast asleep; but one of them waking before the
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move it, he hallooed out to the
rest, who made all possible expedition to come
to him; but as Providence ordered it, all their
force was ineffectual to launch her, when I could
hear them speak to one another. " Why let her
alone, Jack, can't ye, she'll float next tideg" by
which words I was fully convinced they were
my own countrymen. I this while lay very quiet,
as being fully sensible it could be no less than
ten hours before the boat would be afloat, and
then it would be so dark, that they could not
easily perceive me. by which means lshould be
at more liberty to hear their talk,and observe all
their motions; not but that] prepared for my
defence: yet as] had another sort of enemy to
combat with, I acted with more caution. I took
two fusees on my shoulder, and gave Friday
three muskets: besides my formidable goat-skin,
and monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and
terrible as Hercules of old, especially when two
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked '
sword was hanging by my side.

The three poor distressed creatures, too anx-
ions to get any repose, were, however, seated
under the shade of a great tree, about a quarter
of a mile from me.

Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man following-
behind me, and, before I was perceived, I called
aloud to them in Spanish, what are ye, gentle-
men!

At these words they started up in great con-
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed as
if they would fly from me: Gentlemen,(said I,
in English,) don't be afraid; perhaps you have a
friend nearer than you expect. " He must be
from heaven," said one of them, gravely pulling
ofl'his hat, "for we are past all help in this
world." All help is from heaven, said I, but
Sir as I have perceived every action between you
and these brutes since your landing, only inform
me how to assist you, and Iwill do it to the
utmost ofmy power.

Am Italking with God or man! said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an
angel"! " Sir," said I, " my poor habit will tell you
I am a man, and an Englishman, willing to assist
you, having this servant only, here are arms
and ammunition; tell freely your condition, can
we save you!" The story, said he, is too long to
relate, since our butchers are so near: but, Sir,
I was master'of'that ship, my men have'mutined}
and it is as a favor they have put my mate, thid
passenger, and me, on shore without murdering
us, though we expect nothing but perishiog here-J
" Are your enemies gone!" said I. , No,'replied
be (pointing to a thicket,) there they lie, while
my heart trembles, lest, having seen or heard
us, they should murder us all. " Have they fire-
arms?" said I. They have but two pieces, said
he, one of which is left in the boat. He also
told me, there were tWO enormous villians
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who if they were killed or seized, the
rest might be induced to return to theirobedience.

When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two companions'
each of them a gun, with powder and ball' sufii'o'
cient,aud firing myself, killed one of the Cap-
tain's enemies, and wounded the other who
eagerly called for assistance; but the Captain
(who had reserved his piece,) coming up to him,
" Si'rrah," said he, " tis too late to call for assist-
ance, you should rather cry to God to pardon
your villanyz" and so knocked him down with
the stock of his gun: three others were alkd
slightly wounded, who, at my approach, cried'out
for mercy. This the Captain granted, upon
condition that they would swear to be true, tO'him'
in recovering the ship, which they solemnly did:
however,l obliged the Captain to keep theui
bound. After whiCli I sent Friday and the Cap-
tain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away the
oars and sail; when the men, seeing their late
distressed Captain, now their conqueror, sub-
mitted to be bound also. And'then it was, that
having more liberty, I related the adventures of
my whole life, which he heard with serious at-
t'entiou. After this. I carried him and his two
companions into my little fortified castle, show-
ed them all my conveniences, and, when this was
over, we began to consider about regaining the
ship: he said that there were twenty-six hands
on board, who knowing their lives were forfeited
by the Iaw,for conspiracy and mutiny, were so
very hardened, that it would be dangerous for
our small company to attack them. This was a
reasonableinference, indeed; but something we
must resolve on. and immediately put in execuo
tion: we therefore heaved the boat upon the
beach so high that she could not shoot oli' at high
water mark, and broke a hole in her not easy to be
stopped; so that all the signals they gave for the
boat to come on board were in vain. This oblig-
ed them to send another boat on shore, with ten
men armed, whose faces the Captain plainly des~
cried, the boatswain being the chief officer; but
he said there were three honest lads among them,
who were forced into the conspiracy. Here-
upon, I gave him fresh courage, (forl had perceiv-
ed he was in concern, )in the mean while securing
our prisoners, except two, whom we took to our
assistance, we thought ourselves able enough to
endure a battle. When the sailors landed, and
beheld their boat in that condition, they not only
hallooed, but fired, for their companions to hear,
yet they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their com-
panions were murdered, they made as if they
would return to the ship. Icould perceive the
Captain's countenance change at this, till,of a
sudden, three men were ordered to look after the
boat, while the other seven leapt on shore, in
order to search for their companions: and, in.
deed, they came to the brow ofthe hill, near my
ancient castle, from whence they could see to a
great distance in the woods, and there shoutingnonmsoN CRUSOE. 141 f

and nauooing till tired and weary, they at length
seated themselves under a spreading tree. My
Opinion was that nothing could be done till night, '
when I might use some artifice to get them all'
out of the boat; but ofasudden they started up,'
and made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the creek, and halloo as loud as they could, and '
so decoying them into the woods, come round to
me again. And this, indeed, had good effect;
for they followed the noise, till coming westward
to the creek, they called for their boat to carry
them over, and taking one ofthe men out of her.
left two to look after her, having fastened her to
the stump of a little tree on the shore. Hereupon
immediately the Captain and our party passing
the creek, out of their sight, we surprised 'them
both, by the captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who being the honestest of them all,
sincerely joined with us. By this time it Was
pretty late; when the rest returning to their boat,
which they found aground in the creek, the tide
out, and the men gone, they ran about-wringing
their hands, crying it was an enchanted island,
and that they should all be murdered byspirits or
devils. My men would willingly have fallen-
upon them, but I would not agree to hazard any"
of our party. But to be more certain, Friday
and the Captain crawled upon their hands and
feet, as near as possible; and when the boatswain'
approached in sight, so eager was the Ca tain,$
that he fired, and killed him on the spot; riday
wounded the next man, and the third ran away.
Hereupon I advanced with my whole army; and
it bemgdark, I ordered the man we had surprised
in the boat, to call them by their names, and 'to
parley with them. Accordingly he called out'

i
aloud, " Tom Smith, Tom Smith!" He an-g
swered, " Who's that!" " Robinson!" answer-
ed theother, " For God's sake, Tom, surrender
immediately, or you're all dead men." " Who
must we surrender to!" says Smith. " To our
Captain and a large force here, who have taken
me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and killed the
boatswain." " Shall we have quarter then?"
said he. Hereupon the Captain calls out, "You
Smith, you know my voice, surrender imme-
diately,and you shall have your lives granted,
except Will Atkins." Hereupon Atkins cries
out, " What have] done, Captain, more than
the rest, who have been as had as me;" but that
was a lie, {or he was the person that laid hold of
him, and bound him. However, he was ordered
to submit to the governor's mercy, for such was
I called. .And so laying down their arms, we
bound them all, and seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with them,
telling them that the governor was an Englishman
who might execute them there; but he thought
they would be sent to England. Hereupon they
implored the Captain to vintercede for theirlives,
and begged they might not He sent to England.
This answered our project for seizing the ship.
For, after sending them, fast bound, to the cave,
I sent the Captain to treat with them in the
governor's name, offering them pardon if they
would assist in recovering the ship. Upon
which, they all promised to stand by him till the
last drop of their blood: and whoever acted
treacherously should be hanged in chains upon
the beach. They were all released on these
assurances; and then the Captain repaired to the
other boat, makinghis passenger Captain of her,
and gave himfour men well armed; while him
self, his mate, andfive more, went in the other"V' "v '

,aeemeopz causes. 143

ooat. By midnight they camewithin sullen! the
ship, when the captain ordered Robinson-tells"
her, and .tell them that with great difiicutty they;
had found the men at last. But while-theym
dilcouning, the Captain, his mate, andzthe rest
entered, and knocked .down the second mate,
and carpenter, secured those that .were upon the
deck, by putting them under hatehes,-while the
other boat's crew entered and secured the fore-
castle; they then broke into the .mund.homg,
where the mate, after some resistance,.shoubg
pirate Captain through the head, upon which 311'
the rest yielded themselves prisoners. .And thus-
the ship being recovered,_the Joyful signal was
fired, which I heard with the greatest joy imaging.
able; nor was it long before he brought the ship
to anchor at the creek's mouth, where coming
to me unawares, " There," says he, " my dear>>
est friend and deliverer. there is your ship, and
we are your servants :" a comfort so unspeak-
able, as made me swoon in his arms, while, with
gratitude to heaven, we were tenderly embracing
each other.

Nothing new remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board. Here-
upon, concerting with the Captain, I dressed
myself in one of his suits, and sending for them,
told them. that l was going to leave the island
with all my people, if they would tarry there,
their lives should be spared; if not, they should
be hanged at the first port they came to. They
agreed to stay. Hereupon I told them my whole
story,cbarging them to be kind to the Spaniards
that were expected, gave them all my arms, and
informing them of every thing necessary for their
subsistence, I, and my man Friday, went on
board. But the next morning two of the men
came swimming to the ship's side, desiring the
Captain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how barba-
rously the others used them. Upon which I
prevailed with the captain to take them in; and
having received some punishment, they proved
more honest for the future. And so I bid fare-
well to this island, carrying along with me my
money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-skin cap;
setting sail December 12, l687,after twenty-
eight years, two months, and nineteen days resi-
dence, and landing in England, June II, 1688.
after five and thirty years ahsense from my own

country, which rendered me altogether a strange!
thereThe Pocket or Popular Letter-
Writer, containing a great variety of on inal
and selected Letters on the subjects of fave,
Courtship, Marriage, Friendship, Relationship,
Cards of Invitation, Business, etc., etc., with a
selection of correspondence from standard au-
thors. Also, a Dictionary of Poetical Quota-
tions from the standard poets, alphabetically
arranged, for the use of ladies and gentlemen.

Bouna. Price 35 cents.

The lnstructive Letter-Writer
designed for the improvement of ladies and

entlemen, containing a variety of Letters on
fiusiness, Love, Courtshi Marriage, Friend-- '
ship, and miscellaneous suuliijects; adapted to all
ages and circumst: mces. Bound. Price 35 C. l

American Fashionable Letter-
erter original and selected, containing a
variety of? Letters on Business, Love, Courtsh1p,
Marriage, Relationship, Friendship, and VAL-
,EN'rmns, with forms of Complimentary Cards.

To which are prefixed directions for Letter-
Writing, and Rules for Composition. Bound.

, ,Price 35 cents.

Belles-Lettres Letter-Writer, for'
the use of ladies' and gentlemen, contaming
forms of letters on the subjects of Relationship, |

LETTER-WRITERS. '

Friendship, Love, Courtshi ,Marriage, etc, etc.
Letters of Introduction, ards of Invitation,
etc., original and selected, with the etiquette of
letter-writing. Paper cover. Price 1 0 cts.

Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of
price. Address,

'0'. 1?. JAMES, Publisher,
No. 167 Walnut Street,
' ' GINCINNA'H, OHIO.