. S .9. ...

k, i
a wasROBINSON ORUSOE.LONDON'

OMILkNEm m1 r, 319w H H51".
PATERNOSTER ROW,THE LIFE

AND

SURPRISIN G ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

WRITIEN BY HIMSELF.

LONDON:
MILNER AND SOWERBY.

PATERNOSTER ROW.THE LIFE OF DANIEL DE FOE.

-----ooo---

Tns original author of Robinson Crusoe was Daniel Foe
which, from caprice, or some other motive, he lengthened
with a reflx, callin himself De Foe. He was a native
of Lon on, born in t e year 1660, of humble parentage, his
father, James Foe, exercising the occupation of abuteher.
Daniel De Foe, in the commencement of his career, en-
gaged in trade: from the business of a homer he passed
to that of a pantile maker, without any. ood fortune.
Either from want of prudence, or from dis 'ke to his oc-
cupations, the only reward of his schemes was embarrass-
ment and distress.

In the speculations of the literar world he was more
fortunate. In 1701, when King W' ' , during the vio-
lence of parties was censured for his attachment to, and
employment of foreigners, De Foe espoused the cause of
his monarch, and ridiculed his enemies in a satirical
poem, called " The True-born Englishman." This reduc-
tion was honoured with an enormous sale: and e was
encouraged to write another satire, entitled, "Reforma-
tion of Manners," in which he attacked the vices of some
persons of eminent rank.

A pamphlet, called "The Shortest Way with the Dis-
senters," was so mistaken, or so misrepresented, that it
was declared b the House of Commons to be of a libel-
lous nature. e Fee, for his oti'ence, was subjected to
fine, imprisonment, and even the pillory. He did not
give his enemies much reason to exalt over his despond-
enee; for the sufiect which he took to amuse his prison
hours, was "A. yum to the Pillory." During his con-
finement he also undertook the "Review," a periodical
work of considerable importance in the republic of learn-
ing, if, as has been imagined, it suggested the idea of the
Tamer and Sfectator, which have enriched our language
With essays o incomparable beauty.

De Foe was em loyed in promoting the union of Eng
land and Scotlan , of which event he also wrote the his-
tory. Whatever glory he gained from interfering in the
bitter differences of politics, he gained little solid satis-
faction. . A second imprisonment, which he suti'ered,
taught_him the fate which he was to expect from the
ammosity of olitical op onents. He began to take a
more quiet an useful pat of literature in 1715, and pub-
lished a religious work, called " The Family Instructor."vi me use or DANIEL on son.

Of the multitude of his other productions specific notice
is scarcely necessary. It is sufficient to mention "The
History of the P in 1665 ;" a novel, entitled, " The
11ml? of Colone Jae ,"--"4 new Voy a round the
War , by a Company of Merchants,"--" a History (4'
Roma,"--" The Memoirs of a 0asalier,"--" The History
of Hall Flanders," and a book, entitled " Religious Com-t-
sh' ," which has passed through numerous editions.
at De Foe's reputation, in the present day, rests chiefly

upon his " Robinson Oriana," a work which almost every
one has read in his childhood, and the pleasing impres-
sions of which are scarce};' obliterated from the memory
in old age. Its simple an perspicnous style is admirably
suited to the capacity of youth; it ossesses enough of
the marvellous to seize and delight t e imagination; and
the sentiments which it inspires are such as need not be
renounced or corrected in mature age. Respecting this
work there is a story which it is incumbent to relate,
althou h it has never been fairly authenticated. It has
been ed, says the Encyclopedia Britannicad that
when Captain 'oodes Rogers touched at the island of
Juan Fernandez, in the South Sea, he brought away
Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch seamen, who, having been
left ashore there, had lived upon the island in desolate
solitude for thee ace of four years. When Selkirk re-
turned to Englan , it is said, that he wrote a narrative of
his adventures, and at the pa rs in the hands of De
Foe, to digest for pu lication; at that he unfierously
converted the materials into the celebrate " ' tory of
Robinson Crusoe." Part of this story may be true, and
part false. That De Foe might have had the inspection
of Selkirk's journal is very possible; and by his powers of
dcscri tion, and skill in composition, he might have ex-
pand into an entertaining narrative, what in its ori-
ginal form was a dull and awkward composition. But
that he was guilty of an fraud or injustice towards Sel-
kirk, is a suspicion whic his character of general inte-
grity should induce us to reject. As there is no credible
groof against him, we are bound to give him an acquittal,

0th because he is not able to vindicate himself, and one
who has so entertained the rising generation, hasmore
than an ordinary right not to be condemned upon doubt-
ful accusation. . .

Daniel De Foe died at Ishngton, m the year 1731. His
daughter was respectably settled in life, by marrying
Henry Baker, an eminent naturalist.
--ooo--

I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving 05 his trade, lived afterwards at York; from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinson, a very good famil in that
country, and from whom I was called obimon
Krwtzuaer ; but, by the usual corruption of words in '
England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves
and write our name, Crusoe ; and so my companions
always called me.

I had two elder brothers: one of whom was
lieutenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in
Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous Colonel
Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second
brother I never knew, any more than my father or
mother did know what became of me.

Being the third son of the famil , and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be ill ed very early with
rambling thoughts. y father, who was very an-
cient, had given me a competent share of learning,
as far as houseoeducation and a country free-school
generally goes, and designed me for the law; but I8 ROBINSON cans-on.

would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea;
and my inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay, the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my
mother and other friends, that there seemed to be
something fatal in that propension of naturc, tending
directly to that life of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was
my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject.
He asked me what reasons, more than a mere wan-
dering inclination, I had for leaving my father's
house, and my native country; where I might be
well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my
fortune by application and industry, with a life of
ease and pleasure. He told me it was men of des~
perate fortunes on one hand, or of aSpiring to superior
fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adven-
tures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common
road; that these things were all either too far above
me. or too far below me; and that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper sta-
tion of low life, which he had found, by long expe-
rience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the mise-
ries and hardships, the labour and sufferings, of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with
the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the u per
part of mankind. He told me I might judge o the
happiness of this state by this one thing, viz. that
this was the state of life which all other people en-
vied; that kings have frequently lamented the miser-
able consequences of being born to great things, and
wished they had been placed in the middle of the
two extremes, between the mean and the great; that
the Wise Man gave his testimony to this, as the justaonmson causes. 9

standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
neither poverty nor rich es.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find
that the calamities of life were shared among the
upper and lower part of mankind ; but that the mid-
dle station had the fewest disasters ; and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or
lower part of mankind ; nay, they were not subjected
to so many distempers and uneasinesses, either of
body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious living,
luxury, and extravagances on one hand, or by hard
labour, want of necessaries, and mean or insufficient
diet, on the other hand, hringdistempers upon them-
selves by the natural consequences of their way of
living ; that the middle station of life was calculated
for all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments;
that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a
middle fortune ; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
ness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went
silently and smoothly through the world, and com-
fortably out of it ; not embarrassed with the labours
of the hands, or of the head; not sold to a life of
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed
circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the
body of rest ; nor enraged with the passion of envy,
or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things,
but in easy circumstances sliding gently through the
world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, with-
out the hitters; feeling that they are happy, andlearn-
ing by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
afl'ectionatemanner, not to play the young man, nor
to precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and
the station of life I was born in, seemed to have pro-
vrded against ; that I was under no necessity of
seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me,
and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of10 nonmson causoa.

life which he had just been recommending to me ;
and that if I was not very easy and hap y in the
world, it must be my mere fate, or fault, t t must
hinder it 3 and that he should have nothing whatever
to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in
warning me against measures which he knew would
be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do very
kind things for me, if Iwould stay and settle at home
as he directed, so he would not have so much hand
in my misfortunes, as to give me any encoura ement
to go away ; and to close all, he told me, I ad an
elder brother for an example, to whom he had used
the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his
young desires prompting him to run into the army,
where he was killed ; and though he said he would
not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say
to me, that if I did take that foolish step God would
not bless me ; and I would have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there
mi ht be none to assist in my recovery.

observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did
not know it to_be so himself, I say, I observed the
tears run down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed ; and
that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent,
and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke
off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full
he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as
indeed who could be otherwise ? And I resolved not
to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at
home according to my .father's desire. But alas! a
few days wore it all off ; and in short, to prevent
any of my father's farther importunities, in a few
weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act so hastily neither, as the first
heat of my resolution prompted ; but I took my
mother at a time when I thought her a little plea-
santer than ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
should never settle to any thing with resolution
enough to go through with it; and my father had
better give me his consent, than force me to go without
it ; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too
late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attor-
ney, that I was sure, if 1 did, I should never serve
out my time, but I should certainly run away from
my master before my time was out, and go to sea;
and if she would speak to my father to let me go one
voyage abroad, if I came home again and did not like
it, I would go no more, and I would promise by a
double diligence to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak
to my father upon such a subject ; that he knew too
well what was my interest, to give his consent to any .
thing so much for my hurt ; and that she wondered
how I could think of any such thing, after the dis-
course I had had with my father, and such kind and
tender expressions, as she knew my father had used
to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin myself.
there was no help for me; but I might depend I
should never have their consent to it; that, for her
part, she would not have so much hand in my de-
struction, and I should never have it to say, that my
mother was willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the dis-
course tohim; and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh, "That
the boy might be happfi, if he would stay at home ;
but if he goes abroad, e will be the most miserable
wretch that ever was born: I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obsti-
nately deaf to all proposals of settling to business,
and frequently expostulating with my father and
mother about their being so positively determined
against what they knew m inclination prompted me
to. But being one day at Iull, whither I went casu-
ally, and without any purpose of making an elope-
ment at that time ; but, I say, being there, and one
of my companions being going by sea to London, in
his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them,
with the common allurement of a sea-faring man,
that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I con-
sulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so
much as sent them word of it, but leaving them to
hear of it as they might, without asking Gud's bless-
ing, or my father's, without any consideration of cir-
cumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went on
board a ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer-'3 misfortunes, [believe, began sonner, or
continued longer, than mine. The ship was no sooner
got out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow,
and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and,
as I had never seen the sea before, I was most in-
expressibly sick in body and terrified in mind. I
began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done,
and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
heaven, for my wicked leaving my father's house, and
abandoning my duty. All the good counsel of my
parents, my father's tears, and my mother's entrea-
ties, came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to
which it has been since, reproached me with the con-
tempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God
and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea
went very high, though nothing like what I have seen
many times since, no, nor what I saw a few days after.
But it was enough to affect me then, who was but a
young sailor, and had never known any thing of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed
us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I
thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we
should never rise more. In this agony of mind, I
made my vows and resolutions, that if it pleased God
to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I once got
my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly
home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived ; that I would take his advice, and never
run m self into such miseries as these any more.
Now saw plainly the goodness of his observations
about the middle station of life, how easy, how com-
fortable, he had lived all his days, and never had
been exposed to tempests at sea, or troubles on shore 3
and, in short, I resolved that I would like a true re-
panting prodigal, go home to m father.

These wise and sober thong ts continued all the
while the storm continued, and, indeed some time
after ; but the next day the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it.
However, I was very grave for all that day, being
also a little sea-sick still ; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a
* charming fine evening followed ; the sun went down

erfectly clear, and rose so the next morning, and

yang little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun

shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
sea-sick, but very cheerful; looking with wonder
upon the sea, that was so rough and terrible the day
before, and could he so calm and so pleasant in so
little a time after. And now, lest my good resolu-
, tions should continue, my companion, who had, in-
deed, enticed me away, comes to me-"Well Bob,"
said he, clapping me upon the should er, " how do you
do after it ? I warrant you were frightened, wau't
you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind ?"
; --" A capful d'you call it 1'" said I, " 'twas a terrible
~' Stormy-4' A storm, you fool you 1" replies he, " do
you call that a storm 5'" Why it was nothing at all ;
give us but a good ship and sea room, and we think
nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
you're but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Come, let
us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that.
D'you see what charming weather 'tis now P" To
make short this sad part of my story, we went the
way of all sailors ; the punch was made, and I was
made half drunk with it, and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my re-
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolu-
tions for the future. In a word, as the sea was re-
turned to its smoothness of surface, and settled calm-
ness, by the abatement of that storm, 90 the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions
of my being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten,
and the current of my former desires returned, I eu-
tirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in
my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of re-
flection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again sometimes ; but I shook
them OE, and roused myself from them, as it were
from a distemper; and applying myself to drinking
and company, soon mastered the return of those fits
(for so I called them): and I had in five or six days,
got as complete a victor over conscience, as any
young fellow that resolve not to be troubled with it
could desire. But I was to have another trial for it
still, and Providence, as in such cases it generally does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse, for, if
I would not take this for a deliverance, the next was
to be such a one as the worst and most hardened
wretch among us would confess both the danger and
the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into the
Yarmouth Roads, the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little way
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con~
trary, viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days ; dur-
ing which time a great many ships from Newcastle
came into the same roads, as the common harbour
where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we

a should have tided it up the river, but that the wind

blew too fresh, and, after we had lain four or five

5 days, blew very hard. However, the roads being
reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good,

and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were
unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of

' danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after

the manner at sea; but the eighth day in the morn.
ing the wind increased, and we had all hands at work
to strike our topmasts, and make every thing snug
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possi-
ble. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and
our ship rid forecastle in, shipped several seas, and

; we thought once or twice our anchor had come home,

upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor,
so that we rods with two anchors a-head, and the ca~
bles veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and
now Ibegan to see terror and amazement in the faces

~ even of the seamen themselves. The master, though

vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet,

- as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could
-: hear him, softly to himself, say several times, " Lord

be merciful to us! We shall be all lost; we shall be
undone!" and the like. During these first hurries

I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in
the steerage, and cannot describe m temper. I

.j could ill resume the first penitence, w ich I had so
. apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself

against. I thought the bitterness of death had been

. 93817, and that this would be nothing, too, like the

first: But when the master himself came by me, 88
I said just now, and said we should be all lost, I was
dreadfully frightened. I got up out of my cabin: andlo somssou uweou.

looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw;
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. When I could look
about, I could see nothing but distress around us.
Two ships that rid near us, we found had cut their
masts by the board, being deep loaden ; and our men
cried out, that a ship, which rid about a mile ahead
of us, was foundered. Two more ships, being driven
from their anchors, were run out of the roads to sea,
at all adventures, and not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring
in the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came
close by us, running away, with only their sprit-sail
out before the wind.

Towards the evening the mate and boatswain beg-
ged the master of our ship to let them cut 'away the
fore-mast, which he was very unwilling to do; but
the boatswain protestinfi to him, that if he did not,
the ship would founder, e consented; and when they
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so
loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged
to cut her away also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But, if I
can express at this distance the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of
mind upon account of my former convictions, and the
having returned from them to the resolutions I had
wickedly taken at first, when I was at death itself;
and these, added to the terrors of the storm, put me
into such a condition, that I can by no words describe
it. But the worst was not come yet ; the storm con-
tinued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had
a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and so wallowed
in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried
out she would founder. It was my advantage, in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant byitUulNSOX causes. i7

founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was so
violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the master,
the boatswain, and some others. more sensible than
the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every mo.
ment that the ship would go to the bottom. In the
middle of the night, and under all the rest of our
distresses, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak, ano-
ther said there was four feet water in the hold. Then
all hands were called to the pump. At that ver
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and
fell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I that was able to do nothing before,
wasas well able to pump as another ; at which 'I
stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master, seeing
some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and
would come near us, ordered a gun to be fired as a
signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
meant, was so surprised that I thought the ship had
broke or some dreadful thinglhappened. In a word,
I was so surprised, that I fe down in a swoon. As
this was a time when every body had his own life to
think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of
me, but another man stepped up to the pump, and
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
I had been dead; and it was a great while before I
came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder,
and though the storm began to abate a little, at as
it was not possible she could swim till we mig t run
into any port, so the master continued firing guns
for help, and slight ship,which had rid it out just
ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It war
with the utmost hazard that the boat came near its,

but iidgas impossible for us to get on board, or for
31'3 nomssus cnUsos.

the boat to lie near the shi -side, till at last the men
rowing very heartily, an venturing their lives to
save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stern
with a buoy to it, and then veered it out at a great
length, which they, after much labour and hazard,
took hold of, and we hauled them close under our
stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur-
pose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed to
let her drive, and only to pull her in towards the
shore as much as we could ; and our master promised
them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would
make it good to their master. So partly rowing and
partly driving, our boat went away to the northward,

sloping towards the shore, almost as far as Winter-
tonness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, before we saw her sink, and then I
understood, for the first time, what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowled e I
had hardly eyes to look up, when the seamen tol me
she was sinking, for, from that moment, they rather
put me into the boat, than that 1 might be said to go
in ; my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly
with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thought of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet la-
bouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see (when our boat mounting the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people run-
ning along the strand to assist us when we should
come near. But we made but slow way towards the
shore ; nor were we able to reach the shore, till
being past the light-house at Winterton, the shore
falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the
land broke a little the violence of the wind. Here we
got in ; and, though not without much dificulty, got
all safe on shore, and walked afterward on foot to
Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were usedFlt'lnlNSON cusses. 19

with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by parti-
cular merchants and owners of ships; and had money
given us sufficient to carr us either to London, or
back to Hull, as we thong t fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's ara-
ble, had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for, ear-
ing the ship I went away in was cast away in Yar-
mouth roads, it was a great while before he had any
assurance that I was not drowned.

I But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obsti-
' nacy that nothing could resist; and though I had
several times loud calls for my reason and my more
composed judgment, to go homfit I had no power
to do it. I know not what to this; nor will I
urge, that it is a secret overruling decree, that hur-
ries us on to be the instruments 0 our own destruc-
tion, even though it be before us, and that we push
_ upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but
lsome such decreed unavoidable misery attendin ,
and which it was impossible for me to escape, co d
have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings
and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and
against two such visible instructions as I had met
with in my first escape.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The firstfime he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmonth, which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quar-
ters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared
his tone was altered ; and, looking very melancholy,
and shaking his head, asked me how I did: and
telling his father who I was, and how I had come
the voyage onlg for a trial, in order to go farther
abroad; his fat er turning to me with a very grave
and concerned tone, "Young man," says he, " yon'20 aosmsorz cnuson.

ought never to go to sea any more ; you ought to
take this for a plain and visible token, that you are
not .to be a seafaring man."--" Why, sir," said I,
"will you go to sea no more ?"--" That is another
case," said be; "it is my calling, and therefore my
duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what on
are to expect if you persist: perhaps all this as
befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship
of Tarshish. Pray," continued he, " what are you?
and on what account did you go to sea ?" Upon that
I told him some of my story; at the end of which he
burst out with a strange kind of passion, " What had
I done," says he, "that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship? I would not set my foot
in the same ship with thee again for a thousand
pounds!" This, indeed, was, as I said, an excursion
of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense
of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. However, he afterwards talked
very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my
father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; told me
I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me: " and,
young man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do not
go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing
but disasters and disappointments, till your father's
words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket,
I travelled to London by land, and there, as well as
on the road, had many struggles with myself what
course of life I should take, and whether I should go
home, or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me how I should he laughed at among the
neighbours and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even every body else.
From whence I have since often observed how incon-
gruous and irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of youth, to that reason that ought to
guide them in such cases ; viz. that they are not
; ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to
be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning,
which can only make them esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remaind some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of
life to lend. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home ; and, as I stayed awhile, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in were off ; and as that
abated, the little notion I had in my desires to return
wore ofi' with it, till at last I quite laid aside the
thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house, which hurried me into the Wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that im-
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father ; I say, the same in-
fluence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortu-
nate of all enterprises to my view, I went on board a
vessel bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors
vulgar-1y call it, a voyage to Guinea.

' It was my great misfortune, that, in all these ad
ventures,l did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby
' though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learned the
duty and office of a foremast man, and in time might
: have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not
for a master. But as it was always my fate to choose
f for a worse, so I did here ; for having money in my
, pocket, and good clothes on my back, I would always
-. go.on board in the habit of a gentleman, and so I
' neither had any business in the ship, nor learned to
- (20 any.
_ It was my lot first of all to fall into prett good
: companyin London, which does not always 8W9"
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was ; the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early ;but it was not so with
me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship
who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who,
having had very good success there, was resolved to
go again. This captain, taking a fancy to my con-
versation, which was not disagreeble at that time,
hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, told
me, if I would go the voyage with him, I should be
at no expense; I should be his messmate, and his
companion ; and if I could carry any thing with me,
I should have all the advantage of it that the trade
would admit ; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement.

I embraced the ofi'er, and, entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest
plain-dealing man, went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased
very considerably ; for I carried about 401. in such
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy.
This 401. I had mustered together by the assistance
of some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and
who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother,
to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematics, and the rules of navigation; learned
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an
observation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were ncedful to be understood by a sailor; for,
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure,
which yielded me in London, at my return, almOst
8001., and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have since so completed my ruin..

Yet, even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes too,
particularly that I was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate, our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 deg. N. even to the line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my eat misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I reso ved to go the same voyage, and had
now got the command of the ship. This was the un-
happiest voyage that ever man made; for though I
did not carry off quite 1001. of my newly-gamed
wealth, so that I had 2001. left, and which lodged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me,
yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and
the first was this, viz. our ship, making her course to-
wards the Canary lslands, or rather between those
Islands and the African shore, was su prised in the
gray of the morning by a Moorish roverofSallethich
gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvass as our yards could
spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear; but
finding the pirate gained upon us, and would oer.
tainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared
to fight, our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue
eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up
with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart
our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he in-
tended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two
hundred men, which be had on board. However, we
had not a man touched, all our men keeping close.
He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend
ourselves; but, laying us on board the next time
upon our other quarter, he entered ninety men upon
our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and
hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, balf-pikes, powder chests, and such like,
and cleared our decks of them twice. However, to
cut short this melancholy part of our story, the ship
being disabled, and three of our men killed and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended; nor was 1 carried up the coun-
try, to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as his
proper prize, and made his slave, being young and
nimble, and fit for business. At this surprising
change of my circumstances, from a merchant to n
miserable slave, l was perfectly overwhelmed; and
now I looked back upon my father's prophetic dis-
course to me, that I should be miserable, and have
none to relieve me, which I thought was now so eil'ec-
tually brought to pass, that I could not be worse;
that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
I was undone without redemption. But, alas! this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, ,as
will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would be some time or other his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war, and that
then i should be set at liberty. But this hope of
mine was soon taken away; for when he went to
sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden,
and do the common drudgery of slaves about thehouse;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he
ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

llere I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to client it, but found no way
that had the least probability in it. Nothing pre-
.;ented to make the supposition of it rational, for I
had nobody to communicate it to that would embark
with me, no fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman,
or Scotchman there, but myself ; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagi-
nation, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect
of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head. My
patron lying at home longer than usual, without fit-
ting out his ship, which as I heard was for want of
money, he used constantly once or twicea week, some-
times oftener if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the roada fishing ; and as he
always took me and a young Maresco with him to row
the boat, we made him very merry, and 1 proved very
dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes
he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen,
and the youth the Maresco, as they called him, to-
catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing with him
in a calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that thou h
we were not half a league from the shore, we lost sig t
of it ; and, rowing we knew not whither, or which way,
we laboured all day, and all the nextnight ; and when
the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea,
instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were
at least two leagues from the land. However, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labour and
some danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning ; but particularly we Were all very

hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved
to take more care of himself for the future ; and
having lying by him the long boat of our English
ship which he had taken, he resolved he would not
go a_fishing any more without a compass, and some
prowsion ; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship,
who was also an English slave, to build a little state
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, like
that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer
and haul home the main sheet ; and room before for
a hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sail-
ed with what we call a shoulder of mutton sail ; and
the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay
very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie,
with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some
small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as
he thought fit to drink, particularly his bread, rice,
and coffee.

We were frequently out with this boat a fishing ;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him,
he never went without me. It happened one day
that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or fish, with two or three Moors of some
distinction, and for whom he had provided extraor-
dinarily, and had therefore sent on board the .boat
over night a larger store of provisions than usual ;
and had ordered me to get ready three fusils with
powder and shot, which .were on board his ship, for
that they designed some sport of fowling as well as
fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and wait-
ed next morning with the boat washed clean, her an-
cient and pendants out, and everything to accommo~
date his guests ; when, by and by, my patron came
on board alone, and told me his guests had put off
going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered
me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with
the boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends
were to sup at his house. He commanded me, too,
that as soon as I had got some fish, I should bring it
home to his house. All which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command ; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for
fishing business, but for a voyage ; though I knew
not, neither did I so much as consider, whither I
would steer, for any where to get out of that place
was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor to get something for our subsist-
ence on board, for I told him we must not presume
to eat our patron's bread. He said, that was true;
so he brought a large basket of rash or biscuit, of
their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the
boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles
stood, which, it was evident by the make, were taken
out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into
the boat, while the Moor was on shore, as if they had
been there before for our master. I conveyed also a
great lump of bees wax into the boat, which weighed
about half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twins
or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of
which were of great use to us afterwards: esyecially
the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried
upon him, which he innocently came into also. His
name was Ismael, whom they called Muley, or Mo-
ley ; so I called to him: "Moley," said I, " our
patron's guns are all on board the boat ; can you not
get a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill
some alcomies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves,
for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."
" Yes," says he, " I'll bring some." Accordingly he
brought a great leather pouch, which held about a
pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with
some bullets, and put all into the boat. At the same
time I had found some powder of my master's in the
great cabin, with which I filled one of the large
bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring
what was in it into another, and thus furnished with
every thing needful, we sailed out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is'at the entrance of the port, knew
who we were, and took no notice of us; and we were
not above a mile out of the port, before we hauled in
our $311, and sat us down to fish. The wind blew
from the N .N.E., which was contrary to my desire;
nor had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have
made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the
bay of Cadiz ; but my resolutions were, blow which
way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time, and catched nothing
(for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull
them up, that he might not see them), I said to the
Moor, "This will not do; our master will not he
thus served. We must stand farther off." He
thinking no harm, agreed ; and being in the head of
the boat, set the sails, and, as I had the helm, I run
the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to, as if I would fish ; when, giving the boy the
helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and
making as if I stooped for something behind him,' I
took him by surprise with my arm under his twist,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He
rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called
to me, begged to be taken in, told me he would go
all over the world with me. He swam so strong
after the boat, that he would have reached me ver
quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I
stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fow-
ling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had
done him no hurt, and, if he would be quite, I would
do him none. " But," said I, "you swim well enough
to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm;
but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty." So
he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and
I make no doubt- but he reached it with ease, for he
was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone, I

turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and saidaom sson cnnsoa. '39

to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll
make you a great man ; but if you will not stroke
your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Maho-
met and his father's beard, " I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and swore
to be faithful to me, and go all over the world with me

While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth (as indeed any one
who had been in their wits must have been supposed
to do); for who would have thought we were sailed
on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where all nations of Negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us, where we could
never go once on shore, but we should be devoured
By s'avage beasts, or more merciless savages of human

in ?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I chang-
ed my course, and steered directly south and by east,
bending my course a little towards the east, that I
might keep in with the shore ; and havin a fair fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, made such
sail, that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in
the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could
not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee, quite be-
yond the emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop or go on shore, or
come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the
wind shifted to the southward, I concluded, also,
that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they
also would now give over; so I ventured to make to
the coast, and come to an anchor in the mouth of a
lsttle river, I knew not what or where, neither what
latitude, what country, what nation, or what river.
I neither saw nor desired to see any people ; the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on
shore as soon as it was quite dark, but we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling
of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of
me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury," said
I, " then I won't ; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions." " Then
we may give them the shoot gun," says Xury laugh-
ing, " make them run away." Such English Xury
spoke by conversing among us slaves. However, I was
glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram
(out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him
up. After all Xury's advice was good, and- I took
it. We dropped our tittle anchor, and lay still
all night; I say still, for we slept none ; for in two
or three hours we saw vast great creatures, we knew
not what to call them, of many sorts, come down to
the sea shore, and run into the water, wallowing and
washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling them-
selves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was
I too ; but we were both worse frightened when we
heard one of the mighty creatures come swimming
towards our boat; we could not see him, but we
might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous
huge and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and
it might be for aught I knew. Poor Xury cried out
to me to weigh anchor and row away. " No,"
says I, " Xury, we can slip our cable with a buoy to
it, and go toosea ; they cannot follow us far." I had
no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (what-
ever it was) within two oars' length, which something
surprised me: however, I immediately stepped to
the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at him,
upon which he immediately turned about, and swam
towards the shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrible
noises, and hideous cries and howlings, that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of a
gun, a thin_ I had some reason to believe .those
creatures h never heard before. This convinced
me that there was no going on shore for us in the
night upon that coast, and how to venture on shore
in the day was another question too; for, to have
fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had been
as bad as to have fallen into the paws of lions and
tigers; at least we were equally apprehensive of the
danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
in the boat; when or where to get it was the point.
Xury said if I would let him go on shore with one of
the jars, he would find if there was an water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why e would go,
why I should not go, and he stay in the boat. The
boy answered with so much affection, that made me
love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans come,
they eat me up; you go away." "Well, Xury," said
I, " we will both go; and if the wild mans come, we
will kill them; they shall eat neither of us." So I
gave Xury a piece of task-bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned
before, and we hauled the boat in as near the shore, as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore, carrying
nothing but our arms, and two ars for water.

1 did not care to go out of sig t of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river;
but the boy seeing a low place, about a mile up the
country, rambled to it, and by and by I saw him
come running towards me. I thought he was pur-
sued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him;4'
l

32 nomusou censors.

-. but when I came nearer to him, I saw something

ban in over his shoulders which was a creature that
g g 9

'he had shot, like a bare, but different in colour, and

longer legs. However, we were very glad of it, and
it was very good meat ; but the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up ; so we
filled our jars, and feasted on the bare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no foot-
steps of any human creature in that part of the
country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and
did not exactly know, or at least, not remember what
latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand 03' to sea towards them,
otherwise I might easily have found some of these
islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this
coast till I came to that part where the English
traded, I should find some of their vessels upon their
usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us
in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was, must be that country which, lying between
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes
lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts,
the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors: and the Moors not
thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its bar-
renness, and indeed both forsaking it because of the
prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and
other furious creatures which harbour there so that
the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they
go like an army, two or three thousand men at a
time, and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together
upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, unin-
habited country by day, and heard nothing but how-
ling and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day time, I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain
Tenerifi'e in the Canaries, and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither ; but, having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so I
resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.

Several times we were obliged to land for fresh
water, after we had left this place ; and once in par-
ti cular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor undera little point of water, which was pretty
high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to
go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about
him, it seems, than mine were, calls softly to me, and
tells me that we had best go farther ofi' the shore,
" For," says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful mon-
ster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed,
for it was a terrible great lion, that lay on the side
of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the bill,
that hung as it were a little over him. "Xury," said
I, " you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked
frightened, and said, "Me kill l He eat me at one
month i" one mouthful, he meant. However, I said
no more to the boy, but bade him be still, and took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and
two slugs, and laid it down, then I loaded another
gun with two bullets, and the third (for we had three
pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took
the best aim I could with the first piece, to have
shot him into the head; but he la so with his leg

raiseidog little above his nose that t e slug hit his leg
' o
about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up
growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down
again, and then got upon three le 3, and gave the
most hideous roar that ever I hear . I was a little
surprised that I had not hit him on the head ; how-
ever, I took up the second piece immediately, and,
though he began to move ofi, fired again, and shot
him into the head, and had the pleasure to see him
drop, and making but 'little noise, he lay struggling
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would let me
have him go ashore. "Well go," said I. So the
boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in
one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and
coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and shot him into the head again,
which dispatched him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food,
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder
and shot, upon a creature that was good for nothing
to us. However, Xury said he would have some of
him; so he comes on board, and asked me to give him
the hatchet. "For what, Xury ?" said I. " Me cut
off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cut
off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with
him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin
of him might one way or other he of some value to
us, and I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So
Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was
much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed it took us up both the whole
day, but at last we got ofl" the hide of him, and
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually
dried it in two days time, and it afterwards served me
to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually, for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say,
any where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in
hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did
not, I knew not what course to take, but to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this cape or those islands, and in
a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship
or perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited, and in two or three places, as we sail-
ed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look at
us; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them, but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, " N 0 go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and
I found they ran along the shore by me a good way.
I observed they had no weapons in their hands, ex-
cept one, who had along slender stick, which Xury
said was a lance, that they would throw them a great
way with good aim ; so I kept at a distance, but talk-
ed with them by signs for something to eat. They
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch
me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my
sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some
corn, such as is the produce of their country, but we
neither knew what the one or the other was ; how-
ever, we were willing to accept it. But how to come
at it was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing
on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us,
but they took a safe way for us all, for they brought
it to the shore, and laid it down, and went, and stood
a great way ofl', till we fetched it on board, and then
came close to us again.

We made signs to thank them, for we had nothing
to make them amends ; but an opportunity offered
that instant to oblige them wonderfully ; for while
we were lying by the shore, came two mighty crea.
tures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with
great fury, from the mountains towards the sea;
whether it was the male pursuing the female, or
whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not
tell any more than we could tell whether it was
usual or strange, but I believe it was the latter, be-
cause, in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night, and, in the second
place, we found the people terribly frighted,especial-
ly the women. The man that had the lance or dart
did not fly from them, but the rest did. However, as
the two creatures ran directly into the water, they
did not seem to offer to fall upon the Negroes, but
plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about as
if they had come for their diversion ; and at last one
of them began to come nearer our boat than I at first
expected ; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly with-
in my reach, I fired and shot him directly through
the head. Immediately he sunk down into the water,
but he rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if
he was struggling for life, and so indeed he was. He
immediately made to the shore, but, between the
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strang-
lipg of the water, he died just before he reached the
s ore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures at the noise and fire of my un;
some of them were ready even to die of fear, am? fell
down as dead with the very terror. But when they
saw the creature dead, and sunk into the water, and
that I made signs for them to come to the shore, they
took heart and came to the shore, and began to search
for the creature. I found him by his blood staining
the water, and by the hel of a rope, which I flung
round him, and gave the egroes to haul, they drag-
ged him on shore, and found it was a most curious
leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree ; and
the Negroes held up their hands with admiration, to
think what it was I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran
up directly to the mountains from whence they came,
nor could I at that distance know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh
of this creature, so I was willing to have them take
it as a favour from me, which, when I made signs to
them that they might take him, they were very
thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with
him, and though they had no knife, yet with a sharp-
ened piece of wood they took off his skin as readily,
nay, much more readily, than we could have done
with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them,
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me
very freely, and brought me a great deal more of
their provision, which thou h I did not understand,
yet I accepted. Then I ma e signs to them for some
water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning
its bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and
that I wanted to have it filled. They called imme-
diately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made out of earth,
and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun: this they set down
for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my
Jars, and filled them all three. The women were as
stark naked as the men.

. I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
It was, and water ; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land runSS noamsos CRUSOE.

out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me, and, the sea being
very calm, I kept a large ofling to make this point;
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side
to seaward ; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those
islands, called from thence Cape de Verd islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should
be taken with a fresh wind, I might neither reach one
nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm, when on a sudden the boy cried out, " Master,
master, a ship was a sail!" and the foolish boy was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs be
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not
only the ship, but what she was, viz. that she was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to
the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other way, and did not design
to go any nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched
out to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with
them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any signal to them ;
but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European
boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship
that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come
up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my
patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them
as a. signal of distress, and fired a gun, both of which
they saw, for they told me they saw the smoke though
they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals they
very kindly brought to, and lay by for me, and in
about three hours time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of
them ; but at lasta Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered him, and told him I was
an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bade me
come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods.

It was an inexpressiblego to me, that any one will
believe, that I was thus e ivered, as I esteemed it,
from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition
as I was in. I immediately ofi'ered all I had to the
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance ;
but he generously told me, he would take nothing
from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe
to me when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he
" I have saved your life on no other terms than as I
would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one
time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. " Besides," says he, " when I carry you to
the Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if
I should take from you what trifle you have, you will
be starved there, and then I only take away that life I
have given. N o, no," says he, " Signor lnglese (Mr.
Englishman), I will carry you thither in charity, and
these things will help you to buy your subsistence
there, andyour passage home again."

As he was charitable in this roposal, so he was
just in the performance to a titt e ; for he ordered
the seamen that none should offer to touch any thing
I. had : then he took every thing into his own posses-
810". and gave me back an inventory of them, that

I might have them again, even so much as my three
earthen jars.

As to my boat it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I told
him he had been so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of hand to pay me 80 pieces of
eight for it in Brazil, and when it came there, if any
one offered to give more, he would make it up. He
offered me also 60 pieces of eight for my boy, Xury,
which I was loath to take ; not that I was not wil-
ling to let the captain have him, but I was very loath
to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let
him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and of-
fered me this medium, that he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned
Christian. U on this, Xury, saying he was willing
to go to him, I et the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de todos los Santos, or All Saints
Bay, in about twenty--four days after. And now I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life, and what to do next with myself, I
was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember; he would take nothing of
me for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for the leopard's
skin, and 40 for the lion's skin, which I had in the
boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing
to sell he bought, such as the case of bottles, two of
my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees wax, for I
had made candles of the rest ; in a word, I made
about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with
this stock I went on shore on the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an ingenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation
and a sugar-house, I lived with him some time, andaomnson 030303. 41

acquainted myself by that means with the manner of
their lanting and making of sugar; and seeing how
well t e planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get licence to settle there,
I would turn planter among them; resolving, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money
which I had left in London remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization, 1
purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a plan for my plan-
tation and settlement, and such a one as might be
suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to
receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, whose name was Wells, and
in much such circumstances as I was. I call him
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on sociably together; m stock was but
low as well as his, and we rather p anted for food
than any thing else for about two years. However,
we began to increase, and our land began to come
into order, so that the third year we planted some
tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come, but we
both wanted help; and now I 'found, more than
liefore, I had done wrong in parting with my boy,

ury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go
on. I was gotten into an employment quite remote
to my genius, and directly contrary to the life I de-
lighted in, and for which I forsook my father's house,
and broke through all his good advice; nay, I was
coming into the very middle station, or upper degree
of low life, which my father advised me to before,
and which. if I resolved to go on with, I might as
well have staid at home, and never fatigued myself
in the world, as I have done; and I used often to say '
to myself, I could have done this as well in England
among my friends, as have gone five thousand miles
03 to do it among strangers and savages in the wil-
derness, and at such a distance as never to hear from
any part of the world who had any knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with but now and then this neighbour ; no work to
be done but by the labour of my hands ; and I used
to say, I lived just like a man cast away on a deso-
late island, that had nobody there but himself. But
how just has it been, and how should all men reflect,
that when they compare their present condition with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to
make the exchange, and be convinced of their former
felicity, by their experience! I say, how just has it
been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on in an
island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had
so often unjustly compared it with the life I then
led, in which, had I continued, I had, in all proba-
bility, been exceedingly prosperous and rich.

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend,
the captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went
back, for the ship remained there in providing her
loading, and preparing for her voyage, near three
months; when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: "Signor lnglese," says he (for
so he always called me), "if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to
the person who has your money in London, to send
your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall
direct, andjn such goods as are proper in this country,
I will bring you the produce, God willing, at my
return; but, since human affairs are all subject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give orders
for WW. sterling, which you say is half your stock,
and let the hazard be run for the first, so that if it
come safe, you may order the rest the same way, and
if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply. .

This was such wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my
money, and a procuration for the Portuguese captain
as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
; had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the hu-
T manity of his behaviour, and what condition I was
now in, with all other necessary directions for my
supply ; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon,
he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to send over not the order only, but a full ac-
count of my story, to a merchant at London, who
presented it effectually to her ; whereupon she not
only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket
sent the Portugal captain a very handsome present
for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested his 1001. in Eng-
lish goods, such as the captain had written for, and
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them safe to me to the Brazils; among which,
without my direction (for I was too young in my busi-
ness to think of them), he had taken care to have all
sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrivcd I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my
good steward, the captain, had laid out the 51. which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to
purchase, and bring me over a servant, under a bond
for six years' service, and would not accept of any
POllSldel'athll, except a little tobacco, which I would
have him accept, being of my own produce.

_ Neither was this all; but my goods being all Eng-
lish manufactures, such as cloth, stuff, baize, and
things particularly valuable and desirable ,in the
country, I found means to sell them to a very great
advantage; so that I may say, I had more than four
times the value of my first cargo, and was now in-
finitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the ad-
vancement of my plantation ; for the first thing I did,
I bought me a negro slave and an European servant
also ; I mean another besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation; I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco
on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for
necessaries among my neighbours, and these fifty rolls
being each of above 1001b. weight, were well cured
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon.
And now increasing in business and wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond
my reach, such as are indeed often the ruin of the best
heads in business.

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen
me, for which my father so earnestly recommended
a quiet retired life, and which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full of ; but
other things attended me, and I was still to be the
wilful agent of all my own miseries; and particularly
to increase my fault, and double the reflections upon
myself, which in my future sorrows I should have
leisure to make, all these miscarriages were procured
by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish incli-
nation of wandering abroad, and pursuing that incli-
nation in contradiction to the clearest views of doing
myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those pros-
pects, and those measures of life, which nature and
providence concurred to present me with, and to make
my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away fromaomssox cnvson. 45

my parents, so I could not be content now; but I -
must go and leave the happy view I had of being a.
rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to
pursue a rash and immoderate desire of raising faster
than the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I
cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of hu-
man misery that any man fell into, or, perhaps, could
be consistent with ife, and a state of health in the
war (I.

To come, then, by just degrees to the particulars of
this part of my story ; you may suppose that having
now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon my planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants of St.
Salvadore, which was our port, and that, in my dis-
course among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
' the manner of trading with the negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such
as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, ele-
phants' teeth, &c. but negroes for the service of the
Brazils in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying of negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos,
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and
engrossed in the public stock, so that few negroes
were bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company one day with some
merchants, and planters of my acquaintance, and
talking of those things very earnestly, three of them
came to me the next morning, and told me they had
beenmusing very much upon what I had discoursed
of With them the last night, and they came to make
a secret appeal to me, and, after enjoining my secresy,
they told me they had a mind to fit out a ship to
Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I,
and were straitened for nothing so much as servants;
that as it was a trade that could not be carried on,
because they could not publicly sell the negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make but one
voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations ; and, in a
word, the question was, whether I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that
I should have an equal share of the negroes, without
providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair prOposal, it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not had a settle-
ment and plantation of his own to look after, which
was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable,
and with a good stock upon it. But for me that was
thus established, and had nothing to do but go on as
I had begun for three or four years more, and to have
sent for the other mm. from England, and who, in
that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth3 or 40001. sterling, and
that increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage
was the most preposterous thing that ever man, in
such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer, than I could refrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel
was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would
go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscar-
ried. This they all engaged to do; and I made a
formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects,
in case of my death, making the captain of the ship
that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir,
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had
iirected in my will; one half of the produce being
to himself, and the other to be shipped to Eng-

land.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve m

y
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own in-
terest, and have made a iudgment of what I ought to
have done, I had certain y never gone away from so
prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable
views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a
voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards,
to say nothing of the reasons 1 had to expect, particu-

lar misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dic-

tates of my fancy, rather than my reason ; and, ac.
cordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo fur.
nished, and all things done as by agreement by my

artners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil
hour again, the lat of September, 1659, being the
same day eight years that I went from my father and
mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their au-
thority and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six
' guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of
goods except such toys as were fit for our trade with
the Negroes ; such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and
odd trifles, especially little looking--glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board, we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with
design to stretch over for the African coast, when
they came into about ten or twelve degrees of nor-
thern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of
their course in those days. We had very good wea-
ther, only excessive hot all the way upon our own
coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. Augus-
tino, from whence keeping farther of! at sea, we lost
Blght of land, and steered as if we were bound for
the Isle of Fernand de N orouba, holding our course
N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In
this course we passed the line in about twelve days'
time, and were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees,
22 minutes, northern latitude, when a violent tornado
or hurricane took as quite out of our knowledge ; it
began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled into the north-east, from
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive ;
and scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever
fate and the fury of the winds directed ; and during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected
every day to be swallowed up, nor did any in the
ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one
man and the boy washed ovenboard. About the
twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master
made an observation as well as he could, and found
that he was in about 11 degrees of north latitude,
but that he was 22 degrees of longitude difi'erence
west from Cape St. Augustino, so that he found he
was got upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part
of Brazil, beyond the river Amazones, towards that
of the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great
River ; and now he began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky, and
very much disabled, and he was for going directly
back to the coast of Brazil.;

I was positively against that; and, looking over
the charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to
have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Caribbee Islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping of! at sea, to
avoid the indraught of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico,
we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen
days sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
vovage to the coast of Africa, without some assistance
bolh to our ship and ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and
steered away N.W. by W, in order to reach. some of
our English islands, where I hoped for relief ; but
our voyage was otherwise determined ; for, being in
the latitude of 12 degrees 18 minutes, a second storm
came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the
very way of all human commerce, that had our lives
been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger of
being devoured by savages, than ever returning to our
own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men, early one morning, cried out, "Land!"
and we had'no sooner run out of the cabin to look
out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we
were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and, in a mo-
ment, her motion being so stopped, the sea broke
over her in such a manner that we expected we
should all have perished immediately; and we were
even driven to close quarters, to shelter us from the
very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternao
tion of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing
where we were. or upon what land it was we were
driven,whether an island or the main, whether in-
habited or not inhabited ; and as the rage of the wind
was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind,
by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately again.
In a word, we sat looking upon one another, and ex-
pecting death every moment, and every man acting
accordingly, as preparing for another world, for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort-

we 1123:, was, that contrary to our expectation the
' D
ship did not break yet, and that the master said the
wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand
and sticking too fast to expect her getting off, we
were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing
to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we
could. We had a boat at _our stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashin a ainst
the ship's rudder, and in the next place s e roke
away, and either sunk or was driven 03 to sea, so
there was no hope from her. We had another boat
on board, but how to get her off into the sea, was
a doubtful thing. However there was no room for
debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute ; and some said she hadLbroken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
theboat, and with the help of the rest of the men,
they got her flung over the ship's side, and getting
all mto her, let go, and committed ourselves, being
eleven in number, to God's merc , and the wild sea;
for though the storm was abate considerably, yet
the sea went dreadfully high u on the shore, and
might well be called " Den wil sea," as the Dutch
cal the sea in astorm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we
all saw plainly that the sea went so hi h, that the
boat could not escape, and that we shou d be inevi--
tably drowned. As to making sail, we had none;
nor, if we had, could we have done an thin with
it: so we worked at the oar towards the and, t ough
with heavy hearts, like men going to execution ; tor
we all knew, that when the boat came near the shore,
she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the
breachfof the sea. However, we committed our souls
to God in the most earnest manner, and the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our de-
struction with our own hands, pulling, as well as we
could, towards land.nosmson 080502. 51

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation,
was, if we might get into some bay or gulf, or the
mouth of some river, where, by great chance, we
might have run our boat in, or got under the lee of
the land, and perhaps made smooth w'ater. But
there was nothing of this appeared ; but as we made
nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about aleague
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, moun-
tain- like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade
us expect the " coup de grace." In a word, it took
us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once,
and separating us as well from the boat as from one
another, gave us not time hardly to say, "0 God I"
for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water, for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that
wave had driven me or rather carried me, a vast way
on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half
dead with the water I took in. I had so much pre-
sence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing my-
self nearer the main land than I expected, I got upon
my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the
land, as fast as I could, before another wave should
return and take me up again. But I soon found it
was impossible to avoid it, for I saw the sea come
after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as an
enemy, which I had no means or strength to contend
with ; my business was to hold my breath, and raise
myself upon the water, if I could, and so by swimming
to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards
the shore, if possible; my greatest concern now being
that the wave, as it would carry me a great way too
wards the shore when it came on, might not carry me
back again with it, when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and
I could feel myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but
I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still
forward with all my might. I was ready to burst
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and
hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I could
keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me
breath and new courage. I was covered again with
water a good while, but not so long but I held it out,
and finding the water had spent itself, and began to
return, I struck forward against the return of the
waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath, and till the
water went from me, and then I took to my heels,
and ran with what strength I had farther towards
the shore. But neither would this deliver me from
the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me
again, and twice more was I lifted up by the waves,
and carried forward as before, the shore being very

at.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal
to me; for the sea having hurried me along as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of
rock, and that with such force as it left me senseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance ; for
the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath,
as it were quite out of my body, and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in
the water ; but I recovered a little before the return
of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again
with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of
the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till
the wave went back. Now, asthe waves were not
so high as at first, being near land, I held my hold till
the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
brought me so near the shore, that the next wave,
though it went over me, yet it did not so swallow me
up as to carry me away ; and the next run I took I
got to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of
the reach of the water. a

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case wherein there was some minutes before scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to ex-
press to the life what the ecstasies and transports cf
the soul are when it is so saved, as I may say, out of
the very grave: and I do not wonder now at that
custom, viz. when a malefactor, who has the halter
about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned
off, and has a reprieve brought to him; I say, I do
not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let
him blood that very moment they tell him of it, that

the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the
heart, and overwhelm him :--

" For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflect-
ing upon all my comrades that were drowned, and -
that there should not be one soul saved but myself;
for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
signs of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and
two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly
see it, it lay so far off; and considered, Lord! how
was it possible I could get ashore!

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to
see what kind of place I was in, and what was next to
be done, and I soon found to comforts abate, and that,
in a word, I had a dreadfu deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing either
to eat or drink to comfort me, neither did I see any
prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger,
or of being devoured by wild beasts: and that which
was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no
weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for my
sustenance, or to defend myself against any other
creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a
word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco.
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box: this was all my
provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of
mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman.
Night coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart,
to consider what would be my lot, if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next day what death
I should die; for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I
could find any fresh water to drink, which I did to my
great joy ; and having drank, and ut a little tobacco
in my mouth to prevent hunger, went to the tree,
and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so
as that, if 1 should sleep, I might not fall ; and having
cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging; and having been excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as
I believe few could have done in my condition, and
found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I
ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage
and swell as before ; but that which surprised me
most was, that the ship was lifted 03 in the night,
from the sand where she lay, by the swellin of the
tide, and was driven up almost as far as e rock
which I first mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by dashing me against it. This being within about a
mile from the shore where I was, and the ship
seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary
things for my use;
When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again ; and the first thing I found
was the boat, which lay as the wind and sea had
tossed her. upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could up0n the
shore to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of
water between me and the boat, which was about
half a mile broad; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
haped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm ; and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
uarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a
resh renewing of my grief ; for I saw evidently that
if we had he t on board we had been all safe, that
is to say, we ad all got safe on shore, and I had not
been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of
all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced
tears from my eyes again ; but as there was little
relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the
ship; so I pulled 03 my clothes, for the weather was
hot to extremity, and took the water; but, when I
came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to
know how to get on board, for as she lay aground
and high out of the water, there was nothing within
my reach to lay hold of. I swam round her twice,
and the second time I espied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down
by the fore chains, so lowas that with great difficulty
I got hold of it, and, by the'help of that rope, got
up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that
the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water
in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank
of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost to
the water ; by this means all her quarter was free,
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may
be sure my first work was to search and to see what
was spoiled, and what was free: and first I found
that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
by the water : and being very well disposed to eat,
I went to the bread-room, and filled my pockets with
biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things, for I
had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which
1 had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what
was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat
to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw .
would be very necessary to me.

' It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was
not to be had ; and this extremity roused my appli-
cation. We had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or
two in the ship ; I resolved to fall to work with these,
and flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope
that they might not drive away. When this was
done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling them
to me, I tied four of them fast together at both ends
as well as I could, in the form of a raft ; and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found that I could walk upon them very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great
weight, the pieces being too light: so I went to work,
and with a carpenter's saw I cut a spare topcmast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
great labour ; but the hope of furnishing myself with
necessaries encouraged me more than loshould have
been able to have done upon another occasion.aosmson (3311303. 57

My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-
sonable weight. My next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea: but I was not long considering
this; I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that
I could get, and having considered well what I most
wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft. The first of these I filled
with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon,
and a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea
with us, but the fowls were killed. There had been
some barley and wheat together, but, to my great
disappointment, I found afterwards that the rats had
eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, and in all about five or six
gallons of arrack ; these I stowed by themselves,
there being no need to put them into the chest, nor
any room for them. While I was doing this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very calm, and 1 had
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen,
and open-knee'd, I swam on board in them and my
stockings. However, this put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, for I had other things
which my eye was more upon: as first, tools to work
With on shore, and it was after long searching that
I found out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed
a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable
than a ship-loading of gold would have been at that
who. I got it down to my raft, even wholeas it was,
Without losing time to look into it, .for I knew in
general what it contained.

M y next care was for some ammunition' and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols ; these I secured first, with
some powder-horns, a small bag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of

owder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner

d stowed them, but with much search I found them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water;
those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myself retty well freighted, and began to
think how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar, or rudder, and the least capful of
wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements ; first, a smooth and
calm sea ; secondly, the tide rising and setting in to
the shore; thirdly, what little wind there was blew
me towards the land. And thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and be~
sides the tools which were in the chest, I found two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this cargo I
put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went
very well, only that I found it drive a little distant
from the place where I had landed before, by which
I perceived there was some indraught of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river
there, which I might make use of as a port to get to
land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before
me a little opening of the land. I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as
well as I could, to keep in the middle of the stream.
But here I had like to have suffered a second ship--
wreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have
broken my heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast,
my raft run aground, at one end of it, upon a shoal,
not being aground at the other, it wanted but a little
that all my cargo had slipped off towards that end
that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did
my utmost by setting my back against the chests, to
keep them in their places, but could not thrust off the
raft with all my strength ; neither durst I stir from
the posture I was in, but, holding up the chests with
all my might, stood in that manner near half an hour,
in which time the rising of the water brought me a
little upon a level, and, a little after, the water still
rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off
with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving
up hi her, I at length found myself in the mouth of
a litt e river, with land on both sides, and a strong
current of tide running up. I looked on both sides
for a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing
to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place
myself as near the shore as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which with eat pain and difliculty I
guided; my raft, and at ast got so near, as that,
reaching ground with m oar, I could thrust her
directly in ; but here I ha liked to have dipped all
my cargo into the sea again, for the shore lying pretty
steep, that is to say, slo ing, there was no place to
land, but where one en 0 the float, if it ran on
shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All
that I could do was to wait till the tide was at the
highest, keeping the raft with my car, like an anchor,
to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat
piece of ground,which I expected the water Would
flow over, and so it did. As soon as I found water
enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water), I
thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken
oars jute the ground, one on one side near one end,
and one on the other side inear the other end: and
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft
and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek
a proper place for my habitation, and where to'stow
my goods to secure them from whatever might hapc
pen. Where I was I yet knew not, whether on the
continent or on an island ; whether inhabited, or not
inhabited ; whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from
it northward. I took out one of the fowling pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and
thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top
of that hill, where, after I had with great labour and
difficulty got up, I immediately saw my fate, to my
great affliction ; viz. that I was in an island, environ-
ed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except
some rocks, which lay a great way ofl', and two
smaller islands less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reasons to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw
none ; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell
what was fit for food, and what not. At my coming
back, I shot a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a
tree, on the side of a large wood. Ibelieve it was
the first gun that had been fired there since the
creation of the world. I had no sooner fired, but
from all parts of the wood there arose an extraordi-
nary number of fowls, of many sorts, making a con-
fused screaming and crying, every one according to
his usual note ; but not one of them of any kind that
I knew. As for that creature I killed, I took it to
be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling
it, but it had no talons or claws more than common :
its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring the rest of my cargo
on shore, which took me up the rest of the day.
What to do with myself at night I knew not, nor
indeed where to rest ; for I was afraid to lie down on
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me, though I afterwards found there was really
no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded'myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of but for that night's
lodging: as for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I
shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to
hand, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her in
pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart till I
got every thing out of the ship that I could get:
then I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts,-
whether I should take back the raft, but this appeared
impracticable, so I resolved to go as before, when the
tide was down, and I did so, only that I stripped
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt, 9. pair of linen drawers, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first,
I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so
hard; but yet I brought away several things very
useful to me ; as first, in the carpenter's store I found
two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a great
screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above
all, that most useful thing called a grindstone: all
these I secured, together with several things belong-
ing to the gunner, particularly three iron crows, and
two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and
another fowling-piece, with a small uantity of pow-

der more ; a large bag full of small at, and a great
roll of sheet lead, but this last was so heavy, I could
not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock,
and some bedding, and with this I loaded my second
raft, and brought them also safe on shore.

I was under some apprehensions, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore; but when I came back, lfound
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came
towards it, ran away to a little distance, and then
stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned,
and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly un-
concerned, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which
I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though I was not very
free of it, for my store was not great. However, I
gave her a bit; she smelled at it, eat it, and looked
for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no
more, so she marched 03.

Having got my second cargo on shore (though I
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large
casks), I went to work to make a little tent with the
sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose;

'and into this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled all
the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any attempt from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest
set up on an end without, and spreading one of the
beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at
my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed
for the first time, and slept little, and had laboured
hard all day, as well to fetch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.
lhad the largest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man ; but I was
not satisfied still, for while' the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing
out of her that I could; so every day, at low water,
I went on board, and brought away something or
other. But particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as
also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get,
with a piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the
sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder.
In a word. I brought away all the sails first and last,
only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could, for they were no more
useful to me for sails, but as mere canvass only.

But that which comforted me more still was, that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voy-
ages as these, and thought 1 had nothing more to ex-
pect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with, I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead
of bread, three large runlets of mm or spirits, a box
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was surpris-
ing to me, because I had given over expecting any
more provisions, except what was spoiled by the wa-
ter. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and
wrapt it up parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails
which I cut out ; and, in a word, I got this safe on
shore also, though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage; and now
havin plundered the ship of what was portable, and
fit to and out, I began with the cables ; and cuttin
the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
got two cables and a haulser on shore, with all the
iron work I could get ; and having cut down the
spritsail yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing
I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with al
those heavy goods and came away. But my good
luck began to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy
and so overloaded, that after I was entered the little
cove where I had landed the rest of my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I
was near the shore ; but as to my cargo, it was great
part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected
would have been of great use to me. However, when
the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite la-
bour, for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a
work which fatigued me very much. After this I
went every day, and brought away what I could.

I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship, in which times
I had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be supposed capable to bring, though I believe
verily, had the calm weather held, I should have
brought away the whole ship piece by piece. But
preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found
the wind began to rise ; however, at low water, I
went on board ; and though I thought I had rum-
maged the cabin so effectually as that nothing more
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with draw-
ers in it, in one of which I found two or three rants,
and one pair of large scissors, with ten or a dozen
good knives and forks ; in another I found about
thirty--six pounds value in money, some European
coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold,
some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money, " 0
drug," said I aloud, " what art thou good for ? Thou
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ound.
One of those knives is worth all this heap, I ave no
manner of use for thee, even remain where thou art,
and go to the bottom as a creature whose life is
not worth saving !" However upon second thoughts
3 took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvass, I began to think of making another raft;
but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of
an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore ; it pre-
sently occurred that it was in vain to pretend to make
a raft with the wind off shore, and that it Was my
business to be gone before the tide of flood began,
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at
all: accordingly, I let myself down into the water,
and swam across the channel which lay between the
ship and the sand, and even that with difficulty
enough, partly with the weight of the things I had
about me, and partly the roughness of the water, for
the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I
lay with all my wealth about me very secure; it
blew very hard all that night, and in the morning,
when I looked out, behold no more of the ship was
to be seen. I was a little surprised, but recovered
myself with this satisfactory reflection, viz. that I
had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get
every thing out of her that could be useful to me ;
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I
was able to bring away, if I had had more time. I
now gave over any more thought of the ship, or of
any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but those things were little use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about se-
curing myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth,
and, in short, I resolved upon both ; the manner and
description of which I will give an account of.

I soon found this place was not for my settlement,
particular] because it was low moorish ground near
the sea, w ich I thought would not be wholesome,

and 11320136 particularly because there was no fresh
1:-ii Rommel; cans-3:.

water near it: so I resolved to find a more healthy
and more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which
I found would be proper for me ; first, health, and
freshwater, as I just now mentioned; secondly,
shelter from the heat of the sun; thirdly, security
from ravenous creatures, either man or beast; fourthly,
a view of the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight,
I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance,
for which I was not willing to banish all hopes.

. In search for a place proper for this, I found a little

plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was as steep as a house side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top.
On the side of this rock there was a hollow place,
worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave, but there was no cave or way into the rock.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place I resolved to pitch my tent. The plain was
not a ove a hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end it descended irregularly every way down into the
low grounds by the sea-side. It 'was on the N. N.
W. side of the bill, so that it was sheltered from the
heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which in those countries is near setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in
semi-diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five feet and a half, and sharpened on
the top ; the two rows stood about six inches apart.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them in rows upon one another,
within the circle between the two rows of stakes, up
to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, about two feet and a half high, like a
spur to a post, and this fence was so strong that nei-
ther man nor beast could get into it. This cost me a
great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the
piles, bring them, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance to this place I made to be, not by a
door, but by a ladder over the top ;which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was com-
pletely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all
the world, and consequently slept secure in the night,
which otherwise I could not have done, though, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, and I made a large tent also, which, to
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of;the year
are very violent here, I made double, via. one smaller
tent within, and one large tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had
brought on shore from among the sails.

And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed that
I had brou ht on shore, but in ahammock, which was
a very goo one, and belonged to the mate.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which
till now was left open, and so passed by a ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
out through my tent, I laid them up within the tent
in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half, and thus I made me a
cave just behind my tent, which served for a cellar.

It cost me much labour, and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection ; and, there-
fore, I must go back to some other things which took
up some of my thoughts. At the same time it hap-
pened, after I had laid my scheme for setting up my
tent and making the cave, that a storm of rain fal-
ling from a dark thick cloud, a sudden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that a clap of thunder, as
is naturally the effect of it. I was not so much sur-
prised with the lightning, as with the thought which
darted into my mind :--0 my powder! My heart
sunk within me, to think that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed ; on which, not my defence
only, but the providing my food, as I thought, entirely
depended ; I was nothing near so anxious about my
own danger ; though had the powder took fire, I had
never known who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my
building and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hopes, that what-
ever mieht come, it might not all take fire at once,
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible
to make one part fire the other. I finished this work
in about a fortnight, and my powder, which in all
was about 1401b. weight, was divided into no less than
a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been
wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that, so I
placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I called
my kitchen, and the rest I hid in the rocks, that no
wet might get to it, carefully marking where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this wasdoing, I went
out once every day with my gun, as well to divert
myself, as to see if I could kill any thing fit for
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself
with what the island produced. The first time I
went out, I discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but
then it was attended with this misfortune, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that
it was the diflicultest thing in the world to come at
them, but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting
'but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened, for after I had found their haunts a little, I
laid wait in this manner for them: having observed,
if they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away in a terrible fright ;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
whence I concluded, that by the position of their
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above them;
so I always climbed the rocks first to get above them,
and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot
I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat
which had a little kid by her, she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell, the
kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her
up, and not only so, but when I carried the old one
upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my
enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in
hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat,
so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These
two supplied me with flesh a great while ; for I ate
sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread espe-
cially) as much as I possibly could.

Having fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and
fuel to burn ; and what I did for that as also how I
enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full account of in its place ; but I must
first give some little account of myself, and of my
thoughts of living, which were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as
I was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, via.
some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course
of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to con-
sider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this
desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I should
end my ife. The tears wouldrun plentifully down
my face, when I made these reflections; and some-
times I would expostulate with myself, why provid-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable, without help,
abandoned, and so entirely depressed, that it could
hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life ?

But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me ; and parti-
cularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand
by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the subject
of my present condition, when reason, as it were, put
in, expostulating with me the other way, thus :-----
Well, you are in a desperate condition, it is true, but
pray remember, where are the rest of you ? Did not
you come eleven of you into the boat ? where are the
ten? why were not they saved, and you lost ? why
were you singled out ? is it better to be here or there?
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in them, and with
what worse attended them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case, if it had not happened, which was a hundred
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore, that I had time to get all things out of her?
What would have been my case, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at first came on
shore, without the necessaries of life, or any means to
supply and procure them ? Particularly, what would
I have done without a gun, without ammunition,
without any tools to make any thing, or to work
with? without clothes, bedding, a. tent, or any man-
ner of coverings? And that now I had all these to
a suflicient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide
myself in such a manner, as to live without my gun
when my ammunition was spent, so that I had a
tolerable view of subsisting without any want as lon
as I lived, for I considered from the beginning how?
would provide for the accidents that might happen,
:nd for the time that was to come, even not only
after my ammunition should be spent, but even after
my health or strength should decay.

I confess I had not then entertained any notion of
my ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean
my powder being blown up by lightning; and this
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation
of a. scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never
heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its
beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by
my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
manner above-said, I first set foot upon this horrid
island, when the sun being to us, in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reck-
oned myself by observation, to be in the latitude of 9
degrees 22 minutes north of the Line.

After I had been here about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts, that I should lose my reek.
oning of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and
should even forget the Sabbath days from the work-
ing days; but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife
upon a large post, in capital letters, and, making it
into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I
first landed; viz. I came on shore here the 30th of
Sept. 1659. Upon the sides of this s uare post I out
every day a notch with my knife, an every seventh
notch was as long again as the rest, and every first
day of the month as long again as the long one, and
thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe that among
many things which I brought 03 the ship in the
several voyages, which, as above-mentioned, I made
to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all
less useful to me, which I omitted setting down be-
fore, as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several
parcels from the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and car-
penter's keeping, three or four compasses, some mathe-
matical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and
books of navigation, all of which I huddled together,
whether I might want them or no; also I found three
very good Bibles, which came to me in my cargo from
England, and which I had packed up among my
things, some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or three Popish prayer-books, and several other
books, all of which I carefully secured. And I must
not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats,
of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say
something in its place, for I carried both the cats with
me, and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I
went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty
servant to me many years. I wanted nothing that he
could fetch me, nor any company that he could make
up to me, I only wanted to have him talk to me, but
that he could not do. As I observed before, I found
pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded to the utmost:
and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, Ikept
things very exact ; but after that was gone, I could
not ; for I could not make any ink by any means that
I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things;
and of these, this of ink was one, as also a spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ;
needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned
to want that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entire y finished my little pale, or surrounded habi-
tation ; the piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as
I could well lift, were a long time cutting and pre-
paring in the woods, and more by far in bringing
home, so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of these posts, and a third
day in driving it into the ground; for which I got aheavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however,
though I found it, yet made driving those posts or
pales very laborious and tedious work.

But what need I have been concerned at the tedi-
ousness of any thing I had to do, having time enough
to do it in ? Nor had I any other employment, that I
could foresee, except seeking for food.

I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to
leave them to any that were to come after me, for I
was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting
my mind ; and as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well
as I could, and to set the good against the evil, that
I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse; and I stated it very impartially, like debtor
and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, against the mise-
ries I suffered, thus :--

EVIL. GOOD.

I am cast upon a horrible But 1 am alive, and not
desolate island, void of all drowned, as all my ship's
hope of recovery. company was.

I am singled out, and se- But I am singled out, too,
painted, as it were, from all from all the ship's crew, to
the world, to be miserable. be spared from death; and

he that miraculously saved

me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.

I am divided from man-
kind, a solitary one, banish-
ed from human society.

I have no clothes to cover
me.

I am without any defence
or means to resist any vio-
lence of man or beast.

But I am not starved, and
perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance.

But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.

But Iam caston an island,
where I see no wild beasts,
to hurt me, as I saw on the

coast of Africa; and what if I

had been shipwrecked there ?74 aonmso N 0110502.

I have no soul to speak to, But God wonderfully sent
or relieve me. the ship near enough to the
shore, that I have gotten out
so many necessary things as
will either supply my wants,
or enable me to supply my-

self, even as long as I live.

Upon the whole, there was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce a condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or
something positive, to be thankful for in it ; and let
this stand as a direction from the experience of the
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it something to comfort ourselves
from, and to set, in the description of good and evil,
on the credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and giving over looking out to sea, to see
if I could spy a ship ; I say, giving over these things,
I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of
living, and to make things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
strong pale of posts and cables, but I might rather
call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against
it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and
after some time (I think it was a year and a half) I
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatch'
ed or covered it with boughs of trees, and such things
as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at
some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I had
made behind me ; but I must observe too, that, at
first, this was a confused heap of goods, which, as they
lay in no order, so they took up all my place ; I had
no room to turn myself; so lset myself to enlarge
my cave, and worked farther into the earth, for it
was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
tabour I bestowed upon it ; and so, whenI found I was
pretty safe as to the beasts of pretty, I worked sideways
to the right hand into the rock, and then turning to
the right again, worked uite out, and made me a door
to come out on the outsi e of my pale or fortification.

This gave not only egress and regress, as it was a
back way to my tent, and to my storehouse, but gave
me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table, for without these I was not
able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world ; I
could not write or eat, or several things, with so much
pleasure without a table.

So I went to work; and here I must needs ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of
the mathematics, so by stating and squaring every
thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man ma be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. 1 ha never handled
a tool in my life, and yet, in time, by labour, appli-
cation, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I could
have made any thing, especially if I had had tools;
however, I made abundance of things, even without
tools, and some with no more tools than an adze and
a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made that way
before, and that with infinite labour. For example,
if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on an edge before me. and hew it
flat on either side with my axe, till I had brought it
to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth
with my adze. It is true, that by this method I
could make but one board out of the whole tree ; but
this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than
I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour
which it took me up to make a plank or board ; but
my time or labour was little worth, and so it was as
well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I olr'4"

(J ROBINSON CRUSOE.

served above, in the first place, and this I did out of
the short pieces of board that I brought on my raft
from the ship; but when I had wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth
of a foot and a half, one over another, all along one
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and, in a word, to separate every thing at large
in their places, that I might easily come at them ;
also, I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to
hang my guns, and all things that would hang up.

So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like
a general magazine of all necessary things ; and I had
every thing so ready to my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order, and
especially to find my stock of all necessaries so

reat.

g And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment: for, indeed, at first I was
in too much hurry, and not only hurry as to labour,
but in too much discomposure of mind, and my jour-
nal would have been full of many dull things. For
example, I must have said thusz--September the 30th,
After I got on shore, and had escaped drowning, in-
stead of being thankful to God for my deliverance,
having first vomited from the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recover-
ing myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing
my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out, I was undone! undone!
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of being
devoured.

Some days after this, and after having being on
board the ship, and got all I could out of her, yet I
could not forbear getting up to the top of a little
mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing
a ship, then fancy, at a vast distance, I spied a sail,
please myself with the hopes of it, and then, after
looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase
my misery by my folly.

But having got over these things, in some measure,
and having settled my household stuff and habitation,
made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
about me as I could, I began, I say, to keep my jour-
nal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though
in it will be told all these particulars over again,) as
long as it lasted, for at last having no more ink, I was
forced to leave it off.

TH E JOURNAL.

September 30, 1659.--l, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm
in the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island,which I called the Island of Despair, all the
rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I had
neither house, food, clothes, weapon, or place to fly to,
and nothing but death before me, either that I should
be devoured by savages, or starved to death for want
of food. At the approach of night, I slept in a tree,
for fear of wild creatures.

Oct. l.----In the morning I saw, to my surprise, the
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven
on shore again much nearer the island, which, as it
was some comfort on one hand, so, on the other hand,
it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who,
I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have
saved the ship, or, at least they would not all have
being drowned, as they were ; and that, had the men
been saved, we might, perhaps, have built us a boat
out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. Seeing the ship almost dry,
I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then
swam on board. This day continued rainy, though
with no wind at all.

From the let of Oct. to the 24th.-All these days4~ .
4 it 80131 NSU N on USU is.

entirely spent in making several voyages to get all I
could out of the ship, which I brought on share. Much
rain also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather; but, it seems, this was the rainy season.

Oct. 24.--I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it, but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.

Oct. 25.--It rained all night, and all day, with
some wind, during which time the ship broke in
pieces, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck
of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day
in covering and securing the goods which I had saved,
that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26.----I walked about the shore almost all day
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from beasts or men. Towards night I fixed
upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to
strengthen with a wall or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cable, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.

The 3lst in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun to see for some food, when I killed a she-
goat. and her kid followed me home, which I after-
wards killed, because it would not eat.

Nov. l.--I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night, making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 2.----I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
formed a fence around me a little within the place I
had marked out for my fortification.

Nov. 3.----I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon, went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4.-----This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep and
time of diversion ;viz. every morning I walked out
with my gun, for two or three hours, if it did not
rain ;.then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock ;then eat what I had to live on ; and from
twelve to two, I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot, and then in the evening to work again.
The working part of this day and the next were
wholly employed in making my table, which I did
not finish.

Nov: 5.--This day I went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed,
I took. off the,,skins and preserved them. Coming
back, by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-
fowls which I did not understand; but was surprised
to see two or three seals, which, while I was gazing
at, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.---After my morning walk, I went fo work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking ; and I soon learned to mend it.

Nov. 7.--Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday, according to my reckoning,) I took
wholly up to make a chair, and, with much ado,
brought lit to a tolerable shape, but never to please
me ; and even in the making I pulled it to pieces
several times. Note.--I soon neglected keeping my
Sundays, for omitting my mark for them on my post,
I forgot which was which.

Nov. l3.--This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth ; but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
made me fearful of my powder. When it was over,
I resolved to separate my powder into as many little
parcels as possible, to prevent danger.

. Nov. l4, l5, lb'.---'l'hese three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about
a pound, or two, of powder; and so putting the pow-
der in, I stowed it away in places as secure and re-
mote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat,
but I knew not what to call it.

Nov. l7.--This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveni-
ency. N ate--Three things I wanted exceedingly
for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-
borrow, or basket. As for the pick-axe, I made use
of the iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy; but the next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary, that indeed I could
do nothing efl'ectually without it, but whatkind of one
to make I knew not.

Nov. 18.---'I'he next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the
Brazils, they call the iron-tree, for its exceeding
hardness ; of this I cut a piece, and brought it home
with difficulty, for it was exceeding heavy. The ex-
cessive hardness of the wood made me a long while
upon this machine, but I worked it effectually by
little and little, into the form of a shovel or spade,
the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, would not last me so long ; however, it
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion
to put it to. I was still deficient, for I wanted a
basket, or a wheelbarrow; a basket I could not
make by any means, having no such thing as twigs
that would bend to make wicker-ware; and, as to
the wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the
wheel ; but that I had no notion of, neither did I
know how to go about it, so I gave it over: and so,
for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the
cave, I made me a thing like a had, which the labour-
ers carry mortar in to serve the bricklayers. This
was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel ;
and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which
I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up
no less than four days: I mean, always exce ting
my morning walk with my gun, which I se dom
failed, and nearly always brought something home
fit to eat.

Nov. 23.---My other work having stood still because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I
went on; and, working every day as my time and
strength allowed. I spent eighteen days entirely in
widening and deeping my cave, that it might hold
my goods commodiously. N ote.--During all this
time, I worked to make this room, or cave, spacious
enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or maga-
zine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar ; as for a
lodging, I kept to the tent, except that sometimes
in the wet season of the year it rained so hard, that
I could not keep myself dry; which caused me after-
wards to cover all my place within my pale with long
poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock,
and load them with flags, and large leaves of trees,
like a. thatch.

Dec. 10.--I began now to think my cave or vault
finished, when, on a sudden, it great quantity of earth
fell down from the top and one side, so much that, in
short, it frighted me, and not without reason too ; for
if I had been under it, I should not have wanted a
grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal
of work to do over again ; for I had the loose earth
to carry out, and, which was of more importance, I
had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no
more would come down.

Dec. 11,--This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two shores, or posts, pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each
Post. This I finished the next day ; and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured ; and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part 03 my house.

Deitazld--From this day to the 20th I placed shelves,
1?
and knocked nails into the posts, to hang every thing
up that could he hung up.

Dec. 2'3.~--N ow I carried every thing into the cave,
and began to furnish my house, and to set up some
pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my victuals
upon; but hoards began to be very scarce with me.
Made another table.

Dec. 24, 25.---Much rain both these days, and no
stirring out.

Dec. 26.--No rain, and the earth rather cooler than
before, and pleasanter.

Dec. '27.--Kille<l a young goat, and lamed another,
so that I catched it, and led it home in a string, and
bound and splintered its leg, which was broke. N.B.
--I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew
well, and as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long
it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door,
and would not go away. This was the first time that
I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that I might have food when my powder
and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28,29, 30.--Great heats and no breeze, so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening
for food. This time I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors.

Jan. l.--Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going further into the valleys,
which lay to the centre of the island, I found there
were plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard
to come at: however, I resolved to try if I could not
bring my dog to hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--Accordingly the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats, but they all faced
about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well,
for he would not come near them.

Jan. 3.----I begun my fence or wall, which, to pre-
vent attack, I resolved to make very thick and strong.

(N. B.--This wall being described before, 1 pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal: it is suffi-
cient to observe, that I was no less than from the 3rd
of Jan. to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than
about 24 yards in length, being a half circle, from one
place in the rock to another place about eight yards

from it, the door of the cave being in the centre
behind it.]

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks toge-
ther: but I thoughtI should never be perfectly secure
till this wall was finished: and it is scarce credible
what inexpressible labour everything was done with,
especially bringing piles out of the woods, and driving

them into the ground, for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I per-
suaded myself, that if any people were to come on
shore there, they would not perceive any thing like a
habitation: and it was very well I did so, as may be
observed hereafter, upon a remarkable occasion.

During this time I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain permitted me,
and made frequent discoveries in these walks of some-
thing or other to my advantage ; particularly I found
a kind of wild pigeons, which built not as wood-
pigeons in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the
holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to bring them up tame, and did so ; but
when they grew older, they all flew away, which
perhaps was at first for want of feedin them, for I
had nothing to give them; however, SI frequently
found their nests, and got their young ones, which
were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting many things which I thought
at first impossible for me to make, as indeed as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could never make
a cask, to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two,

as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the

capacity of making one by them, though I spent many

weeks about it ; I could neither put in the heads, or

{Join the staves so true to one another, as to make them
old water, so I gave them also over.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for can-
dles, so that when it was dark, which was generally
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I re-
membered the lump of bees wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure, but I had none of
that now: the only remedy I had was, that when I
had killed a goat, I saved the tallow, and with a little
dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which
I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp;
and this gave me light, though not a clear steady
light like a candle. In the middle of all my labours
it happened, that, rummaging my things, I found a
little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled
with corn, for the feeding of poultry, not for this voy-
age, but before, as I suppose, when the ship came
from Lisbon ; what little remainder of corn had been
in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw
nothing in the bag but husks and dust ; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use (I think it
was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the lightning, or some such purpose), I shook the
husks of corn out of it, on one side of my fortification
under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown an there; when, about a month after, or
thereabouts, saw some stalks of something een
shooting up on the ground, which I fancied mig t be
some plant, I had not seen; but I was surprised, and

erfectl astonished, when, after a little longer time,
saw a out ten or twelve ears come out, which were

perfectly green barley, the same as English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all ;
indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my head,
nor had entertained any sense of any thing that had
befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we
lightly say, what pleases God ; without so much as
inquiring into the end of providence in these things,
or his order in governing events in the world ; but,
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I
knew was not proper for corn, and especially that I
knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely,
and I began to suggest that God had miraculously
caused this grain to grow, without an help of seed
sown, and that it was so directly pure y for my sus-
tenance in that wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself that such
a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account ;
and this was the more strange to me, because I saw
near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some
other straggling stalks which proved to be stalks of
rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow in
Africa, when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support, but, not doubting but
that there was more in the place, I went all over that
part of the island where 1 had been before, peering
in every corner, and under every rock, to see for more
of it, but I could not find any ; at last it occurred to
my thoughts that I had shaken the bag of chicken'l
meat out in that place, and then the wonder began to
cease ; and I must confess my religious thankfulness
to God's providence began to abate too, upon my die-
covering that all this was nothing but what was com-
mon, though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen providence as if it had been
miraculous; for it was really the work of providence
as tome, that should appoint that ten or twelve grams
of corn should remain unspoiled (when the rats had
destroyed all the rest), as if it had been dropped from
heaven ; as also that I should throw it out in that par-
ticular place, where, it being in the shade of a high
rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had
thrown it any where else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
June; and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow
them all again, hoping in time to have some quantity
sufficient to supply me with bread: but it was not
till the fourth year that I would allow myself the
least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but spa-
ringly, for I lost all I sowed the first season by not
observing the proper time, for I sowed just before the
dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least
not as it would have done.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the
same care, and whose use was of the same kind, or
to the same purpose: viz. to make me bread, or rather
food: for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I did that also, after some time. But to re-
turn to my journal.

I worked excessive hard three or four months to
get my wall done: and the 14th of April I closed it
up, contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over
a wall by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the
outside of my habitation.

April l6.--I.fin shed the ladder, so I went up with
it to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let
it down on the inside. This was acomplete enclosure
to me: for within I had room enough, and nothing
could come at me from without, unless it could first
mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed. The case was this: as I was busy in
the inside of it, behind my tent, just at the entrance
into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed, for all on a sudden,
I found the earth came tumbling down from the roof
of my cave, and from the ed e of the hill over my
- head, and two of the posts I ad set up in the cave
cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared,
but thought nothing of what really was the cause,
and, for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forwards
to my ladder; and, not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of
the hill, which I expected might roll down upon me.
I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ound,
but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthqua e; for
the ground I stood on shook three times, at about
eight minutes distance, with three such shocks as
would have overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood upon the earth; and
a great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about
half a mile from me next the sea, fell down with such
a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I per5
ceived also the very sea was put into a violent motion
by it, and I believe the shocks were stronger under
the water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had,
that I was like one dead or mangled; and the motion
of the earth made my stomach 810k, like one that was
tossed at sea ; but the noise of the falling of the rock
awakened me, as it were, and, rousing me from the
stupified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and
I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon
my tent, and all my household goods, and burying all
at once; and this sunk my soul within me again.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to take cour e, and yet I had
not heart enough to get over my w again, for fear
of being buried alive ; but still sat upon the ground,
greatly cast down, and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. All this while I had not the least serious reli-
gious thought, nothing but the common " Lord, have
mercy upon me i" and when it was over, that went
away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and it
grew cloudy, as if it would rain ; and, in less than an"
hour, it blew amost dreadful hurricane of wind. The
sea was all on a sudden covered with foam and froth,
the shore was covered with the breach of the water,
the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible
storm it was ; this held about three hours, and then
began to abate ; and then in two hours more it was
calm, and began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected; when, on a sudden, it came
into my thoughts that these winds and rain, being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, an I might venture into
my cave again. With this thought my spirits began
to revive, and the rain helping also to persuade me,
I went in, and sat me down in my tent, but the rain
was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down by it, I was forced to go into my cave, though
very much afraid, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut
a hole through my new fortification like a sink, to let
the water go out, which would else have filled my
cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and
found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I
began to be more composed; and now, to support my
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to
my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which I
did very sparingly, knowing I could have no more.

It continued raining all that night, and great part
of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad ; but,
my mind being more composed, I began to think
what I had best do ; concluding that if the island
was subject to these earth uakes, there would be no
living for me in a cave, but must consider of building
me a little hut, in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall, as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men, but concluded,
if I staid where l was, I should be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent,
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 19th
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to
remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that
I never slept in quiet ; but still, when I looked about
and saw how everything was put in order, how plea-
santly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loath to remove.

In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it. So, with this resolution, I
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would
go to work, with all speed, to build me a wall with
piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and set my
tent up in it when it was finished ; but that I would
venture to stay where I was till it was finished, and
fit to remove to. This was the 21st.

April '22--The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution ; but I was at
a great loss about my tools. I had three large axes,
and abundance of hatchets, but with much chopping
and cutting knotty wood, they were all full of notches,
and dull ; and though I had a grindstone, I could not
turn it, and grind my tools too. At length, I con
tnved a wheel, with a string to turn it with my foot,
that I might have both m hands at libert . N ate.--
I had not seen any such thing in Englan , or at least
not to take notice how it was done, thoegh since I
have observed, it is very common there. This
machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to
perfection.

April 28, 29.--These two whole days I took up in
grinding tools; my machine for taming my grind
stone performing very well.

April. 30.--Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, I reduced myself to one biscuit
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.

May l.--In the morning, looking towards the sea.
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
sea-shore, bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a
cask: when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, that
were driven on shore by the hurricane, and looking
towards the Wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I ex
amined the barrel which was driven on shore, and
soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had
taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore for the
present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I
could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed: the forecastle, which lay before buried in
the sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the
stern, which wats broken to pieces, and parted from
the rest by the area of the sea, soon after I had left
rummaging of her, was tossed, as it were up, and cast
on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that
side next the stern, that I could now walk quite up
to her when the tide was out. I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by
the earth uake, and as by this violence the ship was
more bro en open than formerly, so many things
came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; l busied myself mightily
that day especially, in searching whether I could get
into the shi ; but I found nothing was to be expected
of that kin , for all the inside of the ship was choked
up with sand. However, I resolved to pull every
thing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding
that every thing I could get from her would be useful.

May 3.--l began with my saw, and cut a piece of
a beam through, which I thought held some of the
upper part, or quarter-deck, together ; and when I
had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest, but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over.

May 4.----I went a fishing, but caught not one fish
that I durst eat of, till I wasweary of my sport, when
just going to leave 01?, I caught a young dolphin. I
had made me a long line of some rope yam, but I had
no hooks ; yet I frequently caught as much fish as
I cared to eat ; which I dried in the sun, and eat dry.

May 5.--Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir lanks off from
the decks, which I tied together, an made swim to
shore when the tide of flood came on.

May 6.--Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron work.

May 'L--Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work ; but found the weight of the Wreck
had broken itself down, the beams being cut, that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the
inside of the hold lay so open. that I could see into
it ; but almost full of water and sand.

May 8---Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear
of the water or sand. I wrenched open two planks,
andbrought them on shore also with the tide. I left
the iron crow in the wreck for the next day.

May 9.--.Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow; but could
not break them up. I felt also the roll of English
lead, but it was too heavy to move.
May 10, ll, 12, 13, l4.--Went every day to the
wreck and got many pieces of timber and boards, or
planks, and two or three hundred weight of iron.'

May l5.--I carried two hatchets, to try if 1 could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placinthhe edge
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other ; but as
it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not
make any blow to drive the hatchet.

May l6.--It blew hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but
I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.

May l7.--I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me ; but resol-
ved to see what they were, and found it was a piece of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May '24.--Every day, to this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing
came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead that had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food; and, by this
time, I had gotten timber and plank, and iron work
enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how;
and also I got at several times, and in several pieces,
near one hundred weight of the sheet lead.

June 16. ---Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had seen,
which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not any de-
fect of the place, or scarcity ; for, had I happened to
be on the other side of the island, I might have had
- hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ;
but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for them.

June l7.--I spent in cooking the turtle. I found
in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at
that time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I
tasted in my life, having had no flesh but of goats and
fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.

June 18.---Rained all day, and I staid within. The
rain at this time felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

J nne 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

J one 20.--No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

June 2l.--Very ill ; frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick,
and no help. Prayed to God for the first time since
the storm off Hull ; but scarce knew what I said, or
why ; my thoughts being all confused.

June 22.--A little better ; but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.

June 23.---Very had again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-ache.

June 24.---Much better. .

June 25.--An ague very violent ; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26.--Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took 111 gun, but found myself very weak ; however,
I kille a she-goat, and, with much difficulty, got it
home, and broiled some, and eat it.

June 27.--'I'he ague again so violent, that I lay a-
bed all day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready
to perish with thirst, but so weak, I had not strength
to stand up, or get myself any water to drink ; prayed
to God again, but was light-headed ; and when I was
not, I was so ignorant; that I knew not what to say :
only I lay, and cried, " Lord, look upon me! Lord
pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me !" I suppose
I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing 03, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in
the night. When I waked, I found myself much
refreshed, but weak, and exceedingly thirsty ;.how-
ever, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I
was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again.
In this second sleep 1 had this terrible dream :--

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earth uake, and that I saw a man descend
from a great b ack cloud, in a bright flame of fire,
and light upon the ground. He was all over as bright
as a flame, so that I could but just hear to look to-
Wards him ; his countenance was most inexpressibly
dreadful ; impossible for words to describe; when he
stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done before the earth-
quake, and all the air looked to my apprehension, as
of it had been filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forwards towards me, with a long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me,
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to
express the terror of it; all that I can say I under-
stood was this :--" Seeing all these thin s have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou sha t die." At
which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that
was in his hand, to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors;
nor is it any more possible to describe the impression
that remained upon my mind when I awaked, and
found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no Divine knowledge; what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father, was then
worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation
with none but such as were like myself, wicked and

rofane to the last degree. I do not remember that
had, in all that time, one thought so much as tended

either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards
towards a reflection upon my own ways; but a cer-
tain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or con-
science of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and
I was all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked
creature among our common sailors can be supposed
to be, not having the least sense either of the fear of
God in dangers, or of thankfnlness in deliverance.

In relating what is already past in my stay, this
will be more easily believed, when I shall ad , that,
through all the variety of miseries that had to this
day befullen me, I never had so much as one thought
of its being the hand of God, or that it was a just
punishment for my past sins, my rebellious behavxonr
to my father, or my present sins, whichwere great ; or
so much as a punishment for the general course of my
wicked life. When I was on the (lee erate expedi-
tion on the desert shores of Africa, never had so
much as one thought of what would become of me, or
one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or
to keep me from the danger which apparently sur-
rounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel
savages; but I was merely thoughtless of God, or a
providence ; I acted like a mere brute, from the prin-
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense
only, and indeed hardly that.

When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and hon-
ourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thoughts ; when, again, I was
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on
this island, I was as far from remorse on looking on
it as a judgment, I only said to myself often, that I
was an unfortunate dog, and born to be miserable.

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I
was surprised with a kind of ecstasy and some trans-
sports of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted,
might have come up to true thankfulness ; but it
en ed where it began, in a more common flight of joy,96 ROBINSON 050503..

or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the
least reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of
the hand which had preserved me, and had singled
me out to be preserved, when the rest were destroyed,
or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful
to me: even just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have, after having got safe ashore
from a shipwreck, which they drown in the next bowl
of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over.

Even when I was afterward, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on
this dreadful place out of the reach of human kind,
out of all hopes of relief, or prospect of redemption,
as soon as I saw a probability of living, and that I
should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense
of my affliction wore ofl', and I began to be very easy,
applied myself to the works proper for my preserva-
tion and supply, and was far enough from being afflict-
ed at my condition ; as Ta judgment from Heaven or
as the hand of God against me, these thoughts very
seldom entered into my head.

The growing up of the corn, hinted in my journal,
had at first some little influence upon me, and began
to affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it
had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever
that part of the thought was removed, all the impres-
sion which was raised from it, wore ofi' also.

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing
to the invisible power which alone directs such things,
yet no sooner was the first fright over, but the impres-
sion it had made went off also.

But now when I began to be sick, and a leisurely
view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me ; when my spirits began to sink under the
burden of a strong distemper, and nature was ex-
hausted by the violence of the fever ; conscience, that

had slept so long, began to awake, and I began to re.
proach myself with my past life.
These reflections oppressed me from the second or
third day of my distemper, and, in the violence as
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my
conscience, extorted some words from me, like ray-
ing to God, though I cannot say they were eit era
prayer attended with desires, or with hopes ; it was
rather the voice of mere fright and distress ; my
thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon
my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable
condition, raised vapours in my head, with the mere
apprehensions; and in these urries of my soul, I
knew not what my tongue might express ; but it was
rather exclamations, such as " Lord what a miserable
creature am I l if I should be sick, I shall certainly
die for want of help ; and what will become of me !"
Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say
no more for a good while.

In this interval, the good advice of my father came
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I
mentioned at the beginning of this story; viz. That,
if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless
me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist me in my recovery. "Now," said I,
aloud, "my dear father's words are come to pass ,
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to
help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence,
which had mercifully put me in a posture or station
of life wherein I might have been happy and easy,
but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to know
the blessing: of it from my parents; I left them to
mourn over my folly, and now I am left to mourn the
consequences of it. I refused their help and assist-
ance, who would have lifted me into the world, and
would have made every thing easy to me ; and now I
have difficulties to struggle with, too great for even
nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help,
no comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be

my hler, for I am in meat distress!"
- u
' 's was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that
I ha made for many years. But to return to my
journal.

June 28.--Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely 03, I
got up, and the fright and terror of my disease was
very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague
would return the next day ; and now was my time to
get something to refresh and support myself when I
should be ill ; and the first thing I did I filled a large
square case bottle with water, and set it upon a table
near my bed, and to take off the chill or agueish dis-
position of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together ; then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little ; I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal, very sad and heavy-
hearted in the sense of my miserable condition, and
dreading the return of my distemper the next day;
at night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs,
which I roasted 1n the ashes, and eat, as we call it,
in the shell; and this was the first bit of meat I ever
asked God's blessing to.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
self so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I
never went out without that), so I went but a little
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat, these thoughts occurred to me.

What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much ? When is it produced ? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and
brutal ; whence are we P

Sure we are made by some secret power, who formed
the earth and sea, the air and sky ; and who is that?

Then it followed most naturally--it is God that has
made it all. Well, but then, it came on strongly--if
God has made these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them ; for the
being that could make all things, must have power to
guide and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the circuit of hisworke
without his knowledge or appointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowled e, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadf con-
dition ; and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed this to befall me.

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it must needs be, that
God has appointed all this to befall me ; that I was
brought to this miserable circumstance by his direc-
tion; he having the sole power, not of me only, but
of every thing that happened in the world. Imme-
diately it followed--Why has God done this to me ?
What have I done to be thus used ?

My conscience presently checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blasphemed; and, methought it
spoke to me like a voice,--Wretch! dost thou ask
what thou hast done? Look back upon thy dreadful
mis-spent life, and ask thyself what thou hast done'.'
Ask why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ?
Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads '.'
killed in the fight, when the ship was taken by the
Sallee man of war ? devoured by wild beasts on the
coast of Africa ? or, drowned here, when all the crew
gerished but thyself? Dost thou ask,--What have I

one ?

l was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say in answer to
myself, but rose up, pensive and sad, walked back to
my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had
been going to bed ; but my thoughts were sadly dis-
turbed, and I had no inclination to sleep, so I sat in
my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the return of my
distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thoughts that the Brazilians take no physio but their
tobacco, for almost all distempers ; and I had a piece
of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was
cured, and some also that was green, and not cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt, for in this
chest I found a cure for soul and body. I opened the
chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the tobacco:
and as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took
out one of the Bibles, which I had mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure, or so
much inclination, to look into; I say I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, but
I tried several experiments with it, as if I was re-
solved it should hit one way or other. I first took a
piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which,
indeed, at first, stupified my brains ; the tobacco being
green and strong, and that 1 had not been much used
to it; then I took some, and steeped it an hour or two
in rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay
down ; and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals,
and held my nose close over the smoke of it, as long
as I could bear it, as well for the heat as for the virtue
of it, and I held it almost to suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up a Bible,
and began to read ; but my head was too much dis;
turbed with the tobacco, to bear reading, at least at
that time; only, having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these, " Call on
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me."

The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression on me at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards ; for, as
for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me, the thing was so remote, so impossible in
my apprehension of things, that I began to say as
the children of Israel did, when they were promised
flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness '2" So I began to say, can God himself deliver
me from this place? But, however, the words made
a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them
very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had,
as I said, dozed my head so much, that I inclined to
sleep ; so I left my lamp burning in my cave, lest I
should want anything in the night, and went to bed :
but before I lay down, I did what I never had done. in
all my life, I kneeled down,and prayed to God to fulfil
the promise to me, that, if I called upon him in the day
of trouble, he would deliver me. After my broken and
imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I
had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and
rank of the tobacco, that, indeed, I could scarce get
it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed, and
I found presently it flew up into my head violently;
but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till
by the sun, it must necessarily be .near three o'clock
in the afternoon, the next day: na , to this hour I
am partly of opinion that I slept all t e next day and
night, and till almost three the day after, for other-
wise I knew not how I should lose a. day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared,
some years after, I had done ; for if I had lost it by
.crossing and recrossing the line, I should have lost
more than one day ; but certainly, I lost a day in my
account, and I never knew which way.

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I
awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up I was
stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, for I was hungry, and, in short, I had no fit
the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
ahroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them, so I eat some more of the
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I
renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me
good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum,
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke.
However, I was not so well the next day, which was
the 1st of July.

July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways
and dozed myself with it as at first, and doubled the
quantity which I drank.

July 3.----I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts
ran exceedingly upon this passage in Scripture, "I
will deliver thee," and the impossibility of my deli-
verance lay upon my mind, in bar of my ever expect-
ing it. But as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts it occurred to my mind, that I pored so
much upon my deliverance from the main affliction,
that I disregarded the deliverance I had received ;
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques-
tions as these, viz. Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully too, from sickness ; from the most dis-
tressed condition that could be, and that was so fright-
ful to me ? And what notice had I taken of it P Had
I done my part? God had delivered me: but I had
not glorified him! that is to say, I had not owned and
been thankful for that as a deliverance; and how
could I expect greater deliverance. This touched
my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled down
and gave God thanks aloud, for my recovery from
sickness.

July 4th.--In the morning I took the Bible; and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a while
every morning and every night, not tying myself to a
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seri-
ously to this work, but I found my heart more deeply
and sincerely affected with the sins of my past life.
The impression of my dream revived, and the words
"All these things have not brought thee to repent-
ance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly
begging of God to give me repentance, when it hap-

ened providentially, the very day, that, reading the
r criptures, I came to the words, " He is exalted a
Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give
remission." I threw down the book, and, with my
heart as well as my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a
kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou
Son of David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour,
give me repentance I"

This was the first time that I could as , in the
true sense of the word, that I prayed in a my life,
for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and
with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of God; and from this
time, I may say, I began to have hope that God
would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, "Call on me, and I will deliver thee," ina
different sense from what I had ever done before;
for then I had no notion of any thing being called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity
I was in g for though, indeed, I was 'at large in the
place, yet the island was certainlya prison to me,
and that in the fullest sense of the word ; but now I
learned to take it in another sense. Now, I looked
back on my past life with such horror, and my sins
appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that
bore down all in comfort. As for my solitary life
it was nothing; did not so much as pray to be de-
hvered from it, or think of it ; it was all of no con<
sideration in comparison of this ; and I add this part
here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever
they come to a true sense of things, they will find
deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than
deliverance from affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began to be, though not less mise-
rable as to my way of living, yet much easier to my
mind, and my thoughts being directed, by a constant
reading of the Scriptures, and praying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of com-
fort within, which till now I knew nothing of. Also,
as my health and strength returned, I began to furnish
myself with every thing that I wanted, and make my
way of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed with walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his strength after a fit of sickness, for it is hardly
to be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness
I was reduced. The application I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before, neither can I recommend the experiment,
for it left me very weak, with frequent convulsions in
my nerves and limbs for some time.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months ; all possibility of deliverance from it seemed
to be entirely taken away from me ; and I firmly be-
lieve that no human shape had ever set foot upon the
place. Having secured my habitation, as I thought,
fully to my mind, I had a desire to make a more per-
fect discovery of the island, and see what other pro-
ductions I might find, which I yet knew not of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular snrve of the island. I went up the
creek first, where I ad brought my rafts on shore.
I found, after going about two miles up, that the
tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no more
than a little brook of running water, and very fresh
and good; but this being the dry season, there was
scarcely any water in some parts of it.

On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass, and on the rising parts of them, next to
the higher grounds, where the water, as it might be
supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a great and strong
stalk. There were divers other plants, which I did
not understand, and might, perhaps, have virtues of
their own, which I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of, but I could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them. I saw several sugar canes,
but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I
contented myself with these discoveries for this time,
and came back, musing with myself what course I
might take to know the virtues and goodness of any of
the fruits or plants which I should discover, but could
bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I
knew little of the plants of the field.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again ; and, after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the sa-
vannahs began to cease, and the country became more
woody than before. In this part I found difi'erent
fruits, and particularly melons upon the ground, in
great abundance, and apes upon the trees ; the
vines had spread over this trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now in their prime, very ripe and rich. '
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding
glad of them ; but I was warned, by my experience,
to eat sparingly of them, remembering that when I
was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed
several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by
throwing them into fluxes and fevers: but I found an
excellent use for these grapes ; and that was to cure
or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed
they were, as wholesome, andas agreeable to eat, when
no grapes might be had.

I spent all that evening there. and went not back
to m habitation, which was the first night, as I might
say, had lain from home. In the night I got up into
a tree, where I slept well, and the next morning pro-
ceeded upon my discovery, travelling near four miles,
keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the
south and north side of me.

At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west, and
a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the
side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due
east ; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
and so flourishing, that it looked like a garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts,) to
think that this was all my own; and if I could con-
vey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely
as any lord of the manor in England. I saw here
abundance of cocoa-trees, orange, lemon, and citron
trees, but all wild, and few bearing fruit. However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only plea-
sant to eat, but very wholesome ; and I mixed their
juice afterWards with water, which made it very
wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I now
resolved to carry home and lay up a store of grapes,
limes, and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet sea-
son, which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this, Igathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, and a lesser heap in another, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; and,
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homeward,
and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack,
or what I could make, to carry them home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this jour-
ney, I came home ; but before I got thither, the
grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and
the weight of the juice, having broken and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing ; as to the
limes, I could bring but a fewdeg
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, I found them all spread abroad, trod to pie-
ces, and dragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded
there were some wild creatures thereaboutswhich had
done this, but what they were I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, I
took another course ; for I gathered a large quantity
of grapes, and hung them upon the out-branches of
the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun:
but as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated, with great pleasure, the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation ; and
concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode, which was by far the worst part of the country.
Upon the whole, I began to consider of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as
where I now was situate, if possible, in that pleasant
fruitful part of the island.

This thought run long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of
the place tempting me ; but when I came to a nearer
view of it, and to consider that I was now by the sea-
side, where it was at least possible that something
might happen to my advantage, and that the same ill
fate that brought me hither might bring some unhappy
wretches to the same place ; and though it was
scarce probable that any such thing should ever hap-
pen, yet, to enclose myself among the hills and woods
in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my hon-
dage, and to render such an afl'air not only improba-
ble, but impossible, and that therefore I ought not by
any means to remove.

However, I was so enamoured with this place,
that I spent much of my time there for the whole re-
maining part of the month of July ; and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built
a little kind of bower, and surrounded it at a distance
with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as
I could reach, well staked, and filled between with
brushwood ; and here I lay secure, sometimes two or
three nights together, always going over it with a.
ladder, as before, so that I fancied now I had my
country-house and my sea-coast house ; and this work
took me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation ; for though I
had made me a tent, like the other, with a piece of a
sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter
of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me to retreat into, when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bowar, and began to enjoy myself. The
3rd of August I found the grapes I had hung up were
perfectly dried ; so I began to take them down from
the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the
rains which followed would have spoiled them. N o
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried them
home to my cave, but it began to rain ; and from
hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained more
or less every day till the middle of October, and some-
times so violently that I could not stir out of my cave
for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats,which ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead ; and I heard no more of
her, till, to my astonishment, she came home about
the end of August with three kittens This was the
more strange to me, because, though I had killed a
wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought
it was quite a. different kind from our European cats 3nonmsou biwsos. 109

vet the young cats were the same kind of house-bred,
like the old one; and both my cats being females,
I thought it very strange. But from these three cats
I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats that I
was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as
possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now <<very care-
ful not to get wet. In this confinement I began to
be straitened for food; but venturing out twice, I one
day killed a goat; and the last day, which was the
26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to
me ; and my food was regulated thus ; I eat a bunch
of raisins for my breakfast ; a piece of goat's flesh, or
of the turtle for my dinner ; and two of the turtle's
eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave; and, by degrees, worked it on towards one side,
till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door,
or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and
so I came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly
easy at lying so open ; for, as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure, whereas now I
thought I lay exposed ; and yet I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest
creature that I had yet seen being a goat.

September 30th.----I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on
my post, and found I had been on shore three hun-
dred and sixty-five days. I kept this dayas a solemn
fast, setting it apart to religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious humili-
ation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ ; and having
not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even
till the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit
cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finish-
ing the day as I began it.

had all this time observed no sabbath day ; for as at
first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had for
some time omitted to distinguish the weeks by cutting
a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath day,
and so did not know what any of the days were; but
now having cast up the days as above, I found I had
been there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and set
apart every seventh day for a Sabbath, though I found
at the end of my account I had lost a day or two.

A little after this, my ink began to fail me, and so
I coutented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without making a memorandum of other things.

The rainy season, and the dry season, began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them
so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought
my experience before I had it ; and this I am going to
relate was one of the most discouraging experiments
that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had
saved the few ears of barley and rice, which I had
so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and believe there were about thirty stalks of
rice, and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought
it a proper time to sow after the rains, the sun being
in its southern position going from me.

Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well
as I could with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain ; but as I was sow-
ing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when
was the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds
of the seed, leaving about a handful of each.

It was a great comfort to me afterwards, that I did
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to any thing ; for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and it never came up at
all, till the wet season had come again, and then it
grew as if it had been but newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in ; and I du
up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowe
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the
vernal equinox ; and this, having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, s rung up very plea-
santly, and yielded a very goo crop; but having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all
that I had yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my
whole crop not amounting to above half a peck.

But, by this experiment, I was made master of my
business, and knew exactly the time to sow, that I
might expect two seed-times and harvests ever year.

While this corn was growing I made a litt e dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to
settle, which was the month of November, I made a
visit up the country to my bower, where, though I
had not been for some months, yet I found all things
just as I left them. The circle or double hedgqthat
I had made was not only firm and entire, but the
stakes, which I had cut off some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out, and grown with long
branches, as much as a willow tree usually shoots the
first year after lopping its head. I could not tell
what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led them
up to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce
credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years, so that though the hedge made a circle of about
twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such
I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a
shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my
wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I did 3
and, placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at
about eight yards distance from my first fence, they
grew, and were, at first, a fine cover to my habitation,
and afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall
observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as
in Europe, but into rainy seasons and dry seasons,
which were generally thus :--

Half February, March, half April--Rainy, the sun
being then or near the equinox.

Half April, May, June, half August--Dry, the sun
being then to the north of the line.

Half August, September, half October--Rain, the
sun being then come back.

Half October, November, December, January, half
February--Dry, the sun being to the south of the line.

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,
as the winds happened to blow ; this was the general
observation I made. After I had found, by experience,
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took
care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that
I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat in doors
as much as possible during the wet months.

At this time I tried many ways to make myself a
basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when

was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing
at a basket-maker's in the town where I lived, to
see them make their wicker ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very officious to help, and a great ob-
server of the manner how they worked these things,
and sometimes lending a hand, I had, by this means.
so full a knowledge of their methods, that I wanted
nothing but the materials; when it came into my
mind, that the twigs of that tree, from whence I cut
my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as
the sallows, and willows, and osies in England, and I
resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day I went
to my country house, as I called it, and cutting some
of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire ; whereupon I came the next
time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a uantity
which I soon found, for there was a great p enty of
them. These I set to dry within my circle or hedge,
and when they were fit for use I carried them to my
cave ; and here, during the next season, I employed
myself in making, as well as I could, a great'many
baskets, both to carry earth or to lay up an thing, as
I had occasion ; and thus, afterwards, took care
never to be without them: and, as my wicker ware
decayed, I made more; especially I made strong deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when
I should come to have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed much
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible,
how to supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold
anything that was, liquid, except two runlets which
were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some
of the common size, and others which were case bot-
tles, square, for the holding of water, spirits, &c. I
had not so much as a pot to boil anything in, except
a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, and which
was too big for the uses I desired it for, viz. to make
broth, and stew a bit ,of meat by itself. The next
thing I would fain have had was a tobacco pipe ; but
it was impossible for me to make one ; however I

found a contrivance for that too at last. .
I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see

the whole island, and that I travelled up the brook,
and so on to where I had built my bower, and where
I had an opening made to the sea, on the other side
of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across
to the sea-shore on that side; so, taking my gun, a
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes, and a
102 E
great bunch of raisins in my ouch, for my store, I
began my journey. When had passed the vale
where my bower stood, as above, I came in view of
the sea, to the west ; and it being a very clear day, I
fairly descried land, whether an island or a continent
I could not tell ; but it lay very high, extending from
the west to the W. S. W. at a great distance ; by my
guess it was fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America ; and, as I concluded by all my observations,
must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was
all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have land-
ed, I had been in a worse condition than I was now ;
and therefore I acquiesced in the disposition of Pro-
vidence, which I began to own, and to believe, ordered
everything for the best.

Besides, I considered, that if this land was the
Spanish coast, I should certainly one time or other
see some vessels pass or repass one way or other ; but
if not, then it was a savage country between the Span-
ish country and Brazils, who were indeed the worst of
savages, for they were cannibals, or men-eaters, and
devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands.

With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found the side of the island where I now
was much pleasanter than mine, the open or savan-
nah fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and
full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots,
and fain would have caught one, if possible, to have
kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did
after some pains-taking catch a young parrot, for I
knocked it down with a stick, and I took it home, but
it was some years before I could make him speak to
me. However, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly.

I was exceeding y diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatlv from all
the other kinds I had met with ;nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I
had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too, especially
these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle or
tortoise, which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall
market could not have furnished a table better than
I could, in proportion to the company.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles in
a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and
returns, to see what discoveries I could make, that I
came weary enough to the place where I resolved to
sit down for all night ; and-then I either reposed
myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of
stakes set upright in the ground, either from one tree
to another, or so as no wild creature could come at
me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side
of the island, for here indeed the shore was covered
with innumerable turtles, whereas on the other side
I had found but three in a year and a half. Here
was also an infinite number of fowls, of many kinds,
some of which I had seen, and some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but
I knew not their names, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore
had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which
I could better feed on. And though there were many
goats here more than on my side of the island, yet it
was with much more difficulty that I could come
near them, the country being flat and even, and they
saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country was much plea-
santer than mine, but yet I had not the least inclina-
tion to remove ; and I seemed _all the while I was
here to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home.
However, I travelled along the shore of the see,
towards the east, I suppose, about twelve miles ; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded to go home again ; and that the
next journey I took should be on the other side of the
island, east from my dwelling, and so round till I
came to my post again.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinkingl could easily keep all the island so much
in my view, that I could not miss finding my first
dwelling, by viewing the country: but found myself
mistaken ; for being come about two or three miles,
I found myself descended into a very large valley,
but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered
with woods, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that
time of the day.

It happened, unfortunately, that the weather proved
hazy for three or four days, while I was in this valley;
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about
very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to find
out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back the
same way I went; and then, by easy journeys, I
turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot ;
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things,
very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
. seized upon it; and I running to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home, if I could ; for I was
very anxious to raise a breed of tame goats, which
might supply me when my powder and shot should
be all spent. I made a collar for this little creature,
and with a string which I made of some rope-yarn,
which I always carried about me, [led him along,
though with some difficulty, till I came to my bower,
and there I enclosed him, and left him; forI was
very impatient to be at home, from whence I had
been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me
to come into my old abode, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. This little wandering journey, without
any settled habitation, had been unpleasant to me,
so that my own house, as I called it, was a perfect
settlement, compared to that; and it rendered every
thing about me so comfortable, that I resolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey, during which, most of
the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making
a cage for my poll, who began now to be a mere do-
mestic, and to be very well acquainted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor kid, which I had
pent in within my little circle, and resolved to go and
fetch it home, or give it some food ; accordingly I
Went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could
not get out, but was almost starved for want of food.
I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such
shrubs as I could find, and threw them over, and hav-
ing fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away, but
it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need
to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and be-
came, from that time, one of my domestics also, and
would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of
my landing on the island, having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of being delivered than
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in
humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been
infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty
thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me,
even that it was ossible I might be more happy in
this solitary condition, than I should have been in
all the pleasures of the world ; that he could fully
make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, .
and the want of human society, by his presence, and
the communications of his grace to my soul, support-
ing, comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon
his providence here, and hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mise
rable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomi-
nable life I led all the past part of my days ; having
changed both my sorrows and my joys, from what
they were at my first coming, or indeed for the two
years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in ; and how
I was a prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
without redemption. In the midst of the greatest
composures of my mind, this would break out upon
me, like a storm, and make me wring my hands, and
weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me in
the middle of my work, and 1 would immediately sit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour
or two together, and this was still worse to me ; for if
I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words,
it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted itself,
would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts. I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. I never
opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my
goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of
the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year ; having regularly divided my time accord-
ing to the several daily employments that were before
me: such as, first, my duty to God, and reading the
Scriptures, which I constantly set apart for some time
thrice every day. Secondly, the going abroad with
my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning, when it did not rain. Thirdly,
the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking, what I
had killed or catched for my supply ; these took up
great part of the day. Also, in the middle of the day,
when the sun was in its zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out, so that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I
changed my hours of hunting and working, and went
to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in
the afternoon. '

To this short time allowed for labour, maybe added
the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours, which, for want of tools, for want of help, and
want of skill, every thing that I did took up out of
my time. For example, I was full two-and-forty
days making me a board for a long shelf, which I
wanted in my cave, whereas, two sawyers, with their
tools and a saw-pit, would have out six of them, out
of the same tree in half a day. .

My case was this ; it was to be a large tree which
was to be cut down, because my board was to be a
broad one. This tree I was three days in cutting
down, and two 'more cutting 05 the boughs, and re-
ducing it to a log or piece of timber. With inexpres-
sible hacking and hewing, I reduced both sides of it
into chips, till it began to be light enough to move ;
then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and
flat as a board, from end to end, then tnrnin that
side downward, cut the other side, till I broug t the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on
both sides. Any one may judge the reason why so
much of my time went away with so little work, viz.
that what might be a little to be done with help and
tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand.

I was nowin the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great, for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season, but now my
crop promised very well, when, on a sudden, I found
I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of
several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep
From it ; at first, the goats and wild creatures which
1 called hares,which, tasting the sweetness of the
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up,
and eat it so close, that it could get no time to shoot
up into stalk. This I saw no remedy for but by
making an enclosure about it with a hedge, which I
did with a great 'deal of toil, and the more as it re-
quired speed, the creatures daily spoiling my corn.
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to
my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in
the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long; so, in a little time,
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts injured me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were likely to injure
me now, when it was in the ear ; for, going along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, of I know not how manysorts,
who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them ; and I had no sooner
shot, but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I
had not seen, from amongst the corn.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a
few days, they would devour all my hopes; that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop at
all, and what to do I could not tell. Inthe first place,
I went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it ; but that,
as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so
great, but that the remainder was like to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sittin upon the
trees about me, as if they only waited till was gone
away; and the event proved it to be so: for as I
walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of
their sight, but they dropped down, one by one, into
the com again. I was so provoked that I had not
patience to stay till more came, knowing that every
grain that they eat now, was, as it might be said, a
peck loaf to me in the consequence ; but coming up
to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them.
This was what I wished for: so I took them up, and
served them as we serve notorious thieves in England,
viz. hanged them in chains asa terror to others. It is
impossible to imagine almost that this should have
such an effect as it had; for the birds would not onl
not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook a 1
that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of ; and, about the latter end
of December, which was our second harvest of the
year, I reaped my crap. I was sadly put to it for a
scythe or sickle, to cut it down, and all I could do
was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad-swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. Hon/ever, as my crop was but
small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down. In
short, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing of!
but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket
which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my
hands. At the end of all my harvesting, I found that
out of my half-peck of seed, I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and
I foresaw that in time it would please God to supply
me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again,
for I neither knew how to grind or make meal of my
corn, or, indeed, how to clean it, and part it ; nor, if
made into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how
to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire for having a good

uantity for store, and to secure a constant supply,
Iresolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve
it all for seed against the next season, and, in the
mean time, to em ploy all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is wonderful what a strange multitude of
little things are necessary in the providing, producing,
dressing, and finishing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced toa mere state of nature, found
this to be my daily discouragement, and was made
more and more sensible of it every hour, even after I
had got the first handful of seed corn, which, as I
have said, came up unexpectedly, and to my surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to digit. Well, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before ; but this did
my work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost
me a great many days to make it, yet for want of iron,
it not only wore out the sooner, but made my work
the harder, and made it be performed much worse.

However, this I bore with, and was content to work
it out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sown, I had no
barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag
a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the
earth, as it may be called, rather than harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure
it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in ; and
yet these things I did without, as shall be observed.
All this, as I said, made every thing laborious and
tedious to me, but that there was no help for ; neither
was my time so much loss to me, because as I had
divided it, a certain part of it was every day appoint-
ed to these works ; and, as I resolved to use none of
the corn for bread, till I had a great quantity by me, I
had the next six months to apply myself, by labour
and invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper
for the performing all the operations necessary for
making the corn, when I had it fit for my use.

But first, I had to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before
I did this, 1 had a week's work, at least, to make me
a spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double la-
bour to work with it. However, I- went through
that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of
ground, as near my house as I could find them to my
mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge, the
stakes of which were all cut of that wood which I set
before, which I knew would grow ; so that, in one
year's time, I knew I should have a quick or living
hedge, that would want but little repair. This work
took me up three months, but part of that time was
of the wet season, when I could not go abroad.

Within doors, while I was at work, I diverted my-
self with talking to mv parrot, and teaching him to
speak ; and I quickly learned him to know his own
name, at last to speak it pretty loud, " Poll ;" which
was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island
by any month but my own. This, therefore was not
my work, but an assistant to my work; for now, I
had a great employment upon my hands, as follows,
viz. I had long studied, by some means or other, to
make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at them.
However, considering the heat of the climate, I did
not doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I
might botch up some pot, as might, being dried in
the sun, be hard enough, and strong enough, to bear
handling, and to hold any thing that was dry, and
required to be kept so; and as this was necessary in
preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the thing I was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, to
stand like jars to hold what should be put in them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this paste: what odd, mis-shapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ;
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily ; and how many fell to pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried ; and, in a word, how, after having laboured
hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring
it home, to work it, I could not make above two large,
earthen, ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about
two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
in two great wicker-baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that they might not break ; and as
between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare; and these two pots, being to stand
always dry, I thought they would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better
success ; such aslittle round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to, and
the heat of the sun baked them extremely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was
to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It hap-
pened after some time, making a larae fire for cook-
ing my meat, when I put it out, after I had done
with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthen-
ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and
red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and
said to myself, that certainly they might be made to
burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with ; but
I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots,
in a pile upon one another, and placed my fire-wood,
all round it with a great heap of embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack
at all. When I saw them clear red, 1 let them stand
in that heat five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into
glass if I had gone on ; so I slackened my fire gradu:
ally, till the pots began to abate of the red colour,
and watching them all night, that I might not let
the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had three
very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired;
and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of
the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent. No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was
ever equal to mine, when I found I had made an
earthen pot' that would hear the fire ; and I had
hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I
set one upon the fire again, with some water in it, to
boil me some meat, which it did admirably well ;
and, with a piece of kid, I made some very good
broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several other
ingredients requisite to make it as good as I would
have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art,
with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was
at a great loss; for, of all the trades in the world, I
was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for
any whatever ; neither had I any tools to go about it
with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar,
and could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out,
nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
sufficient, but were of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle,
nor would break the corn without filling it with sand.
80, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a
stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great
block of hard wood, which I found indeed much
easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with
my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire,
and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this
I made a great heavy pestle or beater, of the wood
called the iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by
against I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed
to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal,
to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve to dress
my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husks,
without which I did not see it possible I could have
any bread. This was a most difficult task ; for I had
nothing like the neccessary thing to make it with, 1
mean fine thin canvass, or stuff to sift the meal
through. And here I was at a full stop for many
months; nor did I really know what to do, linen I
had none left, but what was mere rags. I had goat's
hair, but neither knew how to weave or spin it; and
had I known how, here were no tools to work it with;
all the remedy that I found for this was, that at last
I did remember I had, among the seamen's clothes,
which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of
calico or muslin ; and with some pieces of these I
made three small sieves.

The baking part was the next thing to be thought
of, and how I should make bread when I came to
have corn ; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that
part, as there was no supplying the want, so I did not
concern myself much about it; but for an oven I was
indeed in great pain. At length I found an expe-
dient for that also, which was this :---I made some
earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to
say, about two feet in diameter, and not above nine
inches deep ; these I burnt in the fire, as I had done
the other, and laid them by, and when I wanted to
bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which I
paved with some square tiles, of my own making and
burning also.

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot ; then sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, and,
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the
embers all around the outside of the pot, to keep in
and add to the heat ; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, and be-
came, in a little time, a pastry-cook into the bargain,
having made myself several cakes of the rice.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
11p most of the third year of my abode here; for it is
to be observed, that in the interval of these things,
my new harvest and husbandry had to be managed,
for I reaped my corn in its season, carried it home,
and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till an
opportunity occurred to rub it out; having no floor to
thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, it
became necessary to build my barns bigger. Being
in want of a place to lay it up, for the increase of corn
now yielded me so much, that I had of barley about
twenty bushels, and as much or more of rice ; inso-
much that I now resolved to use it freely, for my bread
had been quite gone a great while ; being resolved to
see what quantity would be sufficient for me for a
whole year, and to sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, finding that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could consume
in a year ; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity
every year as the last.

During the time that these things were doing, my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land,
which I had seen from the other side of the island ;
and was not without secret wishes to get on shore,
fancying that seeing the main land, and an inhabited
country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and at last might escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition,and how I might fall into
the hands of savages, and perhaps such as would be
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa ; that if
I once came into their power, there would be the
hazard of more thana thousand to one of being killed,
and perhaps of being eaten ; for I knew that the peo-
ple of the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or men-
eaters ; and I knew by the latitude that I could not
be far off from that shore; that, suppose they were
not cannibals, yet they might kill me, as many Euro-
peans who had fallen into their hands had been served
even when they had been ten or twenty together,
much more me that was only one. All these things,
I ought to have considered well of, and did cast up in
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my ap-
prehensions at first ; and my head ran mightily upon
the thought of getting over to that shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which we sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa, but
this was in vain. Then I went to look at our ship's
boat, which was blown up upon the shore a great way
in the storm, when we were first cast away. It lay
almost where it did at first, but not quite, and wa:
turned by the force of the waves and the winds,
almost bottom upwards, against a high ridge of beachy
rough sand, but no water about it as before.

Had I had hands to have refitted it, and to have
launched it into the water, the boat would have
done well enough to have taken me back into the
Brazils ; but I might have easily foreseen that I could
no more turn it, and set it upright upon its bot-
tom, than I could remove the island. However, 1
went to the woods and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, rasolved to try what could
be done, suggesting to myself, that if it could be tum-
ed down, the damage it had received might easily be
repaired, and it would be a very good boat, and I
might go to sea in it very easily.

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it ;
at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to un-
dermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it
up again, or to get under it, much less to move it for-
ward towards the water, so I was forced to give it
over; and yet my desire to venture over for the main
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it

seemed) impossible This at length set me upon
U"... I
thinking whether it was not possible to make my-
self a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those
climates make ; even without tools, or, as I might
say, without hands, viz. of the trunk of a great tree.
This I not only thought possible, but easy ; but not
at all considering the inconveniences which I lay
under more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands
to move it into the water, when it was made, a diffi-
culty much harder for me to surmount than all the
consequences of want of tools could be to them ; for
what was it to me, that when I had chosen a vast
tree in the woods, I might with great trouble cut it
down, if after I should be able with my tools to hew
and dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat,
and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so
as to make a boat of it ; if, after all this, I must leave
it where I found it, and was not able to launch it into
the water ?

One would have thought I could not have had the
least reflection upon my mind of m circumstance
while I was making this boat, but I s ould have im-
mediately thought how I should get it into the sea;
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once thought how I should
get it of! the land; and it was more easy for me to
guide it over 45 miles of sea than about 45 fathoms of
land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my
head ; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it by
this foolish answer which I gave myself--" Let me
first make it, I'll warrant I'll find some way or other
to get it along, when it is done."

This was a most preposterous method ; but the
eagerness of my fanCy prevailed, and to work I went,
and felled a cedar-tree. I question much whether ,Resumes C'RL'SOE. l3l

Solomon ever had such a one for the building the
temple at Jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches in
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet; after which it lessened for a while, and then
parted into branches. It was not without infinite
labour that I felled this tree. I was twenty days
hacking? and hewing it at the bottom ; I was fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast
spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and heWo
ed through with my axe and hatchet, and with inex-
pressible labour. After this it cost me a month to
shape it, and dub it t a proportion, and to something
like the bottom ofa boat, that it might swim upright
as it ought'to do. it cost me near three months
more to clear the Inside, and to work it out so as to
make an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without
fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of
hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very hand-
some periagua, and big enough to have carried six.
and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to have
carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really big-
ger than ever I saw a canoe, or periagua, that was .
made of one tree, in my life; and there remained
nothing but to get it into the water. But all my
devices to get it there failed, though they cost me
infinite labour; the boat lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not more ; but the first inconve-
nience was, it was up--hill towards the creek. Well,
to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig
into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity.
This I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of
pains, but who grudge pains that have deliverance in
view? When this was worked through, I could no
more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up
to the- canoe, seeing: I could not bring the canoe down
to the water. \Vell, I began this work, and when I
began to enter it, and calculated how deep it was to
be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown
out, I found that, by the number of hands I had,
being none but my own, it must have been ten or
twelve years before I should have gone through with
it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper end
it must have been at least twenty feet deep ; so at
length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this
attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort as ever
before ; for by a constant study, and serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and by the assistance of his
grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I had
before. I looked now upon the world as a thing re-
mote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, and indeed no desires about; so I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter,
viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it.

In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the
"lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life." I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was
now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole
manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or
emperor over the whole country which I had pOS'
session of. There were no rivals. I had no compe-
titor; none to dispute sovereignty or command with
me. I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but
I had no use for it, so I let as little grow as I thought
enough for my occasion. I had tortoises or turtles
plenty, but now and then one was as much as I could
put to any use. I had timber enough to have built
a fleet of ships. I had grapes enough to have made
wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded
that fleet when they had been built. I had, as I
hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as
silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there
the nasty, sorry, useless stufi' lay; I had no manner
of business for it; and I often thought within myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ;
nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of
turnip and carrot seed out of England, or fora handful
of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I
had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it,
but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with
the damp of the cave in the wet season ; and if I had
had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case, and they had been of no manner of value
to me, because of no use.

I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been quite gone for
some time, all but a very little, which I eked out
with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it
scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper.
As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down
the day of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened to me: and first, by casting up times past,
I remember that there was a strange concurrence of
days in the various providences whichbefell me, and
which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to ob-
serve days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had
reason to have looked upon with a deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away
to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day after-
wards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, and
made a slave. The same day of the year that I
escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmonth
Roads, that same day of the year afterwards I made
my escape from Sallee in the boat. The same day of
the year I was born in, viz. the 30th of September,
the same day I had my life so miraculously saved
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore on
this island, so that my wicked life and solitary life
began both on a day.

The next thing to my ink being finished was that
of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I had brought
out of the ship. This I had husbanded to the last
degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a day
for above a year ; and yet I was quite without bread
for near a year before I got any corn of my own; and
great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at
all, the getting it being, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. As to
linen, I had had none for a good while, except some
check shirts which I found in the chests of the other
seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because
many times I could bear no other clothes on but a
shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I had,
among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three
dozen of shirts. There were also several thick watch-
coats of the seamen, which were left indeed, but they
were too hot to wear ; and although the weather was
so violent hot, that there was no need of clothes, yet I
could not go quite naked, though I was all alone.

One reason why I could not go quite naked was,
I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
in that state, as with some clothes on, nay, the very
heat frequently hlistered my skin ; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat, the heat
of the sun heating with such violence as it does in
that place, would give me the head-ache presently,
by darting so directly on my head, without a cap or a
hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put
on my hat, it would resently go away.

Upon these views began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by
me, and with such other materials as I had ; so I set
to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a batching, for
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcots, which I
hoped would serve me a great while ; as for breeches
or drawers, I made but very sorry shift indeed, till
afterwards.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean the four-footed ones,
and hung them up stretched out with sticks in the
sun, by which means some of them were so dry and
hard, that they were fit for little, but others were
very useful. The first thing I made of these was a
great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside
to shoot ofi the rain; and this I performed so well,
that, after this, I made me a suit of clothes, wholly
of those skins; that is to say a waistcoat and
breaches, open at knees, and both loose; for they
were rather wanting to keep me cool, than to keep me
warm. I must not omit to acknowledge, that they
were wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad carpenter,
I was a worse tailor.

After this I spent a. great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want
of one, and had a great mind to make one. I had
seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very
useful in the great heats which are there, and I felt
the heats as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the e uinox ; besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroa , it was a most useful thing to me, as well for
the rains as the heats. I was a great while before I
could make any thing likely to hold; nay, after I
thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three
before I had made one to my mind; but at last I
made one that answered indifferently well. The
main difliculty I found was to make it let down. I
could make it to spread, but if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it would not be portable for me any
way but just over my head, which would not do.
However, at last I made one to answer. I covered
it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast 03
the rain like a penthouse, and kept of? the sun so
effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of
the weather, with greater advantage than I could
before in the coolest; and when I had no need of it,
I could close it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived very comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed, by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable ;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutually
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say,
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world ?

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in
the same course, and in the same posture and place,
just as before. The chief thing I was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, of both of which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one
year's provisions beforehand; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with
my gun, I had another task to make me a canoe,
which at last I finished. So that by digging a canal
to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek almost half a mile. As for the first,
that was so vastly big, as not being able to bring it
to the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged
to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser next time. The making of this latter
boat, and a canal, took me up nearly two years.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the
design which I had in view when I made the first, I
mean of venturing over to the terra firm, where it
was about forty miles broad ; accordingly, the small-
ness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design,
and now I thought no more of it. But as I had a
boat, my next design was to make a tour round the
island ; for as I had been on the other side in one
place, crossing, as I have already described it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey
made me very eager to see other parts of the coast.
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store, and of
which I had a great stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat,
I found she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers or boxes at either end, to put provisions,
necessaries, and ammunition, 8w. into, to be kept
dry, either from rain, or the s ray of the sea, and a
hollow place I cut in the insi e of the boat where I
could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of
the sun off me, like an awning ; and thus I every now
and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never
went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at
last, being eager to view the circumference of my
little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and accord-
ingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of my loaves of barle bread, an earthen
pot full of parched rice, a food eat a great deal of,
a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out
of the seamen's chests ; these I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, that I set out on this
voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected ;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea, '
some above water, some under it; and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry, half a league more, so that I
was obliged to o a great way out to sea to double that
point. When first discovered them, I was going to
give over my enterprise, and come back, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should get back again ; so I came
to anchor, for I had made me a kind of anchor, with
a piece of grappling, which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
on shore, climbing upon a hill, which seemed to over-
look that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and
resolved to venture. In viewing the sea from that
hill where I stood, I perceived a strong and furious
current, which ran to the east, and even came close
to the point, and I took the more notice of it, because
I saw there might be some danger, that when I came
into it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength
of it, and not be able to make the island again. And
indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe
it would have been so, for there was the same current
upon the other side of the island, only that it set off
at a farther distance, and I saw there was a strong
eddy under the shore, so that I had nothing to do but
to get in out of the first current, and I should pre-
sently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind,
blowing pretty fresh (at E. S. E. and that being just
contrary to the said current), made a breach of the
sea upon the point 3 so that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore, for the breach, nor to go
too far off because of the stream.

The third da in the morning, the wind having--
abated over nig t, the sea was calm, and I ventured ;
but no sooner was I come to the point, when even I
was not my boat's length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
it with such violence, that all I could do, could not
keep her as much as on the edge of it ; but I found
it hurried me farther out from the eddy, which was
on the left hand. There was no wind stirring to help
me, and all that I could do with my paddles signified
nothing ; and now I began to give myself over for
lost; for, as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone, nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it: so that I
had no prospect before me but of perishinf, not by
the sea, for that was calm eno h, but 0 starving
for hunger. I had indeed foun a tortoise on the
shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it
into the boat ; and I had a great jar of fresh water,
but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where there was no shore, no main land or
island, for a thousand leagues, at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the rovidence
of God to make the most miserable con ition that
one might think he was in, worse. Now I looked
upon my desolate solitary island as the most pleasant
place in the world ; and all the happiness my heart
could wish for, was to be but there anain. I stretched
out my hand to it with eager wishes. " 0 happy
desert," said I, " I shall never see thee more! 0
miserable creature," said I, " whither am I going 1'"
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful tem-
per, and how I had repined at my solitary condition,
and now what would I give to be on shore there
again? Thus we never see the true state of our con-
dition, till it is illustrated to us by its contraries ; nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want
of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consterna-
tion I was now in, being driven from my beloved
island into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and
in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again.
However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength
was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to
the northward, that is, towards the side of the cur-
rent which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could.
When about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face,
springing from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart
a little, and especially when in about half an hour
more it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this
time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloud or hazy weather inter-
vened, I had been undone another way too ; for I had
no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight of it ; but the weather continuing clear,
I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread
my sail, standing away to the north as much as pos-
sible, to get out of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat-
began to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness
of the water, some alteration in the current was near,
for where the current was so strong. the water was
foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the cur-
rent abate, and presently I found to the east, at about
half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks;
these rocks I found caused the current to part again,
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other re-
turned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, with a
very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from the thieves ust going to murder them, or who
have been in suc like extremities, may guess what
my present surprise was, and how gladly I put my
boat into the stream of this eddy, and the wind also
freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running
cheerftu before the wind, and with a strong tide or
eddy under foot. This eddy carried me about a
league in my way back again, directly towards the
island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current lay, which carried me away at first :
so that when I came near the island, I found myself
open to the northern shore of it, that is to as , the
other end of the island, opposite to that which went
out from. When I had made something more than a
league of way, by the help of this current or eddy, I
found it was spent, and served me no farther. How-
ever, I found that being between the two great cur--
rents, viz. that on the south side, which had hurried
me away, and that on the north, which lay about
two leagues on the other side ; I say, between these
two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way ; and having still a
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steerin directly
for the island, though not making such fres way as
I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which had occasioned this disaster stretching
out, as is described before, to the southward, and cast-
ing off the current more southerly, had, of course,
made another eddy to the north: and this I found
very strong, but not directly setting the way the
course lay. which was due west, but almost full north.
However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this
eddy, slanting north-west, and in about half an hour
came within a mile of the shore, where, it being
smooth water, I soon got to land.in some sun on u suit.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees and gave
God thanks for m escape, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my eliverance by the boat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I brought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
espied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being nearly spent with the labour and fatigue of the
voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew
too much the case, to think of attempting it by the
way I went out ; and what might be at the other
side (I mean the west side), Iknew not, nor had I
an'y mind to run any more ventures; so I only re-
solved in the morning to make my way westward
along the shore, and see if there was no creek, where
I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have
her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles,
coasting along the shore, I came to a very good
inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till
it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I
found a convenient harbour for my boat, and where
she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on
purpose for her: here I put in, and having stowed
my boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me,
and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat, but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began
my march. The way was comfortable enough after
such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found every thing
standing as I left it.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs; for I was very weary, and fell
asleep. But judge what surprise 1 must be in, when
I was awaked out of my sleep, by a voice calling me
by my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusoe! oor Robin Crusoe ! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe ? here are you ? Where have you been ?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did
not awake thoroughly, and dozing, between sleeping
and waking, thought that I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice continued to repeat
" Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe!" at last I began to
awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frighted, and started up in the utmost consternation.
But no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my poll
sitting on the top of a hedge, and immediately knew
it was he that spoke to me ; for just in such bemoan-
ing language I used to talk to him, and teach him:
and he had learned it so perfectly, that he would sit
upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you? Where
have you been ? How came you here ?" and such
things as I taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, it
was a good while before I could compose myself. I
was first amazed how the creature got thither, and
how he should just keep about the place, and no
where else. But as I was well satisfied it could be
nobody but honest poll, I got over it ; and holding
out my hand, and calling him by his name, " Poll,"
the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my
thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me
" Poor Robin Crusoe!" and how did I come here, and
where had I been, just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again ; and so I carried him home with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea fonsome
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still
and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would
have been very glad to have my boat again on my side
of the island; but I knew not how it was practicable
to get it about. As to the east side of the island,
which I had gone round, I knew well enough the-re
was no venturing that way ; my very heart would
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think 11!
it. And as to the other side of the island, I did not
know how it might be there ; but supposing the cur-
rent ran with the same force against the shore at the
east, as it passed by it on the other, I might run the
same risk of being driven down the stream, and car-
ried by the island,g as I had been before of being car-
ried away from it; so with these thoughts I contented
myself to be without any boat.

In this government of my temper I remained near
a year, lived a very retired life, and my thoughts being
very much composed as to my condition, and fully
comforted in resigning m yself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought Iy lived very happily 1n all
things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and, I believe, could, upon occasion, have
made a good carpenter, considering what tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthenware, and contrived well enough to
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely
easier and better, because I made things round and
shapeable, which before were filthy things indeed to
look on. But I think I never was more vain of my
own performance, or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe,
and though it wasa very ugly, clumsy thing, when
it was done, and only burnt red like other earthen-
ware, yet, as it was hard and firm, and would draw
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it; for
I had been always used to smoke, and there were

pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not know-
ing that there was tobacco 1n the island, and after-
wards, when I searched the ship again, Icould not
come at any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware I also improved very much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets. as well as my
invention showed me, though not very handsome, yet
they were such as were very hand and convenient
for my laying things up in, or fetc ing things home
in. For example, if I killed a oat abroad, I could
hang it up in a tree, flay it, and ress it, and cut it in
pieces, and bring it home in a basket ; the like by a
turtle, I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a
piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me,
and bring them home and leave the rest behind me.

I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably, and this was a want which it was impos-
sible for me to supply, and I began seriously to con-
sider what I must do when I should have no more
powder; that is to say, how I should do to kill any
goats. I had, as I observed in the third year of my
being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame.
[was in hopes of getting a he-kid: but I could not
by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grow an old
goat, and I could never find in my heart to kill her,
till she died at last of mere a e.

Being now in the elevent year of my residence,
and as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I
set myself to study some art to trap and snare the
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive, and I wanted a she-goat great with young.

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and
I do believe they were more than once taken in them,
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, so I
found them broken, and my bait devoured.

At length I resolved to try a pit-fall ; so I dug
several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over these pits
I placed hurdles of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them ; and several times I put ears of
barley and dry rice, without setting the trap, and I
could easily perceive that the goats had gone in, and
eaten .UP the corn, for I could see the mark of their
feet. At length, I set three traps in one night, and

goingot'he next morning, I found them all standing,
. KHe noam SON causes.

and the bait eaten. This was very discouraging, but
I altered my traps; and, going one morning, I found
a large he-goat, three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him,
he was so fierce that I durst not go into the pit to
him, that is to say, to go to bring him away alive,
which was what I wanted. I could hare killed him,
but that was not my business, nor would it answer
my end ; so I even let him out, and he ran away as
if he had been frighted out of his wits, but I had
forgot then, what I learned afterwards, that hunger
will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three
or four days without food, and then have carried him
some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would
have been as tame as one of the kids, for they are
very tractable, when they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids,
and, taking them one by one, I tied them with strings
to ether, and with difficulty brought them home.

t was some time before they would feed ; but by
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I found, that if I
expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I
had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame
was my only way, when perhaps I might have them
about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else they would al-
ways run wild when they grew up, and the only way
for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground,
well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them
up so effectually, that they could not mix together.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands,
yet, as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing
it, my first piece of work was to find out a proper
piece of ground, viz. where there was likely to be
herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and
cover to keep them from the sun.Imumscs cnusou. H7

The place i pitched upon was a plain 0 en space of
meadow land, or savannah as our peop e call it in
the western colonies), whic had two or three little
rills of fresh water in it, and at one end was very
woody. Many will smile at m forecast, when I
shall tell them I began my enc osing this piece of
ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale must
have been at least two miles about ; nor was the mad-
ness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was ten
miles about. I was like to have time enough to do it
in, but I did not consider that my goats would be as
wild in so much compass, as if they had had the whole
island, and I should have so much room to chase them
in, that I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me,
so I presently stopped short, and, for the first time,
[resolved to enclose a piece of about one hundred
and fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I
should have in any reasonable time, so,as my flock in-
creased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and 1 went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece, and, till I had done it I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used
to feed them as near me as possible, to make them
familiar ; and very often I would go and carry them
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand, so that after my enclosure was finish-
ed, and I let them loose, they would follow me up and
down, bleating after me for some com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and'all,
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besxdes
several that I took and killed for my food: and after
that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive ,them into, to take
them asI wanted them.148 nosrssoa' cause it.

But this was not all ; for now I not only had goat's
flesh, to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which indeed in the beginning 1 did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise ; for now I set np
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk
in a day. And as nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to
make use of it, so I, that never milked a cow, much
less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, managed to
make both.

It Would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner. There was
my majest ', the prince and 10rd of the whole island.
I had the lives of all my subjects at my command, I
could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects.

Then to see how like a king I dined too, attended
by my servants! Poll, as if he had been the favourite,
was the only one permitted to talk to me: my dog.
who was now grown very old and crazy, sat always at
my right hand ; and two cats, one on each side.

But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first, for they were both of them dead;
but one of them having multiplied by I know not what
kind of a creature, these were two which I had pre-
served tame, whereas the rest ran wild in the woods,
and became troublesome to me ; for they would often
come into my house and plunder me, till at last I was
obliged to shoot them, and kill a great many. And
in this plentiful manner I lived ; neither could I be
said to want any thing but society, and of that, in
some time after this, I was like to have too much.

I was impatient, as I before observed, to have the
use of my boat, though loath to run any more hazards,
and therefore sometimes I sat contrivmg ways to get
her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a
ntrange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the
point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay.
and how the current sat. This inclination increased
upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel
rhither by land ; and following the edge of the shore,
i did so; but had any one in England met such
a man as I was, he must either have frighted him,
or raised a great deal of laughter, and as I frequently
stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile at
the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be leased
to take a sketch of my figure as follows :-- had a
great, high, shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me, as to shoot the rain ofi' from running into
my neck ; nothing being so hurtful in these climates
as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts hang.
ing down to about the middle of my thighs; and a
pair of o en--knee'd breeches ; the breeches were
made of t e skin of an old lie-goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like pants-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings
and shoes I had none ; but I had made me a pair of
something, I scarce know what to call them, like
buskins, to flap over my legs.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of buckles: and, in a kind of frog, on each side of this,
hung a saw and a hatchet. I had another belt not so
broad, fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, hung two pouches,
in which I kept my powder and shot. At my back
I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and
over my head a great, clumsy, goat's-skin umbrella,
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I
had about me, next to my gun. As for in face, the
colour of it was really not so Mulatto- ' e as one
might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and
living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My
heard I had once sufi'ered to grow till it was about a
quarter of a yard long ; but as I had scissors and
razors, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew
on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large
pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen wore
by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee. Of these mus-
tachios or whiskers, I must say they were monstrous,
and would in England be thought frightful.

In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and
was out five or six days. I travelled first along the
sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to anchor, to get upon the rocks ; and, not
having any boat now to take care of, I went over the
land a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon
before, when looking forward to the point of the rocks
which lay out, and which I was to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea all
smooth and quiet ; no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more there than in other places.

I was at a strange 10ss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in observing.r it, to see if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it.
But I was presently convinced how it was, viz. that
the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining the
current of waters from some great river on the shore,
must be the occasion of this current ; and that, ac-
cording as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or from the north, this current came near, or went
farther from the shore: for, waiting thereabouts till
evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the tide
of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran farther 011', being near half a
league from the shore ; whereas, in my case, it set
close upon the shore, and hurried me in my canoe
along with it, which it would not do before.

This observation convinced me that 1 had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again; but when I began to think of putting
it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again With patience ; but on the
contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious, and this was that
I would make me another periagua, or canoe, and so
have one on each side of the island.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, m little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it an er the
rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time I
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, was all filled up with large earthen ots,
and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, w ich
Would hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up
my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
ear cut ofl' short from the straw, and the other rubbed
out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there was not the least appearance of any habi-
tation behind them. Near this dwelling of mine,
but a little farther within the land, and upon lower
ground, lay my two pieces of corn-ground, which I
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which always
yielded me their harvest in its season ; and whenever
I had occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoin-
in as fit as that.

esides this, I had my country seat, and I had
now a tolerable plantation there also. For, first, I
had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in
repair, that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled
it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the
ladder standing always in the inside. I kept the
trees, which at first were no more than mere stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall ; I kept them
always so cut, that they might spread and grow thick
and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which
they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of
this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a
sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and
which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and
under this I had made me a s uab or couch, with the
skins of the other creatures had killed, and with
other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as
belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, and
a great watch-coat to cover me: and here, whenever
I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took
up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for goats;
and as I had taken a deal of pains to fence and en-
close this ground, I was so uneasy lest the goats should
break through, that I never left off, till, with infinite
labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedges so full of
small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room
to put a hand through between them, which after--
wards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the
next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a
wall, indeed much stronger than my wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever ap-
peared necessary for my comfortable support ; for I
considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures
thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh,
milk, butter, and cheese for me, as long as I lived in
the place, if it were to be forty years ; and that keep-
ing them within my reach depended entirely upon
my perfecting my enclosure to such a degree, that
I might be sure of keeping them together, which by
this method was effectually secured, and when these
little stakes began to grow, they were planted so very
thick, that I was forced to pull some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of
raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of
my whole diet ; and they were physical, wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing.

As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally staid and lay here in my way thither, for
I used .frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all
things about it in very good order. Sometimes I
went out in it to divert myself, but no more hazardous
voyages would go, nor scarce ever above a stone's
cast or two from the shore. But now I come to a
new scene of my life.

I t happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was greatly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunder-
struck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened,
I looked round me ; I could hear or see nothing. I
went up to the rising ground to look farther. I went
up the shore and down the shore, but it was all one ;
I could see no other impression but that one. I went
to it again to see if it might not be fancy; but there
was no room for that, for there was exactly the very
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot:
how it came thither I knew not, nor could in the
least imagine. But after many fluttering thoughts,
I came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we
say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last de-
gree, looking behind me at every two or three steps,
mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at adistance to be a man. Nor is it possible to
describe how many various shapes an afi'righted imagi-
nation represented things to me in.

When I came to my castle, I fled into it like one
pursued: whether I went over by the ladder, as first
contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which
I called a door, I cannot remember; for never frighted
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehen-
sions were ; which is something contrary to the
nature of such things, and especially to the usual
practice of all creatures in fear. But I was so em-
barrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to
myself, even though I was now a great way off it.
Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil ; and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition; for how
should any other thing in human shape come into the
place? Where was the vessel that brought them '!
What marks were there of any other footsteps P And
how was it possible a man should come there ? But
then to think that Satan should take human shape
upon him in such a place, where there could be no
manner of occasion for it. but to leave the print of
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose,
this was an amazement to me the other way. I con-
sidered that the devil might have found out abundance
of other ways to have terrified me, than the single
print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the other
side of the island, he would never have been so simple
to leave a mark in the place where it was ten thousand
to one whether I should see it or not, and in the sand
too, which the first surge of the sea, upon ahigh wind,
would have defaced entirely. All this seemed incon-
sistent with all notions we usually entertain of the
subtlety of the devil.

Such ideas as these assisted to argue me out of all
apprehensions of its being the devil ; and I concluded
that it must be some more dangerous creature, viz.
that it must be some of the savages of the main land
over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven by the currents, or
by contrary winds, had made the island ; and had
been on shore, but were gone away again to sea, being
as loath, perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island,
as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were passing in my mind, I
was very thankful that I was not thereabouts at that
time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants had been
in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for
me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination
about their having :ound my boat, and that there
were people here; and that, if so, I should certainly
have them come again in greater numbers, and de-
vour me; and that if they should not find me, yet
they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn,
carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I should
perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all '
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness, now vanished ; as if he that had fed me by
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power the
provision which he had made for me by his goodness.
I reproached myself for not sowing more corn one
year than would just serve me till next season, as if
nothing could happen to prevent my enjoying the
crop that was upon the ground ; and this I thought
so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have
two or three years' corn before-hand ; so that what~
ever might come, I might not perish for want of bread.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
weeks and months; and one particular effect of my
cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz. one
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearance of
savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; upon
which those words of the Scripture came into in
thoughts, " Call on me in the day of trouble, and i
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." '

Upon this, rising cheefull out of my bed, my
heart was not only oomforte , but was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance.
When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and
opening it to read, the first words presented to me
were, " Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort this
gave me, and in return I thankfully laid down the
book, and was no more sad, at least on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own,
and that this foot might be the print of my own foot,
when I came on shore from my boat. This cheered
me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it
was all a delusion ; that it was nothing else but my
own foot ; and why might not I come that way from
the boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat?
Again, I considered also, that I could by no means
tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had
not ; and that if at last this was only the print of my
own foot, I had played the part of those fools, who
strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and
then are themselves frightened at them more than
any body else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for 1 had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provi-
sions, for I had little or nothing within doors, but
some barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was
evening diversion, and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it.

Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
I began to go abroad again. and went to my country
house to milk my flock; but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often I looked behind me, and was
ready every now and then, to lay down my basket,
and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or
that I had lately been frightened.

However, as I went on thus two or three days, and
had seen nothing, I began to be bolder, and to think
there was nothing in it but my own imagination ;but
I could not persuade myself fully to this, till 1 should
go down to the shore again, and see this print of a
foot, and measure it. by my own, and see if there was
any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it
was my own foot. But when 1 came to the place, it
appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my
boat, I could not possibly be on shore any where there-
abouts. Secondly, when I came to measure the mark
with my foot, I found my foot not so large by a great
deal ; both these things filled my head with new ima-

ginations, and gave me the vapours again, so that I.,

shook with cold, like one in an ague, and I went home
again, filled with the belief that some man or men
had been on shore there; or, in short that the island
was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was
aware ;and what course to take I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of
2hose means which reason offers for their relief. The
first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down
my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and
then frequent the island in prospect of the same, or
the like booty ; then the simple thing of digging up
my two corn fields, that they might not find such
grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the
island ; then to demolish my bower and tent, that
they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be
tempted to look farther, in order to find out the per
sons that were inhabiting it.

These were the subjects of the first night's cogita-
tion, after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh
upon me. and my head was full of vapours, as above.158 nonx NSON caUsoB

Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more ten
rifying than danger itself when apparent to the eyes,
and we find the burden of anxiety greater by much,
than the evil which we are anxious about ; but, what
is worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation I used to practice, that
I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who
complained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him ; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying
to God in my distress, and resting upon his provid-
(lence, as I had done before, for my defence and deli-
verance; which if I had done, I had, at least, been
more cheerfully supported under this new surprise,
and perhaps carried through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night ; but, in the morning, I fell asleep, and having,
by the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
awaked much better composed than I had ever been
before. And now I began to think sedately ; and,
upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded, that
this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruit-
ful, and no farther from the main land than as I had
seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might ima-
gine ; that although there were no stated inhabitants
who lived on this spot, yet that there might some-
times come boats off from the shore, who either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven
by cross winds, might come to-this place ; that I had
lived fifteen years now, and had not met with the
least shadow or figure of any people before ; and that,
if at any time they should be driven here, it was pro-
bable they went away again as soon as they could,
seeing they had never thought fit to fix here, upon
any occasion, to this time ; that the most I could sug-
gest any danger from, was, from any such casual ac-
cidental landing of straggling people from the main ;
who were driven here against their wills, so that they
made no .stay here, but went ofi again with all pos-
sible speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest
they should not have the help of the tides and day-
light back again ; and that therefore I had nothing to
do but consider of some retreat, in case I should see
any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent, that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti-
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a dis-
tance from the wall, where I had planted a double
r0w of trees, above twelve years before, of which I
made mention. These trees having been planted so
thick before, there wanted but a few piles to be driven
between them, that they might be much thicker and
stronger, and my wall Would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer one
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every thing that I could think of to make it stron ;
having in it seven little holes, about as bi as I co d
put my arm out at. In the inside of this thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick, continually bringing
earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of my
wall, and walking upon it : and through the seven holes
I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I have men-
tioned that I got seven on shore out of the ship ; and
these I planted like cannon, and fitted them into
frames that held them like a carriage, that so I could
fire all the seven guns in two minutes time. This
wall I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great space every way, full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found
so apt to groW, as they could stand, insomuch that I
believe that there must have been set in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space he-
tween them and my wall, that I might have room to
see the enemy, and that they might have no shelter
from the young trees if they approached my wall.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and,
in five or six years' time, I had a wood before my
dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong that
it was indeed perfectly impassable: and no man, of
what kind soever, would ever imagine that there was
any thing beyond it, much less a habitation. As for
the way I proposed to myself to go in and out (for I
left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to
a part of the rock which was low, and broke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that, so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could
come down to me without injuring himself ; and if
they had come down, they were still on the outside of
my outer wall. .

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen,
at length, that they were not altogether without just
reason, though I foresaw nothing at that time, more
than fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats ; they were not only a pre-
sent supply to me upon every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder
and shot, but also abated the fatigue of my hunting
after wild ones, and I was loath to lose the advantage
of them, and to have them all to nurse up again.

To this purpose, I could think of but two ways to
preserve them; one was to find another convenient
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night ; and the other was to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one another,
and as much concealed as could be, where I might
keep about half a dozen young goats in each place,
so that if any disaster happened to the flock in gene-
ral, I might be able to raise them again with little
trouble and time ; and though it would require much
time and labour, I thought this was the best design.

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one
which was as private as my heart could wish ; for it
was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I al-
most lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island.
Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres,
so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an en-
closure by nature.

I immediately went to work at this piece of ground,
and, in less than a month's time, I had so fenced it
round, that my flock would be well enough secured in
it. So, without any further delay, I removed ten she-
goats and two he-goats to this place; and when they
were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till Ihad
made it as secure as the other.

All this labour I was at the trouble of, was purely
from my apprehensions on account of the print of a
man's foot which I had seen, for as yet I never saw
any human creature come near the island ; and I had
now lived two years in this uneasiness, which indeed
made my life much less comfortable than it was before,
and this I must observe, that the discomposure of my
mind had too great impressions also u on the religi--
ous part of my thoughts ; for the drea and terror of
falling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due
temper for ap lication to my Maker, at least not with
the sedate muess and resignation of soul which I
was wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under
great affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded by
danger, and in expectation every night of being mur-
dered and devoured before morning, and I must tes-
tify, from my own experience, that a temper of peace,
thankfulness, love and affection, is much more the
1iropeler2t'x-ame for prayer, than that of terror and dis-

L' l.
composure; a man is more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is
for repentance on a sick bed, for these discomposures
afi'ect the mind as the others do the body, and the
discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great
a disability as that of the body, and much greater,
praying being an act of the mind, not of the body.

But to go on ; after I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such
another deposit; when wandering more to the west
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and look-
ing out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea,
at a great distance. I had found a prospective glass
or two in one of the seamen's chests which I had saved
cut of our ship, but I had it not about me, and this
was so remote that I could not tell what to make of
it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look any longer. Whether it was a boat or
not, I did not know; but as I descended from the
hill, I could see no more of it, so 1 gave it over ; only
I resolved to go no more without a prospective glass.

When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
Island, where I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the print of aman's foot
was not such a strange thing in the island as I ima-
gined ; and, but that it was a special providence that
I was cast upon the side of the island where the sa-
vaszes never came, I should have easily known that
nothing was more {regent than for the canoes from
the main, when they ppened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour ; likewise, as they often met, and fought in
their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners,
would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them. Of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human bodies: and particularly I observed a
place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is supposed
the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it for a long while ; all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature, which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of before ; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder from
my stomach; and, having vomited, I was relieved,
but could not bear to stay in the place a moment ; so
I got up the hill again, with all the speed I could,
and walked on towards my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile as amazed, and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these, and that though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had et given
me so many comforts in it, that I had stil more to
give thanks for, than to complain of ; and this above
all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been
comforted with the knowledge of himself, and the
hope of his blessing, which was a felicity more than
sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered, or could sufl'er.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before,
for I observed that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps
not wanting, or not expecting any thing here ; and
having often, no doubt, been up in the covered woody
art of it without finding any thing to their purpose.
I) knew I had been here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the. least footsteps of human creature
here before; and miuht be here eighteen more as
entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover
myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion
to do, it being my only business to keep myself en-
tirely concealed where I was, unless I found better
creatures than cannibals to make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches, and of the wretched inhuman custom of
their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle for almost two years after this. When I
say my own circle, I mean by it my three plantations,
viz. my castle, my country seat, which I called my
bower, and my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look
after this for any other use than as an enclosure for
my goats ; for the aversion nature gave me to these
hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of
seeing them, as of seeing the devil himself. Nor did
I so much as go to look after my boat in all this time,
but began rather to think of making me another ;for
I could not think of making any more attempts to
bring the boat round the island to me, lest I should
meet with some of those creatures at see, into whose
hands, if I had happened to have fallen, I knew what
would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness about them, and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difi'erence, that I used more
caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did
before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of them ;
and particularly I was more cautious in firing my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to
hear ; and it was therefore a very good providence to
me that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of
goats, that I needed not hunt any more about the
woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch any of
them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had
done before ; so that for two years after this I believe
I never fired my gun once 03, though I never went
out without it ; and, which was more, as I had saved
three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them
out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in
my goat-skin belt ; I likewise polished up one of the
great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made
me a belt to put it in also ; so that I was now a most
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if
you add to the former description of myself the parti-
cular of two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging
at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these
things tended to showing me, more and more, how far
my condition was from being miserable, compared
to some others, nay, to many other particulars of life,
which it might have pleased God to have made my
lot. It put me upon reflecting how little repining
there would be among mankind, at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition
with those that are worse, in order to be thankful,
than be always comparing them with those which are
better to assist their murmurings and complainings.

As to my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought
that the flights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own
preservation, had taken OR the edge of my invention
for my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good
design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon, and
that was, to try if I could not make some of my bar-
ley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it ; for I presently
saw there would be the want of several things neces-
sary to the making my beer that it would be impossi-
ble for me to supply ; as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
could never compass, no, though I spent not many
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to
no purpose. In the next place I had no hops, to make
it keep, no yeast, to make it work, and no copper to
make it boil ; and yet, had not all these intervened,
I mean the frights and terrors l was in about the sa-
vages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it
to pass too ; for I seldom gave over any thing with-
out accomplishing it, when I once had it in my head
enough to begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way, for
night and day I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
and bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would
take up a larger volume than this whole work is in-
tended to be, to set down all the contrivances I laid
down in my thoughts, for destroying these creatures,
or at least frightening them so as to prevent their
coming hither any more, but all was abortive; nothing
could be possible to take effect, unless I was to be
there to do it myself; and what could one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or
thirty of them together, with their darts, or their bows
and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a
mark as i could with my gun?

Sometimes I contemplatrd to dig a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and put in five or
six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled
their fire, would consequently ignite, and blow up
all that was near it. But, as I had not uite one
barrel of powder left, I was loath to spen so much
on them; neither could I be sure of its going off at
one certain time, when it might surprise them ; and
and at best that it would do little more than just
blow the fire about their ears, and fright them, but
not sufiicient to make them forsake the place ; so I
laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with
my three guns, all double loaded, and, in the middle
of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I
should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three
at every shot, and then falling in upon them with my
three pistols and my sword, I made no doubt but that
if there were twenty. Ishould kill them all.

I went so far with It in my imagination, that I s ent
several days to find out proper places to put myse f in
ambuscade, to watch for them, and I went frequently
to the place itself; but the horror I had at the place,
and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring
one another, made me shudder.

At length I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw
any of their boats coming, and might then, even be-
fore they would be ready to come on shore, convey my-
self unseen into thickets of the trees, in one of which
there was ahollow large enough to conceal me entirely,
and where I might sit and observe all their bloody
doings, and take aim at their heads, when they were
so close together as that it would be nearly impossible
that I should miss them, or that I could fail wounding
three or four at the first shot.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and
accordingly I prepared two muskets, and my fowling
piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of
slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol bullets, and the fowling piece I loaded
with near a handful of swamshot, of the largest size.
I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each;
and in this posture, well provided with ammunition
for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for
my expedition. .

After I had thus laid the scheme for my design,
I continually made my tour every morning up to the
top of the hill, which was from my castle as I called
it, about three miles or more, to see if I could observe
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or
standing over towards it ; but I began to tire of this
hard duty, after I had for two or three months con-
stantly kept my watch, and come always back with-
out any discovery, there havingr not in all that time
been the least appearance, not only on or near the
shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes
or glasses could reach every way. As long as I kept
up the daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also
I kept up the vigour of my design ; and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so
outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or
thirty naked savages for an offence which I had not
at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts,
any farther than my passions were at first fired by
the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of
the people of that country, who, it seems, had been
suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the
world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passions, and consequently
were left, and perhaps had been for ages, to act such
horrid things, and receive such horrid customs, as
nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven,
could have run them into. But then, after cool re-
flection, I began to consider what it was I was going
to engage in ; what authority or call I had to pretend
to be judge and executioner upon these men as cri-
minals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many
ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioner of his judgments upon one
another; also how far these people were offenders
against me, and what right I had to engage in the
quarrel of that blood which they shed promiscuously
one upon another. I debated this very often with
myself thus: how do I know what God himself
judges in this particular case ? It is certain these peo-
ple do not commit this as a crime: it is not against
their own consciences reproving, or their light re-
preaching them. They do not know it to be an of-
fence, and then commit it in defiance of Divine 'us-
tice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. ey
think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in
war, than we do to kill an ox ; or to eat human flesh,
than we do to eat mutton.

When I had considered this a little, it followed
necessarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it;
that these people were not murderers in the sense
that I had before condemned them in my thoughts,
any more than those Christians were murderers who
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle, or
more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter,
though they threw down their arms and submitted.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and
I began to conclude that I had taken wrong measures
in my resolution to attack the savages; that it was
not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me, and this it was my business, if pos-
sible, to prevent ; but that if I were discovered and
attacked, then I knew my duty.

0n the other hand, I argued with myself that this
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely
to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless I was sure to
kill every one that not only should be on shore at that
time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards,
if but one of them escaped to tell their country people
what had happened, they would come over again by
thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and
I should only bring upon my self a certain destruction,
which at present I had no manner of occasion for.

Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in min-
ciples or policy I ought, one way or other, to concern
myself in this affair ; that my business was, by all
possible means, to conceal myself from them, and not
to leave the least signal to them to guess by that there
were any living human creatures upon the island.

Religion joined in with this prudential resolution ;
and I was convinced that I was perfectly out of my
duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes for
the destruction of innocent creatures ; I mean inno-
cent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them :
they were national, and I ought to leave them to the
justice of God, who is the Governor of nations, and
knows how to bring public judgments upon those who
offend in a public manner, by such ways as best please
him.

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not
been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it ; and I
gave most humble thanks on my knees to God, that
had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness, beseech-
ing him to grant me the protection of his providence,
that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I
had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence
of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year, and
in all that time I never once went up the hill to see
whether there were any of them in sight, or to know
whether any of them had been on shore there or not ;
only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which
I had on the other side of the island, and carried it
down to the east end of the whole island, where I
ran it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the cur-
rents, the savages durst not, at least would not, come
with their boats, upon any account whatever.

With my boat I carried away every thing I had
left there belonging to it, viz. amast and sail, which I
had made for it, and athing like an anchor. All these
I removed, that there might not be the least shadow
of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or
any human habitation upon the island.

Besides this, I kept myself more retired than ever,
and seldom went from my cell, except to milk my
she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was on the other part of the island, was
quife out of danger; for the savages seldom wandered
off from the coast. I looked back with some horror
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been, if I had chopped upon them, and been discovered
beforetime, when naked and unarmed, except with
one gun, and that loaded often only with small shot.
I walked every where peeping and peering about the
island, to see what I could get ; what a surprise
should I have been in, if, when I discovered the print
of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or
twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and by
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my
escaping them.

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul
within me, and distressed my mind so much, that I
could not recover it. Indeed, after seriously think-
ing of these things, I would be very melancholy, and
sometimes it would last a great while; but I resolved
it at last into thankfulness to that Providence which
had delivered me from so many unseen dangers, and
had kept me from those mischiefs which I could no
way have been the agent in delivering myself from ;
because I had not the least notion of any such thing
depending or any supposition of its being possible.

This renewed a contemplation which often had
come to my thoughts in former times, when first I
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in
the dangers we had run through in this life: how
wonderfully we are deliverd, when we know nothing
of it; how when we are in a doubt or hesitation,
whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint
should direct us this way, when we intended to go
that way; nay, when sense, our own inclination,
and perhaps business, has called to go the other way,
yet a strange impression upon the mind, from w;
know not what springs, and by we know not whs
power, shall over--rule us to go this way ; and it shall
afterwards appear that had we gone that way which
we should have gone, and even to our imagination
ought to have gone, we should have been ruined and
lost. Upon these and many like reflections, I after-
wards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever
I found these secret hints, or presages of my mind,
to doing or not doing any thing that presented, or to
going this way or that way, I never failed to obey
the secret dictate, though I knew no other reason
for it than that such a pressure hung upon my mind.
I cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives
are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not. to
slight such secret intimations of providence, let them
come from what invisible intelligence they will, that
I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ;
but certainly they are a. proof of the converse of
spirits, and the secret communication between those
embodied and those uncmbodied, and such a proof as
can never be withstood. .

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dau-
gers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon
me, put an end to all invention and to all the con-
trivances that I had laid for my future acornmoda-
t-ions and conveniences. I had the care of my safety
more now upon my hands than that of my food. I
cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I should make would be heard,
much less Would 1 fire a gun for the same reason;
and, above all, 1 was very uneasy at making any fire,
lest the smoke, whichis visible at a great distancemamma- cnuson. 173

in the day, should betray me ; and for this reason I
removed that part of my business which required
fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, &c. into my
new apartment in the woods, where, after I had been
some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation,
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went a vast
way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been
at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in;
nor indeed would any man else, but one who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where (by mere accident I would say, if
I did not see abundant reason to ascribe such things
now to providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go
on, I must observe the reason of my making this
charcoal, which was thus :--I was afraid of making
a smoke about my habitation, as I said before ; and
yet I could not live there without baking my bread,
cooking my meat, &c. 3 so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf
till it became chark or dry coal; and then putting the
fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and per-
formed the other services which fire was wanting for
at home, without danger of smoke.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I per-
ceived that, behind a very thick branch of low brush-
wood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place.
I was curious to look into it, and getting with difficulty
into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that
is to say, sufficient for me to stand uprig t in it, and

erhaps another with me: but I must confess to you,
I made more haste out than I did in, when looking
farther into the place, which was perfectly dark,
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two
stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection.

However, after some time, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell my-
self, that he that was afraid to see the devil, was not
{it to live twenty years in an island all alone, and that
perhaps there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my
courage, I took up a great firebrand, and in I rushed
again, with the stick in my hand. I had not gone
above three steps in, but I was almost as frighted as
I was before, for I heard a very loud sigh, like that
of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a noise,
like words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again.
I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such sur-
prise, that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had
had a hat on my head, I think my hair would have
lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits, as well
as I could, and encouraging myself a little, with con-
sidering that the power and presence of God was
every where, and was able to protect me, I stepped
forward again, and by the light of the firebrand, I saw
lying on the ground, a monstrous frightful old he-
goat, just making his will, as we say, gasping for life,
and dying of mere old age.

I stirred him a little, to see if I could get him out,
and he strived to get up, but he was not able to raise
himself, and I thought he should even lie there, for
if he had frighted me so, he would certainly fright
any of the savages, if any of them should be hardy
enough to come in there, while he had life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but small,
that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but
in no manner of shape, either round or square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but
those of mere nature. I observed also that there was
a place at the far side of it, that went in farther,
but was so low that it required me to creep upon my
hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I
knew not, so having no candle, I gave it over for that
time, but resolved to come again the next day, pro-uosmsos can 509.. 175

vided with candles and a tinder-box, which I made of
the lock of a musket, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with
six large candles of my own making, for I made very
good candles now of goats' tallow ; and going into
this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours,
as I have said, almost ten 1yards, which, by the way,
I thought was a venture ho d enough, considering that
I knew not how far it might go, or what was beyond
it. When I was got through the strait, I found the
roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but
never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I
dare say, as it was, to look round the sides and roof
of this vault or cave. The walls reflected a hundred
thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was that was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any
other precious stones, or gold, I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though per-
fectly dark ; the floor was dry and level, and had a
sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there were
no nauseous or venomous creatures to be seen ; nor
was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The
only difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however,
as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved
without any delay, to bring - some of those things
which I was most anxious about to this place; part1-
cularly I resolved to bring hither my magazine of pow-
der, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling- ieces,
and three muskets ; so I kept at my castle on y five,
which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on
my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out
upon any expedition. . .

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition,
I was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I
took up out of the sea, and which had been wet ; and
1 found that the water had penetrated about three or
four inches into the powder on every side, which
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside
ike a kernel in a shell, so that I had sixty pounds of
(ery good powder in the centre of the cask ; and this
was an agreeable discovery to me at that time ; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or
three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear
of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither all
the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in rocks,
where none could come at them ; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, if five hundred savages were to
hunt me, they would not venture to attack me here.

The old goat, winch I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave, the next day after I made this dis-
covery, and Ifound it much easier to dig a hole there,
and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than to
drag him out, so I interred him there, to prevent of-
fence to my nose.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the place
to disturb me, I could have been content to have
capitulated for spending the rest of my time there,
even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and
died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also ar-
rived to some little diversions and amusements, which
made the time pass more pleasantly with me a great
deal than it did before ; as, first, i had taught my
Poll, as I noted before, to speak, and he did it so
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that
it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no
less than six-and~twenty years. How long he might
live afterwards I know not ; though I know they have
a notion, in the Brazils, that they live a hundred
years. Perhaps poor Poll may be alive there still,
calling for " Poor Robin Crusoe" to this day. Mymay

ROBINSON cnusoa. 177

dog was a very pleasant and loving companion
to me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and
then died of mere old age. As for in cats they
multiplied, as I have observed, to that egree, that
I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devouring me, and all I had ; but at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision
with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except
two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and
whose young, when they had any, I always drowned ;
and these were part of my family. Besides these,
I always kept two or three household kids about me,
which I taught to feed out of my hand, and I had
some more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none like my
first; for I did not take the pains with them that
I had done with him. I had also several tame sea
fowls, whose names I knew not, which I had caught

'upon the shore, and cut their wings ; and the little

stakes which I had planted before my castle wall,
being now grown up to a good thick grove, those
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me ; so that I began to
be very well contented with the life I led, if it might
but have been secured from the dread I had of the
savages.

But it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story,
to make this just observation from it ; viz. how fre-
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil, which in
itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are
fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes
the very means or door of our deliverance, by which
alone we can be raised again from the affliction we
are fallen into. This was particularly remarkable
in the circumstances of the last years of my solitarv
residlenge in this island.

0 M
It was now the month of December, in my twenty-
third year, and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of
my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early
one morning, even before it was thorough daylight,
I was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon
the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
towards the end of the island where I had observed
some savages had been before, but not on the other
side, no, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised: and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if
these savages in rambling over the island should find
my corn standing, or cut, or any of my works or im-
provements, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place, and would then never
give over till they found me out. In this extremity I
went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder
after me, having made all things without 00k as wild
and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in
a osture of defence. I loaded all my cannon as '
ca led them, that is to say, my muskets, which were
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pis--
tols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp,
not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the
Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to de
liver me out of the hands of the barbarians ; and in
this posture I continued about two hours, but began
to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad.

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I could not bear sitting in
ignorance any longer, so setting up my ladder to the
side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after
me, I set it up again, and mountrd to the top of the
hill, and pulling out my perspective glass, which I
had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my
belly on the ground, and began to look for the place.
I presently found there were no less than nine naked
savages sitting round a small fire they had made,
not to warm them, they had no need of that, the
weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed. to
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh,
which they had brought with them, whether alive or
dead, I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore, and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to wait the return of the flood to
go away again. It is not easy to imagine what con-
fusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them
come on my side of the island, and so near me too ;
but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be
more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might
go abroad with safety, all the time of tide of flood, if
they were not ashore before ; and having made this
observation I went abroad about my harvest work
with the more composure.

As I eXpected so it proved, for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row away. I should have observed, they were all
quite naked, and, for an hour and more before they
went off, they went to dancing, and I could easily
discern their grotesque postures and gestures by my
5, asses

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my
girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a
scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make,
I went away to the hill where 1 had discovered the
first appearance of all. As soon as I got thither,
which was not less than two hours, I perceived there
had been three canoes more of savages on that place,
and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making: over for the main. _

This was a dreadful sight to me; especially when
going down to theshore, I could see with horror the
dismal work they had been about, viz. the blood and
bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten
and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight,
thatl began now to premeditate the destruction of
the next thatI saw there, let them be who or how
many soever.

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this island were not very frequent ; for
it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again, that is to say, I never
saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them in all
that time; and I found the did not come in the rainy
season; yet all this while lived uncomfortably, by
reason of the constant apprehensions I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise. '

During all this time, I was in the murdering hu-
mour, and took up most of my hours, which should
have been better employed, in contriving how to fall
upon them the very next time I should see them,
especially if they should be divided, as they were the
last time, into two parties ; nor did I consider at all,
that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I
was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I
should be no less a murderer than they were in being
man-eaters, and perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day or
other fall into the hands of these merciless creatures.
And now I found to my great comfort, how happy it
was that I had provided a tame flock of goats, for I
durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, especially
near that side of the island, where they usually came,

lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had fled
from me now, they would perhaps have come back
again, with a great number more, and then I knew
what to expect.

However, I wore out a year and three months more,
before I saw any of the savages ; but in the month of
May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-
twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with
them, of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen
or sixteen months' interval, was very great. In the
day great troubles overwhelmed my mind; in the
night I dreamed often of killing savages, and the
reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to
waive all this for a while, it was the middle of May,
on the sixteenth day, I think, that it a blew a very
great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of
lightning and thunder, and a very foul night was
it. I know not what was the particular occasion of
it, but as I was reading the Bible, and taken up with
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was
surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired
at sea.

This was, to be sure, a surprise of quite a different
nature from any I had met with before, for the no-
tions this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable,
and, in a trice, clapped up my ladder to the middle
place of the rock. and pulled it after me, and mount--
ing it the second time, got to the top of the hill;
that moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second
gun, which, accordingly, in about half a minute I
heard, and, by the sound, knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven out by the current
in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in com any, and fired these guns for
signals of distress, an to obtain help. I had this
presence of mind at that minute, as to think, that
though I could not help them, it may be they might
help me ; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and making a good sized pile, I set
it on fire upon the hill, the wood was dry, and blazed
freely: and though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was any
such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no
doubt they did, for as soon as my fire blazed up, I
heard another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night. long,
till day broke, and when it was broad day, and the air
cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea,
full eastof the island, whether a sail, or a hull, I could
not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the distance
was so great, and the weather still being hazy also:
at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor, and being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, Itook my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the south-east side of the island, to the
rocks, where I had been formerly carried away with
the current, and getting up there, the weather by this
time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my
great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the
night upon these concealed rocks, which I found when
I was out in my boat, and which rocks, as they check-
ed the violence of the stream, and made a kind of
counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering then from the most desperate, hopeless con-
dition that ever I had been in.

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E.
Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily supn
pose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the
help of their boat; but the firing of their guns for
help, especially when they saw, as I imagined, my
fire, filled me with manythoughts. First, I imagined
that, upon seeing my light, they might have got into
their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore,
but that the sea going very hiah, they might have
been cast away. Other times I imagined that they
might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways ; as particularly by the breaking of
the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges
men to stave, or take in pieces their boat, and some-
times to throw it overboard with their own hands.
Other times I imagined they had some other ship or
ships in company,which,upon the signals of distress
they had made, had taken them up, and carried them
ofi'. Other times I fancied they were all gone ofl' to
we 1n their boat, and being humed away by the cur-
rent that I had been formerly in, were carried out
into the great ocean, where there was nothing but
misery an Perishing, and that they might by this
time think 0 starving, and of being in a condition to
eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look u n
the misery of the poor men, and pity them, which ad
still this good effect on in side. that it ve me more
and more cause to give hanks to G who had so
happily and comfortably provided for me 1n my deso-
late condition; and that of two ships companies who
were now cast away upon this part of the world, not
one life should be spared but mine. I learnt here
again to observe that it is very rare the providence of
God casts us into any condition of life so low, or any
misery so t but we may see something to be thank-
ful for, an may see others worse than ourselves.

Such certa' y was the case of these men, of whom
I could not so much as see room to suppose an of
them were saved; nothing could malts it ratio _so
much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish
there, except the possibility only of their being taken
up by another ship in company; and this was but
mere possibility indeed ; for I saw not the least signal
or appearance of any such thing.

I cannot explain by words, what a strange longing
or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon this
sight, breaking out sometimes thus :---" O that there
had been but one or two, nay but one soul saved out
of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might have
had one companion, one fellow-creature, to have spo-
ken to me, and to have conversed with I" In all the
time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire, after the society of my fellouucrea-
tures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the af--
fections, which, when they are set a-going by some;
object in view, or be it some object, though not in
view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power
of imagination, whose motion carries out the soul
by its impetuosity to such violent eager embracings
of 1the object, that the absence of it is insupport-
ab e.

Such were these earnest wishings, that but one man
had been saved. 0 that it had been but one ! and I
believe I repeated the words "0 that it had been
but one i" a thousand times ; and my desires were so
moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands
would clench together, and my fingers press the palms
of my hands, that if I had had any thing soft in my
hand it would have crushed it ; and my teeth in my
head would strike together, and set against one ano-
ther so strong, that for some time I could not part
them again.

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them; all 1 can say is, to de<<
St ribe the fact, which was even surprising to me when
I found it, though I knew not from what it should
proceed ; it was, doubtless, the efl'ect of ardent wishes,
and strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the
comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-
christians would have been to me.

But it was not to be 3 either their fate, or mine, or
both, forbade it ; for, till the last year of my being in
this island, I never knew whether any were saved
out of the ship or no; and had only the affliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy
washed on shore, at the end of the island, which was
next the shipwreck. He had on a seamen's waist-
coat, a pair of open knee'd linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt: but nothing to direct me to guess what
nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but
two pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe. The last was
of more value to me, than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I
might find something on board that might be useful
to me; and pOSSibly there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree; and this thought clung so to 1::
heart, that I could not be quiet night or day, but
must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committingthe rest to God's providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon my mind, that it
could not be resisted, that it must come from some in- -
visible direction, and that I should be wanting to my-
self if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my voy-
age, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh
water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I
had still a great deal of that left), a basket full of
raisins, and thus loading myself with every thing
necessary, I went down to my boat, ot the water
out of her, and got her afloat, loaded my cargo in
her, and then went home again for more. My second
cargo was a great bag full of rice, the umbrella to
set up over my head for a shade, another pot full of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle of
goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, with great la-
bour and sweat, I brought to my boat, and praying
to God to direct my voyage, I put out ; and rowing or
paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to
the utmost point of the island, on that side, viz. N. E.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and
either to venture or not venture. I looked on the
rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of
the island, at a distance, and which were very terrible
to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been
in before, and my heart began to fail me ; for I fore-
saw, that if I was driven into either of these currents,
I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps
out of reach, or sight of the island again ; and that,
as my boat was but small, if any little gale of win
should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppreSSed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise, and having hauled my
boat into alittle creek on the shore, I stepped out,
and sat me down upon a little spot of rising ground,
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire
about my voyage ; when, as I was musing, I could
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came
on, upon which my going was for so many hours im-
practicable. Upon this it presently occurred to me,
that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of
the tide or currents lay when the flood came in, that
I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out,
I might not expect to be driven another way home,
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a
little hill, which sufliciently overlooked the sea both
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the
currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to
guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side ; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north of the island in my re-
turn, and I should do well enough. .

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide ; and
reposing myself for that night in the canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out in the
morning. I made first a little out to sea, full north,
till I began to feel the benefit of the current which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side cur-
rent had done before, and so as to take from me all
government of the boat ; but, having a strong steerage
with my paddle, I went directly for the wreck, and in
less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which
by the building was Spanish, stuck fast, jamhed in
between two rocks ; all the stern and quarter of her
was beaten to pieces with the sea ; and as her fore-
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with
great violence, her main-mast and fore-mast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
off ; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and
bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a
doc: appeared upon her, which. seeing me coming,
yelped and cried ; and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to come to me ; and I took him into the
boat, and found him almost dead for hunger and
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat
it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving for a
fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him,
he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook room, or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if
they had been under water. Besides the dog, there
was nothing left in the ship that had life, or any
goods that I could see, but what were spoiled by the
water. There were some casks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could
see, but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests. which I believed belonged to some of
the seamen, and I got two of them safe into the boat,
without examining what was in them.

Had the stern of the ship being fixed, and the fore-
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board ; and, if I may guess by the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah.
in the gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several mus-
kets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I
had no occasion for them, so I left. them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which
I wanted extremely ; as also two little brass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and
with this cargo and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginningto make home again ; and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morn-
ing I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my
new cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After
refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine it. The cask of liquor I found to
be a kind of mm, but not such as we had at the
Brazils, and ina word not at all good. But when
I came to open the chests, I found several things I
wanted: for example, I found in once. fine case of
bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with
cordial waters, fine, and very good : the bottles held
about three pints each. and were tipped with silver.
I found two pots of very good succades, or sweet-
meats so fastened on top, that the salt water had
not hurt them ; and two more of the same, which the
water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths: the former were also very welcome, being
exceedinly refreshing to wipe my face in a hot
day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of peices of
eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ;
and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars of gold; I suppose they
might all weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value ; but by the circumstances it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging
their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole,
I got very little by this voyage that was of much use
to me, for, as to the money, I had no manner of co-
casion for it, it was to me as the dirt under my feet,
and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I
greatly wanted, for I had not had a pair on my feet
for many years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two men
whom I found drowned in the wreck; and I found
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very
welcome to me ; but they were not like our English
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we
call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's chest
about fiity pieces of eight in royals, but no gold ; I
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other,
which seemed to belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which
I had brought from my own ship ; but it was a great
pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship had not
come to my share, for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times with money, which, if
I had ever escaped to England, would have lain here
safe enough till I might have come and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or

addled her along the shore to her old harbour, where

laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found every thing safe and quiet;
so I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care of my family affairs ; and for a while I
lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad
so much : and if any time I did stir with any freedom
it was always to the east part of the island, where I
was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
such a load of arms and ammunition as I always car-
ried with me if I went the other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all these
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island ; for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me, that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe if I had got the boat that I went from
Sallee in I should have ventured to sea
I have been in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague
of mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half of
their miseries flow ; I mean, that of not being satis-
fied with the station wherein God hath placed them.
For, not to look back upon my primitive condition,
and the excellent advice of my farther, the opposition
to which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my
subsequent mistakes of the same kind have been the
means of my coming into this miserable condition;
for had that providence, which so happily had seated
me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with con-
fined desires, and could I have been contented to have
gone on gradually, I might have been by this time, I
mean in the time of my being in this island, one of
the most considerable planters in the Brazils ; nay, I
am persuaded that, by the improvements I had made
in that little time I lived there, and the increase I
should probably have made if I had staid, I might
have been worth a hundred thousand moidores. And
what business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-
stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn
supercargo to Guinea to fetch Negroes, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock at home,
that we could have bought them at our own doors
from those whose business it was to fetch them, and
though it had cost us something more, yet the differ-
ence of that price was by no means worth saving at so
great a hazard.

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so
reflection upon the folly of it is generally the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of
time; and so it is with me now; and yet so deep had
the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could
not satisfy myself in my station, but was continually
poring upon the means and possibility of my escape
from this place.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my eas-
tle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid
up, and secured under water as usual, and my cor>>~
dition restored to what it was before. I had more
wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all
the richer ; for I had no more use for it than the In-
dians of Peru had before the Spainards came thither.

It was one night, in the rainy season in March, the
fonr-and-twvntieth year of my first setting foot in this
land of solitariness, I had the following dream ; viz.
that as I was going out in the morning, as usual
from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes. and
eleven savages coming to land, and that they brought
with them another savage, whom they were going to
kill, in order to eat him, when on asudden the savage
that they were going to kill, made his escape, and
ran for his life: and then I thought in my sleep, that
he came running into my little grove, before my for-
tification, to hide himself ; and thatI seeing him, and
not perceiving that the others sought him that way,
showed myself to him, and encouraged him ; that he
kneeled down to me, seeming to pray to me to assist
him ; upon which I showed my ladder, made himgo
upon it, and carried him into my cave, and he became
my servant ; and that as soon as I had got this man,
I said to myself, " Now I may venture to the main
land, for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and tell
me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and
whither not to go for fear of being devoured ; what
places to venture into, and what to escape." I atvoke
with this thought, and was under such inexpressible
impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
dream, that the disappointment I felt upon coming to
myself, and finding it was no more than a dream,
was really extravagant the other way, and threw me
into a very great dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, to try to get a savage in my possession ; and, if
possible, it should be one of their prisoners, whom
they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring
hither to kill; but these thoughts still were attended
with this difficulty, that it was impossible to effect
this without attackin a whole caravan of them, and
killing them all ; an this was not onlya very des-
perate attempt, and might miscarry, but, on the other
hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to me,
and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding
blood, though it was for my deliverance.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it, the eager
desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest,
and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages
into my hands, cost what it would. My next thing
then was to contrive how to do it; and this indeed
was very difficult to reSolve on; but as I could pitch
upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to put
myself upon the watch, to see them when they came
on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such
measures as the opportunity should present.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my--
self upon the scout, as often as possible, and indeed
so often, till I was heartily tired of it ; for I waited
above a year and a half, and for a great part of that
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west
corner of the island, almost every day, to see for the
canoes, but none appeared. This was very discou-
raging, and began to trouble me much ; though I can-
not say that it did in this case, as it had done some
time before that, viz. wear off the edge of m desire
to the thing ; but the longer it seemed to be elayed,
the more eager I was for it. In a word I was not at
first more careful to shun the sight of these savages,
and avoid being seen by them, than I was now eager
to be upon them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do what I should direct
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to
do mleoany hurt. It was a great while that pleased

L. N
myself with this affair; but nothing still presented:
all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I had entertained
these notions, and by long musing had, as it were,
resolved to put them into execution, I was surprised
one morning early with seeing no less than five ca-
noes. all on shore together, on my side of the island,
and the. people who belonged to them all landed. The
number of them broke all my measures, for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came four or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed, so I lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I
put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for
action, if any thing had presented. Having waited
a good while, listening to hear if they made any noise,
at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the
foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill by my two stages, as usual; standing so, how-
ever, that my head did not appear above the hill ; so
that they could not perceive me by any means. I
here observed, by the help of my perspective glass,
that they were no less than thirty in number, that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dres-
sed ; how they cooked it, that I know not, or what it
was ; but they were all dancing in I know not how
many barbarous gestures and figures, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective glass, two miserable wretches drag-
ged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid
by, and were now brought out for the slaughter. I
perceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with aclub, or wooden sword, for
that was their way; and two or three others were at
work, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, till they
should be ready for him. In that very moment this
poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, nature
inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along
the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards that
part of the coast where m} habitation was.

I was dread fully frighted (that I must acknowledge,)
when I perceived him to run my way, and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body ; and I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would take shelter in my
grove ; but I could not depend, by any means, upon
my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to
recover when I found that there were not above three
men that followed him ; and still more was I en-
couraged when I found that he outstripped them ex-
ceedingly in running, and gained ground on them, so
that if he could but hold out for half an hour, I saw
he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this
I knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there ; but when the savage
who was escaping, came thither, he made nothing of
it, though the tide was then up, but plunging in, he
swam through it in about thirty strokes, or there-
abouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three pursuers came to the
creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the
third could not, and that be, standing on the other
side, looked at the others, but went no farther, and
soon after went softly back again, which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him.

I observed that the two who swam were at twice
as long swimming over the creek, as the ellow was
that fled from them. It came now very warmly upon
my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
my time to get me a servant, and, perhaps, a com-
panion or assistant, and that I was called plainly, by
providence, to save this poor creature's life; I im-
mediately got down the ladders, fetched my two
guns, for they were both at the foot of the ladders,
and getting up again with the same haste to the top
of the hill, I crossed towards the sea ; and, having a
very short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in
the way between the pursuers and the pursued, hal-
looing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was
at first as much frighted at me, as at them; but I
beckoned with my hand to him to come back, and,
in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two
that followed ; then rushing at once upon the fore-
most, I knocked him down with the stock of my
piece; I was loath to fire, because I would not have
the rest to hear, though at that distance it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of
the smoke, too, they would not have known what
to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down,
the other who followed him, stopped, as if he had
been frightened, and I advanced apace towards him ;
but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a
how and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, so
I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which
I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen, and killed (as he thought),
yet was so frighted with the noise and fire of my
piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again
to him, and made signs to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way,
then stopped again, and then a little farther, and
stopped again ; and then he stood trembling, as if
he had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be
killed, as his two enemies were. 1 beckoned to him
again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of
encouragement that I could think of ; and he came
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve
steps, in token of acknowledgment for saving his life.
I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned
to him to come still nearer. At length he came close
to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and taking my foot, set it upon his head ;
this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my
slave for ever. I took him u , and made much of
him, and encouraged him all could. But, I per-
ceived the savage whom I knocked down was not
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself. So I pointed to him, shewing him the
savage, that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke
some words to me, and though I could not understand
them, yet I thought the were pleasant to hear, for
they were the first soun of a man's voice that I had
heard, my own excepted, for about five-and-twenty
years. But there was no time for such reflections
now. The savage who was knocked down, recovered
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and l
perceived that my savage began to be afraid ; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as if I would shoot him; upon this my savage,
for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side ; so I did. He no sooner had it than he runs to
his enemy, and, at one blow, cut ofl' his head as cle-
verly, no executioner in Germany could have done it
sooner or better; which I thought very strange for
one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden swords.
However, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they
make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and
the wood is so hard, that they will cut of! heads and
arms with them, and that at one blow too. When
he had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign
of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and
laid it down, with the head of the savage he had killed
just before me.

He was astonished how I had killed the other
Indian, so far off ; and, going to him, he stood like
one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other; looked at the wound the
bullet had made, which was in the breast, where it
had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had
folloWed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite
dead. Then he took up his bow and arrows, and
came back, and I beckoned for us to go awa , making
signs that more might come after them. pon this,
he signed to me, that he should bury them With sand,
that they might not be seen by the rest, if they fol-
lowed; so I made signs for him to do so ; he fell to
work, and had them both buried in the sand in about
a quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and
took him not to my castle, but my cave, on the far-
ther part of the island; so I did not let my dream
come to pass in that res ect, viz. that he came into
my grove for shelter. ere I gave him bread, and a
bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which
he was in great distress for, by his running ; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go to
sleep, pointing to a place whereI had laid a great
parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it which I
used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor
creature lay down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, tall, and well shaped. and, as I reckon, about
twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his face, and yet he
had all the sweetness and softness of an European in
his enuntenance too, especially when he smiled. His
hair was long and black, not curled like wool, his
forehead very high and large, and a great vivacity
and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of
his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an n ly, yellow, nauseous, tawny, as the Bra-
ziians, and irginians, and other natives of America
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and plump,
his nose small, not flat like the N egroes, a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well set, and
white as ivory. After he had slumbered about half
an hour, he waked, and came out of the cave to me,
for I had been milking the goats in the enclosure just
by. When he espied me, he came running, and laid
himself on the ground again, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making
many antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his
head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets
my other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
and after this, made all the signs to me of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know
how much he would serve me as long as he lived. I
understood him in many things, and let him know I
was well pleased with him. In a little time I began
to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me ; and
first, made him to know his name should be Friday,
which was the day I saved his life. I likewise
taught him to say " Master," and then let him know
that was to be my name. I also taught him to say,
" Yes," and " N o," and to know the meaning of them.
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and some
bread, and let him see me drink some before him, and
sop my bread in it. which he quickly imitated, and
made signs that it was very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, 1 took him away with me. As we went
by the place where we had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me the marks
he had made to find them again, making signs to me
that we should dig them up and eat them: at this I
appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrcnce of It,
maria. as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which
he immediately did with great submission. I then
led him to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies
were one, and pulling out my glass, I looked and
saw plainly the place where they had been, but no
appearance of them or their canoes ; so they were
quite gone.

I then took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at.
his back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self, and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been. WhenI came there, my very
blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within
me at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed it was a
dreadful sight; the place was covered with human
bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great pieces
of flesh left here and there, half eaten, mangled and
scorched, and, in short, all the tokens of the trium-
phant feast they had been making there, after a vic-
tory over their enemies. 1 saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and Fri-
day, by his signs, made me understand, that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon, that three
of them were eaten, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth ; and that there had been a great bat-
tle between them and their next king, whose subjects
it seems he had been one of, and that they had taken
a great number of prisoners, all of which were carried
to different places by those that had taken them in
the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done
here by these wretches.

I caused Friday to gather all the bones and flesh
that remained, and lay them together in a heap, and
burn them to ashes. I found that he had still an
hankering stomach after the flesh,and was still a can>>
nihal in his nature, but I displayed such abhorreuce
at the very thoughts of it, that he durst not discover
it; for I let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it.

When we had done this, we came back to our
castle, where I gave Friday first of all a pair of linen
drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest
I found in the wreck, and which, with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well ; then I made him a jerkin
of goat's skin, as well as I was able ; and I gave him
a cap, which I had made of a hare's skin ; and thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well ; and
mighty well was he pleased to see himself almost as
well clothed as his master. He went awkwardly in
these things at first; wearing the drawers was very
awkward to him, and the sleeves of the jerkin galled
his shoulders, and the inside of his arms ; but he
soon got used to them.

The next day after I came home to my but with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him ;
so I made a little tent for him in the vacant place
between the two fortifications, in the inside of the
last, and in the outside of the first; and as there was
an entrance there into my cave, I madea formal framed
door~case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in
the passage, a little within the entrance, and causing
the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders too ; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over, that it must needs awaken me, for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the hill, which was again laid across with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice straw, which was
strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which
was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but
would have fallen down, and made a great noise. I
tool;1 care to take all the weapons into my side eVery
nio t.

glint I needed none of these precautions, for never
was a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or
designs; his very affections were tied to me, like
those of a child to its father, and, I dare say, he
would have sacrificed his life for the saving of my
own, upon any occasion whatever.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that however it had pleased God
in his providence, and in the government of the works
of his hands, to take from so great a part of the world
of his creatures the best uses to which their facul-
ties, and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet
that he has bestowed upon them the same powers,
the same reason, the same affections, the same senti-
ments of kindness and obligation, the same passions
and resentments of wrong, the same sense of grati-
tude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing
good, and receiving good, that he has given to us;
and that when he pleases to offer them occasions of
exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready,
to apply them to the right uses for which they were
bestowed, than we are. And this made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several
occasions presented, how men a use we make of all
these, even though we have these powers enlightened
by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his Word, added to our un-
derstanding ; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls,
who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would
make a much better use if it than we (lid.

From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade
the sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign
the justice of so arbitrary a. disposition of things, that
should hide that light. from some, and reveal it to
others, and yet expect alike duty from both. But I
checked my thoughts with this conclusion; first,
that we did not know by what light and law these
should be condemned ; but that God was necessarily,
and by the nature of his being, infinitely holy and
just; so it could not be, but that if these creatures
were all sentenced to absence from himself, it was on
account of sinning against that light, which, as the
Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such
rules as their consciences would acknowledge to be
just, though the foundation was not discovered to us:
and secondly, that still, as we are all clay in the hand
of the potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast
thou formed me thus?"

But to return to my new companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper and useful, and
especially to make him speak, and understand me
when I spoke: and he was a very apt scholar, and
he was so merry, so diligent, and so pleased when he
could understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be very easy and happy.

After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday of!
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish
of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh. So I took him out with me one morn-
ing to the woods, and I saw a she-goat lying down
in the shade, and two young kids close by her. I
cat-:'raed hold of Friday; " Hold," said I; "stand
stili ;" and made signs to him not to stir; immediv
ately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of
the kids. The poor creature who had, at a distance
indeed. seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did
not imuw, nor could imagine, how it was done, was
sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked
so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down
He did not see the kid I had shot at, nor perceive I
has! killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he
was not wounded; and, as I found, thought I was re-
solved to kill him ; for he came and kneeled down to
me, and embracing my knees, said a great many things
I did not understand, but Icould see that his meaning
was to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm ; and, taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid i had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he dill;
and while he was looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by I
saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within
shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I
would do, I called him to me again, pointing at the
fowl, which was a parrot, though I thought it had
been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot and to
my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him see I would make him fall, I made him under-
stand that I would shoot and kill that bird: accord-
ingly I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he
saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened
again, notwithstanding all I had said to him ; and I
found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put any thing into the gun ; but thought there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruc-
tion in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any
other thing, near or far all ; and I believe, if I would
have let him, he would have worshipped me and my
gun ; as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after, but would speak to it.
and talk to it, as if it had answered him, which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill
:un.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had
shot, which he did, but staid some time, for the par-
rot, not being quite dead, was fluttered a good wav
03' from the place whereshe fell. However, he found
her, took her up, and brought her to me; and, as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, X
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not
let him see me do it, that I might he ready for any
other mark, but nothing ofi'ered at that time. So I
brought home the kid, and the same evening took the
skin 03', and cut it up as well as I could ; and having
a pot for that (purpose, Ihoiled, or stewed some of the
flesh, and ma e some very good broth: after I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seem-
ed very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that
which was strangest to him was to see me eat salt
with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was not
good to eat, and putting a little into his own month,
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter
at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it ; on
the other hand, I took some meat in my mouth with-
out salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want
of salt, as fast as he had done at it, but it would
not do. -

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid ; this I did by hanging it over t ie
fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two polee up, one on each side of the fire
and one across the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired much ; but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how he liked
it, that I could not but understand him ; and at last
he told he would never eat man's flesh any more, which
I was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do ;
and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, es
pecially after he had seen what the meaning of it was,
and that it was to make bread of ; for after that I let
him see me make my bread and bake it too ; and in a
little time Friday was able to do all the work for me
as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that having two months to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity .of corn than
I used to do, so marked out a larger piece of land,
and began the fence in the same manner as before, in
which Friday not only worked very hard, but very
cheerfully ; and Itold him it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too. He ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and letme know that
he would work the harder for me if I would tell him
what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstood the names of almost every thing I had occa-
sion to call for, and of every place I had occasion to
send him to, and talk a great deal to me ; so that, in
short, I began to have some use for my tongue again.
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singu-
lar satisfaction in the fellow himself ; his simple, un-
feigned honesty appeared to be more and more every
day, and I began really to love the creature; and I
believe he loved me as much as possible.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country ; and having learned
him English so well, that he could answer me almost
any uestions, I asked him whether the nation that
he be onged to never conquered in battle. At which
he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes ; we always fight the
better ;" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight: and so we began the followin discouree :--
" You alwa 3 fight the better !" said : " how came
you to be ta en prisoner then, Friday 3"

Friday.--My nation beat much for all that.

Marten--How beat ? If your nation beat them how
come you to be taken P

Friday--They more than my nation in the place
where me was: they take one, two, three and me.
My nation over beat them in yonder place, where m
no gas ; there my nation take one, two, great thou-
aan . r

M mien--But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then ?

Fnday.--They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoes: my nation have no canoe that
time.

Manet--Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take ? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did?

Friday.----Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

M mien--Where do they carry them ?

Friday.--Go to other place, where they think.

Master.--Do they come hither ?

Friday.--Yes, yes, they come hither: come other
else place.

Master.---Have on been here with them ?

Friday.--Yes, been here. (Points to the N. W.
side of the island, which it seems was their side.)

B this I understood that my man Friday had for-
mer y been among the savages, who had used to come
on shore on the farther parts of the island, on the said
man-eating occasions that he had been now brought
for: and some time after, when I took courage to
carry him to that side, he presently knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up
twenty men, two women, and one child.

After I had had this discourse with him, I asked
him how far it was from our island to the shore;
whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me that there was no danger, no canoes ever lost ;
but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a
current, and a wind always one wav in the morning,
the other in the afternoon.

This I thought to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draught
and reflux of the mighty river Oronoque; m the
mouth of which river. as I thought afterwards our
island lay; and that this land, which I perceived
to the W. and N. W., was the great island Tri-
nidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, and coast, and
what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked
him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than caribs;
from whence I easily understood that these were the
Caribbees, which our maps place on that part of
America which reaches from the mouth of the river
Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha.
He told me that up a great way beyond the moon,
which must be west from their country, there dwelt
white, bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great
whiskers, which I mentioned before, and that they
had killed " much mans," that was his word. By all
which Iunderstood he meant the Spaniards, whose
cruelties in America had been spread over whole coun-
tries, and were remembered by all the nations from
father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men 2 He
told me yes, yes, I might go in " two canoe." I could
not understand what he meant by " two canoe," till at
last, with difficulty, I found he meant that it must be
a large boat, as big as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well ; and from this time I entertained some
hopes that, one time or other, I might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

I was now wanting to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in Friday's mind ; particularly I asked
him one time who made him. The poor creature did
not understand me, but thought I had asked him
who was his father. But I took it another way, and
asked him who made the sea, the ground he walked
on. and the hills and the woods. He told me it was
one old Benamnckee, that lived beyond all. He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was
very old ; much older he said than the sea or the
land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then,
if this person had made all things, why did not all
things worship him. He looked very grave, and with
a perfect look of innocence said, "All things said
O to him." I asked him if the people who die in
his country went away any where. He said, es,
they all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked im
\'vliifthe'r those they eat up went thither too: he said
' es.'

From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the
great Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up
towards heaven, that he governs the world by the same
power and providence by which he had made it: that
he is omnipotent, could do every thing for us, give every
thing to us, take every thing from us: and thus, by de
grees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great at-
tention, and received with pleasure the notion of Je-
sus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner
of making our prayers to God, and his bein able to
hear us even into heaven. He told me one ay, that
if our God could hear us beyond the sun, he must needs
be a greater God than their Benamnckee, who lived
but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they
went up to the reat mountains, where he dwelt, to
speak to him. f asked him if he even went thither to
him: he said,no; they never went that were young
men ; none went thither but the old men, whom he
called their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him ex-
plain it to me, their religious, or clergy ; andthat they
went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers,) and
then came back, and told them what Benamuckee
said. By this I observed that there is priestcraft even
amonzst the most blinded ignorant Pagans in the
World. '

1 U2 0
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday, and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say 0 ! to their god
Benamuckee, was a cheat ; and their bringing word
from thence what he said, was much more so; that
if tney met with any answer, or spoke with any one
there, it must be an evil spirit ; and then I entered
into a long discourse with him about the devil, the
original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity
to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the
dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead of
God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to their ruin : how he had a
secret access to our passions, and to our affections, to
adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us
even to be our own tempters, and to run upon our
own destruction, by our own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the being
of a God. Nature assisted all my arguments to evi-
dence to him even the necessity of a great First Cause
and over-ruling, governing power, a secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and justice of paying
homage to him that made us ; but there appeared
nothin of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his
origins , his being, his nature, and, above all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too.
And the poor creature puzzled me once in such a
manner, by a question merely natural and innocent,
that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been
talking a great deal to him of the power of God, his
omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a
consuming fire to the workers of iniquity : how, as he
had made us all, he could destroyus and all the world
in a moment ; and he listened with great serious-
ness to me all the while. After this, I had been
telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the
hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to
defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin
the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like :--
" Well,' says Friday, " but you say God is so strong,
sogreat, is he not much strong, much might, as the
devil '.'"--"Yes, yes," said I, " Friday, God is stronger
than the devil, God is above the devil, and therefore
we pray to God to tread him under our feet, and
enable us to resist his temptations, and uench his
fiery darts." "But," says he again, " if od much
strong, much might, as the devil, why God not kill
the devil, so make him no more wicked?"

I was strangely surprised at his question, and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist,
or a solver of difficulties. HoWever, after a pause, I
said, " God will at last punish him severely ; he is
reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This
did not satisfy Friday; but he repeats my words,
" Reserve at last ? me no understand. But why not
kill the devil not kill great o ?"--" You may as well
ask me," said I, " why Go does not kill you and
me, when we do wicked things here that ofl'end him ;
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned." ~ He
muses a while at this; " Well, well," says he, " that
well ; so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, re-
pent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again
by him to the last degree, and it was a testimony to
me, how the mere notions of nature, though they will

ide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a

0d, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme
being of God, as the consequence of our nature ; yet
nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge
of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for
us, of 3 Mediator of a new covenant, and of an Inter-
cessor at the footstool of God's throne; and that,
therefore, the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of
God, promised for the guide and sanetifier of his
people, are the absolutely necessary instructors of'1!)

I; .14 ROBINSON CRUSOE>>

the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and
the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my men, rising up hastily, as upon some
sudden occasion of going out, then sending him for
something a great way 03, I seriously prayed to God
that he would enable me to instruct this poor savage,
assisting by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God
in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would
guide me to speak so to him from the Word of God,
as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened,
and his soul saved. When he came again to me, I
entered into a long discourse with him upon the sub-
)ect of the redemption of man, by the Saviour of the
world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached
from heaven, viz. of repentance towards God, and
faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then ex lained to
him, as well as I could, why our blessed edeemtr
took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed
of Abraham, and how, for that reason, the fallen an-
gels had no share in the redemption, that he came only
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
utruction, and must acknowledge what I believe all that
act upon the same principle will find, that, in laying
things open to him, I really informed and instructed
myself in many things that I either did not know or
had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them
for the information of this poor savage: and I had
more afi'ection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before; so that whether
this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I
had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to
me; my grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation

rew comfortable to me beyond measure, and when
I reflected, that, in this solitary life which I had been
confined to, I had not only been moved myself to
look up to Heaven, and to seek the Hand that brought
me thither, but was now to be made an instrument,
under Providence, to save the life, and for aught I
knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the
true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doc-
triue, that he might know Christ Jesus, "to whom is
life eternal."

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such as made the
three years, which we lived there together perfectly
and completely happy, if any such thing as complete
happiness can be found in a sublunary state. The
savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I, though I have reason to hope, and bless God
for it, that we were e ually penitent, and comforted
restored penitents. \ e had here the word of God to
read, and no farther ofi from his Spirit to instruct,
than if we had been in England. I always ap-
plied myself to reading the Scriptures, and to let
him know as well as I could, the meaning of what I
read.

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken Eng'
lish, to me, I acquainted him with my history. I let
him into the mystery of gunpowder and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which
he was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a
belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we
wear hangers in, and in the frog, instead of a hanger I
gave him a hatchet. -

I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to
one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts
of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck
which Ihad been on board of, and showed him as near
as I could, the place where she lay ; but she had been
all gone long ago.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when I escaped, and which was now fallen almost to
pieces. Upon seeing the boat, Friday stood musing
some time, and said nothing. I asked him what he
studied upon, at last, says he, " Me see such boat like
come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while ; but, at
last, when I had examined farther into it, I under-
stood by him, that a boat, such as that had been, came
on shore upon the country where he lived ; that is, as
he explained it, was driven thither by stress of wea-
ther. I presently imagined, that some European ship
must have been cast away upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore ; but was so
dull that I never once thought of men making their
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they
might come, so I only inquired after a description of
the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough: but
brought me better to uuderstand him when he added
with some warmth, " We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat ; "Yes,"
he said, " the boat full of white mans." I asked
him, " How many?" he told me upon his fingers
seventeen. I asked him " What became of them ?"
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my na-
tion.'

This put new thoughts into my head a ain, for I
presently imagined, that these might be t e men he-
longing to the ship that was cast away in sight of my
island, and who, after the ship was struck on the rock,
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves
in their boat and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages.

Upon this, I inquired of him more critically, what
was become of them: he assured me they still lived
there, that they had been there about four years

that the savages let them alone, and gave them vic--
tuals to live. I asked him, how it came to pass that
they did not kill them, and eat them. He said, " No,
they make brother with them," that is, as I under5
stood him, a truce; and then he added, " They no eat
mans, but when make the war fight ;" that is to say,
they never eat an men, but such as come to fight with
them, and are ta en in battle.

It was after this, some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from whence I had, in a clear day, discovered the
main or continent of America, Frida , the weather
being very serene, looks very earnest y towards the
main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping
and dancing, and calls out to me ; I asked him what
was the matter. " 0 joy," says he, "0 glad l There
see my country! there my nation l"

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap-
peared in his face, his eyes sparkled, and his counte-
nance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a
mind to be in his own country again ; and this obser-
vation of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me at first not so easy about my new man
Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt, but that
if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he
would not only forget all his religion, but all his obli
gation to me.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry for afterwards; however,
as my fealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I
was a ittle more circumspect, and not sofamiliar and
kind to him as before, in which I was certainly in the
wrong.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, I was every day
pumping him to see if he would discover any of the
new thoughts, which I suspected were in him; but
I found every thing he said was honest, and so inno-
cent, that I could find nothing to nourish my suspi-
cion, and, ii. spite of all my uneasiness, he made me
at last entirely his own again ; nor did he in the least
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not
suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not you
wish yourself in your own country, your own nation?"
"Yes," he said, " I be much glad to be at my own
nation."--" What would you do there?" said I,
" would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh again,
and be savage as you were before ?" He looked full
of concern, and shaking his head, said, " No, no;
Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God,
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk ; no
eat man again."--" Why, then," said I to him, " they
will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then
said, " N 0, they no kill me ; they willing love learn."
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn ; he
added, they learned much of the bearded mans that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them. He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make a
canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would
go with him. " I go," said I, " why they will eat me
if I come there."-" No, no," said he, "me make
them no eat you; me make they much love you,"
He meant he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he w0uld make
them much love me.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spainards
or Portuguese ; not doubting but, if I could, we
might find some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company together,
better than I could from an island, forty miles of!
the shore, and alone without help. So after some
days, I took Friday to work again, by way of dis-
course, and told him, I would give him a boat to go
back to his owu nation ; and accordingly carried him
to my frigate, which lay on the other sideof the island,
and having cleared it of the water, I brought it out,
showed it him, and we both went into it.

I found he was very dexterous at managing it, and
would make it go almost as swift again as I could ; so
I said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your
nation ?" He looked very dull at my saying so, which
it seems, was because he thought the boat was too
small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger ;
so the next day I went to the place where the boat
lay, which I had made, but which I could not get into
the water. He said that was big enough ; but as I
had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three
and twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it
that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me that
such a boat would do very well, and would carry
" much enough vittle, drink, bread ;" that was his
way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him. He asked me
again thus, " Why you angry mad with Friday ? what
me done ?" I asked him what he meant: I told him
I was not angry with him at all. " No angry! no
angry !" says he repeating the words seve times,
" why send Friday home away to my nation 3"--
" Why," said I, " Friday, did you not say you wished
you were there ?"--" Yes, yes," says he, " wish we
both there ; no wish Friday there, no master
there." In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. " I go there, Friday 2" said I, " what
should I do there 1'" He turned very tauick upon me at
this--" You do great deal much goo ," says he, " you
teach wild mans be good, sober, tame man: you tell
them know God, pray God, and live new life."--
"Alas, Friday, said I, thou knowest not what thou
sayest, I am but an ignorant man myself."--" Yes,
yes," says he, " you teaches me good, you teaches them
good."--"No, no, Friday" said I, " you shall go with-
out me; leave me here to live by myself as I did be-
fore." He looked confused at this, and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it
up hastily, and gives it me. "What must I do with
this ?" said I to him. " You take kill Friday," says
he. " What must I kill you for ?" said I again. He
returns very quick," What you send Friday away
for? Take kill Friday ; no send Friday away." As
he spoke, tears stood in his eyes, and I was so affected,
that I said 1 would never send him away, if he was
willing to stay with me.

I found that all the foundation of his desire to go
to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to
the people, and his hopes of my doing them good : a
thing, which as I had no notion of myself, so I had
not the least thought, or intention, or desire of under-
taking it. But still I found a strong inclination to
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the sup-
position gathered from the former discourse, viz. that
there were seventeen bearded men there ; and there-
fore, withont any more delay, I went to work with
Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell, and
make a large periagua, or canoe. for the voyage.
After searching some time, Friday at last pitched
upon a tree, for I found he knew much better than I
what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I tell
to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down,
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or
between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was
much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for
burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make
it into a boat, but I showed him how rather to cut it
out with tools, which after I showed him how to use
he did it very handily, and in about a month's hard
labour we finished it, and made it very handsome,
especially when with our axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the
true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were,
inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water; but
when she was in, she would have carried twenty men
with ease.

It amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her,
and paddle her along. So I asked him, if he would,
and if we might venture over in her. " Yes," he said,
"me venture over in her very well, though great
blow wind." However, I had a farther design that
he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast>>
and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable.
As to the mast, that was easy enough to get, so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which I
found near the place, and which there was plenty of
in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and
order it: but as to the sail, that was my particular
care. I knew I had pieces of old sails, but as I had
had them now twenty-six years by me, and not being
very careful to preserve them, they were nearly all
rotten. However, I found two pieces which appeared
pretty good. and with a great deal of pains, and
awkward tedious stitching, for want of needles, I at
length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what
we call in Englanda shoulder-of--mutton sail, to go
with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the
top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and
such as I best knew how to manage, because it was
such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my
escape from Barbary.

I was near two months in rigging and fitting out
my mast and sails, for I fitted them very complete,
making a small stay, and a sail, a fore-sail to it,. to
waist, if we should turn to windward: and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her,
to steer with, and though I was but a bungling ship-
wright, yet as I knew the usefulness and even neces-
sity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much
pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat, for though he knew very well how to paddle
the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed ; I
say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished
and amazed. However, with a little use, I made all
these things familiar to him, and he became an ex-
pert sailor, except that as to the comgass, I could make
him understand very little of that ; at there was not
much occasion for the compass, in these parts.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place ; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me ought rather
to be left out of the account, my habitation being

uite of another kind, than in all the rest of the time.

kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first ;
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first,
I had much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonivs of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered ; for I had an invincible impression upon
my thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand, and
that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with all my work, as usual.

The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other! times ;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
thus we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provi--
sions, being the stores for our voyage ; and -I intend-
ed in a week or a fortnight's time to open the dock
and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to Fri-
day, and bade him go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we ge-
norally got once a week, for the sake of the eggsas
Well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my out-
ward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground ;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cried out
to me, " 0 master 1 0 master ! O sorrow ! 0 bad 1"--
" What's the matter, Friday '!" said I. " O yonder
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe ! one, two,
three l" By this way of speaking, I concluded there
were six; but, on inquiry, I found there were but
three. "Well, Friday," said I, "do not be fright-
ened ;" so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared, for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come to look for him, and would cut him in
pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled
so, that l scarce knew what to do with him. I com-
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was in
as much danger as he, and that they would eat me
as well as him. " But," said I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday ?"--
" Me shoot," says he, "but there come many great
number."--" No matter for tha ," said I again, " our
guns will fright them that we do not kill." 80 I
asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I
bade him. He said, " Me die when you bid die,
master." So I gave him a good dram of rum ; and
when he had drank it, I made him take the two
fowling-pieces, and load them with swan-shot, as
big as small pistol-bullets: then I took four muskets
and loaded them with two slugs and five small bulv
lets each ; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace
of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill to
see what I could discover, and I found quickly by
my glass that there were twenty-one savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon
these three human bodies ; but nothing more than as
I had observed as usual with them.

They were landed, not where they had done when
Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek,
where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the sea. This, with the
abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, so filled me with indignation, that I
came down to Friday, and told him 1 was resolved to
go down to them and kill them all, and asked him if
he would stand by me. He had now gotten over his
fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the
dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told
me as before, "he would die when I bid die."

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us; I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol and the
other three myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bul-
lets; and as to orders, I charged him to keep close
behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any thing
till I bade him: and, in the mean time, not to speak
a word. In this posture I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the
creek as to get into the wood, so that I might come
within a shot of them before I should be discovered,
which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.noeleoN causon, 2-2.3

l entered the wood with all possible wariness and
silence (Friday following close at my heels,) and
marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the
side which was next to them ; only that one corner
of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which
was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to
the tree, and bring me word if he could see there

lainly what they were doing. He did so, and came
immediately back to me, and told me they might be
plainly viewed there; that they were all about the fire,
eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
whom, he said, they would kill next, and which
fired the very soul within me. He told me it was
not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men
whom he had told me of, that came to their country
in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very nam-
ing the white, bearded man, and, going to the tree,
I saw plainly by my glass a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied with
flags, or rushes, or things like rushes, and that he
was an EurOpean, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I
saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half a shot of them. So I withheld
my passion, and, going back about twenty paces, I
got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then I came toa little ris-
ing ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the
distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose ; for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close hud-
dled together, and bad just sent the other two to but-
cher the poor Christian, and bring him, tperhaps, limb
by limb, to their fire; and were stoope down tonn-
tie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday: " N ow,
Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday said he
would. " Then Friday," said I, "do exactly as you
see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one of
the muskets and the fowling--piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the like by his; and with the mher
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do
the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said,
" Yes."~--" T hen fire at them," said I ; and the same
moment 1 tired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side he shot he killed tWO of them, and wounded
three more ; and, on my side, l killed one, and wound-
ed two. They were in a dreadful consternation ; and
all of them who were not hurt jumped up upon their
feet immediately, but did not know which way to run,
or which way to look, for they knew not from Whence
their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as 1 bid him, he might observe what. 1
did: so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw
down the piece and took up the fouling-piece, and
Friday did the like: he sees me cock and present; he
did the same again. " Are you ready, Friday?" said
I. " Yes," said he. " Let fly, then," said I, "in the
name of God ;"' and with that I fired again among
:be amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our
pieces were now loaden with what I call swan-shot,
or small pistol bullets, we found only two drop 3 but
so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody and
wounded, most of them ; and three more fell quickly
after, but not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged
piece and taking up the musket, which was yet
loaden, "follow me," which he did with a. deal of
courage ; upon which I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As
soon as l perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud
as I could, and bade Friday do so too ; and running
as fast as I could, which, by the way, was not very
fast, I made directly towards the poor victim, who
was, as I said, lying upon the beach or shore, between
the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers
who were just going to work with him, had left him
at the surprise of our first fire, and fled, in a terrible
fright, to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe.
and three more of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards and
fire at them; he understood me immediately, and,
running about forty yards to be nearer them, he shot
at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for I
saw them all fall on a heap in the boat, though I saw
two of them up again quickly; however, he killed
two of them, and wounded the third, so that he layin
the bottom of the boat as if he had been dead.

While Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked
him, in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He an-
swered, in Latin, " Christianus ;" but was so weak
and faint, that he could scarce stand or speak. I
took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then
I asked him what countryman he was, and he said
" Espagnole :" and being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how
much he was in my debt for his deliverance. I said
in as good Spanish as I could, "we will talk after-
wards, but we must fight now: if you have any
strength left, take the pistol and sword and lay about

on." He took them very thankfully, and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they put new
vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a
fury, and had out two of them in pieces in an instant;
for they were so surprised and frightened, that they
could make no resistance, nor attempt to escape.

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had

I02 r
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword ; so I called
to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he quickly did ;
and then giving him my musket, I sat down to load all
the rest again, and bade them come to me when they
wanted. While I was loading these pieces,there hap-
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their
great wooden swords, the same 'eapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had no prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was very bold, though weak, had fought
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him
down, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though nndermost, wisely quitted
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, and shot
him dead on the spot.

Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet ; and with that he dispatched those three
who were wounded at first and fallen, and all the test
he could come up with; and the Spaniard coming to
me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces,
with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them ; but the other
was too nimble for him ; and though he was wounded,
yet had plunged into the sea, and swam with all his
might off to those who were left in the canoe, which
three in the canoe, with one wounded, we know not
whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands
of one-and--twenty.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or
three shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of
them. Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes and pursue them, and indeed I was very
anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news
home to their people, they should come back, per-
haps, with two or three hundred of their canoes, and
devour us by mere multitude ; so I consented to pur-
sue them by sea ; and running to one of their canoes,
I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ; but when
I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another
poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as
the Spaniard was, for-- the slaughter, and almost dead
with fear, not knowing what the matter was, for he
had not been able to look up overthe side of the boat;
he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied
so long, that he had little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, that
bound him, and would have helped him up ; but he
could not stand or speak, but oaned most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that g; was only unbound in
order to he killed. When Friday came, I bade him
speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance ; and
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch
a dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when Fri-
day came to hear him speak, and looked in his face,
it would have moved any one to tears to have seen
how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
cried, laughed, hallooed, umped about, danced, sung,
then cried again, wrung is hands, beat his own face
and head, and then sung and jumped about again, like
a distracted creature. It was a good while before I
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the
matter ; but when he came a little to himself, he said
that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked
in this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of
his being delivered from death: nor indeed can I
describe half the extravagance of his affection after
this, for he went into the boat and out of the boat, a
great many times. When he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold'his
father's head close to his bosom half an hour toge-
the r, to nourish it; then he'took his arms and ancles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and
ch at'ed and rubbed them with his hands ; and I per-
ceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of
my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great
deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out of sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not,
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con-
tinned blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could nut
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
to their own coast.

But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for some time: but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme.
Then I asked him if he had given his father any
bread. He shook his head, and said, "None: ugly
dog eat all up self." 80 I gave him a cake of bread
out of a little pouch I carried on purpose: I also
gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste
it, but carried it to his father. I had in my pocket
also two or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave
him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him
come out of the boat, and run away as if he had
been bewitched. He ran at such a rate (for he was
the swiftest fellow of his foot that ever I saw), I say,
he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it
were in an instant ; and though I called and hallooed
too after him, it was all one: away he went, and in
a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went ; and as he came nearer
I found his pace was slacker, because he had some-
thing in his hand.

When he came to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more
cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but
the water he carried to his father ; however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I
had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to
know if there was any water left ; he said, " Yes, "
and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who
was as much in want of it as his father, and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard
too. who was indeed very weak, and was reposing
himself upon a green place, under the shade of a tree.
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that upon Friday's coming up to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the
bread and began to eat, I went up to him and gave
him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that
could appear in any countenance; but wasso weak,
notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the
fight, that he could not stand upon his feet: he tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ancles were so swelled, and so painful to him ; so
I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ancles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turned his head about to see for his father; and
at last he missed him, at which he started up, and,
without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to
him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch
the ground as he went ; but when he came, he found
he had only laid himself down to ease his limbs. 80
Friday came back to me presently, and I then told
him to help the Spaniard to the boat ; so he took him
upon his back, and carried him beside his father in
the boat, and stepping out again launched the boat oi!
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could
walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too ; so he
brought them safe into our creek, and leaving them
in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As
he passed me, I spoke to him and asked him whither
he went. He told me, " Go fetch more boat." So
away he went, like the wind : for sure never man or
horse ran like him ; and he had the other canoe in the
creek almost as soon as I got to it by land: so he.
waited me over, and then went to help our new guests
out of the boat, which he did ; but they were neither
of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not
what to do.

At last we made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both
together upon it between us. But when We got them
to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were
at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to
get them over; and I was resolved not to break it
down. So I set to work again; and Fridy and]
in about two hours' time, made a very handsome tent,
covered with old sails, and above that with houghs of
trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted: and here we made them two beds of
such things as I had, viz. of good rice straw, with
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them on each bed.

My island was now peo led, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; an it wasa merry reflection
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty. so that I had an undoubted right of dominion.aoatsson LRUSOE 23]

Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected ; l was
the absolute lord and lawgiver: they all owed their
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if
there had been occasion for it, for me. It was remark-
able, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions : my man Friday was a protes-
tant; his father was apagan and a cannibal; and the
Spaniard was a papist. However, I allowed liberty
of conscience to all my subjects.

As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, Ibegan to think of makinf some provision
for them ; and the first thing I did, ordered Friday
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a oat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed. Then cut off
the hinder quarter, and chopping it into small (pieces,
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, an made
them a very good dish of flesh and broth, and we all
enjoyed it, and eat heartily,

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordereu
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other fire-arms from the place of
battle ; and the next day I ordered him to go and
bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to the sun, and would presently be offensive ; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast; all of which he punctually performed.

I then began to enter into a little conversation
with my two new subjects ; and first I let Friday to
inquire of his father what he thought of the escape
of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might
expect a return of them with a power too great for
us to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages
in the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went oil', but must be drowned or
driven south to those other shores, where they were
as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned,
if they were cast away; but as to what they w0uld
do, if they came on shore, he said, he knew not, but
It was his opinion that they were so dreadful] fright-
ened with the manner of their being attac ed, the
noise and the fire, that he believed they would tell
their people they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, and not by the hand of man: and that the two
which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly
spirits and furies come down to destroy them, and not
with weapons. And this old savage was right; for
though they escaped the sea, they gave such dreadful
accounts in their own country (as I heard afterwards,)
that they never ventured to that part to my island
again.

But I was under continual apprehensions for some
time, and kept upon my guard, I and all my army,
for as We were now four of us, I would have Ventured
upon a hundred of them, in the open field.

In a little time, howaver, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming were off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con-
sideration, being likewise assured by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation,
on his account, if I would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
I understood that there were sixteen more of his
countrymen and Portuguese, who having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived there
at peace indeed with the savages, but were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage, and found
they were a Spanish ship, bound from lhe Rio de la
Plata to the IIavannah, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver,
and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there ; that they had five Portuguese
seamen on board, whom they took out of another
wreck ; that five of their own men were drowned
when first their ship was lost ; and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived,
almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they ex~
pected to be devoured every moment.

lie told me, they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither pow-
der nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all
their powder, but alittle which they used at their first
landing, to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them
there ; and if they had formed no design of making
an escape. He said they had many consultations
about it, but having neither vessel nor tools to build
one, nor provisions of any kind, their counsel always
ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receive a proposal from me, which might
tend towards an escape ; and whether, if they were all
here it might not be done.

He told me they were all under the greatest distress
imaginable, and if I would undertake their relief they
would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
the Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he had
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
self started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on the one hand, and so much sincerity on the
other hand, that I could not but be well satisfied in
it; and by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus:
---He had been with us now about a month, during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up, which, as it was more than
sufiicient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least
without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to the number of four, but much less would
it be sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, fourteen, still alive, should come over: and,
least (if all, would it be suflicient to victual our vessel,2.3-1 mmmsos caosoa.

if we should build one, for a voyage to an of the
Christian colonies of America. So he to d me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the
two others, dig and cultivate more land, as much as
1 could spare seed to sow; and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn
for his countrymen, when they should come ; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another. .

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposals, as well as l was satisfied with his fide-
lity. So we fell to diggine, all four of us, as well as
the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ;
and in about a month's time, by the end of which it
was seed time, we had gotten as much land cured and
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-bushels of barley on,
and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the
seed we had to spare.

Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of savages, if they had
come, unless their numbers had been very great, we
went freely all over the island, wherever we found
occasion ; and as wehad our escape or deliverance upon
our thoughts. it was impossible, at least for me, to have
the means out of mine. To this purpose I marked out
several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I
set Friday and his father to cutting them down ; and
then I caused the Spaniard to over-see and direct their
work. I showed them with what indefatigable pains
I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about
a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four
inches thick. What prodigous labour it took up, any
one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could ; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day, for we
took our turns; and, by this means, we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the rest, for
whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock. But, above all, the season
for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I
believe, had we been at Alicant, where raisins are
cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty barrels;
and these, with our bread, was a great part of our food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order.
It was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in
the island, but, however, it was enough to answer
our end, for, from our twenty-two bushels of barley,
we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred
and twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the
rice, which was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the fourteen Spaniards had been
on shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our
ship to have carried us to any part of the world, that
is to say of America. When we had thus housed and
secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to
make more wicker-work, viz. great baskets in which
we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and
dexterous at this part.

And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests 1 expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there. I gave him strict
charge not to bring any man with him, who would
not first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who
was so kind as to send for them, in order to their deh-
verance ; but that they would stand by and defend
him against all such attempts, and wherever they went,
they would beentirely under, and subjected to his com-
mand ; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage went away in one of the canoes which they came
in, when they were brought as prisoners to be devoured
by the savages. I gave each of them a musket, and
about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them
to be very careful of both, and not to use either of them
but upon very urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now tWenty-
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
of bread, and of dried grapes snllicient for themselves
for many days, and sullicient for all their countrymen
for about eight days ; and wishing them a good voy-
age, I let them go, agreeing with them about a signal
they should hang out at their return, by which I should
know them again, when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.

They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at the full, by my account, in the
month of October, as near as I could tell.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen occurrence intervened,
of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my hut one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aland, " Master, master, they are come, they
are come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger,
went out, as soon as 1 could get my clothes on,
through my little grove; I went without my arms,
which it was not my custom to do ; but I was sur-
prised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently
saw a boat, at about a league and a half's distance,
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-rmltton
sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair
to bring them in. Also I observed, that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, but
from the southernmost end of the island. Upon this
I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we did
not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as I used to do, when I was apprehensive of any
thing, and to take my view plainer, without being dis-
covered. I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when
my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor, at
about two leagues and a half's distance from me, 8.8.13.
but not above a league and a half from the shore. It
appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the host
an English long boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though
the joy of seeing a ship. and one which I had reason
to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe ;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me to be
on my guard. I began to consider what business an
English ship could have here; since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the Eng-
lish had any traffic; and I knew there had been no
slorm to drive them in there, as in distress ; and that
if they were English really, it was probable they were
here upon no good design, and that I had better con-
tinue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him, when he may

ossibly think there is no danger of its being real.
I'hut such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few, that have made any observations of things, can
deny ; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible
world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt ;
and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us
of danger, why should we not suppose they are from
some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior and
suburdinate, is not the question,) and that they are
given for our good ?

The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning ; for bad I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before.

I had not kept myself long in that posture when I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of
landing ; however as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I for-
merly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which
was very happy for me ; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would
soon have beaten me out of my castle, and, perhaps,
have plundered me of all I bad.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them, one or
two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so.
There were in all eleven men, whereof three I found
were unarmed, and, (as I thought) bound ; and when
the first four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the boat as prisoners.
One of the three I could perceive using the most
passionate gestures of entrenty, affliction, and des-
pair ; the other two lifted up their hands sometimes,
and appeared concerned indeed, but not so much as
the first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me, in English, as well as he could, " 0 master,
you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savage
mans."--" Why," said I, " do you think they are
going: to eat them then 7"--" Yes," says Friday, " they
will eat them."--" N o, no," said I, " Friday, I am afraid
they will murder them indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thoughts of what the matter[to In new onusou. 239

really was, but expected every moment the three
prisoners would be killed ; and once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm, with a great cutlass or sword,
to strike one of the poor men, and I expected to see
him fall eVery moment. I wished heartily now for
my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him ; or that I had any way to have come undiscover--
ed within shot of them, that I might have rescued the
three men, for they had no lire-arms that I saw.

After l had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men, by the insolent seamen, I saw that the fellows
ran scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see
the country. I observed also, that the three other
men had liberty to go where they pleased, but that
they sat down all three upon the ground very nensive,
and looked like men in despair.

It was just at the top of high-water when these
peo le came on shore, and while partly they stood
par eying with the risoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled, about to see what kind of place
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving the boat aground. They had left two
men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having
drank a little too much brandy, fell asleep. However,
one of them waking sooner than the other, and find-
ing the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hal-
Zooed for the rest, who were straggling about, upon
which they all soon came to the boat, but it was past
all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft, cozy
sand, almost like a quicksand. In this condition,
like true seamen, who are perhaps, the least of all
mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and
away they strolled about the country'again; and I
heard one of them say aloud to another (calling them
off from the boat), " Why, let her alone, Jack, can't
ye! She'll float next tide." By which I was fully
confirmed what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill. I knewit
would he no less than ten hours before the boat could
be. atloat again, and by that time it. would be dark
and l might be more at liberty to see their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any.

In the mean time, I fitted myself up for abattle,
as before, though with more caution, knowing I had
to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first.
I ordered It'riday also to load himself with arms. I
took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
muskots. M y figure indeed was very fierce; 1 had
my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as 1 said above, not to have made
any attempt until it was dark, but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that they were all
gone stragglin into the woods, and, as I thought,
were all laid own to sleep. The three poor dis-
tressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter
of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me,
and. us I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched with my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable forhis armsas I, but not mak-
ing quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I did. I
came as near them undiscovered as 1 (mild, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them, in
Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen P"

They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought 1 perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in Englishz--"Gentlemen,"
said I, " do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you
may have a friend near you, when you did not expect
it."--He must be sent direct from heaven then,"
said one of them very gravely ",to me, and pulling 03
his hat at the same time, " for our condition is past
the help of man."--" All help is from heaven, sir ;"
said I, " but can you put a stranger in the way
how to hel you, for you seem to be in some great
distress? saw you when you landed: and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came
with you, I saw one lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, lookin like one astonished, returned,
" Am I talking to Go or man P Is it a real man, or
an angel ?"--" Be in no fear about that, air," said I,
"if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he wouid
have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner, than you see me. Pray lay aside your fears,
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist
you, you see. I have one servant only: we have arms
and ammunition. Tell as freely, can we serve you?
What is your case 1"

" Our case, sir," said he, " is too long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near 3 but, in short, 31!, I
was commander of that shit, my men have mutinied
against me, they have been ard y prevailed upon not
to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in
this desolate place, with these two men with me, one
my mate, the other apaasenger, where we expected to
perish, believing the ace to be uninhabited, and know
not et what to thin of it."

" here are those brutes, your enemies ?" said I,
" do you know where they are gone ?"---" There they
are, sir," said he, pointing toa thicket of trees, "my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard
you speak; if they have, they will murder us all."

" Have they any fire-arms ?" said I. He answered,
" They have only two pieces, and one which they left
in the boat."--" Well then,' said I, "leave the rest
to me. I see theyareasleep. Itisaneasy thing to

102 Q
kill them all ; but shall we rather take them prison-
ers P" He told me there were two desperate villains
among them, that it Was scarce safe to show any
mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed all
the rest would return to their duty. I asked him
which they were. He told me he could not, at that
distance, describe them: but he would obey in
orders in any thing I would direct. " Well," said ,
"let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve farther." So they wil-
lingly went back with me, till the woods covered us
from them. " Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture
upon your deliverance, are you willing to make two
conditions with me ?" He anticipated my proposals,
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
ever thing; and if the ship was not recovered, he
won d live and die with me, in what part of the world
soever I would send him ; and the two others said the
same.

" Well," said I, "my conditions are but two :--
first, that while you stay on this island with me,
you will not pretend to any authority here ; and if I
put arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine, upon this island ; and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders. Secondly, that if the ship
is or may be recovered, you will carry me and my
man to England passage free." He gave me all the
assurances that the invention and faith of man could
devise, that he would comply with these most rea-
sonable demands, and, besides, would owe his life to
me, and acknowledge it, upon all occasions, as long
as he lived.

" Well then," said I, " here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you
think is proper to be done." He showed all the
testimony of his gratitude that he was able; but
oti'ered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I
thought it was hard venturing any thing, but the best
method I could think of, was to fire 11 on them at
once, as they lay; and if any were not illed at the
first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them,
and so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct
the shot.

He said very modestly that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it, but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all
the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped we should
be undone still, for they would go on board and bring
the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. " Well
then," said I, " necessity legitimates my advice ; for
it is the onl way to save our lives." However see-
ing him stil cautious of shedding blood, I told him
they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if either of them were the
men who, he had said, were the heads of the mutiny.
He said, "N o."--" Well, then," said I, " you may
let them escape; and providence seems to have awak-
ened them on purpose to save themselves. Now," said
I, " if the rest escape you, it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had
given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, each man a piece in his
hand. The two men who were with him, going first,
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who
was awake. turned about, and, seeing them coming,
cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for
the moment he cried out, the two men fired, the cap-
tain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so
well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one
of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but, not being dead, he started up
upon his feet, and called eagerly for he] to the other;
but the captain, stepping to him, told ' it was too244 somssmv must) a.

late to cry for help: he should call u on God to for-

've his villany, and, with that war , knocked him

own with the stock of his musket, so that he never
spoke more. There were three more in the company,
and one of them was also slightly wounded. By this
time I was come ; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their
lives if they would give him any assurance of their
abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of,
and would swear to be faithful to him in recovoring
the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to
Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him
all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not against; only I obliged
him to keep them bound, hand and foot, while they
were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday, with the cap
taiu's mate, to the boat, with orders to secure her,
and bring away the ears and sail, which they did ;
and, by the by, three straggling men, that were
parted from the rest, came back again upon hearing
the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bound also.

It now remained that the captain and I should
inquire into one another's circumstances. I began
first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu.
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition ; and indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it afi'ected him
deeply; but when he reflected from thence upon him-
self, and how I seemed to have been preserved there
on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down hisfacc,
and he could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartment, leading
them in Lust where I came out, via. at the top of the
house, w ere I refreshed them with such provxaions as
I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long inhabiting this place.

All I showed to them,all Isaid to them,was perfectly
amazing ; but, above all, the captain admired my
fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed my'
retreat with a grove of trees, which having been new
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any
part of it but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it. This I told him
was my castle, and my residence, but that I had a
seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I
could retreat upon occassion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business
was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed
with me as to that ; but told me he was perfectly at
a loss what measures to take, for that there were
still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hard-
ened in it now b desperation, and would carry it on,
knowing that ' they were reduced they should be
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to Eng-
land, or to any of the English colonies, and that there-
fore there would be no attacking them with so small
a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion ; and it occur-
red to me, that, in a little while, the ship's crew won-
dering what was become of their comrades, and of the
boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat, to see for them, and that then, perhaps, they
might come armed, and be too strong for us: this, he
allowed, was rational.

Upon this, I told him the first thing. we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upor the beach, so9m IIoIII xson cIIIIsoI-z.

tlmt they might not carry her off; and tnlting eIcry
thing out of her leave in r so for useless as net. to be
fit to IIIIiIII. AII'IIrIliIIgly we went. on board, took
the nuns which II-I-ro left. on board out of her. and
.\\'l|tllt'\'t'l' else "'0 found there, which was a bottle of
brandy. IIIId another of rum, II. few biscuit. cakes, a
horn of powder, IInd II great hunp of sugar, in 11 piece
of I-IIIIIIIss- , the sugur "us the or six pounds: all
IIlIiI h "HS II rI IIelI- owe to me especially the brandy
:Ind sugar, of IIlIiIh I had heeIi II Ithout nnInI Ienra.

"hen we had I-IIIried IIll these things on shore \Io
l\ll(l('l\('ll II great bole III her bottom, that if they had
I- now strong eunuch to muster IIII, yet. they could not
('I'll I'y oil the bout.

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that wo
could be capable to recover the ship; but my View
was, that if they went IIwny without II boat, I did not,
much nest ion to make. her tit. IIgIIin to curry us nwny
to theil' 'I'\\.'||'Il Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards In In) IIIII'.

Whilo we were thus preparing our designs, and
had first bI nnIin strength, he IIIed the bout. up upon
the bench, so high that the tide would not "out. her
oil In, higlI-II'IIth' lllfll'h; and. besides, bud broken II
hole in her bottom too big to be uiclily stopped, and
here sat. down innsiug What \I'oilhonld do, we heard
thI ship lire II gun. and saw her nmkeII waft with her
ancient, :Is II signal for the bout. to come on board ;
but no hI-III stirred, and they fired several times, mak-
ing other signals for the bout.

At hut, "he I all their signals IInd firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat. did not sir. we saw
tl euI (le IhI help of IIII glasses) hoiit IIIIotlIIr bout.
oll' IIud roII l0\\.'|l(l.'l the shore ; :IIIIl \Ie I',IIIIIId as they
IIpprInII h d that the re II ere no less thIn ten men in
her. and "it'll theI hud tIre-IIrIns with them.

As the ship l.-II' IIhIIost two leagues from the shore,
\I'e hml II full view of them as they came. The cup-
"in kneu the persons and characters of all the men
in the boat, of whom he said that there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this cons )iracy by the rest, heini overpowered and
frightenei ; but that as for the oatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and Were, do doubt, made desperate in their new on-
torprise.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, considered of separating our
nrisioners, and had indeed secured them eflectually.
l'Wo of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one o! the
three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods.
They left them bound, but gave them provision and
promised them, if they continued there quiet y, to
give them their liberty in a day or two; but that, if
they attempted their escape, they should be put to

death without mercy. 'l'hey promised faithfully to
bear their confinement with patience.

The other prisoners had better usage ; two of them
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain did
not like to trust them, but the other two were taken
into my service, upon their captain's recommenda-
tion, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and
die with us.

As soon as they got to the place where their other
lmat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which
I was glad to see ; for I was afraid they would rather
have left the boat at anchor, some distance from the
shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so
we should not be able to seize the boat.

Being on shore, they ran all to the other boat 3
and it was easy to see they were under .a great sur-
prise to find her stripped, and a great hole m the
bottom. After this, they set up a great about 3 but
it was all to no urpose ; then they came all close in
a ring, and "RHYSI volley of their small arms, which
indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring, but it was all one ; those in the cave we were
sure could not hear, and those in our keeping, though
they heard it Well enough, yet durst give no answer
to them.

They were so surprised at this, as they told us af-
terwards, that they resolved to go all on board again
to their ship. and let them know there that the men
were all murdered, and the long boat staved ;accord.
ingly, they immediately launched their boat again,
and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded ut this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
up {or lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which
he was in hopes we should have recovered, but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long put 011' with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again ; and
they left three men in the boat, and the rest went up
into the country to look for their fellows. This was
a great disappointment to us, for now we were at a
loss what to do ; for our seizing those seven men on
shore would he no advantage to us if we let the boat
escape, because they would then row away to the
ship. and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh. and set sail, and so our hope of recovering the
ship would he lost. However, we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the. issue of things might pre-
sent. The seven men came onshore, and the three
who remained in the boat put her off to a good dis-
tance from the. shore. and came to an anchor to wait
{or them, so that it was impossible, for us to come at
them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill, under
which my habitation lay, and we could see them
plainly though they could not perceive us. And
when t e were come to the brow of the hill, where
they cos d see a great we into the valleys and
woods which lay towards t e north~east part, and
where the islands lay lowest, they shouted till they
were weary, and then they sat down to consider of
it. Had they gone to sleep there, as the other party
did, they had done for us ; but they were too
full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to
sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs, viz. that .perhaps they
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked the
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still
along time, very irresolute what course to take: at
length I told him there would be nothing to be done
in my opinion, till night: and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might use some strata-
gem with them in the boat to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, and were very uneasy;
when, we saw them all start up, and march towards
the sea. It seems they had such dreadful apprehen-
sions upon them of the dan er of the place, that they
resolved to go on board t e ship again, give their
companions over for lost, and so go on their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go toward the shore, I
imagined that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again ; and the captain was ready
to sink when I told him my thoughts, but I presently
thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate, to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where
Friday was rescued, and at about half a mile distance,
I hade them halloo as loud as they could, and as soon
as they heard the seamen nneWi-r them, they should
return it again, and then keeping out of eight, take a
round, and then wheel about again to me by such ways
83 l tlil'i'tttml.

They Were just goinginto the boat, when Friday and
the mate hullooed, and they presently heard them, and
answering. run along the shore westward, towards the
veice they heard, when they were stopped by the creek,
the water being up, they could not get over, and called
for the boat to come and set them over, as indeed
I expected.

\\ hen theyhad set themselves over, I observed that
' they took one of the three men out of her, and left
only two in the boat, having fastened her to a stump
of a little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for; and immediately leav-
in: Friday and the captain's mate to their business,
1 took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out
of their sight, we surprised the two men before they
wore. aware, one. of them lying on the shore between
elm-ping and waking, and going to start up, the cap-
tain who was foremost, ran in upon him and knocked
him down, and then called to him in the boat to
yield or he was a dead man.

There ln'i-iled Very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his Ctlllll':lllt' knocked down : besides, this was, it
seems one of the three men who were not so hearty in
the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to
join very sincerely with us.

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate
so wrll managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and answvring, from
one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired
them, but left them where they were very sure they
could not reach back before it was dark ; and in-
deed they were heartily tired themselves also by the
time they came back to us.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came
quite up, calling to those behind to come along, and
could hear them answer, and complain how lame and
tired they were, and not able to come any faster,
which was very welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat ; but it is im~
possible to express their confusion when they found
the boat fast aground in the creek, and their two
men gone ; we could hear them telling one another
they were gotten into an enchanted island ; that
either there were inhabitants in it, and they should
all be murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in
it, and the should he carried away and devoured.

'I'hey ha loned again, and called their two comrades
by their names, but got no answer. After some time,
we could see them by the little light there was, run
about like men in despair ; and that sometimes they
would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves,
then come on shore again, and walk about, and so the
same thing over again.

M _\' men would ave fallen upon them in the dark,
but I was willing to spare them, and kill as few of
them as I could ; being unwilling to hazard the kill-
ing any of our men, knowing the others were well
armed. I resolved to wait and make sure of them, and
drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and
the captain to creep upon their hands and knees, and
gut in near them as they posaibly could, before they
Lifered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the
hoatswaln, who was the principal ringleader, and had
now shown himself the most dispirited of all the rest,
walked towards. them with two more of the crew
The captain was no eager, at having the principal
rogue so much in his power, that ho could hardly
hmm pntionco to lot him como so near as to he sure
of him, for he only hoard his tongue lit-fore; but
whou tlwy canto nonror. tho captain and Friday, start-
ing up on tln-ir foot lot fly at tlwm.

'l'ho hontsn-ain was killod on tho spot, the noxt man
was shot through tho body, nnd toll just by him. though
ha did not die till an hour or two after, and the third
ran for it.

At the noise of tho flro, l immediatoly advancml
with my whole army, which was now eight "It'll, viz.
mysolf. gvnornlissimo ; Friday, my liuutvnnnt gum-ml;
tho captnin, and his two mun, and the three prisoners
of war, whom we had trnstml with arms.

Wo canto upon thom intlt'od in the dark. so that
thoy could not two onr Immlwr; and I made tho mun
tlwy hsd loft in the boat, who was now ono of us, to
cull them by namo, to try if he Could bring tlwm to
pnrluy. which full out just as we desire-d. So ho calls
out, as loud as ho could to one of them. " Tom Smith!
Tom Smith !" Tom Smith nnsworvd imnn'diat-Ily,
" Who's that. llohinsou l" for it seems he knew his
voice. 'I'lw <<Itln'r answorml. "Aye, nyv; for God's
Rttkt', Tom Smith, throw down your arms, nud yield,
or you aro all <<load mun this momont!"

" Who must wo yiold to ?--Wlu\ra am "my P" says
Tom Smith again. " Iloro thoy are," sayslw. " lloro
is our raptnin, and fifty men with him, have hoon
hunting you this two hours. Tho boatswain is killed,
Will I-'ryo is wmnulml, and I am a prisoner ; if you do
not yiold, you urn all lost."

" Will thoy givo us quarto-r than," an 3 Tom Smith,
" and WB will yiold."----" I'll go and ash, if you pro~
misc to yield," says Robinson. 80 ho nskod tho unp-
tnin. and tho mptniu himst'lf thou (tulle-d out, " You,
Smith, you know my Voico ; if you lay down your
nrms immmlintvly, and submit, you shall all have your
lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter! What have I done!
They have all been as bad as l l" which was not true,
for it svems this Will Atkins was the first man that
laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied.
However, the captain told him he must lay down his
arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy,
by which he meant me, for they called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and beg-
god their lives ; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all g and
then my great army of fifty men, which particularly
with those three, were all but eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that
I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons
of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the shi ; and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parrey with them, he expostulated with
them upon thevillany of their practices with him, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very nitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for t at he told them that the
governor was an Englishman; and that he might
hang them all there if he pleased ; but as he had
given them quarter, he supposed he would send them
to England, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for
that he would be han ed in the morning. Though
this was all a fiction of his own, yet it he the desired
effect ; Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain
to intercedc with the governor for his life; and all
the rest be ged of him, for God's sake not to be sent
to Englamf.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deli-
verance was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in, to be hearty in tting
possession of the ship. So I retired in the dar from'3 .t tmtthfloN t'attsoit

them, that, thoy might not moo what kind of a rotor-
nor thoy had, and vallod tho captain to mo. \'hon
Icallod, as at a good diatam-o, ono of tho mon wan
ordorod to apoalt again, and Hay to tho captain,
"Captain, tho commandor calls for you ;" and pro<<
Gently the t'aptain ropliod, "'I'vll his oxcollonoy I am
just a-coming." So tlu-y all la-liovvd tho conunandor
was just Ivy, with his titty Inon.

Upon tho captain's coming to mo, I told him Inv
projot-t for aoiniug tho ship, "IlIt'Il ploasod him, and
romlvod to put it in oxot-ution tho noxt moruiu ._

lint in ordor to t'lt't'llifi it with mom art, Allli'itl l o
Intro of onerous. I told him no umat divido tho pui-
aonora, and that ho hlIUllill go aml tako Atkina at ll
two moro of tho worst oI'thom, and mood tholn hound
to the uavo whoro tho othera lay. So Friday, aml tho
two man who calnoon ahoro with tho captain, convoy-d
them to the raw as to a prison. The! othor l ordon-d
to my bowor, whore thoy wow piuiouod, and loft.
uoouro onough.

'l'o thoso, in tho morning luc'llt tho captain, who
was to t-utor into a parloy with thom ; in a word, to
try thom. and to" mo whothor ho thought tIn-y might
'70 truatod or no, to go on hoard and anrpriso tho ship.
llo talkod to tIu-m of tho injury dono him, of tho
condition thoy woro brought to, and that though tho
governor had giro-n them qnartor for thoir livoa. an to
tho proaont action, yet that if thoy woro uont to Eug-
Iand. thoy would all ho hangod in i'haina ; but that if
they Would join in no just an attompt a- to rouovor tho
ahip, ho would havo the govurnor'u ongagomont for
their pardon.

Anf' ouo may goons how readily such a proposal
wouh ho at-t-optod hy turn in tIn-ir t'ondition; thoy
{oll down on thoir human to tho captain, and promisod,
\xith <<loop improvationa, that tho)' would he faith-
tul to him to tho last drop, aml that they should own
their livoa to him. and would go with him all ovor
tho world ; that thoy would own him for a father tottontnson on use a. 2.35

them as long as they lived. " Well," says tlm t'np-
tsin, " I must go and tell the governor what you say,
and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it.'|
So he brought me an account of the temper lte found
them in, and that he verily believed they would be
faithful. However, tltat we might be very secure,
I told him he should go back again, and choose out
five of tltetn, and tell them that they should see that
they did not want men, but he would take out those
five to be his assistants, and tltat the governor would
keep the other two, and the three that were sent pri-
soners to the castle (my cave,) as hostages for the
thlelity of those tlve ; am if they roved unfaithful in
the execution, the five hostages s ould be hanged in
chains alive upon the shore.

'l'his looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest. However, they had no
way left them but to accept it; and it was now the
business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain,
to persuade the other live to do their dutly. Our
strength was now thus ordered for tlte expo ition
First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Second,
then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom,
having their characters from the captain, I had iveu
their liberty, and trusted them with arms. Thir , the
other two, whotn I had ke H. in my bower till now
pinioned, were new release . Fourth, these five re-
leased, at last ; so that there wore tWtilvein all besides
live we kept in the cave, as h0stages for the fidelity of
the others.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with those hands on board the ship; for as for me
and my man Friday, I did not think it proper for us
to stir, having seven men left behind ; and it was etu-
ployntent enough for us to keep them asunder, and
supply theta with victuals.

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a-dny to them, to supply
them with necessaries ; and I made the other two carry
prizvisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
ta e it.

When 1 showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where, but by 111 direction; that if they did, they
should be fetche to the castle and be laid in irons;
so that we never suffered them to see me as governor,
so now I appeared as another person, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like,
upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenger captain of one.
with four other men: and himself, and his mate, and
five more, went in the other. And they contrived
their business very well ; for the came up to the ship
about midnight. As soon as t ey came within call
of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell
them he had brought oi! the men and the boat, but
that it was :1 Ion time before they had found them,
and the like; ho ding them in chat, till they came
to the ship's side; when the captain and the mate,
entering first with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and the carpenter with the
butt-end of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men. They secured all the rest
that were upon the main and quarter-deck, and be-
gan to fasten the hatches to keep them down who
were below, when the other boat, and their men
entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of
the ship, and the scuttle which went down into the
cook-room, making three men they found there pri-
soners. When this was done, and all safe upon the
deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men,
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel
captain lay, and he having taken the alarm, was
gotten up, and with two men and a boy, had gotten
fire-arms in their hands ; and when the mate, with a
crow, split Open the door, the new captain and his
men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate
with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and wound-
ed two more of the men, but killed nobody.

The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and, with his
pistol, shot the new captain through the head, the
bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again
behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word;
upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
etfectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as
the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon
with me, to give me notice of his success, which, you
may be sure, I was glad to hear, having sat watching
upon the shore for it till two o'clock in the morning.

Having heard the signal plain] , Ilaid me down,
and being very much fatigued, fell sound asleep,
when shortly I was awoke by the noise of a gun ; and
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of
" Governor," and presently I knew the captain's
voice, when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me
in his arms. " My dear friend and deliverer," says
he, "there's your ship; for she is all ours, and so
are we, and all that belongs to her." cast my eyes
to the ship, and there she rode, about half a mile of!
the shore, for they had weighed her anchor as soon
as they were masters of her, and the weather being
fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the
mouth of a little creek, and the tide being up, they
had brought the pinnace in near the place where
first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door.

lwas, at first, ready to sink down with surprise,
forI saw my deliverance indeed visibly ut into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship ust ready to
carry me away, whither I pleased to go. He per-

ceiveld I:ny situation, and immediately pulls a bottle
0 It
out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I
drank it. I sat down upon the around, and it was a
good while before I could speak to him.

After some time, I came to myself, and then I em-
braced him in my turn, as my deliverer, and we re-
joiced together. I told him, I looked upon him as a
man sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the
whole transaction seemed to be a ch-nin of wondcn ;
that such things as these worn the. testimonies we
had of a secret hand of Providence governing;r the
world, and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite.
I'ower could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and semi help to the miserable whenever be
pleased: and I forgot not to return thanks to God for
all his mercies.

When we had talked a while, the captain told me
be had brought mo some little refresluneut, such as
the ship atlorded, and such as the wretches, \\ ho had
been so long his masters, had not plundered him of.
Upon this he called aloud to his men, and told them
to bring the things ashore that were for the governor:
and, indeed, it was a splendid present. First, he had
brouubt me a case of bottles full of cordial waters,
nix large bottles of Madeira wine, two annals of ex-
cellent tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef,
and six pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and about
I hundred weight of tobacco. He brought me also
a box of sugar, a box of tlonr, a bag full of lemons,
and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of other
things. But, besides these, and what was a thousand
times more useful to me, he brought me six clean new
shirts, six very good neclu-loths, two pair of gloves,
one pair of shoes, a hat. and one pair of stockings
and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had
been worn very little ; but the clothes felt very awk-
ward and uneasy upon me at first.

After all these things were brought into my little
apartment, we began to consult what was to be done
with the prisoners we had, and whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially
two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and
refractory to the last degree, and the captain said he
knew that they were such rogues, that there was no
ohliging them; and if he did carry them away, it
must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over
to justice, at the first English colony he could come
at. Upon this I told him, I durst undertake to bring
the two men he spoke of to make it their own re nest
that he should leave them upon the island, of w iich
the captain said he should be very glad. I accord-
inle sent for them, and entered seriously into dis-
course with them upon their circumstances. One of
them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they hum-
bly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not. what mercy to show to them ; for, as for myself, I
had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and
had taken passage with the captain to go to England;
and as for the captain, he would not carry them to
England, but as prisoners in irons, to be tried for
mutiny and running away with the ship; the conse-
quence of which, they must needs know, would be the
gallows ; so that I could not tell which was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in
the island ; if they desired that, I did not care, as I
had liberty to leave it. I had some inclination to
give them their lives, if they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it; and said they
would rather venture to stay there, than to be carried
to England to be hanged.

I then told them, I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them into the way of
making it easy to them. Accordingly I gave tlem
the whole history of the place, and of my coming tr
it; showed them my fortifications, the way I made
my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes, and200 uonINsoN ('Mlsoit.

in u \VOI'II, all that was non-usury to mnlw thom <<any.
I tohl tlu-m tho ntory of tho 8 mninrdn that were to
ho oxpc-ctml. for whom I loft in Ivttor, and nnulo thom
promim to trout. thom in common with thomm-lvon.

I loft. thom Ilvo mnxkotfl. tln'oo fowling- lincos, mnl
throo owunla. I hml about u lmrrol quI a half of
powdu-r, which I loft lhom. I gavo tho-m a (low-rip-
tion of tho wny I nmnngt'tl tho gonts, and directions
to milk mul I'ntlon lhom, to muko hoth hnttor and
chm-so. In a wunl. I Karo tlu'm ovory port of my own
story ; nml I tohl tln-m I would provnil with tho cup-
tnin to lonvo thom two horn-ls of gunpowdur morv,
nml sumo wmlon etc-oils, which I tohl thorn I would
lmvo hovn wry glml of ; also I gin-o thom tho lmg of
room which tho captain luul brought mo, and lnulo
tln'ni to ho mum to sow nml incronso thom.

Having tlono all this, I loft tlu-m tho nt-xt (lay, and
wont on board tho ship. 'I'ho noxt morning two of
tho tlvo nwn <<'nmo nwinnning to the ship's HItIP, mnl
nmking it most Imnvlltuhlocmnpluintof tho other thron,
hoggml to ho tnkon into tho ship, {or (Iod'u sake. [of
tho shonhl ho IIIIlI'tII'I't'tI.

'lho ('tlptllill protomlod to have no powor without
mo: hut, nftor Homo tliIlicnlty. nml lIIIt'I' tln-ir Holomn
promim'xof uniontlnwnt, tho)' woro tnlion on hoard,
mul woro nhortly nl'tor aonmlly whimn-tl, utter which
thov pron-(l wrv honoat and quit-t follows.

Sonio tilno nl'tor this, I wont with tho hont on nlloro,
tho tulo hoing up, with tho lhinga III'UIIIIHI'II to tho
mon, with which tho captain. at my intvrcossion, Hunt
thu-ir chostxmul clothe-s, which thoy took, and wero
wry thnnltful for. I also onconrngml them, by tolling
thmn that if it lny in my way to St'lltI any vessel to
tnlto tln-m in. I WtIllch Imt forty-t tholn.

"'ln'n I qnittotl this isluml, I r-u'riml on hotml, {or
roliva, tln- grout gout-skin cup I hml mmlo, my Inn-
bra-Ila. mnl ono of my parrots; also I forgot not to
tnlm tln- mom-y I had Inul IIIItI hy Inn no long nsolosfl.

And thus I left. the island, the 19th of December,
by the ship's account, in the year l086, after I had
heen upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and
nineteen days ; being delivered from the second cap.
tivity the same day of the month that I made my es-
cape from among the Moors at Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land, the llth of June, in the year 1687, having been
thirty-llVe years nhsent.

When I came to England, I was as perfect. a stran-
ger as if I had never heen known there. My bene-
factor and faithful steward,whom I left in trust with
my money, was alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the World, was become a widow the second time,
and was in very low circumstances. I made her easy
as to what she owed me, assuring her I would give
her no trouble ; hut on the contrary, in gratitude to
her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her
as much as my little stock would afford, which at that
time Would indeed allow me to do but little for her ;
hut I assured her I would never forget her former
kindness to me ; nor did I forget her, when I had suf-
ficient to help her. at a future time.

I went. down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct, exeept two sisters, and two of the children of
one of my brothers ; and as I had long ago been given
orer for dead, there had been no provision made for
me, so that in a word, I found nothing to relieve, or
assist. me, and the little money I had would not do
much for me, as to settling in the world.

I met. with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
did not expect ; and this Was, that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happilydelivered, having givvn a
a very handsome account. to the owners of the. manner
how I had saved the liVes of the men and the ship,
they invited me to meet thetn, and some other mer-
chants eoneerned, and all together made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present
of almost tWo hundred pounds sterling.26'2 aom NSUN Ctilta'dli.

ltnt, aftor making Rovoral rottootions upon the cir-
mnnatam'oa of my lifo, and how littlo way thia would
go towarda aottling mo in tho world I roanlvod to o
to Lisbon, and two if I could got any informal ion oft m
atato of my plantation in tho llrazila, and of what wafi
hooonio of my partuor, who, I an tposod, had for aomo
yoara now givon mo oyor for (load.

With this viuw I took shipping for Liahon, whom I
arrivod in April following: my man Friday accom-
panyiin: mo \'ory honoatly in all thoao ramhlings, and
'roving a. lllt'sl faithful mwvant. upon all oooaaions.

\'hon l ramo to Lisbon. I found out. hy inquiry. and
to my parlioular satisfaction, my old friond, tho rap--
tain of tho ship, who first took tno up at. aoa, oll' tho
nhoro of Afro-a. llo wad now grown old. and had loft
otl tho aoa, having put, his non into tho ship, and who
Hill usod tho Brazil trado. 'l'ho old man (lid not know
mo, and l soarooly know him ; lntt lto soon recolloctod
mo. whou I told him who I was.

Al'toraouio paasionato oxprosaiona of ollroltl ao-
quaintauvo. I itn uirod aftor my plantation and my
partner. 'I'ho oh man told mo ho had not hoou in
tho ltrazila for about nino yours ; hut that he could
asauro mo, that. whon ho canto away my partner was
living, hot that tho trustooa, whom l had joined with
him to tako vognizanoo of III ' part, woro hoth doad ;
that. howovor, ho holiovod that I should havo a vory
good aooouut. of tho improvotnont of tho plantation,
for that, in tho 'ollot'al holiof of my lwltlg vast away
and drownod. iny trustooa had givon in tho aooouut of
tho produoo of my part of tho plantation t0 the pro-
ourator fiscal, who had appropriatod it. in case l
novor I'Hltlt' to claim it, ono-tlurd to tho king, and
(wothirtlato tho monastvry of St. Angustino, to he
rxpontlvd for tho honolit of tho palm" and for tho con--
voraiou ot' tho Indiana to tho Catholic faith ; but that
if I appoarotl. or any mm for mo. to claim tho inhe-
ritaln-o. it would bo roatorod ; only that. tho improvo-
nn-nt. or annual production, hoing, asho said, dis-
trilmted to charitable uses, he thought could not be
restored.

l was a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass
that the trustees should thus dispose of my ellects,
when they knew that I had made my will, and made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true, but as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor, until
some certain account should come of my death ; and
that, ltesidt's, he was not willing to intermeddle with
a thing so rrulote: that it was true, he had registered
my will, and put in his claim, and could he have
-iven any account of my being dead or alive, he would

rave acted by procuration, and taken possession of
my ingenio (the sugar~house,) and given his son, who
was now in the Brazils orders to do it.

The old man then aslted me if he should put me in
a method to make my claim to my plantation. I
told him 1 thought to go over to it myself. He said
I might do so it' I pleased; but that if I did not,
there were ways enough to secure my right, and in:
mediately to appropriate the profits to my use; and
as there Were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go to the Uruzils, he made me enter my name in
a public register, with his atlidavit, atlirluing, upon
oath, that l was alive, and that I was the same er-
sen who took up the land for planting the said Tan-
tation at first. This being regularly attested %y a
notary, and a procuralion atlixed, he directed me to
send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of
his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.

N th-r any thing was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months i received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees, the merchants for whose
account I went to sea ; and as the Urazila ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my lettersL'tit notnssos Lawson.

brought, my goods, and the vtl'vcts were safe in the
'l'nuns ln'foru tho lcttcrs came to my hands. lty
tin-so, it appcarod I was now mash-r, n l on a suddou,
of ahm'o tivn thousand pounds htorllng in mono)", and
had an cslalo, as I might wcll call it, in tho llrazils,
ot' ahovo a thousand pounds a ycar, as suro as an
cstato of lands in England ; and, in a word, I was in
a condition which I scarce know how to undurstnnd,
or how to compom myself for tho cnjoynu-nt of.

Tho first thing I did was to rccompcnso my ori:inal
houofactor, my good old captain, who had lawn first.
charitable to mo in my distross, kind to me in the
beginning, and honcst. to mo at tho and. l showvd
him all that. was m-nt. mo. I told him that. uoxt to
the providi-ncc of llvavcu, which disposm all thing's,
it. was owing to him ; and that it. now lay on mo to
toward him. So I sent. for a notary, and causcd him
to draw a procuralion, mnpoworing him to be my ru-
cuivor of tho annual protits of my plantation, and
appointing my partnvr to account to him, and make
the rotnrus by tho usual "cuts to him, in my nnnw.
And a clauso in tho rnd, living a grant of mm lmndrcd
moidoros a ycat to him, during his lit'o, out of tho
i-ll'ucts ; and liftynioidorcaa ycar to his son after him,
for his Mo: and thus I rvquittml my old man,

1 was now to ooIIsidt-r which way to stocr my
courso noxt., and what. to do with tho ostalo that. I'm-
vidollcu hau thus put into my hands ; and, illtlt'l'd. I
had mom caro upon my hvad now, than I had in my
silont Halo of hfu on tho island, wlwro l "mum
nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what. I
wantod; whcrcas I had now a grunt chat-go upou Inc,
and my lmsincss was how to m'cnru my lllii|u-y_ I
know no wln-ro to put it, or whom to trust unit it;
my old patron the captain, indq-cd. was honvst, and
that Was tho only rctngc I had. In tho ncxt placc,
iny intcrcst in the llratils M'clncd to summon mu
thither; hut now I could not tcll how to think ot
going tlnthcr till I had M'ltlwl my ntl'airs. At first, I
thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was
honest, and Would be just to me ; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and. for aught I knew, might be
In dcbl ; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go
back to England Iny~elf, and take my ellects with me.

I was some months, however, before] resolved upon
this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow,
whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she
whilst it was in her power, my faithful steward and
instructor. So the first thing I did, I gota merchant
in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London,
not only to pay a hill, but to find her out, and carr
her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to tal
with her and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her
she should, if I lived, have a fartbor supp y. At. the
same time, I sent my two sisters in the country, each
of them a hundred pounds, they being, though not in
want, yet not in very good circmnstances, one having
been married, and lef t a widow, and the other having
a husband, not so kind to her as he should be. But
among all my relations or act uaintances, 1 could not.
yet pitch upon one to whom durst commit the gross
of my stock.

I had once a mind to have gone to the llrazils, and
have Settled myself there, for l was, as it were natu-
ralrzed to the dam, but that I really did not know
with whom to leave my eil'L-cts behind me ; so I re-
solved at last to go to England with them, where, if
I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaint-
anee, or tiud some relations that would be faithful to
me. and accordingly I prepared to go for England with
all my wealth. Ilaving settled my sll'airs, sold my
eon-go, and turned all my etl'ects into good hills of ex-
chanue, my next ditlieulty was which way to go to
England. 1 had been accustomed enough to the sea,
and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by
sea at that tune ; and though I could give no reason
for it, yet the difficulty increased upon me so much,
that though I had once shipped my baggage in order
to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but
two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons: but let no man
strike the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
of such moment. 'l'wo ships, each of which I had en-
gaged to go in, but again withdrew my agreement,
miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near 'l'orbay,
and all the people drowned, except three ; so that in
either of those vessels I had been made miserable, and
in which most, it was hard to say.

Having been thus harassed in my' thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed
me earnestly not to go by sea; but either to go by
land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay
to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe
journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or go u to Madrid, and so all the way by land
through irance. In a word, I was so preposx-essed
against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to
Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land,
which, as l was not in haste, and did not value the
charge, was by much the pleasanter way ; and to
make it more so, my old captain brought an English
gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was
willing to traval with me ; after which we picked up
tWo more, who were English, and merchants also,
and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going
to Paris only, so that we Were in all six of us, and
live servants ; the two merchants, and the two Por-
tuguese, contenting themselves with one servant be--
twven two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got
an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, be-
sides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to
be capable of supplying the place of a servant upon

the road
In this manner we set out from Lisbon; and our
company being all ver well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, w iereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the original of the whole journey.

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time
to see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth
observing ; but it being the latter part of the summer,
we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about
the middle of October. But when we came to the
edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns
on the way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountains, that seve-
ral travellers were obliged to come back to Pampe-
luna, after having attempted to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
indeed ; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable.
Nor indeed was it more painful than it was surprising,
to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where
the weather was not onl warm, but very hot, and
immediately to feel a windy from the Pyrenean moun-
tains, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
endanger benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes. Poor Friday was really frightened when he
saw the mountains covered with snow, and felt cold
weather, which he had never seen or felt before in his
life.

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so
long, that the peOple said winter was come before its
time, and the roads, which were difficult before, were
now quite iln assable ; and the snow not being hard
frozen, as is t e case in the northern countries, there
was no going without being in danger of being buried
alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty
days at Pampeluna, when I proposed that we should
all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping
for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage.

But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped
on the French side of the passes as we were on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who traversing the
country near the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they
were not much incommoded with the snow: and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would un-
dertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently
to protect us from wild beasts; for he said, upon
these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being
made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told himwe were well
enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if
he would ensure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which we were told we were in most danuer from, es-
pecially on the French side of the mountains.

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in
the way that we were to go. So we readily agreed to
follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I
said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.

Accordingly we all set out from Pampelnna, with
our guide, on the 15th of November; and indeed I
was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us, on the same road that
we came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when
havingr passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again,
where the country was pleasant, and no snow was to
be seen; but on a sudden, turning to the left, he
approached the mountains another way; and though
it is true, the hills and the precipices looked dreadful,
yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led
us by such winding ways, we were insensibly passed
the height of the mountains without being much en-
cumbered with the snow ; and, all on a sudden, he
showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Langue-
doc and Gascoigne, all green and flourishing, though
indeed they were at a great distance, and we had some
rough way to pass yet.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole day, and at night so fast that we
could not travel ; but he bade us be easy, we should
soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north than
before ; and so, depending upon our guide, we went
on.

It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in sight,
out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a
bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood.
Two of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he
been half a mile before us, he had been devoured in-
deed, before we could have helped him. One of them
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man
with that violence that he had not time, or not pre-
sence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed
and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday
being next to me, I bade him ride up, and see what
was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, " 0 mas-
ter! 0 master l" but, like a bold fellow, rode directly
up to the man, and with a pistol, shot the wolf that
attacked him into the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday ; for he, having been used to that kind of
creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but
went up close to him, and shot him as above ; whereas
any of us would have fired at a further distance, and
have, perhaps, either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I ; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the most dismal howling of wolves, and the noise
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, and it was
to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude of
them ; and perhaps, indeed, there were not such afew,
as that we had no cause of apprehension.

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had fastened upon the horse, left him immedio
ately, and fled, having happily fastened upon his head,
where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth,
so that he had not done him much hurt. The man,
indeed, was most hurt ; for the raging creature had
hit him twice, once on the arm, and the other time a
little above his knee; and he was just, as it were,
tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when
Friday came up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace. and rode up as fast as
the way (which was very difficult) would give us
leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we
saw plainly what had been the case, and how Friday
had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not
Krfiseintly discern what kind of creature it was he had

I e .

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him he was helping him ofl' from his
horse, for the man was both hurt and frightened, and
indeed the last more than the first, when on a sudden
we Spied the bear some out of the wood, and a vast
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I
saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw
him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see
joy and courage in the fellow's countenance. " O!
O! 01" says Friday three times. pointing to him ;
"0, master! you give me to leave, me shakes to
hand with him, me makes you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. " You
fool, you," said I, " he will eat you up l"-"Eatee me
up! eatee me up E" says Friday, twice over again.
" Me eatee him up: me show you good laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots ofl' in a moment, and
put on a pair of pumps, which he had in his pocket,
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun
away he went, swift like the wind.

The bear was walking softly on, and oflered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near,
calls to him, as if the bear could understand him,
" Hark ye, Hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee wit
you." We followed at a distance, for now being
come down to the Gascoigne side of the mountains,
we entered a vast great forest, where the country
was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it
scattered here and there.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the
head, but did him no more harm than if he had
thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's
end, for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and "show us
some laugh," ashe called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking very long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as
would put a horse to a middling gallop. Away runs
Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us
for help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear, and deliver my man, though I was angry at
him heartily for bringing the bear back upon us,
when he was going about his own business another
way ; and especially I was angry that he had turned
the bear upon us, and then run away ; and I called
out, " You dog," said I, "is this your making as
laugh P Come away, and take our horse, that we
may shoot the creature." lle iears me, and cries
out, " N o shoot, no shoot ! Stand still : you get much
laugh." And as the nimble creature rau two feet for
the heast's one, he turned, on a sudden, on one side
of us, and seeing a great oak tree, lit for his purpose,
he beckoned us to follow, and doubling his pace, he
gets niinhly up the tree, laying his gun down upon
the ground, at about live or six yards from the bottom
of the tree.

The hear soon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance. The tlrst thing he did, he stopped at the
gun, smelt at it, {but let it lie, and up he scrambles
Into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strously heavy. I was amazed at tho fully, as] thought
it, of my man, and could not for my life see any thing
to laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear got up the tree,
We all rode nearer to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and
the bear got about half way to him ; as soon as the
hear got out to that part where the limb of the tree
was weaker, " Ila," says he, to us, "now you see me
teaches the bear to dance ;" so he fallsa jumping, and
shaking the hough, at which the hear began to totter,
and stood to look behind him, to see how he should
{rt hack ; then, indeed, we did laugh heartil . llut

'riday had not done with him by a great dea : when
he sees him stand still, he calls out to him again, as
if he had supposed the bear could speak English,
" What, you no come farther? l'ray you come farther."
So he left jumping and shaking the hough, and the
bear, just as if he had understood what he said, did
come a little farther ; then he fella jumping again,
and the bear stopped again.

We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and I called to Friday to stand still and
we would shunt the bear ; but he cried out earnestly

"0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot! Me shoot by andRom NsoN ouoson. 2Z3

thou." He would have said. " lly and by." How-

ever, to shorten the story, li'riday danced so much,
and tho hear stood so tiolilish. that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the
follow would do; for first we thought he depended
upon shaking the hour oil, and we found the hear was
too cunning for that too, for he would not go out far
enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad clmvn and feet, so that we could not
imagine what Would he the end of it, and where the
just Would he at last.

Ilnt It'ridny put us out of doubt shortly, for seeing
the bear cling fast to the hough, and that he won"
not come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday, "you
no come farther, me no, me go ; you no come to me,
me come to you." And upon this he goes out to the
smallest end of the hongh, where it would bend with
his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bongh, till he come near enough to lump
down on his feet. and away he ran to his gun, to. as It
up, and stands still.

" Well." said I to him, "Friday, what will you do
now? Why don't you shoot him 'I"--" No shoot,"
says Friday, " no yet, me shoot now, me no kill ; me
stay, give you one more laugh." And so he did ; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
from the bongh where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him OVI'l'y step, and coming
lmckwnrd till he got into the body of the tree. Then
with the same hinder end foremost, he came down the
true, grasping it with his claWs, and moving one foot
at n time very leisurely: at this juncture, and just be-
fore he could set his hind feet upon the ground, Fri-
day stepped close to him, chipped the muzzle of his
piece into his <<or, and shot him dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did not
laugh 3 and when he new we were pleased I) our
looks, he falls 3 laughing himself very loud. " 0 we

kill bear in my country," says Friday. " So you kill
[02 sfl"|

a]

until NHHN t'lll'fltlll'

tlmm l" :xlll'l l, " wln' )un huvu nu mum." " Nu," v-nw
lm, " In) gun ; lull nhuut grunt, nnn'h. lung arrnw." -

This "'un. iinluml, u ~unml clinvrniuu to us, hut wu
worn Mill in u \\'llll plm'u, nml unr unnlu \'ur\' lllllt'll
llurl, nInl \\'lu|l In do \\'u lmrtlly luluw; llln lmn Inn; at
"'ulvun run nnn'h in un' huml ; :unl nuluu-l, "\t'vlll (I...
numu I um-u Iiunr-l un thu alinl'un uf :\tin*.~|, nl whn-h l
lm\'u mtnl nuniuthing nli'muly, l nurm' lumnl any thnn:
that llllml niu \\'|l.l| <<up much hurrur. '

'l'hxmu thin-43, mnl thu uppi'uurh uf night, rullutl ll"
MT, ur uluul us Fri-luv wuul-l lmvu Inul nu, wu fillllllltl
t't'rtuinly hm'u lulu-n thu 3tl\lll of llll't munntrutn nun
turn ull', whirh wan wurth hating; lml \\'n lunl tlirrv
lvngnua tn go, unul unr guulu luv-tunn-l mt: nu Wu lut't
him. and wunt furn'iu'tl mt uur juuruuy.

Wu luul unu ilmiguruns plans to puns, u! which um
gnldu tuhl nu, if thuru n'uru any niuru wuli'un in thu
country. wu nhuultl llinl thuni thuru ; mnl this mm in
small bluln. nun-unnulml with wumln un uvun- "Mu,
mid a lung. narrow llflllltl' ur lnnu, which wu \i'uru tu
pints, tn gut thrungh thn \VtNHl. .'|lltl tliun Wu Nlllllllll
uumo to a villnuu wlu-ru wu mm. h. "MR".

It was within half an hunr uf Hullmlt n'hun wu ulltnp.
ml tho tlrut. "'uml ; and it little! uftur nnnnut, "'n mum
into thu plain. Wu mat with nuthing in thu tlrnt
wuml, uxuupt tlml. in u littlu plain. within thv wuml.
whivh mm not ulmvu two {urlmigu mm, m. suw ll\'C/'
grunt wulvua <<tr-ms tliu rutul, full Hpnml, unu nth-r unn-
thur. m if thuy haul [mun in uhmu uf numu pruy. uml
hml it in viuw. 'l'huy lunlt nu nutivu ut' us, and won.
gun". and mil of our night in a low qunwnts.

Upun thin, nnr Kllltl". whu, by thu way, was A
wruti'hml luint--lumrtml fulluw, lmilu n: lump in u
manly punturu, {or Inn huliunul thuru wuru mum \Vulvur.
n uunnng.

Wu kupt unr urnia run-Iv. nu-l nnr mm about us.
but wu rmw nu niuru wulnw till wu rumu thruugh
that wuml, which was nunr half .1 luugnu, unnl unturiul
tho plain. Au mun as w- mum. iutu thu plain, weImam-um t'ltlz'totL 1' 3

had nonunion onough to lunlt about mt. Tho llrat
ohjm't wo mat. with was a dvad horno ; that in to am
a poor homo. which thn wolvvn hml killml, and at
loan! u down of "WI" at work, wo could not myoatinu
of him, lull. put-hing hia honoa ratlwr. for tlmy had
natunup all tho llmh liut'nro. Wu did not think lit.
to disturb lluun ut tln-ir fl-uat, unithnr did thoy tuko
nnu-h nolim- of net. It'riday wmtld havo lot fly at
tllmn, but I mnnhl not. anll'ur him hv any moans, for
I found wu won>> him to havo morn luminosa upon our
llmnh than wo worn awarn of. Wo worn not gono
half uvor Ilin plain, hut wu lmpan to hvar tho Wolvuu
howl, in tho wood on our loft, in a drnadfnl "Humor;
and, prt'm'utly at'tnr, wa saw about a hundrod (minim!
nu dirm-tly towards us, all in a body, and most of
than in a lino. as rngular an an army drawn nphy
l'xpn'rinucml utlim-rs l m'arm- know in what manurr
to n-mvo tlmln ; hut {mi-id to draw onraolvoa in a
nloso lino WIN tho oulv way. So wo formod inn mo-
qunt. lhit that wo might not have too much inturvn'.
l ordnrod that only ovnry othor man should tlro, and
that tho otlmru. who had not llrod, uhould ho ready
to uivo thmn unwound Volloy imlnmliatnly, if thoy
continua-d to advunvo upon ua ; and that than those)
who had tlrod at tlrst ahonld not. protond to load thoir
[nails ugtllll. hut stand roady with ovary on>> a pistol,
for \\'o worn all arxuod with a {nail and a pair of pis-
toln ouch man ; no wn wow by this Iunthod. able to
tiro nix vullvya. halt'of us at a timu. llowovur. at
prmnnt, wo had no nm'oaaity, for upon tlrinu tho llrat
vulloy, tho unaniy made a full stop. lwlllg ti-rrillml as
Wt'll with tho noiso as with tho lira: four of thmu
living shot into tho hoad, droppc-d ; nm'oral othors
\wro wounded, and wont hh-oding ntT, as we could
mm by tho unnw. I found thvy atopprd, but did not
hnnwdiatvly rotroat. "dim-<<upon, rmumuhoring that
I had hm'u told, that tho llorcedt cn'aturns wore tor-
l'it'tad at tho thlt't' of a man, I mum'd all our com-
pany to hallno a: loud aa we could: and I found the9:1; non: ssoN oaosole.

notion not nltngothor mistalcon ; for, upon our shout
thoy hogan to rotiro. and turn ahont ; lhon Iorderod
a wound vollov to ho llrod in thoir roar, which put
thom to tho gallop, and away thoy wont. to the Woods.

'l'his gavo us loisuro to charge our pic-cos again,and
that wo might lose no limo, wo kopl going; hut we
had lilllo Inoro than loadod our flisils, and put our>>
solvos into rondiuoss, whon we heard u tol'rihlo noise
in tho same wood on our loft.

'l'ho Iii-:ht was rolling on. and the light hogan to
ho dmky, which Inado it the worse on our aido ; hut
tlu- noiso ilu'roasing. wo could oasily porcoiro that it
was lho howling of those ravonons oroaturos; and,
on a sudden, we porcoirod two or throe troops of
wolvos, one on our loft, ono hohind ns, and ono in our
front, and wo know not what course to take ; lint the
oroaturos resolved us soon, for thoy gulllt'fl'd about.
as, in hopos of pro ; and l vorily believe there worn
throo hundred oft tom. It happonod, vory much to
our mlvantago, that at the entranco into the wood,
thoro lay some large timber troos, cut down, and l
drow my little troop in among thoso troos. and placing
onrselvos in a lino, hohind one loin; troo, l ndvisod
lhom all to alight. and, keeping that troo, hoforo us,
for a hroastworli, to stand in a trianglo or throo fronts.
enclosing onr horsos in the. contro. We did so ; and
it was woll we did. for noror was a moro furious
chargo than tho oroatnros Ina-lo upon us in this placo:
thoy oamo on us with a growling kind of noiso, and
lnountod tho More of timhor, as if lhoy wore only
rushing upon lhoir proy; and this fury of thoirs. it
M't'lllh', "as principally orcasionml by lhoir wring
our horsvs hohind us, which was lho proy thoy aimod
at. I ordored our own to liro as hoiuro, ovory otln r
man, and thoy took tlioir aim so suro, that thoy killod
m'voral wolvos at tho first volley; but thoro was a
Inoi-<<wsity to hoop a roulinual tiring, for thoy <<tune on
lilio dovils, thoso hohind pushing on lhore hoforo.
"'livu wu had fired the second volley of our fusila,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone off, but it was but amoment, for
others came forwards again, so we fired two volleys
of our pistols, and, I believe, in these four firings, we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice
as many ; yet they came on again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily ; so
1 called my servant, not Friday, but my other man,
and, giviu him a horn of )owder, I bade him lay a
train all at cm: the piece of timber, and let it has
large train. lle did so, and had but just time to get
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got upon it, when l, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire. Those that were
upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or
seven of them fell, or rather jumped. in among us,
with the force and fright. of the tire. We despatched
these in an instant, and the rest were so frightened
with the light, that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired oil
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately
upon near twenty lame ones, whose dreadful cryin
and howling scared the rest, so that they all fled an
left us.

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of
them, and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward again, for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the- ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times ; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling
our eyes, we were not certain ; so in about an hour
more, we came to the town where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms ;
for it seems that, the night before, the wolves and
some hears had broke into the village, to attack the
cattle and even the people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limhs to swelled with the rankling of the two wounds,
that he could go no further, so we were obliged to
take another guide there, and go to Toulouse, whore
we found a warm climate. a fruitful, pleasant. coun-
try, aml no snow, no wolves, or any thing like them,

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of In my
passage through I'rance ; nothing hut what other tra-
veller>> have given an account of, with much more ad-
vantage than I can. Itravelled from 'l'oulouae. to
Paris, and, without any conaiderahle stay, came to
Calais. and landed safe at Hover, the I-lth, of Janu-
ary, after having had a severe cold aeaaon to travel in.

I was now <<Home to the centre of my travels, and had,
In a little tiuie,all my new-discovm'ed estate safe ahout
me ; the hills of exchan e which I had brought with
me having been current y paid. My irincipal guide
and privy-ceunaellor was my good oh widow, who,
in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought
no pain>>: too much, or cure too great, to employ for
me.

I hegan to think of leaving my elTects with this wo-
man, and setting out. for Lisbon, and so to the Ilrazila.
llut now another scrapie came into my way. and that.
was religion; for an I had entertained some doubts
about the Iionum religion, even while I waaahroad,
eapeeially in m_\' at ate of solitude, no I knew there was
No going to the Ilrazils for me, much less going to
nettle there. unless I resolved to embrace the Catholic
religion, without. any reserve; except, on the other
hand, I resolved to he a sacrifice to principles, ho a
martyr for religion, and die in the Illt uisition,' so I
rmolved to stay at. homo. and if I couh tind means,
to dispose of my plantation.

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at. Lisbon,
who, in return, gave me notice, that he could ea~ily
dispose. of it there ; but that, it'I thought. fit. to give
him leave to otter it. in my name to the two merchaute,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Ilrazils,
who muat full) lllltit'lhlfllld the value of it, who lived
just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich,
so that he belived they would be fond of buying it, he
did not doubt but] should make four or five thou-
sand pieces of eight the more for it.

Accordin ly I a reed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and re di so ; and in about eight months
more, the ships being then returned, he sent me an
account that they had accepted the odor, and had
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a
correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me bills of exchange for thirt -
two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for t e
ratate, rescrvin the payment of one hundred moidores
a year to him, t to old man, during his life, and lift
moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which
had promised them, and which the lantation was to
make good as a rent charge. And t we I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life
of l'rovidonce's checker-work. and of a variety which
the world will seldom be able to show the like of.
Beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily
than I had ever an reason even to hope for.

Any one would think that, in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, I was past running an more
hazards; but I was inured toa wandering li e, had
no family, nor many relations, nor, howover rich. had
I contracted much acquaintance ; and though I had
sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
that country out of my head, and had a great mind to
be upon the wing again, especially I could not resist
the strong inclination I had to see my island.

My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she )revented my running abroad; du-
ring which time i took my two nephews, the children
of one of m brothers, Into in care. The eldest,
having some ring of his own, bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to
his estate after my decease ; the other I put out to a
captain of a ship, and after five years, finding him a
sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, 1 put him
into a good ship, and sent him to sea. And this
young fellow afterwards drew me in, old as l was, to
farther adventures myself.

In the. mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for, first of all, I married and had three children,
two sons and one daughter. But my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home, with good sueeess,
from a voyage in Spain. my inelinatiou to go abroad,
and his importnnity, prevailed, and l engaged to go
in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies. In
this voyage, I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors, the Spaniards; had the "hole
story of their coming to. and adventures in the island,
after my departure. All these things, with some very
surprising incidents, in some new adventures of my

own, for ten years more, 1 may, perhaps, give a farther
account of hereafter.THE

FARTIIER ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
___.ooo._._

Tmu' homely proverb, used on so many occasions
in England, viz. that " What is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh," was never more verified than
in the story of my life. Any one would think that
after thirty4ive years affliction, and a variety of
other circumstances, which few men, if any, ever
went through before. and after near seven years of
enjoyment in the fnlness of all things, grown old,
and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have
had experience of every state of middle life, and to
which was best adapted to make a man completely
happy: I say, after all this, any one would have
thought that the native ropensity to rambling,
which I gave an account 0 , in my first setting out
into the world, to have been so predominant in my
thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part be
fully evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might,
at sixty-one years of e, have been a little inclined
to stay at home, and vs done venturing life and
fortune any more. Nay, farther, the common motive
of foreign adventures was taken away in me, for I had
no fortune to make ; I had already sufficient for me,
and those I had to leave it to.

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at
least not enough to resist the strong inclination I
had to go abroad again, which hung about me like a
chronic distemper; particularly the desire of seeing
my new plantation in the island, and the colony I let t
there, run in my head continually. I dreamed of it.
all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day; it
was uppermost in my thoughts, and I talked of it in
my sleep. One time, I dreamed that the villany of
the three pirate sailors. was related to me, by the first
Spaniard, and Friday's father. They told me how they
barharously attemped to murder all the Spaniards,
and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid
up, on purpose to distress and starve them; things
that I had never heard of, and that indeed never Were
all of them true. And it was so warm in my imagi-
nation, and so realized to me, that, to the hour I saw
them, Icould not he persuaded but that it was, or
Would be true ; also how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards cOmpInined to me ; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all
three to be hanged.

In this kind of temper I had lived some years. I
had no enjoyment, no agreeahie diversion, but what
had some thing or other of this in it, so that my wife,
who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me
Very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret, )owerfnl impulse of providence upon
me, which hm determined me to go thither again;
and that she found nothing hindered my going, but
my being engaged to a wife and children. She told
me, it was true she could not think of parting with
me, but she was assured, that if she was dead it
would be the first thing I should do, so it seemed to
her, that if the thing was determined above, she
would not be the only obstruction. For if I thought
tit, and resolved to o--(here she found me very
intent upon her wortfiz, so that it a little disordered
her, and she stopped). I asked her why she did not
go on, and say what she was goingto say. But I
perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears
stood in her eyes. " Speak out. my dear." said I,
"are 'ou willing I should go ?"--" No," says she,
very a ectionately, " I am far from willing. But if
you are resolved to go," says she, " and, rather than
1 will be the only hindrance, I will go with you: for
though I think it a preposterous thing for one of
your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,"
said she again, weeping, " I won't leave you: for if it
be of heaven, you must do it, there is no resisting it,
and if heaven makes it your duty to go, it will be also
mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that
I may not obstruct in."

The ntl'ectionate behaviour of my wife brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider
what I was doing. I corrected my wandering fancy,
and began to argue with myself sedately what busi-
ness I had, after threescore years, and after such a
life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in
so happy and easy a manner; I say, what business
had I to rush into any hazards, and put myself upon
adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to run
into ?

With these thoughts, I bought a little farm in the
county of Redford, and removed thither. I had a
little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I found was capable of improvement. I farmed my
own land; I had no rent to pay, and what I im-

roved was for my own_ family. Now I thought,
Indeed, that I enjoyed that middle state of life, which
my father so earnestly recommended to me ; a coun-
try life :--
Froe from vice, and free fi'om care;
Ago has no pain, and youth no snore.1'84 ItuulenN t'lzl'MHi

lhit in thn mlihllo of all thln fullvlty, mm hlnw (rum
llllnnml prnvlulmwo imhliigml mo at mum, and lint mnly
mmln a lvrnur-h upon mn iiim'itiililn uml titt'ttl'uliln. hut.
<<lrm'n mn by itn vuunnqumwn, iiitn a ilnnprnlupnn u!
tlm wmulnring illntmnittult, which, an I "my my. lining
lmru in im' wary liluml, mmii rnom'm'ml ltn huhl n! um,
and, hlm tlw mun-mint n \'iulnut. <<llntnmpor, <<mum with
mom immortal-vii upuii mo. 'l'hin hluw wan tlw loan at
ll|\' "ll-(3.

It in nut. mv lmnmnnn horn tn \vl'iln an nlngv iipnii
mi- "'it'n. tn gm: n vlmravtm' uf hnr partiuulur "Hum,
mul malm a t'mmml nm'muu. Sho wan in u t'uw
\"Ul'tln, tlm wteu' uf all my utl'uirn, thn vmitrn u! all my
r'itm'pi'imm; tlm <<angina, that hv hm- pi'mlmwn rt;
tlilt'tul mn tn that happy <<mini-arm I wan in, (mm tlm
munt oxtmi-agmit "lltl l'ttilliiltfi pi'njcwt, that. tluttm'ml
in my hvml: uml ilicl Ilium tu Huh!" my mull-ling
gallium, them a mutlwr'n tunrn. ii {athur'u ltlhtrlu'ltuuu.
u {rimul'n ommnnl! mul all my mvn rvanniiiiig pmvnrn
r-mihl ll" l "'RH happy in lintumng tn hvr nntrmitim.
and lining min-ml lvy lwr tnnrn, :iml tn tlm hint tlugnm
ilnmlntn lty lwr luna. l wan lilm ii nhip thllnul a
pilot, that ('t'llltl unlv rim "alum tlm wiml." My lmml
wan quitn turnml "ilh the! whiiimicm of furvigii mlvnu-
turm, mul all tlin plna-mm umurmmmitn at my farm,
am! my f:tl|lll_\', which lmfuro cmtirolv pimnnramul mu.
"-nrn nothing to Inn ; in ii word, I rvnnli'ml tn Ivan! utY
lumnuln-npmg, Int my farm! and mtiiru tn London;
and iii a law muuthu ut'tcar I (fit! nu.

It we" nnw thn hugliming ut' tlm ymu' ltlllll, when:
mv implmw, \t'lmm I had lvrmight up to rum, and haul
mmlv him unmummlnr u! u nliip, wan <<mum lmmn
t'rum u lilim't "wag" tn llillmu, lining: tho tlrnt ho had
mmln. llo mum: and told um, tlmt numn iimrvhmitn
n! his uvqimiutmum hull lmnu prupiming tn him ("Rn
n voyeign for thnm to tho Emit. lmllun uml ('hiim. mi
prlmtn trmlorn. " Aml imw iilmln," my: lm, " it you
will g'n to IM with ma. I'll nugugn to land yuu upmi
ymir old lmhltutlml in tho inlmul, for wn ant to tmwhnoummm (ma-mu. ".5

nt thn llrutiln." In a ward thn whnnm hit an ou-
uvtlv with nn' Inm'mr, that. I told him, that if lm
Manual with thn mnrvlmntn, I would Eu with him.
llul l wuul-l unt prmuirm tn Kn any turthnr than my
uu'n inland. " Why, nir," run-n hrs. " yum tluu'l want
In In: lull Iltnrn again I hulme'" " Why." Imitl l. "t'ntl
wu nut tulm um up again in yuur rnturu 3" Nu tuhl
um. that it wmtl-l nut lm 'mmuhln In <<In ml; that. Hm
umrvlmuln "-uulcl Itm'ur ulluw him in (mum that Wu

with u lnatlml nhip nf ntwh vuhtn. it. lwimx a mouth I
neul out. n! hin way. mnl "URI" lm timm or fum',
" lhmiclun, air, if I nllmlltl miumrry." mill lw, "and
nut rvturn at all. tlum \'uu "'uultl Im junt. rmhmml m
the muulitimt yuu warn ill lmfuru."

'l'hin wan wry rutimml; lml. wo hull: (mun! nut.
n rnmmly fur itI which wan tn curry u l'ruluml nlun ) on
board thn nhip, whiohhmng tulmu in pimum, and I tip-
pml nu huurul tlm nhip, might, by tho hulp of mmm our-
pnntnrn, lm wt up again in tho inland, and fluinhml lit.
in -u to rum in n tnw <<hiya.

iii unlur tn thin, I mmln my will, and untilml tho
t'nlult! I had in quh n nmmwr fur my vhilulrnn, mul
pluoml it in ulwh hutuln. that. I wan pnrhmtly <<may,
uml nutintlml thnv wuuhl huvn jnntiuu tltilln lhmu whut-
<<wnr might. lmfnll um: and an for timir mhumtiuu. l
luft it wholly to my ulcl frimul tlm \\'ltlll\\', with u luf-
tlv'wnt nmintmmuun tn lmrnvlf fur llur (turn.

My prlmw "1m rmtuly tn mil nlmnt lhn lmginuing
<<)meuttu-y, Mil-l. and I, with my man Friday. wmnt.
on lu-urcl. in thu llmvtm. tlw lllh, having u wry (mu-
nulm-uhln mum-If all laimln 0f nnt'ounut'y things for
my mvluny. whwh. if i Alicl ut-t find in :{uml vmulilitm.
l rt'm'ivml In lvm'n nu. Viral. I c'urriml \\'lll| Inn
annu- lt'i'Vfllllfl. \\'itnlll l purpuuml In plm'n [hum nu
iulmhituntn, or at lmmt. to not nu wurk lhnru "pun
my own uvvuunt "Min 1 utuymi ; mul oitlwr tu lmn'n
llu-Iu tlwrn. or curry thmu {urwurtL as "my nlumhl
uppusur willing: particular". I ('urriml lwu cut-putt-
tnru, u mnith, and a wry lmmly, inguuioun follow,21m} IiunthoN t'ltllMIN.

who um it mmpur by trsdo, but. was also a gmmrsl
nwvhuniu; for ho was dusturons at "whim; nlnmln
and hand-mills to grind vorn: was It good tumor,
and a good put nmlu'r. \'Illll tlmsn I vurrwd A tailor,
who had oll'ornd himsuvlt to go intssuiignr to tho l'Inst
lndirs with my nut-how. but :tl'turnnrd i (musvntml to
stay on our in w plantation. and prowd is most nu-
mvssuri, handy follow, us vonld ho dusirvd. in nuniy
otln'r husinussvs lmsi-lvs that of his trudu.

Mr cargo i'unsistml of a sntl'u'ivnt ( nnntity ut
liunh, nnd soluu thin English stntl'q for i'lotltinp; tlm
Flvaniurds that l uxpvvtud to find thorn: and c-nongh
(\I' lllt'lll ml by my culi'nlulion might. comfortably
supply thmn l'or sown yours. If I rmnmnbor right.
tho nmtormls \\'l|l('ll I mrrind for vlothing thorn, with
glovus, huts, shuns. NlJN'lilllfls, and all sin'll lhiltga an
thuy could want. for "Wiring. mnonntud to "bow two
hundrud pounds, im'luding sonw buds, lwddmg, and
llousuhold stntl'; particularly lutvhun "tonsils, with
pots, lu-tth-s. puwtc-r. brass. .Qo. busidos nour onu hun-
dn-d pounds llltll'tl in iron \vork, nuilu, tools of <<ivory
kind, stsplos. hooks, hingvs. und (ivory mammary thing;
I ('nnld think of.

l varrivd also :1 hunch-ml spart' arms, mnslmts. nnd
filsils, bosidos sumo pistols, a vousldurnblo quantity
of shot of all silos, throv or {our tons of loud, and
two pim'os of bruss Minion ; I also mrriod n lnnulrvd
lmrrvls of powdor, hnsidvs swords and t'utlassvs, and
tho iron part. of sonw spilius und hulbvrts ; so that,
in short. "-0 bad a largo nmgsxino of it" sorts of
stores; and l nnulo my nuphow carry two smsll
qnsrtor-dnvk gnns morn than ho \vanlml for his ship,
to luavo bohind. if thorn was occasion, that. who". "-0
<<sum thorn, wo might build a fort, and ms" it :IL'Mlllsl'.
all sorts of onuinins. And. indoml, I at. first thought.
glut": would bu nm'd unough for it, all, and nnwh
unn'u, if wo hopml to nmintuin onr mssossion of tlm
lslund, as shall bu plainly soon in t in course of this
history.noln neon cneru. 287

We not out, and had a very fair gale of wind for
mmu' linw. [\al runwmlmr, it might be almnt the
2th.]: of I-'uhruury, late in the evening, when the mate
having the watch, came into the round-houae, and
told us be new a llush of tire, and heard a gun fire ;
and while ho wan telling use! it, a boy came in and
told us the bontswain hoard another. This made lie
all run out upon the qimrter-deek, where, for a while,
we hoard nothing ; but in a few minutes we saw a
very great light, and found there was some Very
terrible llro at a distance. Immediately we had
roeourue to our reekonings, in which we all agreed
that there could he no land in that way in Wllil h the
tire shou'od itself, no, not {or live hundred leagues,
for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this, we concluded
it must be some ehi ) on fire at Iu-a ; and as, b our
hearing the noise 0 guns just before, we eonc uded
it could not be far ell, we stood directly towards it,
and wore presently satisfied we shouh discover it,
because the farther we sailed the greater the light
appeared. though, the weather being hazy, we could
not perceive any thing but the light for a while. In
about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for
en, thoimh not much of it, and the weather clearing
up a little, we could ilainly diecern that it was a
great ehip on fire in t to nnddle of the sea. I was
most sensibly touched with this disaster. though not
at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I
presently reeolleeted my former circumstances, and
what condition I was in, when taken up by the Por-
tuguese captain ; and how much more deplorable the
circumstances of the voor creatures belonging to this
ship mmt be, if they lad no other ship in company
with them. Upon this. I immediately ordered that
five guns should be tired, one soon after another,
that, if possible, we might give notice to them that
there was help for them at hand, and that they
might endeavour to save themselves in their, boat:
for though we could see the flame of the ship, yet
they. it being night, and very dark, could see nothing;
of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for daylight, when on a
audden, to our great terror, though we expected it,
the ship blew up in the air, and in a feW minutes all
the tire was ont,' that is to say, the rest of the ship
eunk. This was a terrible and alllieting sight, for the

akeoi the poor men, who, I concluded, must beeithcr
all destroyed in the ship, or be. in the utmoxt distress
in their boats, in the middle of the ocean, which at pre-
sent, by reason it was dark, 1 conhl not see. How-
ever, to direct them as well as I could, I earned lights
to be hung out in all partsof the. ship where we could,
and which we had lanterlr for, and kept tiring guns
all the night long, letting them know by this that there
was a ship not far off.

About eight o'clock in the morning: we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help of our perspective glasses;
and found there were two of them, both thmnged
with people, and deep in the water. We perceived
they rowed, the wind being against lhenl ; than they
saw our ahip, and did their utmost to make us see
them. \Vc immediately spread our ancient, to let
them know we saw them, and hung a waft out as a
signal for them to come on board, and then made
more sail, standing directly to them. In a little more
than half an hour we came up with them, and took
them all in, being sixty-four, men, women, and chil--
dren, for there were a great many passengers.

We. found it was a French nu-rchant ship, of three
hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec. The
master fine [15 a long account of the distress of his
ship, how the lire began in the steel-axe by the nee;-
ligence of the steer-small, but, on his crying out for
help, was, as every body thought, entirely put out.
llut they scan found that some. sparks of the first
fire had gotten into some part of the. ship so dillicult
to come at. that they could not etl'cctually quench
It; and afterwards getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship. it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill, and all the ap-
plication, they were able to exert. They had no more
to do then but to get into their boats, which, to their
great comfort, were pretty large, bein their long
boat, and a great shallop, besides a smal skiff, which
was of no great service to them, other than to get
some freshwater and provisions into her, after they
had secured themselves from the fire. They had in-
deed small hope of their lives by getting into these
boats at that distance from any land, only, asthey
said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and
had a possibility that some ship might happen to be at
sea, and might take them in.

It is impossible for me to express the several ges-
tures, the strange ecstasies. the variety of posture,
which these poor delivered people run into, to express
the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance.
Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of the head and hands,
make up the sum of its variety ; but an excess of joy
and surprise, has a thousand extravagancies in it.
There were some in tears, some raging and tearing
themselves, as if they had been in the greatest agoniee
of sorrow; some stark raving, and downright lunatic;
some ran about the ship stamping with their feet,
others wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing; some laughing, more crying; many
quite dumb, not able to speak award; others sic}:
and vomiting ; several swooning, and ready to faint ;
and a few were crossing themselves, and givmg God
thanks.

I would not wrong them neither; there might be
many that were thankful afterward ; but the passion
was too strong for them at first, and they were not
able to master it; they were thrown into ecstasies.
and a kind of frenzy, and so there were very few
who ]were composed and serious in their Joy.

U2 '1'
There were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was stran-
gest was, that the oldest man was the worst.

As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and
saw himself safe, he droped down stone dead to all
appearance ; not the least sign of life could be seen
in him. Our surgeon immediately applied remedies
to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead; and at length he
opened a vein in his arm, from which in a short time
the blood flowed rather freely; in three minutes
after, the old man opened his eyes; and about. a
quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better,
and in a little time quite well. After the blood was
sto )ped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly
we 1, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave
him, and was what we called " come to himself."
About a quarter of an hour after, they came running
into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had fainted, and told him the
priest had gone stark mad. It seems he had begun
to revolve the change of his circumstances in his
mind, and this put him into an ecstasy of joy ; his
spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could
convey them ; the blood grew hot and feverish, and
the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that
ever was in it. The surgeon gave him somethng to
dose and put him to sleep, which, after some time,
operated upon him, and he waked next morning per-
fectly composed and well.

The younger priest behaved himself with great
command of his passion, and was really an example
of a serious, well-governed mind. At his first coming
on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face,
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliver-
ance, in which I nnhappily and unseasonably disturb-
ed him, really thinking he had been in a swoon ; but
he spake calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving
God thanks for his deliverance, begged me to leave
him a few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he
would give me thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him ; and not
only left him, but he t others from interrupting him
also. He continue in that pasture about three
minutes, or a little more, after I left him ; then came
to me, as he had said he would, and with a great deal
of seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes,
thanked me that had, under God, given him, and so
many miserable creatures, their lives. I told him I
had no room to move him to thank God for it, rather
than me, for I had seen that he had done that already.
lhit I added, that it was nothing but what reason and
humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much
reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed
us so far as to make us the instruments of his mercy
to so many of his creatures.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his
country folks, laboured to compose them, persuaded,
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his
utmost to keep them within the exercise of their rea-
son ; and with some he had success, though others
were, for a time, out of all government of themselves.

I commit this to writing, as perhaps it may be useful
to those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding
themselves in all the extravagancies of their passions;
for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a
length beyond the reach of their reason, what will not
the extravagancies of anger, rage, and a provoked
mind carry us to ?

The next day, when they had slept soundly, they
were quite another sort of people. Nothing of good
manners, or civil acknowledgments, for the kindness
shown to them, was wanting: the French, it is well
known, are naturally apt to exceed that way. The
captain and one of the priests came to me shortly,
and, desiring to speak with me and my nephew.
the commander began to consult with us what should
be done with them. And first they told us that as
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little
enough for a return for the kindness received. The
captain said they had saved some money, and some
things of value, in their boats, catched hastily out of
the flames, and if we would accept it, they were
ordered to make an oll'er of it all to us; they only
desired to be set on shore somewhere on our way,
where, if possible, they might get passage to France.

I told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true ; but that it was our
duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we
would desire to he so delivered, if we were in the like,
or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours ;
but that we took them up to save them, not to plun-
der them ; and that it would he a most barbarous
thing to take that little from them which they had
saved out of the fire, and then to set them on shore
and leave them; that this would he first to save
them from death, and then to kill them ourselves ;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to
starving; and, therefore, I would not let the least
thing be taken from them. As to setting them on
shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding
difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East Indies ; and though we were driven out of our
course to the westward u very great way, which,
perhaps. was directed by heaven on purpose. for their
deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to
change our voyage, on this particular account ; nor
could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the
freighters with whom he was under charterpart to
pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: and al I
knew we could do for them was to put ourselves in
the way of meeting with other ships, homeward
bound from the West Indies, and get them passage,
if possible, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it ; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the
East Indies. They then entreated me, that seeing I
was driven so far to the westward before I met with
them, I would at least keep on the same course to the
banks of Newfoundland, where it was possible they
might meet with some ship or sloop, that they might
hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they
came.

I thought this was but a reasonable re nest on their
part, and therefore consented, and in a out a week
after we made the banks of Newfoundland, where, to
shorten my story, we put all our French people on
hoard a bark, which they hired to carry them to
France. When I say all the French people, I should
remember that the young priest I spoke of, hearing
we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the
voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the coast
of Coromandel. I readily agreed to that ; for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason,
as will appear afterwards. Also, four of the seamen
entered themselves in our ship, and proved very use-
ful fellows.

From thence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. S. E. for about twenty days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity almost as
deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N.,
and the 19th day of March, 1694, when we spied a
sail, our course, was S. E. S. We soon perceived it
was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but at
first we could not tell what to make of her, till com-
ing a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
topmast, foremast, and bolt--sprit, and presently she
fired a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was
pretty good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we
soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
It: Irtmdoes but had been blown out of the road a few
days before, she was ready to sail, by a terrible lnIrri-
cane, while the captain and the chief mate were both
gone on shore, so that. by the terror of the storm they
were but in an indiii'erent case for good artists to
bring the ship home. They had been already nine
weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and in which they lost their masts as above. They
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama ls-
laIIds, but then were driven away again to the south-
east by a strong gale of wind at N. N. \V. the same
that blew now ; and having no sails to work the ship
with, but a main-course, and a kind of square sai ,
upon a jury fore- mast, which they had set up, they
could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to
stand away for the Canaries.

But what was the worst of all, they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone: their bread and flesh Was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days ; the only relief they had
was, their water was not done, and they had about
half a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar enough;
some suecades, or sweetmeats, they had at first, but
they a ere dev,oured and they had seven casks of rum.

There was a yotith and his mother, and a maid-
servant on board, who were going passengers, and,
thinking the ship was ready to sail, nnlIappily came
on board the evening before the lnIrIicane began;
and liming no proIisions of their on II the I; were in a
more deplorable condition than the rest ; for the sen-
Iuen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity
themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for
the poor passengers.

1 had, perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity
had not led me. the weather being.r fair, and the wind
abated,to go on board the ship. The second mate,
who upon this occasion, commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship; and he told me that they
had three passengers on board, and that they were
in a deplorable condition. " N ay," says he, ' I be-
lieve they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them
for above two days ; and I was afraid to in uire after
them," said he, " for I had nothing to relieve them
with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them
what relief we could spare. But now they were in a
new danger, for they were afraid of eating too much,
even of that little we gave them. The mate, or com-
mander, brought six men with him in his boat, but
these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were
so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars
'l'he mate himSelf was very ill, and half starved, for
he declared be had reserved nothing from the men,
and went share and share alike with them in every
bit they eat.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, and set meat
before him immediately, but he had not eaten three
monthsful before he began to be sick and out of order.
So he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up
something with some broth, which he said would be
to him both food and physio, and after he had taken
it he grew better. In the mean time, I forgot not the
men: I ordered victuals to be given them, and the
poor creatures rather devoured than eat it: and two
of them eat with so much greediness, that they were
in danger of their lives the next morning. All the
while the mate was relating to me the miserable con-
dition of the ship's company, I could not put out of
my thoughts the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin, viz. the mother,
her son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard
nothing of for two or three days, and whom he seem-
ed to confess they had wholly neglected, their own
extremities being so great ; by which I understood,
that they had really given them no food at all, and
that therefore they must have perished, and be all
lying dead on the floor, or deck of the cabin.

As I, therefore, kept the mate, whom we then call-
ed captain, on board with his men to refresh them,
so I also forgot not the starving crew that were on
board, but ordered my own boat to go on board their
ship, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a
sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil.
Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to
be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in
the cook room, to prevent the men taking it to eat
raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well
boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a
time; and, by this caution he preserved the men,
who would otherwise have killed themselves with that
very food which was given them on purpose to save
their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and see what condition the poor passen-
gers were in, and, if they were alive to comfort them,
and give them what refreshment was proper, and the
surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth which he had given to the mate that
was on board, and which he did not question would
restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this: but, as I said before,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery, which
I knew the ship itself would present me with, in a
more lively manner than I could have it by re art, I
took the captain of the ship, as we now calle him,
with me, and went myself a little after in their boat.

I found the poor men almost in a tumult to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready. How-
ever we pacified them, and fed them gradually and
cautiously for the first time, and the next time we
gave them more, and at last filled their bellies, and
the men did well enough. But the misery of the
poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature
and far beyond the rest. For as, first, the ship's
company had so little for themselves, it was but too
true, that they had at first kept them low, and at last
totally neglected them ; so that for six or seven days,
it might be said, they had really had no food at all,
and, for several days before, very little. The poor
mother, who, as the mate reported, was a woman of
good sense, and good breeding, had spared all she
could get so affectionately for her son, that at last she
sunk under it. And when the mate of our ship went
in, she sat upon the floor, on deck, with her back up
against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her shoul-
ders, like a corpse, though not uite dead. My mate
said all he could to revive an encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She
opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could
not speak : yet she understood what he said, and made
signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her,
but pointed to her child, as if she would have said,
they should take care of him.

However, the mate, who was exceeding moved with
the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into
her mouth; and, as he said, got two or three spoons-
ful down, though I question whether he could be sure
of it or not. But it was too late, she died the same
night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his
most affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone;
yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one stretched out, with
hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest. How-
ever, being young, and having more strength than
his mother, the mate got something down his throat,
and he began sensibly to revive, though by giving
him, some time after, but two or three spoonsful ex-
traordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up
again.

But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all
along upon the deck, hard by her mistress, and just
like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy, and
struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted, one of
her bands was clasped round the frame of a chair,
and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily
make her let it go, her other arm lay over her head,
and her feet lay both together, set fast against the
frame of the cabin table: in short she lay just like
one in the last agonies of death. The poor creature
was not only starved with hunger, and terrified with
the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us after-
wards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom
she saw dying for two or three days before, and whom
she loved most tenderly. We knew not what to do
with this poor girl ; for when our surgeon, who was
a man of very great knowledge and experience, had,
with great application, recovered her, as to life, he
had her upon his hands, as to her senses, for she was
nearly distracted for a considerable time after.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must
consider that visits at sea are not like journies into
the country, where sometimes people stay a week or
a fortnight at a place. Our business was to relieve
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them ;
and though they were willing to steer the same course
with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to
keep pace with a ship that had no masts. However,
as their captain begged of us to help him to set up a
main-topmast, and a kind of topmast to his jury fore-
mast, we did, as it were, lie by them for three or four
days, and then, having given them five barrels of
beef, and a barrel of pork, two hogheads of biscuits,
and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things
we could spare, and taking three casks of sugar,
some rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satis-
faction, we left them, taking on board with us, at
their own earnest request, the youth, and the maid,
and all their goods. The young lad was about seven~
teen years of age, a pretty, well-bred, modest, and
sensible )'outh.greatly dejected by the loss of his mo-
ther ; and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few
months before in the Barbadoes.

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees, 32 minutes,
and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather,
though at first the winds had been contrary. I shall
trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, wea-
ther, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage, but,
shortening my story, for the sake of what is to follow,
shall observe, that I came to my old habitation, in
the island, on the tenth of April, 1694. It was with
no small difficulty that I found the place, for as I
came to it, and went from it before, on the south and
east side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so
now coming in between the mainland and the island,
and havin no chart for the coast, nor any land-mark,
I did not now it when I saw it, or know whether I
saw it or not.

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands, in the month of the great river
Oroonoqne ; and this I learned, by coasting the
shore, that I was under one eat mistake before,
viz. that the continent, which thought I saw from
the island I lived in, was really no continent, but a
long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of
that great river, and that the savages who came to my
island were not properly those which we call Carib-
bees, but islanders, and other barbarians of the same
kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side than
the rest. I visited several of these islands to no pur-
pose. At length I came fair on the south side of my
island, and I presently knew the very countenance of
the place. So I brought the ship safe to an anchor,
broadside with the little creek, where my old habita-
tion was.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and
asked him if he knew where he was. He looked about
a little, and presently, clapping his hands, cried, " 0
yes! 0 there! 0 yes! 0 there !" pointing to our old
habitation, and fell a dancing and capering like a mad
fellow, and I had much ado to keep him from jumping
into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.

" Well, Friday," said I, " do you think we shall find
any body here or no ? And what do you think, shall
we see your father ?" The fellow stood mute as a
stock a good while ; but when I named his father, the
poor atlectionate creature looked dejected, and I
could see the tears run down his face very plentifully.
" What is the matter, Friday," said I, " are you
troubled because you may see your father ?"--" No,
no," says he, " no see him more, no, never more see
again !"---" "'hy so," said I, " Friday, how do you
know that? --"0 no, no," says Friday, " he long
ago die, long ago, be much old man."--" Well, well,"
said I, " Friday, you don't know. But shall we see
any one else then ?" The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above my
old house, and though we lay half aleague off, he
cries out, " Me see! me see ! yes, yes l me see much
men there, and there l" I looked, but I could see
nobody, no, not with the perspective glass, which was,
I suppose, because I could not hit the place, for the
fellow was right, as I found, upon in uiry, the next
day, and there were five or six men a together stood
to look at the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and tired
three guns, to give them notice we were friends, and
about a quarter of an hour after we perceived a
smoke rise from the side of the creek. So I imme-
diately ordered a boat out, takingr Friday with me,
and hanging out a white flag, or flag: of truce, I went
directly on shore, taking with me the young friar I
mentioned before, to whom I had told the whole
story of my living there, and the manner of it, and
every particular, both of myself, and those that I left
there, and who was, on that account. extremely de-
sirons to go with me. We had, besides, about sixteen
men, very well armed, if we had found any new
guests there which we did not know of: but we had
no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek, and
the first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard,
whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his
face perfectly well. I ordered nobody to go on
shore but myself, but there was no keeping Friday
in the boat, for the affectionate creature had spied
his father at a distance, and if they had not let him
go on shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He
was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his
father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest
resolution, to have seen the first transports of this
poor fellow's joy when he came to his father; how
he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took
him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and
lay down by him ; then stood and looked at him, as
any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter
of an hour together ; then lay down upon the ground,
and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got
up again, and stared at him ; one would have thought
the fellow bewitched ; and all the while he did this,
he would be talking to him, and telling him one
story or another of his travels, and of what had hap-
pened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the
same filial affection was to be found in Christians to
their parents in our parts of the world, one would be
tempted to say, there would hardly have been any need
of the Fifth Commandment.

But this is a digression: I return to my landing.
It would be endless to take notice of all the ceremo-
nies and civilities that the Spaniards received me
with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I said, I knew
very well, was he whose life I had saved ; he came
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a
flag of truce also; and he not only did not know me
at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of its
being me that was come, till I said, " Seignior, do
you not know me 2'" At which he spoke not a word,
but giving his musket to the man that was with him,
threw his arms abroad, and, saying something in
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not
to know that face again, that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven sent to save his life. He said
abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred
Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning
to the person who attended him, bade him go and
call out his comrades. He then asked me, if I would
walk to my old habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again, and where I should
see there had been but mean improvements. So I
walked along with him ; but, alas! I could no more
find the place again, than if I had never been there,
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them
in such a posture, so thick and close to one another,
and in ten years' time they were grown so big, that,
in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings, and blind ways, as they themselves only
who made them could find.

I asked what put them upon all these fortifications.
He told me, I would say there was need enough of
it, when they had given me an account how they had
passed their time since their arriving in the island,
especially after they had the misfortune to find I was
gone. He told me, he could not but have some satis-
faction in my good fortune, when he heard that I
was gone in a good ship ; and that he had oftentimes
a strong persuasion, that one time or other he should
see me again.

While he was saying this, came the man whom he
had sent back, and with him eleven men more. In
the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess
what nation they were of 3 but he made all clear,
both to them and to me. First, he turned to me,
and pointing to them, said, "These, sir, are some of
the gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;" and then
turning to them," and pointing to me, he let them
know who I was. Upon which, they all came up,
one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and
ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if they
had been ambassadors or noblemen, and Ia monarch,
or a great conqueror.

The history of their coming to, and conduct in. the
island, after my going away, is soremarkable, and has
so many incidents which the former part of my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in most of
the particulars, refer to that account I have already
given, that I cannot but commit them to the reading
of those that come after me.

The first thing I did, was to desire that he would
give me a particular account of his voyage back to
his countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to
fetch them over. He told me there was little variety
in that part, for nothiniaremarkable happened to
them on the way, they ving very calm weather,
and a smooth sea. For his countrymen, it would not
be doubted, in said, but that they were overjoyed to
see him. (It seems, he was the principal man among
them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time.) They
were, he said, the more surprised to see him, because
they knew that he was fallen into the hands of savages,
who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they
did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told
them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner
he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like
a dream to them ; and their astonishment, they said,
was something like that of Joseph's brethren, when he
told them who he was, and told them the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court. But when he showed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the pron-
srons, that he brought them for their journey. or voy-
age, they were restored to themselves, took a just
share in the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to come away with him.

Their first business was to get canoes: and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes, on pretence of going
out a fishing, or for pleasure.

In these they came away the next morning. It
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready ;
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, nor provi-
sions, not anything in the world, but what they had on
them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
make their bread

They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get away from the island, leaving three of the
most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable
villains behind me, that any man could desire to meet
wit .

The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when
the Spaniards came on shore they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as
I had ordered them to do. Also they gave them the
long paper of directions, which I had left them, con-
taining the particular methods which I took for
managing every part of my life there, the way I
baked my bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted
my corn, how I cured my grapes, made my pots,
and, in a word, every thing I did. Nor did they
refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing
else, for they agreed very well for some time ; they
gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave,
and they began to live very sociahly ; and the head
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods,
and Friday's father together, managed all their affairs ;
for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ram-
ble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises,
and when they came home at night, the Spaniards
provided their suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this,
would the others have but let them alone, which,
however, they could not find in their hearts to do
long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would
not eat themselves, and would not let others eat
neither. At last it broke out into open war, and it
began with all the rudeness and insolence that can
be imagined, without reason, without provocation,
contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common sense;
and thougll, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the
accusers, yet when -I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this part, 1
must supplly a defect in my former relation ; and this
was, that forgot to set down among the rest, that,
just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board our ship,
which I was afraid once would turn to a second
mutiny ; nor was it appeased, till the captain, rousing
up his courage, and taking us all to his assistance,
parted them by force, and making two of the most
refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons;
and as they had been active in the former disorders,
and let fall some ugly, dangerous words the second
time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England,
and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running
away with the ship. This, it seems, frightened some
other men in the ship ; and some of them had put it
into the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave
them good words for the present, till they should come
to some English port, and that then they should all be
put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted
us with it; upon which it was desired that I, who still
paSsed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them that

102 U
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had done for the time past should
be pardoned. So I went, and, after passing " my
honour's" word to them, they appeared easy, and the
more so when I caused the two men, who were inirons,
to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for
that night, the wind falling calm. Next morning we
found that our two men, who had been laid in irons,
had stole each of them a musket and some other
weapons; what powder or shot they had we knew
not ; and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was
not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their
companions in roguery on shore.

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues ; but they could neither find
them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the
woods when they saw the boat coming.

These two men made their number five ; but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that, after they had been two or three days together,
they turned their new-comers out of doors to shift for
themselves, and would have nothing to do with them,
nor could they, for a good while, be gmuaded to give
them any food 3 as for the Spaniar they were not
yet come. -

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the
business began to go forward: the Spaniards would
have persuaded the three English brutes to have
taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family, but they would
not hear of it. So the two poor fellows lived by
themselves, and, finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortably, the
pitched their tents on the north shore of the islan ,
but a little more to the west, to be out of the danger

of the savages, who always landed on the east part of
the island.
Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in,
and the other to lay up their magazines and stores
in ; and the Spaniards aving given them some corn
for seed, and especially some of the peas which I had
left them, the dug, and planted, and enclosed, after
the pattern I ad set for them all, and began to live
pretty well.

They were going on in this little thriving posture,
when the three unnatural rogues, their own country-
men too, in mere humour, and to insult them, came
and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs ; that the governor, meaning me, had given
them possession of it, and nobody else had any right
to it: and, d--n them, they should build no houses
upon their ground, unless they would pay them rent
for them.

The two men thought they had jested at first, and
asked them to come and sit down, and see what fine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them
what rent they demanded. And one of them merriliy
told them, if they were ground landlords, he hope ,
if they built tenements upon the land, and made im-

rovements', they would according to the custom of all
andlords, grant them a long lease, and bade them go
and fetch a scrivener to draw the writings. One of
the three, d--ning and raging, told them that they
should see they were not in jest; and going to a little
place at a distance, where the honest men had made a
fire to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and
clapt it to the outside of their but, and fairly set it on
fire; and it would have been burnt down in a few
minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet,
and not without some difficulty too. '

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man
thrusting him awa , that he turned upon him with a
pole he had in his hand ; and had not the man avoid-
ed the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he
had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing
the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and
immediately they both came out with their muskets ;
and the man who was first struck at with the pole,
knocked the fellow down who began the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that before the other
two could come to help him ; and then seeing the
rest come at them, they stood together, and present-

ing the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them too ; but one
of the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and
made desperate by his danger, told them if they offered
to move hand or foot, they were all dead men, and
boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They
did not indeed, lay down their arms ; but seeing him
so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they con-
sented to take their wounded man with them and be
gone: and, indeed it seems the fellow was wounded
sufficiently with the blow.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the
lesser part of their rogueries, such as treading down
their corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat,
which the poor men had got to breed up tame for
their store, and in a word, plaguing them night and
dav in this manner, it forced the two men to such a
desperation, that they resolved to fight them all
three the first time they had a fair opportunity. In
order to do this, they resolved to go to the castle, as
they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at
that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the
Spaniards should stand by and see fair play. So they
got up in the morning before day, and came to the
place, and called the Englishmen by their names,
telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wanted to
speak with them.

It happened that the day before two of the Spani-
ards, having been in the woods, had seen one of the
two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I call the
honest men ; and he had made a sad complaint to the
Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
from their three countrymen. When the Spaniards
came home at night, and they were all at supper, he
took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in gentle and mannerly terms, at which they
took great offence.

The next morning they went all trooping away,
swearing to burn and demolish the habitation of the
other two men. and also muttered some insolent things
among themselves of what they would do to the Spa-
niards too, when opportunity offered.

When they came thither, and found the men gone,
Atkins, who, it seems, was the forwardest man, called
out to his comrades, " Ha! Jack, here's the nest; but,
d--n them, the birds are flown." They mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion of their being
gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the
Spaniards had given them notice of it ; and with that
they shook hands and swore to one another that they
would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they
had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with
the poor men's habitation. They did not set fire
indeed to any thing, but they pulled down both their
houses, and left not the least stick standing, or scarce
any sign on the ground where they stood ; they also
tore in pieces, and squandered about their little house-
hold stuff.

The two men were, at this juncture gone to find
them out, and had resolved to fight them wherever
they had been, though they were but two to three: so
that, had they met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them, for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.

When the three came back, like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been
about had put them into, they came up to the Spani-
ards and told them what they had done, by way of
seat! and bravado ; and one of them stepping "P to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his
head, and gave it a twirl about, fleering in his face,
says to him, " And you, seignior Jack Spaniard,
shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil
man, was as brave as a man could be desired to be,
and withal a strong, well-made man, looking steadily
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon
in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and, with one
blow of his fist, knocked him down ; at which one of
the rogues, insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the
Spaniard immediately. He missed his body, indeed,
for the bullets went through his hair ; but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty
much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was
more hurt than he really was, and that put him into
some heat, for before he acted in a perfect calm ; but
now, resolving to go through with his work, he stooped,
and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who fired
at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, and, calling to him not to shoot, they
stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms
from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they
had made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as
their own countrymen, they began to cool, and giving
the Spaniards better words, would have had their
arms again ; but the Spaniards, considering the feud
that was between them and the other two English-
men, and that it would be the best method they
could take to keep them from one another, told them
they would do them no harm; and if they would
live peaceably, they would be very willing to assist
and associate with them as they did before ; but that
they could not think of giving them their arms again,
while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with
them to their own countrymen, and had even threat-
sued them all to make them their servants. The
rogues were not more capable to hear reason than to
act reason ; and, being refused their arms, they went
raving away, and raging like madman, threatening
what they would do, though they had no fire-arms.
But the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told
them that they should take care how they offered any
injury to their plantation and cattle, for if they did,
they would shoot them, as they would do ravenous
beasts, wherever they found them ; and if they fell
into their hands alive, they would certainly be haug-
ed. As soon as they were gone, came back the
two men, in 'passion and rage enough also, though of
another kin ; for having been at their plantation,
and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above,
it will easily be supposed that they had provocation
enough; they could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs ;
and it was strange to find that three men should thus
gully so many, and receive not the least punishment
or it.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especial-
ly, having thus disarmed them, made light of their
threatenings ; but the two Englishmen resolved to
have their remedy against them, what pains soever it
cost to find them.

But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told
them, that as they were alread disarmed, they could
not consent that they (the two should pursue them
with fire-arms, and perhaps k' them. " But," said
the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, " we
will endeavour to make them do you gustice, if on
will leave it to us; for as there is no oubt but ey
will come to us again when their passion is over,
being not able to subsist without our assistance, we
promise you to make no peace with them, without

aving a full satisfaction for you ; and, upon this con-
dition, we hepe you will promise to use no violence
with them other then in your own defence." The
two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and
with great reluctance.

In about five day's time, the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger,
having chiefly lived on turtle's eggs all that while,
came back to the grove ; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said was the governor, and two more
with him, walking by the side of the creek, they
came up in a very submissive humble manner, and
begged to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards used them very civilly, but told them that
they could not think of relieving them unless they would
promise to replace, as well as they could, the things
they had destroyed.

Well, they submitted to this, and asthey had plenty
of provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly
and agreeably together again; only that these three
fellows could never be persuaded to work; I mean,
for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased. However, the Spaniards tOId them
plainly, that if they would but live sociablyand friend-
ly together, and study, in the whole, the good of the
plantation, they would be content to work for them,
and let them walk about and be as idle as they pleas-
ed ; and thus having lived pretty well together for a
month or two, the Spaniards gave them their arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them
as before.

It was not above a week after they had these arms
and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began
to be insolent and troublesome as before. But, how-
ever, an accident happening presently upon this,
which endangered the safety of them all, they were
obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to
the preservation of their lives.

It happened one night that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life
l had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor, of the rest, found himself very uneasy in
the night, and could by no means get any sleep. He
was perfectly well in body, as he told me the story,
only found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran
upon men fighting and killin one another, but was
broad awake, and could not y any means get any
sleep. In short, he lay a great while, but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. Being
gotten up, he looked out ; but, being dark, he could
see little or nothing; and, hearing no noise, he re-
turned, and laid him down again ; but it was all one,
he could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to
anything like rest, but his thoughts were to the last
degree uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them
waked, and calling, asked who it was that was up.
The governor told him how it had been with him.
" Say you so ?" said the other Spaniard. " Such
things are not to be slighted, I assure you: there is
certainly some mischief working," says he, " near us."
And presently he asked him, " Where are the English-
men ?" "They are all in their huts," says he, " safe
enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept posses-
sion of the main apartment, and had made a place
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny,
always quartered by themselves, and could not come
at the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard, " there is
something in it, I am persuaded."

In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go ; but when they were going
round their grove, unconcerned and unwary, they
were surprised with seeing a light, as of fire, a very
little way of! from them, and hearing the voices of
men, not of one or two, but of a great number. We
need not doubt, but that the governor and the man
with him, surprised with this sight, ran back imme-
diately, and raised their fellows, giving them an ac-
count of the imminent danger they were all in, and
they again as readily took the alarm ; but it was im
possible to persuade them to sta close within where
they were, but that they must run out to see how
things stood.

After having mused a great while, they resolved at
last, while it was dark, to send the old savage (Fri-
day's father) out as a spy, to learn, if they were sa-
vages, something concerning them, as what they
came for, and what they intended to do, and the like.
The old man readily undertook it, and stripping him-
self quite naked, as most of the savages were, away
he went. After he had been gone an hour or two,
he brings word, that he had been among them un-
discovered, that he found there were two parties, and
of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had had a great battle in their own country, and
that both sides having had Several prisoners taken in
the fight, they were, by mere chance landed in the
same island, for the devouring their prisoners, and
making merry; but their coming so by chance to the
same place had spoiled all their mirth ; that they
were in a great rage at one another, and were so near
that he believed they would fight again, as soon as
daylight began to appear; and he did not perceive
that they had any notion of any body's being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end
of telling his story, when they could perceive by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies
were engaged in a bloody fight.

The battle held two hours, before they could guess
which party would be beaten; but then that party
which was nearest our people's habitation began to
appear weakest, and, after some time more, some of
them began to fly ; and this put our men in a great
consternation, lest any of those that fled should rur
into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place, and that,
by consequence, the pursuers should do the like in
search for them. As they expected, it fell out 3
three of the routed army fled for life, and crossing
the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running as
into a thick wood for shelter. Upon this the Spani-
ard governor, a man of humanity, would not suffer
them to kill the three fugitives: but, sending three
men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go
round, and come in behind them, surprise, and take
them prisoners, which was done. The residue of the
conquered people fled to their canoes, and got oil" to
sea; the victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very
little, but drawing themselves into a body together,
gave two great screaming shouts, which they sup-
posed was by way of triumph; and so the fight
ended. The same day, about three o'clock in the
afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. And
thus the Spaniards had their island again free to
themselves; their fright was over, and they saw no
savaaes for several years after.

This deliverance tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great while
after, they were tractable, and went about the com-
mon business of the whole society well enough ; plant-
ed, sowed, reaped, and began to be quite agreeable ;
but some time after this, they fell into such measures
again as brought them into great trouble.

The three savages, who were took prisoners, were
made servants or slaves; and they were all stout,
lusty fellows. After some time, one of the English-
men, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage with
one of the slaves, because the fellow had not done
something right which he bade him do, and seemed
a little untractable in his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog belt, in which he wore it by
his side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to correct
him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with
the hatchet, WhICh he aimed at his head, but struck
into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the
poor creature's arm 03', ran to him, and, entreating
him not to murder the poor man, clapped in between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The
fellow. being enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve
him as he intended to serve the savage, which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and, with a
shovel, which he had in his hand if" they were
working in the field, about their corn and), knocked
the brute down. Another of the Englishmen, run-
ning at the same time to help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more
came to help their man, and a third Englishman fell
upon them. They had none of them any fire-arms,
or any other weapons, but hatchets and other tools,
except this third Englishman ; he had one of my old
rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the last
Spaniards, and wounded them both. This fray set
the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming
in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them.
They had been so often mutinous, and were so furi-
ous, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew
not what course to take with them ; for they were
mischevious to the highest degree, and valued not
what hurt they did to any man, so that, in short, it
was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard who was governor, told them, that
if they had been his own countrymen, he would have
hanged them all, for all laws, and all governors. were
to preserve society, and those who were dangerous
to society ought to be expelled out of it ; but as they
were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their
preservation and deliverance, he would use them with
all possible lenity, and would leave them to the j udg-
ment of the other two Englishmen, who were their
countrymen. One of the two honest Englishmen
stood up, and said, they desired it might not be left
to them ; " For," says he, " I am sure we ought to
sentence them to the gallows." And with-that he
gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three,
had proposed to have all the five Englishmen join
together, and murder all the Spaniards, when they
were in their sleep.

When the Spaniard governor heard this, he calls to'
Will Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins," says he, would
you murder us all ? What have you to say to that?"
That hardened villain was so far from denying it, that
he said it was true, and they would do it still before
they had done with them. " Well, but Seignior At-
kins," says the Spaniard, " what have we done to you
that you would kill us ? and what would you get by
killing us? and what must we do to prevent you
killing us ? We must kill you or you will kill Us
Why will you put us to the necessity of this,
Seignior Atkins? ' says the Spaniard, very calmly,
and smiling.

Atkins was in a great rage, which obliged them to
consider seriously what was to be done. After a
long debate it was agreed, first, that they should be
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun or
powder, or any weapon ; and should be turned out of
the society, and left to live where they would, and
how they could, by themselves ; but none of the rest,
either Spaniards or English, should converse with
them, or have anything to do with them ; that they
should be forbid to come within a certain distance of
the place where the rest dwelt ; and that if they
ofi'ered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn,
kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, or buildings,
fences, or cattle, belonging to the society, that they
should die without mercy, and they should shoot them
wherever they could find them.

They went away sullen and refractory, as neither
contented to go away nor stay ; but as there was no
remedy, they went pretending to go and choose a place
where they would settle themselves to plant and live318 seems-01v causoa.

by themselves ; and some provisions were given them.
but no weapons.

About four or five days after, they came agam tor
some victuals, and gave the governor an account
where they had pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out a habitation and plantation. Here they
built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my habitation, being close
under the shade of a hill, having some trees growing
already on three sides of it, so that by planting others
it would be very easily covered from the sight, unless
narrowly searched for. They desired some dried
goat-skins for beds and covering, which were given
them ; and upon giving their words, that they would
not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations,
they gave them hatchets and what other tools they
could spare, some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing,
and, in a word, any thing they wanted but arms and
ammunition.

About three quarters of a year after this separation,
a new frolic took these rogues, which, together with
the former villany they had committed, brought mis-
chief enough on them, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they
led, and that without hope of be'tering their circum:
stances ; and a whim took them, that they would
make a voyage to the continent, from whence the
savages came, and would try if they could not seize
upon some prisoners among the natives there, and
bring them home, so as to make them do the labori-
one part of their work for them.

The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one
morning, and, in very humble terms, desired to be
admitted to speak with them. The Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to say, which was this:
that they were tired of living in the manner they
did ; that they were not handy enough to make
the necessaries they wanted, and that. having no help,
they found they should be starved ; but if the Spani-
ards would give them leave to take one of the canoes
which they came over in, and gave them arms and
ammunition proportioned for their defence, they
would go over to the main, and seek their fortune,
and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying
them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards told them with great kindness, that
if they were resolved to go, they should not go naked
men, and be in no condition to defend themselves;
and that, though they could ill spare their fire-arms,
having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass,
and each man a hatchet, which they thought was
sufficient for them. In a word they accepted the
offer, and having baked them bread sufficient for a
month, and gave them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full
of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young
kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a
Eoyagle over the sea, where it was at least forty miles

roa .

The boat, indeed was a large one, and would have
very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and, there-
fore, was rather too big for them to manage ; but as
they had a fair breeze, and the flood tide with them,
they did well enough. They had made a mast of a
long pole, and a sail of four large goat skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together; and away
they went merrily enough. The Spaniards called
after them, " Bon veyajo," and no man ever thought
of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards would often say one to another, and
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind,
how quietly and comfortably they lived, now those
three turbulent fellows were gone. As for their ever
coming again, that was the remotest thing from
their thoughts that could be imagined; when behold,
after twenty-two days absence, one of the English-

0
men being abroad upon his planting work, sees three
strange men coming towards him, at a distance, two
of them with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was hewitched,
and came frighted and amazed to the governor Spani-
ard, and told them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not
tell who The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him,
" They are savages, to be sure."--" N o, no," says the
Englishman, " they are men in clothes, with arms."--
" Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you con-
cerned ! If they are not savages they must be friends;
for there is no christian nation upon earth but will do
us good, rather than harm."

While they were debating thus, came the three
Englishmen. and standing without the wood, which
was new planted, hallooed to them. They presently
knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind
ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon
another question ; viz. what could be the matter,
and what made them come again? It was not long
before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they had been, and what they had been doing, they
gave them a full account of their voyage in a few
words; viz. that they reached the land in two days.
or something less, and they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them, and they gave them
several roots, and some dried fish, and appeared very
sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were
very forward to supply them with any thing they
could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a
great way upon their heads. They continued here
four days, and inquired as well as they could of them
by signs, what nations were this way, and that way ;
and were told of several fierce and terrible peeple,
that lived almost every way, who, as they made
known by signs to them, used to eat men ; but as for
themselves, they said that they never eat men or
women except only such as they took in the wars;
and then they owned that they made a great feast,
and eat their risoners.

The Englis men inquired, when they had a feast
of that kind, and they told them two moons ago,
pointing to the moon, and then to two fingers: and
that their great king had two hundred prisoners now,
and that they were feeding them fat for the next feast.
The Englishmen seemed desirous to see the prisoners,
but the others mistaking them, thought they were
desirous to have some of them, to take away for their
own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to
the setting of the sun, and then to the rising, which
was to signify, that the next morning, at sunrising,
they would bring some for them ; and, accordingly,
the next morning, they brought down five women,
and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen to
carry with them on their voyage.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they
did not know what to do; to refuse the prisoners,
would have been the highest aflront they could ofi'er
to the savage gentry, and what to do with them they
knew not. However, they resolved to accept of
them, and in return, gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and
six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did
not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with;
and then tying the poor creatures' hands behind them,
they dragged the prisoners into the boat for our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as
soon as they had them, or else they that gave them
this noble present would certainly have expected that
the should have gone to work with them, have
kil ed two or three of them the next morning, and,
perhaps have invrted the donors to dinner. Having
taken their leave, they put of! with their boat, and
came back towards another island, where they set

eightlgg their prisoners at liberty, there being too
1:
many for their occasion ; after which they steered to-
wards home again.

\Vhen the three wanderers had given this unac~
countable history, or journal, of their voyage, the
Spaniards asked them where their new family was ;
and, being told that they had brought them on shore,
and put them into one of their huts, and were come
to beg some victuals for them, the Spaniards, and two
Englishmen, resolved to go down to the place and see
them, and Friday's father went with them.

When they came into the but, there they sat all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore,
they bound their hands; and all of them stark naked.
First, there were three men, lusty, comely fellows,
well shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two
might be from thirty to forty, two more not above
twenty-four or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall, comely
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The first thing
they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father,
to go in, and see first if he knew any of them: and
then, if he understood any of their speech. As soon
as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them,
but he knew none of them, neither could any of them
understand a word he said, or a sign he could make,
except one of the women.

However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands
they were fallen were Christians, that they abhorred
eating either men or women, and that they might be
sure they would not get killed. As soon as they were
assured of this, they discovered such joy, and by such
awkward ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems
they were of several nations.

The woman who was the interpreter, was bid, in
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to
be servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away to save their lives. At which they all
fell a dancing ; and presently one fell to taking up
this, and another that, any thing that lay next, to
carry, to show they were willing to work.

The governor, who found that the having of women
among them would presently be attended with some
inconvenience, and might occasion some strife, and
perhaps blood, asked the three men what they in-
tended to do with these women, and how they in-
tended to use them, whether as servants or women.
One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and
readily, that they would use them 'as both. To which
the governor said, " I am not going to restrain you
from it, you are your own masters as to that ; but
this I think is but just, for avoiding all disorders and
quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for that
reason only, that if you will all engage, if any of you
take any of these women as a woman, or a wife, he
shall take but one, and that, ,having taken one, none
else shall touch her ; for though we cannot marry any
of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while you stay
here, the woman anz of you take should be maintained
by the man that ta es her, and should be his wife; I
mean," says he, " while he continues here, and that
none else shall have anything to do with her." All
this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it with-
out any difliculty ; and the five Englishmen (the Spa-
niards declining the offer) drew lots for choice, so that
each had a wife.

But now I come to a scene different from all that
happened before, either to them or to me, and the
original of the story was this :--

Early one morning there came on shore five or six
canoes of Indians, or savages, and there is no room
to doubt that they came upon the errand of feeding
upon their slaves. But that part was now so familiar
to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did
not concern themselves about it as I did ; but having
been made sensible, by their experiences, that their
on] business was to lie concealed, they had nothing
to 0 but to give notice to all the three plantations\

824 aoamson causoa.

to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only
placing a scout in a proper place to give notice when
the boats went ofl' to sea again.

This was without doubt very right ; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages that there were inhabitants there, which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole
colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone
03, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of
them had the curiosity to go to the place where they
had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to
their great surprise, they found three savages left he-
hind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground ; it was
supposed they had been so gorged with their inhuman
feast, that, like beasts, they were asleep, and would
not stir when the others went, or they were wandered
into the woods, and did not come back in time to be
taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight,
and perfectly at a loss what to do. The Spaniard
governor, as it happened, was with them, and his ad-
vice was asked, but he knew not what to do; as for
slaves, they had enough already, andas to killing them
they were none of them inclined to that.

So they resolved to awaken them, and take them
prisoners, and they did so. The poor fellows were
stran ely frightened when they were seized upon and
bound, and afraid that they should be murdered and
eaten ; for, it seems, those people think all the world
do as they do, eating men's flesh :but they were soon
made easy as to that, and away they carried them.

It was very happy for them that they did not carry
them home to their castle, but they carried them first
to the bower, where was the chief of their country
work, such as keeping of the goats, the planting of
the corn, &c., and afterwards they carried them to the
habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though there was not
much for them to do 5 and, whether it was by negli-
ence in guarding them or that they thought the

ellows could not mend themselves, I know not, but
one of them ran away, and, taking into the woods,
they could never hear of him more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards,
and who, carrying on their revels as usual, went oil
in two days' time. This thought terrified them ex-
ceedingly ; for they concluded, and that not without
good cause indeed, that if this fellow got safe home
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an
account there were people in the island.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had
given intelligence of them was, that about two months
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north side of the island, where they never used to
come before, and landed about an hour after sun-rise
at a convenient Eplace, about a mile from the habita-
tion of the two nglishmen, where this escaped man
had been kept. As the Spaniard governorsaid, " Had
they been all there, the damage would not have been
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped."
But the case difi'ered now very much ; for two men
to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the
happiness to discover them about a league ofl', so that
it was about an hour before the landed ; and as they
landed about a mile from their ate, it was some time
before they could come at them.

Now having great reason to believe that the were
betrayed, the first thing the did was to bind e two
slaves which were left, an cause two of the three
men whom they brought with the women, who. it
seems proved very faithful to them, to lead them With
their two wives, and whatever they could carry avga
with them, to their retired place in the woods, whic
I have spoken of before and there to bind the two
fellows, hand and foot, till they heard farther.
When the poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three who came with the women, and who
was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards
with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire
speedy help: and, in the mean time, they took their
arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated
towards the place in the wood, where their wives were
sent, keeping at a distance, yet so that theymight see,
if posaible, which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that, from arising ground,
they could see the little army of their enemies come
on directly to their habitation. and, in a moment more,
could see all their huts and household stuff flaming
up together, to their great grief and mortification.
They kept their station for a while, till they found the
savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over
the place, rummaging every way and every place they
could think of, in search for prey ; and, in particular,
for the people, of whom it now plainly appeared they
had intelligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, because, as it was
likely some of the wild people might come that way,
so they might come too many together, thought it pro.
per to make another retreat, about half a mile further,
helieving, as it afterwards happened, that the farther
they strolled the fewer would be together.

The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of
a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large ; and
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see there what might offer

They had not stood there long, but two of the
savages appeared running directly that way, as if they
had already had notice where they stood, and were
coming up to attack them ; and, a little way farther,
they spied three more coming after them, and five
more beyond them, all coming the same way, heHides
which they saw seven or eignt more at a distance,
running another way 5 for, in a word, they ran every
way, like sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity, whe-
ther they should stand and keep their posture or fly.
But, after a very short debate with themselves, they
considered, that if the savages ranged the country
thus, before help came, they mi ht, perhaps, find out
their retreat in the woods, and t en all would be lost,
so they resolved to stand them there ; and if there
were too many to deal with, then they would go up
to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not
to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their
ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were
landed, which were near fifty, were to attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered
whether they should fire at the first two, or wait for
the three, and so take the middle part ; by which the
two, and the five that. followed, wou d be separated.
At length, they resolved to let the first two pass by,
unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to
attack them. The first two savages also confirmed
them in this resolution, by turning a little from them
towards another part of the wood ; but the three and
the five after them, came forwards to the tree, as if
they knew they were there.

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they
resolved to take them in a line as they came ; and as
they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the
first shot might hit them all three ; to which urpose,
the man who was to tire put three or four bu lets into
his piece, and, having a fair loophole, from a broken
hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards
of the tree, so that he could not miss.

While they were thus waitin , and the savages came
on, they plainly saw that one o the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them; and they
both knew him distinctly. and resolved that, if possible,
he should not escape, though they should both fire ; so
the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did

not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a
second.

But the first was too good a marksman to miss his
aim ; for, as the savages kept near one another, a
little behind in a line, in a word, he fired,and hit two
of them directly. The foremost was killed outright,
being shot in the head; the second, which was the
runaway Indian, was shot through the body and fell,
but was not uite dead ; and the third had a little
scratch in the s oulder, perhaps by the same ball that
went through the body of the second, and being dread-
fully frightened, though not much hurt, sat down
upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous
manner. '

The five that were behind, more frightened with
the noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at
first ; for the woods made the sound a thousand times
bigger than it really was; the echoes rattling from
one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts
screaming, and making every sort of noise, just as it
was "when I fired the first gun, that perhaps, was ever
shot in that place since it was an island.

However, all being silent again, they not knowing
what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till they
came to that place where their companions lay in a
very miserable condition. And here the poor ignorant
creatures not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all in a group over the
wounded men. Our two men resolved to let fly both
together, among them, and, singling out by agreement
which to shoot at, they shot toget er, and killed, or
very much wounded four of them ; the fifth, fright-
ened even to death, though not hurt, fell with the
rest: so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.'

The belief that the savages were all killed, made
our two men come boldly out from the tree before
they had charged their guns again, which was a
wrong step ; and they were surprised when they came
to the place and found no less than four of the men
alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one not
at all. This obliged them to fall upon them with
the stocks of their muskets ; and, first, they made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause
of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in
his knee, and put them out of their pain. Then the
man that was not hurt all, came and kneeled down
to them with his hands held up, and made piteous
moans to them, by gestures and signs, for his life,
but could not say one word to them that they could
understand.

However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot
of a tree there by, and one of the Englishmen with a
piece of re twine which he had by great chance
in his poc et, tied his feet fast together, and his
hands behind him, and there they left him.

They now resolved to go to the place where their
wives were, to see if all was well there ; and when
they came thither, they found the savages had been
in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
found it ; for, indeed, it was inaccessible, by the
trees standing so thick, unless the person seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these
were not. They found, therefore, every thing very
safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While
they were here, they had the comfort . of seven of the
Spaniards coming to their assistance ; the other ten,
with their servants, and Friday's father, were gone
in a body to defend the bower, and the corn and
cattle that were kept there, in case the savages
should have rowed over to that part of the country,
but they did not spread so far. With the seven
Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as 1
said, were their prisoners formerly, and with them
also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left
bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men,
and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them, where, however, they were obliged to bind him
again, as they had done the two others who were left
when the third ran away. They then resolved, with
great caution, to go forward towards their ruined
plantation. But a little before they came thither,
coming in sight of the sea shore, they saw plainly
the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in
order to be gone.

The prisoners began now to be a burden to them,
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that they
thought they were under an absolute necessity to
kill them for their own preservation. However, the
Spaniard governor would not consent to it, but order-
ed that they should be sent out of the way to my old
cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two Span-
iards to guard them, and give them food, and they
were bound there hand and foot for that night.

The poor Englishmen, being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed
to come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them
with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to
any good, yet, as soon as they heard of it (for they
livingr remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter
till all was over,) came and offered their help and as-
sistance, and did very friendly work, for several days,
to restore their habitations, and make necessaries for
them: and thus, in a little time, they were set upon
their legs again.

It was five or six months after this before they
heard any more of the savages, in which time our
men were in hopes that they had not forgot their
former bad luck, or had given over the hopes of
better, when, on a sudden, they were invaded with a
most formidable fleet of no less than twenty-eight
canoes full of savages, armed with bows and arrows,
great clubs. wooden swords, and such like engines of
war ; and they brought such numbers with them, that
it put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult what to do ; and knewing that their bein
entirely concealed was their only safety before, an
would be much more so now, when the number of
their enemies was so great; they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the huts which were built
for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats
to the old cave, because they supposed the savages
would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to
play the old game over again.

They then drove away all the flock of goats they
had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged
to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appear-
ance of inhabitants any where as possible; and the
next morning early they posted themselves, with all
their force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened:
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east
end of the island, came ranging along the shore
directly towards the place, to the number of two
hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge.
Our army was but small indeed, being but twenty-
nine, slaves and all ; but that which was worse, they
had not arms for all their number neither. To their
slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but
they had every one a halbert, or a long stafl', like a
quarter-staff, with a great spike of iron fastened to
each end of it, and b his side a hatchet ; also every
one of our men had atchets. Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon, but they would come
into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, which
the Spaniards had taken from the savages when the .
first action happened, where the Indians fought with
one another; and the women had hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor commanded the whole 3
and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like
lions, and our men, which was the worst of their fate,
had no advantage in their situation; only that Will
Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with
six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of
bushes, as an advance guard, with orders to let the
first of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of
them, and as soon as he had tired, to make his retreat
as nimbly as he could, round a part of the wood, and
so come in behind the Spaniards where they stood,
having a thicket of trees all before them. When the
savages came on, they ran straggling about every
way all in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will
Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him; then
seeing the rest come on in a very thick throng, he
orders three of his men to fire. having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as
big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed
or wounded, they knew not, but the consternation
and surprise was inexpressible among the savages,
who were frightened to the last degree, to hear such
a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in the middle
of their fright, Will Atkins, and his other three, let
fly among the thickest of them: and, in less than a
minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them
a third volley.

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately,
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do ;
or had the rest of the body been at hand, to have
poured in their shot continually, the savages had
been efiectually routed; for the terror that was
among them came rincipally from this, viz. that
they were killed by t e gods with thunder and light-
ning, and could see nobody that hurt them ; but Will
Atkins staying to load again, they discovered the
cheat.

Some of the savages, who were at a distance, spying
them, came upon them behind, and though Atkins and
his men fired at them also, two or three times, and
killed about twenty, retiring as fast as they could, et
they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of is
follow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did after-
wards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves
who came with the women; this slave was a most gal-
lant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five
of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.

The men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded,
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground
in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three
volleys upon them, retreated also, for their number
was so great, and they were so desperate, that though
above fifty of them were killed, and more than as
many of them wounded, yet they came on in the teeth
of our men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows
like a cloud ; and it was observed, that their wounded
men, who were not quite disabled, made outrageous
by their wounds, fought like madmen.

When the men retreated, they left the Spainard
and the Englishmen that were killed behind them,
and the savages, when they came up to them, broke
their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and
wooden swords, like true savages. But finding our
men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them,
but drew themselves up in a kind of a ring, which is,
it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of
their victory.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had him march. and
charge them altogether. at once. But the Spaniard
replied, " Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight: let them alone till morning; all these
wounded men will bestifl' and sore with their wounds,
and faint with the loss of blood, and so we shall have
the fewer to engage." The advice was good, but
Will Atkins replied merrily, "That's true, seignior,
and so shall I too, and that's the reason I would go
on while I am warm."--" Well, Seignior Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, " you have behaved gallantly, and
done your part ; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on ; but I think it best to stay till morning."
So they waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they
found the savages in great disorder about their dead
and wounded men, and a great noise among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon
them in the night, especially if they could come to
give them but one volley before they were discovered.
This they had a fair opportunity to do; for one of
the two Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where
the fight began, led them round, between the woods,
and the sea-side, westward, and, taming short south,
they came so near where the thickest of them lay,
that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them
fired in among them, and did dreadful execution upon
them. In half a minute more, eight others fired after
them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity,
that many were killed and wounded, and all this while
they were not able to see who hurt them, not which
way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost ex-
pedition, and then divided themselves into three
bodies, and resolved to fall in among them all toge-
ther. They had in each body eight persons ; that is
to say, twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two men,
and the two women, who fought desperately.

They divided the fire-arms equal y in each party,
and so of the halberts and staves. They would have
had the women keep back, but they said they were
resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus
formed their little army, they marched out from the
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could. The savages
stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion,
hearing the noise of our men shouting from three
quarters together. They would have fought if they
had seen us, and as soon as we came near enough to
be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday
was wounded, though not dangerously. But our men
gave them no time, but running up to them fired on
them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-ends
of their muskets, their swords, staves, and hatchets,
and laid about them so well, that they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed
or wounded, in the two fights, about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out of their
wits, scoured through the woods, and over the hills,
with all the speed that fear and nimble feet could
help them to do ; and as our men did not trouble
themselves much to pursue them, they got altogether
to the sea-side, where they landed, and where their
canoes lay. But their disaster was not an end yet ;
for it blew a terrible storm that evening from the sea-
ward, so that it was impossible for them to put 03 ;
nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide
came up, their canoes were most of them driven by
the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them ofl', and some were
even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against
one another. Our men, though glad of their victory,
got little rest that night; but having refreshed them-
selves as well as they could, they resolved to march
to that part of the island where the savages were fled,
and see what posture they were in. When they came
within two musket-shot of them, the Spaniard go-
vernor ordered two muskets to be tired without ball
to alarm them: this he did, that, by their counte-
nance, he mi ht know what to expect ; viz. whether
they were in eart to fl ht, or were so heartily beaten
as to be dispirited and isconraged, and so he might
manage accordingly. This stratagem took ; for as
soon as the savages heard the first gun, and saw the
flash of the second, they started up on their feet, in
the greatest consternation imaginable ; and, as our
men advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran
screaming and yelling away.

Will Atkins, who, not withstanding his wound, kept
always with them, proved the best counsellor in this
case ; his advice was, to take the advantage that of-
fered, and clap in between them and their boats, and
so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.

In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so
plainly, that they all came into it ; and so they went
to work immediately with the boats, d'nd, getting some
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set
some of them on fire ; but they were so wet that they
would not burn. However, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running
out of the woods, and coming as near as they could to
our men, kneeled down and cried, " 0a! 0a 1 ware-
mokoa l" and some other words of their language,
which was understood to mean,',that they begged to
have their boats spared, and they would be gone, and
never come thither again. But our men Were now
satisfied that they had no way to preserve themselves,
or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any
of these people from ever going home again, depend-
ing upon this, that if ever so much as one of them got
back into their country to tell the story, the colony
was undone ; so that, letting them know that they
should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed them every one, that the
storm had not destroyed before. At the sight of
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard lain enough ; after which
they ran about the island ike distracted men, so that

our men did not really know at first what to do with
them.
Nor did the Spaniards with all their prudence, con-
sider, that while they made those people thus des-
perate, they ought at the same time to have kept
good guard upon their plantations; for though it is
true, they had driven away their cattle, and the
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean
my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley,
yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and
pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting
about it: trod all the corn under foot, tore up the
vines, the grapes being just then almost ripe, and did
our men inestimable damage

The extremity and distress they were reduced to
for want of food was great, and, indeed, deplorable:
and many were afterwards found dead in the woods,
without any hurt, but merely starved to death. When
our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and
pity moved them, especially the Spaniard governor,
who was the most gentleman] , generous-minded
man that ever I met with in my life. And he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as
to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them
and see if they could not be brought to some conditions,
that might be depended upon to save their lives, and
do us no spoil.

It was some time before any of them could be
taken ; but, being weak and half starved, oneof them
was at last surprised, and made a prisoner. He was
sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; but,
finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him,
and no violence oflered him, he at last grew tractable,
and came to himself. They brought old Frida to
him, who talked often with him, and told him ow
kind the others would he to them all; that they
would not only save their lives, but would give them
a part of the island to live in, provided they would
keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond them
to in'uze or prejudice others; and that they should

0' Y
have corn given them, to plant and make it grow to:
their bread, and some bread given them for their pre-
sent subsistence ; and old Friday bade the fellow go
and talk with the rest of his countrymen, and see
what they said to it, assurin them, that if they did
not agree immediately they 8 ould be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the pro-
posal at the first offer, and begged to have some food
given them: upon which twelve Spaniards, and two
Englishmen, well armed, and three Indian slaves, and
old Friday, marched to the place where they were.
The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity
of bread, and some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried
in the sun, and three live goats ; and they were or-
dered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down,
eat the provisions very thankfully, and were the most
faithful fellows to their words that could be thought
of ; for, except when they came to beg victuals and
directions, they never came out of their bounds ; and
there they lived when I came to the island, and I
went to see them

One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
them to make wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon
outdid their masters, for they made abundance of most
ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts
of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c.; as also
chairs to sit on, stools, couches, beds, and abundance
of other things, being very ingenious at such work,
when they were once taught.

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity
with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them,
which was about two years.

I now entered into a serious discourse with the
Spaniard whom I called governor, about their stay
in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any of
them 011', so it would not be just to carry off some and

leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling to stay,
if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them, I came to establish
them there, not to remove them ; and then I let them
know that I had brought with me relief of sundry
kinds for them ; that I had been at a great charge to
supply them with all things necessary, as well for
their convenience as their defence; and that I had
such and such particular persons_with me, as well to
increase and recruit their number, as by the particular
necessary employments which they were bred to,
being artificers, to assist them in those things in
which, at present, they were to seek.

They were all together when I talked thus to them,
and before I delivered them the stores I had brought,
I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot
and buried the first animosities that had been among
them, and would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, so
that there might be no more misunderstandings or
jealousies. Will Atkins, with great frankness and
good humour, said they had met with afflictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies plenty
to make them all friends ; that, for his part, he would
live and die with them, and was so farfrom designing
any thing against the Spaniards, that, he owned they
had done nothing to him but what his own mad hu-
mour made necessary, and what he would have done
and perhaps much worse, in their case ; and that he
would ask their pardon if I desired it, for the foolish
and brutish things he had done to them: and was very
willing and desirous of living on terms of entire friend-
ship and union with them: and would do anything
that lay in his power to convince them of it. And as
for gain to England. he cared not if he did not go
thither t ese twenty ears.

The Spaniards sai they had, indeed, at first dis-
armed and excluded Will Atkins and his two coun-
trymen for their ill conduct, as they let me know ;
and they all appealed to me for the necessity they
were under to do so. But that Will Atkins had
behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they
had with the savages, and on several occasions since,
and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned
for, the general interest of them all, that they had
forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited
as much to be trusted with arms, and supplied with
necessaries, as any of them. And as they had entire
confidence in him and all his countrymen, so they
acknowledged they had merited that confidence, by
all the methods that honest men could merit to be
valued and trusted. And they most heartily assured
me, that they would never have any interest separate
from one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together ;
and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. I caused the
ship's cook and his mate to come on shore to dress
our dinner, and the old cook's mate on shore assisted.
We brought on shore six good pieces of beef, and
four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with
our punch-bowl, and materials to fill it, and, in par-
ticular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret, and
ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the
Spaniards nor the Englishmen had tasted for many
years ; and they were very glad of them.

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids,
which the cooks roasted, and three of them were sent,
covered up close on board the ship, to the seamen, that
they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we
did with their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, I brought out my cargo of goods,
wherein, that there might be no dispute about di-
viding, I showed them there was sufficient for them
all ; and desired that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is
to say, equal when made up. At first, I distributed
linen sufficient to make every one of them four shirts,
but, at the Spaniard's request, afterwards made them
up six. These were exceedingly comfortable to
them, having been what, as I may say, they had long
since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English stufi's, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool
and loose ; and ordered, that, whenever they decayed,
they should make more, as they thought fit. I also
gave them pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction,
sat uponthe countenances of all these poor men, when
they saw the care I had taken of them, and how well
I had furnished them.

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a
rake, for we had no barrows or ploughs; and to every
separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and
a saw, always appointing that as often as any were
broken or worn out, they should be supplied, without
grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives,
scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron work, they
had as they required. And, for the use of the smith,
I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply. My
magazine of powder and arms, which I brought them,
was such, even to profusion, that they could not but
rejoice at them.

I carried on shore with me the young man, whose
mother had died from want, and the maid also. She
was a sober, well educated, religious young woman,
and behaved so inofi'ensively, that every one gave
her a good word. After a while, seeing things so
well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon
my island, and considering that they had neither
business nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or
reason for taking so long a voyage; I say, consider-
ing all this, both of them came to me, and desired I
would give them leave to remain on the island, and
be entered amon my family, as they called it. I
agreed to it read' y; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had tents or
houses, set up.

I now presented to them the people I had brought
with me, viz. the two carpenters and the tailor, also
the smith and my other man, whom I called "Jack
of all trades," who was almost as good as twenty men,
for he was a very ingenious fellow.

The French ecclesiastic came to me one morning,
as I was on my way to the Englishman's colony,
and told me with a grave countenance, that he had
for two or three days, desired an opportunity of some
discourse with me, which he hoped would not be dis-
pleasing to me, because he thought it might, in some
measure, correspond with my general design, which
was the prosperity of my new colony, and, perhaps,
might put it, at least, more than he yet thought it was,
in the way of God's blessing. I asked him what it
was that he wished to speak about. " Why, sir," says
he, " it is about your poor savages yonder, who are (as
I may say) your conquered subjects. It is a maxim,
sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Chris-
tians, of what church, or pretended church, soever,
viz. that Christian knowledge ought to be propagated
by all possible means, and on all possible occasions.
It is on this principle that our church sends mission-
aries into Persia, India, and China, and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
residence among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you
have such an opportunity here, to have six or seven-
and-thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to
a knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer,
that I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of
doing good, which 18 really worth the expense of a
man's whole life.

" Well, sir," said I, " it is a valuable thing indeed
to be an instrument in God's hand, to convert seven-
and-thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; But
as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to that
work, so that it seems naturally to fall into the way
of your profession, how is it, then, that you do not
rather ofi'er yourself to undertake it, than press me to
it?" Upon this he faced about just before me, as we
were walking, and putting me to a full stop, made a
very low bow. " I most heartily thank God and you,
sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a call to so
blessed a work; and if you think yourself discharged
from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most
readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the
hazards and difficulties I have met with, that I have
dropped at last into so glorious a work."

He appeared in a kind of rapture as he said this ;
and after I had considered it awhile, I asked him se-
riously if he was in earnest, and that he would ven-
ture on the single consideration of an attempt on those
poor people, to be locked up in an nnplanted island
for, perhaps, his life, and at last might not know
whether he should be able to do them an good or
not. He turned short upon me, and ask me what
I called a venture. " Pray, sir," said he, " what do
you think 1 consented to go in your ship to the East
Indies for P" " Nay," said I, "that I know no unless
it was to preach to the Indians." " Doubtless it was,"
said he, " and do you think, if I can convert these so-
ven-and-thirty men to the faith of Christ, it is not
worth my time, though I should never be fetched oil
the island again ? Nay, is it not infinitely of more
worth to save so many souls, than my life is, or the
life of twenty more of the same profession P Yes, sir,"
said he, " I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men,
though I was never to set my foot 03 this island, or
see my native country any more. But since you Will
honour me," says he, " with putting me into this work
(for which I will pray for you all the days of my hfe,)
l have one humble petition to you," said he, " be-
sides." " What is that .9" said I. " Why," said he,
"it is that you will leave your man Friday with me
to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me, for
without some help,l cannot speak to them or they
to me."

I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday,
because I could not think of parting with him, and
that for many reasons. He had been faithful, kind,
and afi'ectionate to me, to the, last degree ; and as I
had bred Friday u to be a Protestant, and this priest
being a Catholic, thought it might spoil all his re-
ligious principles. However, a sudden thou ht re-
lieved me in this strait, and it was this: I tol him I
could not say that I was willing to part with him on
any account whatever: though a work that to him
was of more value than his life, ought to be of
much more value than the keeping or parting with a
servant ; but, on the other hand, I was persuaded,
that Friday would by no means consent to part with
me ; and then to force him to it, without his consent,
would be manifest injustice, because I had promised
I would never put him away, and he had promised and
engaged to me, that he would never leave me, unless
I ,put him away;

He seemed much concerned at this, for he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's father had learned Spanish, which he also
understood, and he should be his interpreter ; so he
Was satisfied, and said he would stay and endeavour
to convert them ; but Providence gave another and
very happy turn to all this.

\ 'hen we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them
all to ether, and after some account given them of
what had done ior them, viz. what necessary things
I had provided for them, and how they were distri-
buted, which they were sensible of, and very thankful
(3r, I began to talk to them of the life they led, andaoamson CRUSOB. 345

asked them with what conscience they could take
these women and lie with them, as they had done,
call them their wives, and have so many children by
them, and not be married lawfully to them.

They all gave me the answer that I ex ected, viz.
that there was nobody to marry them ; t 1: they all
agreed before the governorto take them as their wives,
and to keep them and own them as their wives ; and
they thought, as things stood with them, the were as
legally married as if married by a parson, an with all
the formalities in the world.

And they told me, especially Will Atkins, whr
seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved
their wives as well as if they had been born in their
own native country, and would not leave them upon
any account whatever; and they did verily believe
their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did,
to the utmost of their skill, as much for them and
for their children, as any women could possibly do,
and they would not part with them on any account.
And Will Atkins added, if any man would take him
away, and offer to carry him home to England, and
make him a captain of the best man-of-war in the
navy, he would not go with him, if he might not
carry his wife and children with him, and if there
was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to
her with all his heart. i told him I had a clergyman
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest. He said as to himself, he
need not consider of it at all, for he was ready to do it,
and was glad I had a minister with me, and he thought
they would be all willing also. I then told him that
my friend the minister was a Frenchman, and could
not speak English, but that I would act as the clerk
between them.

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me and told me they had been considering what 1
said 3 that they were verv glad to hear I had a cler
gyman in my company, and they were very willing
to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be for-
mally married as soon as I pleased, for they were far
from desiring to part from their wives, and that they
meant nothing but what was honest when they chose
them. So I appointed them to meet me the next
morning, and that in the mean time, they should let
their wives know the meaning of the marriage law,
and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but
also to oblige them that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen. The women were easily
made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were
very well satisfied with it, as indeed they had reason
to be. The next morning I brought out my clergy-
man; and thoth he had not on a minister's gown,
after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest,
after the manner of France, yet having a black vest,
something like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did
not look very unlike a minister ; and as for his lan-
guarre, I was interpreter.

When they arrived, and after promising to endea-
vour to persuade their wives to embrace christianity,
he married three couple; but Will Atkins and his
wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergy-
man, waiting awhile, was curious to know where
Atkins was, and turning to me, says he, " I entreat

ou, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and
00k." 80 we went out together, and I took him a
way which none knew but myself, and where the
trees were so thick set, as that it was not easy to see
through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see
in than to see out ; when coming to the edge of the
wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny, savage wife, sittin
under the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse,
stopped short till my clergyman came up to me, and
than having showed him where they were, we stood
and looked at them a good while.

We observed him very earnest with her, ointing
up to the sun, and to every quarter of the eavens,
then down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to
himself, then to her, then to the woods, and trees.
"Now," says the cler%man, "mark him; now he
is telling her that our ad has made him, and her,
and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the
trees, &c."--"I believe he is," said I. Immediately
we perceived Will Atkins start up on his feet, fall
upon his knees, and lift up both his hands. He did
not continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and
sits down by his wife and talks to her again. We
perceived then the woman very attentive, but whether
Shlel said any thing or no, it was impossible for us to
te .

Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear
of disturbing them, so we resolved to see an end of
this piece of still conversation. He sat down again,
as I have said, close by her, and talked again very
earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see
him embrace her passionately ; another time we saw
him take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and
then kiss her again, with a kind of transport very un~
usual; and after several of these things, we saw him
on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to
help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand
a step or two, they both kneeled down together, and
continued so about two minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out
aloud, " Saint Paul! Saint Paul! behold he prayeth!"
I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore I an-
treated him to withhold awhile, that we might see
the end of the scene, which to me, I must confess,
was the most affecting, and yet the most agreeable,
that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with
himself, and contained himself for awhile, but was
in such raptures of joy to think that the poor hea-
then woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself; he wept several timeg
then throwing n his hands, and crossing his breast
said over severa things ejaculatory, and by way of
giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of
the success of our endeavours.

When the poor man and his wife were risen again
from their knees, we observed he stood talking still
eagerly to her; and we observed by her motion that
she was greatly affected with what he said, by her
frequent lifting up of her hands, laying her hands to
her breast, and such other postures as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention. This conti-
nued about ten minutes, and then they went away.

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our
business there was over, so we went back our own
way; and when we came back, we found them wait-
ing to be called in. Observing this, I asked my cler-
gyman if we should discover to him that we had seen
him under the bush, or no; and it was his Opinion we
should not, but that we should talk to him first, and
hear what he would say to us. So we called him in
alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves, and I
began With him thus :--

" Will Atkins," said I, " prithee what education had
you ? What was your father ?" W. A.--A better
man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father was a cler-
gyman. R. C.---What education did he give you ?
W. A.--He would have taught me well, sir, but I
despised all education, instruction, or correction like
a beast as I was. R. C.--It is true, Solomon says,
"He that despiseth a reproof is hrutish." W. A.--
Aye, sir, I was hrutish indeed ; I murdered my father ;
for God's sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir ; I
murdered my poor father! Priest. Ha! a murderer!

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it,) and looked pale ; it seems he
believed that Will had really killed his own father.

R. C.--No, no. sir ; I do not understand him so.
Will Atkins, explain yourself: you did not kill your
father, did you, with your own hands ? 1V. A.--No,
sir ; I did not cut his throat, but I cut the thread of
all his comforts, and shortened his days. I broke his
heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return for
the most tender, affectionate treatment that ever fa-
ther gave, or child could receive. R. C.--Well, I
did not ask you about your father to extort this con-
fession: I pray to God to give you repentance for it,
and forgive you that and all your other sins ; but I
asked you because I see that though you had not much
learning. yet you are not so ignorant as some are in
things that are good ; that you have known more of
religion than you have practised. W. A.--Though
you, sir, did not extort the confession that I make
about my father, conscience does ; and whenever We
come to look back upon our lives, the sins against our
indulgent parents are certainly the first that touch
us ; the wounds they make lie deepest, and the weight
they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind of all the
sins we can commit. R. C.--You talk too feelingly
and sensibly for me, Atkins, I cannot hear it. W. A.
--You hear it, master ! I dare say you know nothing
of it. B. C.--Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill,
nay, I may say, every tree in the island, is witness to
the anguish of my em], for my ingratitude and base
usage of a good tender father: a father much like
yours, by your description ; and I murdered my father
as well as you, Will Atkins: but I think, for all that,
31y lrepentance is short of your's too by a great
ea .

I would have said more if I could have restrained
my passions: but I thought this poor man's repent-
ance was so much more sincere than mine, that I
was going to leave 03 the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that in-
stead of my going about to teach and instruct him, the
man was made a teacher and instructor to me, in a
moat surprising and unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who
was greatly affected with it, and said to me, " Did
I not say, sir, that when this man was converted, he
would preach to us all! I tell you, sir, if this one man
be made a true penitent, here will be no need of me ;
he will make christians of all in the island." But
having a little composed myself, 1 renewed my dis-
course with Will Atkins.

" But, Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this
matter to touch you 'ust now P" W. A .--Sir, you have
set me about a wor that has struck a dart through
my very soul. I have been talking about God and
religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to
make a christian of her, and she has preached such a
sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.
R. C.--Did you tell her what marriage was? W. A,
---A ye, aye, there began all our dialogue. l asked her
if she would be married to me our way. She asked
me what way that was. I told her that marriage was
appointed by God: and here we had a strange talk
together, as ever man and wife had.

N . B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his
wife, as I took it down in writing, just after he told it
me, was as follows :--

Willa--Appointed by your God! why, have you a
God in your country 2' W. A.--Yes, my dear ; God
is in every country. Wife--No you God in my
country: my country have the great old Benamuckee
god. W. A.--Child, I am very unfit to show you
who God is ; God is in heaven, and made the heaven
and the earth, and all that in them is. Wife--No
makee de earth ; no makee my country. Will laughed
a little at her expression of God not making her
country. Wife--No laugh : why laugh me P This
noting to laugh. He was justly reproved by his wife,
for she was a deal more serious than he was at first.
W. A.--That's true, indeed : I will not laugh at you
any more, my dear. W fife--Why, you say you
God make all i W. A.--Yes, child, our God made
the whole world, and you, and me, and all things ;
for he is the only true God ; there is no God but he.
He lives for ever in heaven. Wife--What, have you
do great God in your country, you no know him! N o
say 0 to him ? No do good ting for him P That no
ossible. W. A.--It is true enough for all that. We
ive as if there were no God in heaven, or that he
had no power on earth. Wife--But why God let
you do so? Why he no makes you good live i'
W. A.--{lt is all our owrli1 fault. h fife--Ban you
say me, e is great, muc great, ave muc t
power; can makee kill when he will; why hgereiio
makee kill when you no serve him! No say 0 to
him ? No be good mans ? W. A.--That is true 3 he
might strike me dead, and I ought to expect it ; for
I have been a wicked wretch, that is true ; but God
is merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve.
Wafer--How me tink you have great much God up
there (she points up to heaven), and at no do well,
. no do good ting! Can he tell ? Sure e no tell what
you do? W. A.---Yes, yes, he knows and sees all
things; he hears us speak, sees what we do knows
what we think, though we do not speak. W e.--
What l he no hear on swear, curse, speak the great
damn? -W. A.--- es, yes, he hears it all. Wife.--
Where then be the muchee great power strong ? W'. A.
---He is merciful; that is all we can say for it 3 and
this proves him to be the true God: he is God and not
man ; and therefore we are not consumed.

Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with hor-
ror to think how he could tell his wife so clearly that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thou hts of
the heart, and all that we do; and yet that ehad
dared to do all the vile things he had done.

Wife--Merciful! What you call dat ? W. A.--
He is our Father and Maker; and he pities and
spares us. Wife--So then he never makee kill, "
never angry when you do wicked ; then he no 00d
himself, or no great able. W. A.--Yes, yes, my ear;
he is infinitely good, and infinitely great, and able to
punish too; and sometimes, to show his justice and
vengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners,
and make examples. Many are cut of in their sins.
Wife.---But no makee kill you yet ; then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee you kill, so you makee de
bargain with him ; you do bad ting, he not be angry
at you, when he be angry at other mans 1' W. A.--
No, indeed: my sins are all presumptions upon his
goodness; and he would be infinitely ust if he de-
stroyed me, as he has done other men. zfer--Well,
and yet no kill, no makes you dead ! What you say
to him for that ? You no tell him, tankee for all that
too? W. A.---I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog,
that is true. Wife--Why he no makee on much
good better? You say he makes you. . A.----He
made me as he made all the world ; it is l have de-
formed myself, and abused his goodness, and have
made myself an abominable wretch. W2fe.--I wish
you makee God know me ; I no makee him angry ; I
do no bad wicked ting

Here Will Atkins said his heart sank within him,
to hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught
to know God ; and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could not say one word to her about God, but what
the reproach of his own carriage would make most
irrationable to her to believe; may, that already she
had told him that she could not believe in God, be-
cause he that was so wicked was not destroyed.
W. A.--My dear, you mean you wish I could teach
you to know God, not God to know you, for he knows
you already, and every thought in your heart. Wife.
---Why then he know what I say to you now; he
know me wish to know him. How shall me know
who makee me? W. A.---Poor creature, he must
teach thee. I cannot teach thee. I'll pray to him
to teach thee to know him, and to forgive me, that am
unworthy to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desir--
ing him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that he said he fell down on his knees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind
with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to
ardon his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy
instrument of instructing her in the principles of re-
ligion; after which he sat down by her again, and
their dialogue went on.

N. B. This was the time when we saw him kneel
down, and lift up his hands.

Wife--What you put down the knee for ? What
you hold up the hand for? What on say ? Who you
speak to P What is all that? W. .---My dear, I bow
my knees in token of my submission to him that
made me. I said " O," to him, as you call it ; and
as you say your old men do to their idol Benamuckee,
that is, I prayed to him. Wife--What you say 0
to him for? W. A.--I prayed to him to open your
eyes and your understanding, that on may know
him, and be accepted by him. W' e.--Can he do
that too? W. A.---Yes, he can : he can do all things.
Wife--But he no hear what yon say ? W. A.--Yes,
he has bid us to pray to him, and promised to hear us.
Wife--Bid you pray ? When he bid you ? How he
bid you i' What! you hear him speak ? W. A.---No,
I do not hear him speak ; but he has revealed himself
many ways to us.

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand
that God has revealed himself to us by his word,
and what his word was ; but, at last, he told it her
t us :--

W. A.--God has spoken to some good men, in
former days, even from heaven, by plain words ; and
God has inspired good men by his Spirit, and. they
have written all his laws down in a book. W: e.--
Me no understand that. Where is that book 7 . A.
--A1as! my poor creature, I have not got this book i
but I hope I shall, one time or other, get it for you,
and help you to read it.~

Here he embraced her with eat afl'ection: but
with inexpressible grief that he (1 not a Bible.

Wife--But how you makes me know that God
teaches them to write that book ? W. A.---By the

102 z
same ruie that we know him to be God. Wife---
What rule, what way you know ? 1V. A.--Because
he teaches and commands nothing but what is good,
righteous, and holy ; and tends to make us perfectly
trood, as well as perfectly happy ; and because he for-
bids and commands us to avoid all that is wicked.
that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequences.
Wife--That me would understand, that me fain see;
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing,
he teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked tiling ;
he makee all thing, he give all thing; he hear me
when I say 0 to him, as you go do just now; he
makes me good, if I wish be good; he spare me, no
makee kill me, when I no be good. All this you say
he do ; yes, he be great God ; me say 0 to him too,
with you, my dear.

Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer,
but raising her up, made her kneel by him, and he
prayed to God aloud, to instruct her in the knowledge
of himself by his Spirit, and that, by some good pro-
vidence, if possible, she might, some time or other,
come to have a Bible, that she might read the word of
God, and be taught by it to know him.

This was the time that we saw him lift her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us
both, but particularly to the young clergyman. How-
ever, he turned himself to me, and told me, that he
believed there must be more to do with the woman
than to marry her. I did not understand him at first,
but at length he explained himself ; viz. that she
ought to be baptized.

I agreed with him to that part readily ; but when
he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him that
he would perform that office with some caution, that
the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us m that
very religion which we were instructing the other
in. He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel,
no proper things for the office, I should see he would
do it in a manner that I should not know by it that
he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known
it before. And so he did; for saying only some wards
over to himself in Latin, which I could not under-
stand, he poured a dish full of water upon the woman's
head, pronouncing in French, very loud, " Mary,"
which was the name her husband desired me to give
her, for I was her godfather, "I baptize thee in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost ;" so that none could know any thing by it
what religion he was of.

As soon as this was over, he married them, and after
the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and, in a very afi'ectionate manner, exhorted
him, not only to persevere in that good disposition
he was in, but to support the convictions that were
upon him, by a resolution to reform his life ; told him
it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not for-
sake his crimes; represented to him how God had
honoured him with being the instrument of bringing
his wife to the knowledge of the christian religion ;
and that he should be careful he did not dishonour
the grace of God. And thus ended the ceremony. I
think it was the most pleasant, agreeable day to me
that ever I passed in my whole life.

Having thus brought the affair of the island to a
narrow compass, I was preparing to go on board the
ship, when the young man whom I had taken out of
the famished ship's company came to me, and told
me, he understood I had a clergyman with me, and
that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to
the savages, whom they called wives ; that he had a
match too, which he desired might be finished before
I went, between two christians, which, he hoped,
would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the young woman who was
his mother's servant, for there was no other chnstxan
woman on the island ; so I began to persuade him
not to do any thing of that kind rashly, or because
he found himself in this solitary circumstance. He
smiled, and told me that I was mistaken in my guess,
for the persons he wished to be married was my Jack
of all trades, and his maid Susan.

I was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match, for indeed I thought it very suitable. The
character of that man I have given already; a'nd as
for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober,
and religious young woman ; had a very good share of
sense, and agreeable enough in her person, veryhandy
and housewifely in any thing that was before her, an
excellent manager, and fit, indeed, to have been gov-
erness to the whole island.

The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them the same day ; and as I was father at the
altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion, for I appointed her and her husband aband-
some large space of ground for their plantation.

One thing I must not omit ; and that is, that being
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among them-
selves, and having much business in hand, it was but
odd to have seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook
of the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed,
for, excepting the providing themselves food, which
they had difficulty enough to do sometimes, they had
no manner of business or property to manage. I
prOposed, therefore, to the governor Spaniard that he
should go to them with Friday's father, and pro ass
to them to remove, and either plant for themse ves.
or take them into their several families as servants,
to be maintained for their labour, but without being
absolute slaves ; forI would not permit them to make
them slaves by force, by any means.

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and
came all very cheerfully along with him. So we al-
lotted them land and plantations, which three or four
accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as
servants in the several families we had settled. And
thus my colony was in a manner settled, as follows:
---the Spaniards possessed my original habitation,
which was the capital city, and extended their plan-
tation all along the side of the brook, which made
the creek 1 have so often described, as far as my
bower, and as they increased their culture, it went
always eastward. The English lived in the north-east
part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began, and
came on southward, and south-west, towards the back
part of the Spaniards ; and every plantation had an
addition of land to take in, if they found occasion.

All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there,
only for their usual customary barbarities, they might
come and go, if they disturbed nobody, nobody would
disturb them.

It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted
to my friend the clergyman that the work of convert-
ing the savages might perhaps be set on foot in his
absence to his satisfaction; and I told him that now
I thought it was put in a fair way ; for, the savages
being thus divided among the christians, if they would
but every one do their part with those which came
ugder their hands, I hoped it might have avery good
e ect.

He agreed presently in that: " If," said he, " they
will do their part: but how shall we obtain that of
them ?" I told him we could call them all together,
and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one
by one, which he thought best. So we divided it; he
to speak to the Spaniards who were all Papists, and I
to the English who where all Protestants ; and we
recommended it earnestly to them, and made them
promise, that they would never make any distinction
of Papist or Protestant in their exhorting the savages
to turn christians ; but teach the general knowledge
of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ ;
and they likewise promised us that they would never
have any differences or disputes, one with another,
about re igion.

When I came to Will Atkins' house, I found the
young woman I have mentioned before, and Atkin's'
wife, were become intimates, and this prudent reli-
gious young woman had perfected the work Will At-
kins had begun ; and though it was-not above four
days after what I have related, yet the new-baptized
savage woman was made such a christian as I have
seldom heard of any like her, in all my observation or
conversation in the world.

It came next into my mind, in the morning before
I Went to them, that, among all the needfnl things I
had to leave with them, I had not left a Bible, in
which I showed myself less considering for' them than
my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent
me the cargo of one hundred pounds from Lisbon,
where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer book.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I
came to Atkins' tent or house, found the young
woman, and Atkins' baptized wife were discoursing
of religion together. " 0, sir," says Will Atkins,
" when God has sinners to reconcile to himself, and
aliens to bring home, he never wants a messenger.
My wife has got a new instructor. I knew I was
as unworthy as I was incapable of that work; that
young woman has been sent hither from heaven, she
is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I
desired her to sit still. I told her she had a good
work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless
her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any book among them, though I did not ask ; but I
put my hand in my pocket, and ulled out my, Bible.
" Here," said I to Atkins, " I have brought you an
assistant, that, perhaps, you had not before." The
man was so confounded, that he was not able to speak
for some time ; but recovering'himself, he takes it
with both his hands, and, turning to his wife, " Here,
my dear," says he, "did I not tell you our
though he lives above, could hear what we said?
Here is the book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled
down under the hush ; now God has heardus, and
sent it." When he had said thus, the man fell into
such transports of a passionate joy, that between the
joy of having it, and giving God thanks for it, the
tears ran down his face like a child that was crying.

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run
into a mistake that none of us were aware of; for
she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her
husband's petition. It is true, that providentially it
was so, and might be taken in a consequent sense;
yet it was too serious a matter to sufier any delusion
to take place; so I turned to the young woman, and
told her, we did not desire to impose upon the new
convert in her first and more ignorant understandigg
of things, and begged her to explain to her, that G
may be very properly said to answer our petitions,
when, in the course of his providence, such things
are, in a particular manner, brought to pass, as we
petitioned for; but we do not expect returns from
Heaven in a miraculous and particular manner, and
that it is out of mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards eflectuall .
But the surprise and joy upon Will Atkins is y
not to be ex ressed. Surely no man was ever more
thankful in t e world for an thing of its kind, than
he was for this Bible ; and, believe, never any man
was glad of a Bible from a better principle: and
though he had been amost profligate creature, des<
perate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and Wicked,
to a great degree, yet this man is a standing rule-to us
all for the well-instructing children, viz. that parents
should never give over to teach and instruct, or ever .
despair of the success of their endeavours, let'the chil-
dren be everso obstinate, refractory, or, to appearance,
insensible of instruction.
I did not think fit to let them know any thing of
the sloop I had framed, and which I had thought of
setting up among them ; for I was afraid if I left it,
some of them might endeavour to make their escape
in it from the island, and thus diminish the strength
of the colony. Neither did I leave the two pieces of
brass cannon that I had on board, or the two quarter-
deck guns that my nephew took extraordinary; for
i thought they had arms sufficient to qualify them
for a defensive war against any that should invade
them.

I have now done with the island. I left them all
in good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition,
and went on board my ship again the 5th day of May,
having been five-and-twenty days among them; and,
as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till
I came to remove them, I promised to send some far-
ther relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly find
an opportunity ; and particularly I promised to send
them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows.

The next day giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All
Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days,
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage, except on
the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and
the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black, not
being able to discover what it was, but after some
time, our chief mate, going up to the main shrouds
a little way, and looking at them with a perspective
glass cried out it was an army. I could not imagine
what he meant by an army, and spoke a little hastily,
calling the fellow a fool, or some such word. "Nay,
sir," said he, " do not be angry, for it is an army,
and a fleet too; for I believe there are a thousand
canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and
they are coming towards us, too, space, and full of
men.

_I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was
my nephew the captain. However, I bade him not
to be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage
them. The weather continued calm, and they came
on space towards us ; so I gave orders to come to an
anchor, and furl all our sails. As for the savages, I
told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore they should get their boats out. and fasten them,
one close by the head, and the other by the stern, and
man them both well, and wait the issue in that poso
ture. This I did that the men in the boats might be
ready, with sheets and buckets, to put out any fire
these savages might endeavour to fix upon the outside
of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and, in a little
while, they came up with us ; but never was such a
horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was much
mistaken in his calculation of their number, I mean
of a thousand canoes ; the most we could make of
them when they came up, being about a hundred and
twenty-six, and a great many of them had sixteen or
seventeen men in them, some more, and the least six
or seven. They came very near us, and seemed to go
about to row round as: but we called to our men in
the boats not to let them come too near them.

This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it ; for five or six of
their large canoes came so near our long boat, that
our men beckoned with their hands to them to keep
back, which they understood very well, and went
back ; but, at their retreat, about fifty arrows came
on board us from those boats, and one of our men in
the long-boat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to fire by any means; but we'
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the
carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste
boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages,
if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards, they came all up in
a body astern of us, and pretty near ; but in a little
time more, they rowed somewhat farther out to sea,
till they came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near
that they could hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered
all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot any
more arrows, and make all our guns ready ; but,
being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday
go out upon the deck, and call aloud to them in his
language to know what they meant, which he accord-
ingly did. Whether they understood him or not,
that I knew not; but as soon as he had called to
them, six of them, who Were in the foremost boat,
turned their canoe from us, and stooping down,
showed us their naked backsides, just as if in
English, they bade us kiss Whether this was
a defiance, or challenge, we knew not ; or whether
it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the
rest ; but immediately Friday cried out they were
going to shoot ; and unhappily for him, poor fellow!
they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and
to my inexpressible grief killed poor Friday, no other
man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot
with no less than three arrows, and about three more
fell very nigh him ; such unlucky marksmen they
were. I was so enraged with the loss of my old ser-
vant. the companion of all my sorrows and solitudes,
that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded
with small shot, and four with great, and gave them
such a broadside as they never had in their lives be-
before. They were not above half a cable's length oil
when we fired; and our gunners took their aim so
well, that three or four of their canoes were overset,
as we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how
man_\' we wounded, at this broadside ; but sure such
a fright and hurry never was seen among such a
multitude there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split, and overset, in all, and the men all set
a swimming; the rest, frightened out of their wits,
scoured away as fast as they could ; and our men
took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above
an hour after they were all gone. '

In three hours or thereabouts, we could not see
above three or four straggling canoes; nor did we
ever see the restzany more, fora breeze of wind spring-
ing up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for
the Brazils.

The prisoner we had got was so sullen, that for
some time he would neither eat nor s eak, and we
all fancied he would pine himself to esth. When
he was more tractable, and we had taught him to
speak a little English, he told us that they were
going with their kings to fight a great battle. When
he said'kings, we asked him how many kings. He
said there were five nation, and that they all joined
to go against two nation. We asked him what made
them come up to us. He said, "to makee to great
wonder look." Where it is to be observed, that all
those natives, as also those of Africa, when they
learn English, they always add two e's at the end of
the words where we use one, and place the accent
upon them, as "makee, takee," and the like; and we
could not break them off it ; nay, I could hardly make
Friday leave it 05, though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must
take my last leave of him. Poor honest Friday 1 we
buried him with all the decency and solemnity os-
sible, by putting him into a coffin, and throwing im
into the sea ; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him: and so ended the life of the most grateful,
faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that
ever man had .

We now went away with a fair wind for the Brazils,
and in about twelve days' time We made land. I
found my old partner alive, and after various con-
gratulations and presents between us, I got him to
engage men to set up the sleep .which I had brought
with me from England, as I have said, for the use of
my colony, in order to send the refreshments I in-
tended to my plantation. When it was finished, I
gave the master of her such instructions as he could
not miss the place ; nor did he miss it, as I had an
account from my partner afterwards. One of our
seamen, who had been on shore with me there, offered
to go with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter
to the governor Spaniard to allot him a sufficient
quantity of land for a plantation ; so I granted all
he desired, giving him some clothes, and tools for his
planting-work ; I also gave him the savage which we
had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave ; and or-
dered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of
every thing he wanted with the rest.

When we were fitting this man out, my old partner
told me there was a certain very honest fellow, 3
Brazil planter, of his acquaintance, who had fallen
into the displeasure of the church. He said he be-
lieved he was a heretic in his heart ; and that he had
been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inqui-
sition. He told me that this man would be very glad
of such an opportunity to make his escape, with his
wife and two daughters, and if I would let them go
to my island, and allot them a plantation, he would
give them a small stock to begin with ; for the officers
of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate,
and he had nothing left but a little household stuff,
and two slaves.

Igranted this presently, and joined my English--
man with them ; and we concealed the man, and his
wife and daughters, on board the ship, till the sloop
put out to go to sea ; and then (having put all their
goods on board 'the sloop some time before) we put
them on board the sloop, after she was got out of
the bay.

Among the supplies sent to my tenants in the
island, by this 8100p, were three milch cows and five
calves. and about twenty-two hogs, three sows big with
pig, two mares, and a stone-horse. I also sent some
materials for planting sugar canes, with some plants
of canes. For my Spaniards, according to promise,
I sent three Portuguese women, and recommended it
to them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could
have procured more women, but I remembered that
the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and there
were but five of the Spaniards that wanted: the rest
had wives, though in another country.

All this cargo arrived safe,.and, as maybe supposed,
very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now
(with this addition) between sixty and seventy people,
besides little children, of which there were a great
many. I found letters at London from them, all by
way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brazils by this sloop,of which Ishall
take some notice in its place.

Ihave now done with my island ; and the reader
must expect to read only of the follies of an old man,
not warned by his own harms, much less by those of
other men, to beware of the like ; not cooled by
almost forty years of misery and disappointment ;
nor satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation:
not made cautious by aflliction and distress beyond
imitation.

I should only add here, that my honest and truly
pious clergyman left me here ; a ship being ready to
go to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither, being
still, as he observed, bound never to finish any voyage
he began. How happy had it been for me if I had
gone with him.

From the Brazils we made directly away over the
Atlantic Sea, to the Cape of Good Hope. We made
no stay there longer than was needful to take in
fresh water, but made the best of our way for the
coast of Coromandel. We touched at the island of
Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce and
treacherous, and, in particular very well armed With
lsnces and bows, which they use with inconceivable
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them a while ;
they treated us very civilly, and for some trifles which
we gave them, such as knives, scissors, &c., they brought
us eleven good fat bullocks, middling in size, but very
good in flesh, which we took in, partly for fresh pro-
visions for our present spending, and [the rest to salt
for the ship's use.

It happened one evening, when we went on shore,
that a greater number of their people came down than
usual, but were all very friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had:
their women also brought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptible to us, and all was quiet.
The men staid on shore all night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not
so well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest ; and the
boat lying at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the
land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made
one of them come on shore, and, getting some boughs
of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail
on the bottom of the boat, and lay on board, under the
cover of the branches of the trees all night.

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of
our men making a terrible noise on shore, calling out
for God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and
help them, for they were all like to be murdered : at
the same time I heard the firing of five muskets,
which was the number of guns they had, and that
three times over; for it seems the natives here were
not so easily frighted with guns as the savages were
in America, where I had to do with them.

All this while I knew not what was the matter, but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caus-
ed the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three
fusils we had on board, to land, and assist our men.

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men
were in too much haste ; for being come to shore,
they plunged into the water to get to the boat with
all the expedition they could, being pursued by be-
tween three and four hundred men. Our men were
but nine in all, and only five of them had fusils with
them: the rest indeed had pistols and swords, but
they were of small use to them.

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded ;
and that which was still worse was, that while we
stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were on shore, for they poured
their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain
to barricade the side of the boat up with the benches,
and two or three loose boards, which to our great sa-
tisfaction, we had, by mere accident, or Providence
rather, in the boat.

And yet, had it been day-light, they are, it seems,
such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen
but the least part of any of us, they would have been
sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a little
sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows ; and having got ready our fire-
arms, we gave them a volley, and we could hear by the
cries of some of them that we had wounded several.
However, they stood thus in battle array on the shore
till break of day, which we suppose was. that they
mi ht see the better to take their aim at us.

u this condition we lay, and could not tell how to
Weigh anchor, or set up our sail, because we must
needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to
hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small
shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, which,
though she rode a league off, yet my nephew, the
captain, hearing our firing, and, by glasses, perceiving
the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the
shore, pretty well understood us, and weighing anchor
with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst
thh the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten
hands in her, to assist us ; but we called to them not
to come too near, telling them what condition we
were in. However, they stood in near to us; and
one of the men, taking the end of a tow-line in his
hand, and keeping our boat between him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam
on board us, and made the line fast to the boat, upon
which we slipped our little cable, and, leaving our
anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of the
arrows, we all the while lying close behind the barri-
cade we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside
among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small bullets, and such stufl', besides the great shot,
which made a terrible havoc among them.

When we were got on board, and out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray ;
and indeed our supercargo, who had been often in
those parts, put me upon it 3 for he said he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us, after we
had made a truce, if we had not done something to
provoke them to it. At length it came out, viz. that
an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk,
had brought it within our poles, with a young woman
with her, who also brought some roots or herbs ; and
while the old woman (whether she was mother to the
young one or no, they could not tell) was selling us
the milk, one of our men ofisred some rudeness to the
wench that was with her, at which the old woman
made a great noise. However, the seaman would not
quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight, among the trees. it being almost dark 3 the old
woman went away without her, and, as we suppose,
made an outcry among the people she came from,
who, upon notice, raised this great army against us in

three or four hours ; and it was great odds but we had
been all destroyed.

One of our men was killed witha lance that was
thrown at him, just at the beginning of the attack,
as he sailied out of the tent. we had made ; the rest
came off free,'all but the fellow who was the occasion
of all the mischief, who (paid dear enough for his
black mistress, for we con] not hear what became of
him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two
days after, though the wind presented, and made sig~
nals for him ; made our boat sail up shore and down
shore, several leagues, but in vain. So we were ob-
liged to give him over: and if he alone had suffered
for it, the loss had been the less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without ventur-
mg on shore once more to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them. It was the third night after the ac-
tion that I had a great mind tolearn, if I could byany
means, what mischief we had done, and how the me
stood on the Indian side. I was careful to do it in
the dark, lest we should be attacked again; but I
ought indeed to have been sure, that the men I went
withhad been, under my command, before Is engaged
in a thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was
brought into without my knowledge or design. We
took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship,
besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the same place where
the Indians stood drawn up the evening before. I
landed here, because my design, as I have said, was
chiefly to see if they had quitted the field, and if they
had left any marks behind them, or of the mischief
we had done them, and perhaps we might get our
man again. ~

We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain com-
manded one, and I the other. We neither could hear
nor see any body stir, when we landed, so we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to the
field of battle. At first we could see nothing, it
being very dark ; but by-and-by, our boatswain, that
led the first party, stumbled, and fell over a dead
hodyi02'l'his made the2m halt awhile ; for, knowing by

A
the circumstance, that they were at the place where
the Indians had stood, they waited for my coming up.
Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise,
and then we could easily discern the havoc we had
made among them. We told two-and thirty bodies
upon the ground, whereof two were not dead.

When we had made a full discovery of all we could
come at the knowledge of, I was going on board
again ; but the hoatswain and his party sent me Word
that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian
town, where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt ;
and desired me to go along with them; and if they
could find them, as they still fancied they should, they
did not doubt, they said, getting a good booty, and
they might find Thomas Jeffrys there; that was the
man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them, for I would
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing
it was not a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship
and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men {but as they sent ms word they were re-
solved to go, and only asked me and my company to
go along with them, I p0sitively refused it, and rose
up from the ground in order to go to the boat.
" Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will you go
with me ? I'll go for one." Jack said he would, and
another followed, and then another, and, in a word,
they all left me but one, whom, with much difficulty,
I persuaded to stay ; so the supercargo and I, with
the third man, went back to the boat, where I told
them we would stay for them, and take care to take
in as many of them as should be left; for I told them
it was a mad thing they were going about, and per-
haps most of them would share the fate of Thomas
Jefl'rys.

Well, they all went away, and though the attempt
was desperate, yet they went about it warily as well
as boldly. They were all well armed, for every man
had a fusil or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol. Some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers,
and the boatswain, and two more, had poleaxes;
besides which, they had among them thirteen hand-
grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never
went about any wicked work in the world. -
When they went out, their chief design was plun-
der, and they were in hopes of finding gold there;
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware
of, set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of
them all. They went one little way, and found a
cow tied to a tree; this they presently concluded
would be a good guide to them, for they said the
cow certainly belonged to the town before them, and
if they untied her, they should see which way she
went; if she went back, they had nothing to say to
her, but if she went forward, they had nothing to do
but to follow her. So they cut the cord, which was
made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before
them, and led them directly to the town, which, as
they reported, consisted of above two hundred houses,
or huts. Here they found all silent, as profoundly
secure as sleep, and a country that had never seen an
enemy of that kind, could make them. Upon this
they called another council, to consider what they
had to do, and, in a word, they resolved to divide
themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses
on fire, in three parts of the town: and as the men
came out, to seize and bind them; if any resisted,
they need not be asked what to do then '; and so to
search the rest of the houses for plunder; but they
resolved to march first silently through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they
might venture upon it, or no. They did so, and des-
perately resolved that they would venture upon them;
but while they were animating one another to the
work, three of them that were a little before the rest
called out aloud, and told them that they had found
Thomas Jeifrys. They all ran up to the place, and so
it was indeed, for there they found the poor fellow
hanged up by one arm, and his throat cut. There was
an Indian house just by the tree, where they found
sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians who had
been concerned in the fray with us before. and two or
three of them wounded with our shot ; and our men
found they were awake.

'l'he sisrht of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them, that they swore to one another they would be
revenged, and that not an Indian who came into
their hands should have quarter ; and to work they
went immediately. Their first care was to get some-
thing that would soon take fire ; so they presently
made some wildfire, by wetting a little powder in
the palms of their hands, and, in a quarter of an
hour, they set the town on fire in four or five places,
and particularly that house where the Indians were
not gone to bed. As soon as the fire began to blaze,
tha- poor frighted creatures began to rush out to save
their lives, but met with their fate in the attempt, and
eSpecially at the door, where they drove them back,
the boatsn'ain himself killing one or two with his pole-
axe ; the house bein large, and many in it, he did not
care to go in, but called for a hand-grenado, and threw
it among them, which, at first, frightened them, but
when it burst, made such havoc among them, that
they cried out in a hideous manner.

In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house were killed or hurt with the gre-
nado, except two or three more, who pressed to the
door, which the boatswain and two more kept with
their bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and
dispatched all that came that way. But there was
another apartment in the house, where the prince or
king, or whatever he was, and several others, were ;
and these they kept in till the house, which was, by
this time, all of alight flame, fell upon them, and they
were smothered or burned together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they
would not waken the people faster than they could
master them; but the fire began to waken them fast
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little
together in bodies, for the fire grew so raging, all the
houses being made of light, combustible stufl, that
they could hardly bear the street between them, and
their business was to follow the fire for the surer
execution. As fast as the fire either forced the
people out of those houses which were burning, or
frighted them out of others, our people were ready
at their doors to knock them on the head, still calling
to one another to remember Thomas J efl'rys.

While this was doing, I was very uneasy, and
especially when I saw the flames of the town, which,
it being night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew
the captain, who roused by his men too, seeing such
a fire, was yer uneasy, not knowing what the matter
was, or what anger I was in, especially hearing the
guns, for by this time they began to use their fireoarms.
At last, though he could ill spare any more men, yet,
not knowing what exigence we might be in, he takes
another boat, and, with thirteen men and himself,
comes on shore to me. He was surprised to see me and
the supercargo in the boat, with no more than two
men, for one had been left to keep the boat, and
though he was glad we were well, yet he was in the
same impatience with us to know what was doing,
for the noise continued and the flame increased.

Nor was 1 any more able to stay behind now, than
l was to persuade them not to go before ; so, in short,
the captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace,
and fetch twelve men more from the ship, leaving
the long boat at an anchor, and that, when they
came back, six men should keep the two boats, and
six more come after us, so that he left only sixteen
men in the ship ; for the whole ship's company con-
sisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the
quarrel which brought this mischief on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt
little of the around we trod on, and being guided by
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was sur-
prising to us before, the cries of the poor people were
now quite of another nature, and filled us with horror.
However, we went on, and at length came to the town,
though there was no entering the streets of it for the
fire. The first object we met with was the ruins of
a hut, and just before it, plain now to be seen by the
light of the fire, lay four men and three women killed,
and, as we thought, one or two more lay in a heap
among the fire. In short, there were such instances
of a rage altogether barbarous, and of a fury something
beyond what was human, that we thought it impos-
sible our men could be guilty of it, or, if they were
the authors of it, we thought that every one of them
on ht to be put to death.

resently four of our men came up, with the boat-
swain at their head, running over the heaps of bodies
they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as
if they wanted more people to massacre, when our
men hallooed to them, and they came up to us. As
soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come,
and, without hearing to hear me, " Captain," says he,
" noble captain, I am glad you are come ; we have
not half done yet. Villians! hell-hound dogs! I'll
kill as many of them has poor Tom has hairs upon
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them ; we'll
root out the very nation of them from the earth l"
and thus he ran on, out of breath, too, with action, and
would not give us leave to speak a word. At last,
raising my voice, that I might silence him a little,
" llarbarous dog!" said I, " what are you doing ? l
wo'n't have one more creature touched, upon pain of
death. I charge you, upon your life, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man
this minute." "Why, sir," says he, "do you know
1

what you do or what they have done ? If you want a
reason for w at we have done come hither ?" and with
that he showed me the poor fellow hanging up ina
tree, with his throat cut. -

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another
time should have been forward enough ; but I thought
they had carried their rage too far, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, " Cursed
be their anger, for it was fierce ; and their wrath, for
it was cruel ?" But when the men I carried with me
saw the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to
restrain them, as I should have had with the others ;
nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told
me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for
fear of the men being overpowered: for, as to the
people he thought not one of them ought to live, for
they had all glntted themselves with the murder of
the poor man, and they ought to bensed like murder-
ers. Upon these words, away ran eight of my men,
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their
bloody work : and I, seeing it quite out of my power
to restrain them, came away pensive and sad.

Igot nobody to come back with me but the an r-
cargo and two men, and with these I walked hac to
the boats. Immediately I took the pinnace, and went
aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what
might happen. By the time that the men got to the
shore again with the pinnace, our men began to appear,
they came dropping in, one by one, in such a manner
that a small force of resolute men might have cut
them all 05.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any
more of it. Our men differed in the account of the
number they killed, some said one thing, some'another
but, according to the best of their accounts put all
together, they killed or destroyed, about one hundred
and fifty people, men, women, and children, and left
not a house standing in the town.

As for the poor fellow Thomas Jefi'rys, they took
him down from the tree where he was hanged by one
hand, and buried him there.

However just our men thought this action to be, I
was against them in it ; and I always after that time,
told them God would blast the voyage, for I looked
upon the blood they shed that night to be murder in
them ; for though it is true they killed Thomas Jef-
frys, yet it was true thatJefirys was the aggressor, had
broken the truce, and had violated, or debauched a
young woman of their's who came to our camp in-
nocently, and on the faith of their caipitulation.

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not, and
that the war was begun the night before, by the
natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed
one of our men without any just provocation ; so that
as we were in acapacity to fight them, we might
also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner ; that though the
poor man had taken a little liberty with a wench, he

_ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a
villainous manner: and that they did nothing but
what was just, and what the laws of God allowed to
be done to murderers.

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject
had worse consequences than I expected; and the
boatswain came up boldly to me one time, and told
me he found I continually brought that afi'air upon
the stage ; that I made unjust reflections upon it,
and had used the men very ill on that account, and
himself in particular ; that as I was but a passenger,
and had no command in the ship, or concern in the
voyage, they were not obliged to bear it ; that they
did not know but I might have some ill design in my
head, and, perhaps, to call them to account for it
when they came to England; and that, therefore,
unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also
not to concern myself any farther with him, or any
Jf his afl'airs, he would leave the ship ; for he did not
think it was safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told him, that I did confess I had all along
opposed the massacre of Madagascar, -for such I
would always call it; and that 'I had, on all occa-
sions, spoken my mind freely about it, though not
more upon him than any of the rest; that as to my
having no command in the ship, that was true, nor
did I exercise any authority, only took the liberty of
speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned
us all ; as to what concern I had in the voyage, that
was none of his business ; that I was a considerable
owner in the ship, and in that claim I conceived I
had a right to speak, even farther than I had yet
done, and would not be accountable to him, or any
one else, and began to be a little warm with him.
He made but little reply to me at that time, and I
thought that afi'air had been over. We were at this
time in the road at Bengal; and, being willing to
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo
in the ship's boat, to divert myself, and towards
evening was preparing to go on board, when one of
the men came to me, and told me, he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they
had orders not to carry me on board. Any one may
guess what a surprise I was in at so insoleut u mes-
sage; and I asked the man who bade him deliver
that errand to me. He told me the cockswain. I
said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them
know he had delivered his message, and that I had
given him no answer to it.

I immediately went, and found out the supercargo,
and told him the story, and, adding what I presently
foresaw, viz. that there would certainly be a mutiny
in the ship, and eutreated him to go immediately on
board the ship, in an Indian boat, and acquaint the
captain of it. But I might have spared this intelli~
genes, for, before I had spoken to him on shore, the
matter was efi'ected on board. The hoatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior
officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came
up to the quarter-deck, and desired to speak with
the captain ; and there the boatswain, making a long
harangue, and repeating all he had said to me,
told the captain, that as I was now gone peaceably
on shore, they were loath to use any violence with
me, which, if I had not gone on shore, they would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone.
They therefore thought fit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to serve in the ship, under his
command, they would perform it faithfully ; but if I
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to
quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
farther with him. And at that word, "all," he
turned his face about, towards the mainmast, which
was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them ; at
which all the seamen being got together, they cried
out, " One and all! One and all !"

My nephew the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind, and though he was surprised
at the thing, yet he told them calmly, he would con-
sider the matter, but that we could do nothing in it
till he had spoken to me about it. So away he came
to me with this account, a little after the message came
to me from the cockswain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess,
for I was not without apprehensions, that they would
confine him by violence, set sail, and run away with
the ship ; and then I had been stripped naked in a
remote country, and nothing to help myself to. In
short, 1 had been in a worse case than when I was
all alone in the island. But they had not gone that
length, it seems, to my great satisfaction; and my
nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn, and shook hands, that they would
all leave the ship, if I was suffered to come on
board. I told him he should not be concerned at it
at all, for I would stay on share. I only desired he
would take care and send all my necessary things on
shore, and leave me a sufiicient sum of money, and I
would find my way to England as well as I could.

This was a heavy piece of news for my nephew, but
there was no way, but to com ly with it. So he went
on board the ship again, an satisfied the men that
his uncle had yielded to their importunity, and had
sent for his goods from on board the ship. So the
matter was over in a few hours, the men returned to
their duty, and I began to consider what course I
should steer.

I was now alone in the remotest part of the world,
as Ithink I may call it, for I was near three thousand
leagues by sea farther ofi' from England than I was
at my island ; only, it is true, I might travel here by
land over the Great Mognl's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea,up the Gulf of Per~
sis, and from thence might take the way of the cara-
vans, over the deserts of Arabia. to Aleppo and Sean-
deroon: from thence by sea again to Italy, and so
overland into France: and this, put together, might
be, at least, a full diameter of the globe.

My nephew left me two servants, or rather, one
companion, and one servant ; the first was clerk to
the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the
other was his own servant. I took a good lodging in
the house of an Englishwoman, where several mer-
chants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather
Jews, and one Englishman. Here I was handsomely
enough entertained ; and that I might not be said to
run rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine
months, considering what course to take, and how to
manage myself. I had some English goods with me
of value, anda considerable sum of money, my ne-
phew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight,
and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that
I might not be straitened, whatever might happen. I
quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too 3
and, as I originally intended, I bought here some very
good diamonds, which, of all other things was the most
proper for me in my circumstances, because I might
always carry my estate about me.

The English merchant, who lodged with me, and
with whom I had contracted an intimate acquaint-
ance came to me one morning: " Countryman," said
he, "I have a project to communicate to you, which,
as it suits my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit
yours also when you shall have considered it.

" Here we are posted," says he, " you by accident
and I by my own choice, in a part of the world very
remote from our own country ; but it is in a country
where, by us who understand trade and business, a
a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put a
thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire
a ship, the first We can get to our minds; you shall be
captain, I will be merchant, and we will go a trading
voyage to China."

I liked this proposal very well, and the more
because it seemed to be expressed with so much good
will, and in so friendly a manner. It was, however,
some time before we could get a ship to our mind,
and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get
English sailors ; that is to say, so many as were ne-
cessary to govern the voyage, and manage the sailors
which we should pick up there. After some time we
got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English ; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremastmen;
with these we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they were, to make up.

We made a very good voyage, and I got so much
money by the first adventure, and such an insight
into the method of getting more, that, had I been
twenty years younger, I should have been tempted
to have stayed here, and sought no farther for making
my fortune. But what was all this to a man on the
wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough, and
came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of
seeing the world, than a covetous desire of gain
in it.

My friend now roposed another voyage to me, viz.
among the Spice slands, and to bring home a load
of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, places
where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the islands
partly belong to the Spaniards ; though we went not
so far, but to some other, where they have not
the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon,
&c. We were not long in preparing for this voyage,
which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo,
and several islands whose names I do not remember,
and came home in about five months. We sold our
spice, which was chiefly cloveS, and some nutmegs, to
the Persian merchants, who carried them to the Gulf,
and, making near five of one, we really got agreat
deal of money.

A little while after this, there came in a Dutch
ship from Batavia ; she was a coaster, nota European
trader, and of about two hundred tons burden. The
men, as they pretended. having been so sickly, that
the captain had not men enough to go to sea with, he
lay by at Bengal ; and, as if havinggot money enough,
or being willing, for other reasons, to go to Europe,
he gave public notice that he would sell his ship.
This came to my ears before my new partner heard
of it, and I had a great mind to buy it. So I went
home to him, and told him of it. He considered
awhile, for he was no rash man neither, but, musing
some time, he replied, "She is a little too big; but
however, we will have her." Accordingly we bought
the ship, and, agreeing with the master, we paid for
her, and took possession. When we had done so, we
resolved -to entertain the men, if we could, to join
with those we had, for the pursuing our business;
but, on a sudden, they having not received their
wages, but their share of the money, as we after-
wards learned, not one of them was to be found.
We inquired about them, and, at length, were told
that they were all gone together by land to Agra, the
great city of the Mogul's residence, and from thence
were to travel to Surat, and so by sea to the Gulf of
Persia.

Nothing so heartily troubled me a good while, as
that I missed the opportunity of going with them,
for such a ramble, I thought, and in such company as
would both have guarded me and diverted me, would
have suited mightily with my great design, and I
should both have seen the world, and gone homewards
too. But I was much better satisfied a few days after,
when I came to know what sort of fellows they were,
for, in short, their history was, that this man they
called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in
which they were attacked on shore by some of the
Malays, who had killed the captain, and three of his
men, and that after the captain was killed, these men,
eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
ship, which they did, and had brought her in at the
bay of Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on
shore, of whom we shall hear farther.

Well, let them come by the ship how they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought ; though we
did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as
we ought, for we never inquired any thing of: the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
have faltered in their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or one
way or other, we should have seen reason to have sus~
pected them; but the man shewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name (for, I suppose, it was all a forgery), and called
himself by that name, and we could not contradict
him ; and being withal a little too unwary, or, at least,
having no suspicion of the thing, We went through
with our bargain.

However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch, and we now resolved for
a second voyage to the south-east, for cloves &c.,
that is to say, among the Phillipine and Malacca
isles ; and, in short, I spent, from first to last, six
years in this country, trading from port to port, back-
ward and forward, and with very good success, and
was now the last year, with my partner, going in the
ship above-mentioned on a voyage to China, but de-
signing first to go to Siam to buy rice.

In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged
to beat up and down a great while in the Straits of
Malacca, and among the islands, we were no sooner
got clear of those difficult seasbut we found our ship
had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our
industry to find out where it was. This forced us to
make for some port, and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put
into the river of Cambodia, for I had made the Eng-
lish mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being wil-
ling to take the charge of the ship myself. The river
lies on the north side of the bay or gulf which goes
up to Siam.

While we were here, and going often on shore for
refreshment, there comes to me one day an English-
man, and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board
an English East India ship, which rode in the same
river, up at, or near the city of Cambodia; what
brought him hither we knew not, but he comes up
to me, and, speaking in English, " Sir," said he, " you
are a stranger to me, and I to you, but I have some-
thing to tell you that very nearly concerns you. But
the short of the story is this, the first part of which I
suppose you know well enough, viz. that you were
with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain
was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men ;
and that you or some of those that were on board with
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pi-
rates. This is the sum of the story ; but assure your-
self, if you do not put to sea immediately, you will
the very next tide, be attacked by five long boats fulln-v'

u'u ROBINSON cnusoie.

of men ; and, perhaps, if you are taken, you will be
hanged for a pirate. If you have any regard for your
life, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea with-
out fail at high water ; and as you will be gone too
far out before they can come down ; for they will
come away at high water ; and as they have twenty
miles to come, you get near two hours start of them
by the difference of the title, not reckOning the length
of the way ; besides, as they are boats and not ships,
they will not venture to follow you far out to sea, es-
pecially if it blows."

" Well," said I, "you have been very kind in this :
what shall i do for you, to make you amends?"
" Sir," says he, " you may not be so willing to make
me amends, because you may not be convinced of the
truth of it. I'll make an ofl'er to you ; I have nine-
teen months pay due to me on board the ship ,
which I came out of England in ; and a Dutchman
that is with me has seven months pay due to him ; if
you will make good our pay to us. we will go alongr
with you ; if you find nothing more in it we will de-
sire no more ; but if we do convince you that we have
your life, and the ship, and the lives of all the men
in her, we will leave the rest to you."

I consented to this readily, and went immediately
on board, and the two men with me. As soon as I
came to the ship's side, my partner, who was on board,
came out on the quarter deck, and called to me with
great joy. " 0 ho! 0 ho! we have sto ped the
leak !"--" Say you so," said I ; "thank 0d ; but
weigh the anchor immediately."--" Weigh!" says
he, " what do you mean by that ? what is the mal ter F"
says he. " Ask no questions," said I, " but all hands
to work, and weigh without losing a minute." He
was surprised ; but, however, he called the captain,
and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up ;
and though the. tide was not guite done, yet a little
land-breeze blowing, we stoo out to sea. Then 1
called him into the cabin, and told him the story in
general ; and we called in the men, and they told us
the rest of It; but as it took up a great deal of time,
so before we had done, a seamen comes to the cabin
door, and calls out to us, that the captain bade him
tell us we were chased. " Chased 2" said I, " by
whom, and by what ?"--" By five sloops, or boats, "
said the fellow, " full of men."--" Very well," said
I, " then it is apparent there is something in it." In
the next place, ordered all our men to be called up,
and told them that there was a design to seize the
ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if
they would stand by us, and by one another. The
men answered cheerfully that, one and all they would
live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what
way he thought best for us to manage a fight with
them, for resist them I resolved we would, and that
to the last drop. He said readily, that the way was
to keep them off with our great shot as long as we
could, and then to fire at them with our small arms,
to keep them from boarding us ; but when neither of
these would do any longer, we should retire to our
close quarters: perhaps they had not materials to
break open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring
two guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
clear the deck, and load them with musket-bullets
and small pieces of old iron, and what came next to
hand; and thus we made ready for fight, but all this
while kept out to sea, with mud enough, and could
see the boats at a distance, being five large long-boats,
following us with all the sail they could make.

Two of those boats, which by our glasses we could
see were English, had outsailed the rest, were near
two leagues a-head of them, and gained upon as con-
siderably, so that we found they would come up with
us; upon which we fired a gun without a shot to
intimate that they should bring to, and we put out a
flag of truce as a signal for parley ; but they kept
crowiigng after us till 2they came within shot. Upon

2 B
this we took in our white flag, they having made no
answer to it, hung out the red flag, and fired at them
with shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on till
we were near enough to call to them with a speaking
trumpet which we had on board, so we called to them,
and bade them keep oil' at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endea-
voured to come under our stern, so to board us on our
quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute for
mischief, and depended upon the strength that fol-
lowed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that
they lay upon our broadside, when immediately we
fired five guns at them, one of which had been le-
velled so true as to carry away the stern of the bin-
dermost boat, and bring them to the necessity of
taking down their sail, and running all to the head
of the boat, to keep her from sinking ; so she lay by,
and had enough of it ; but seeing the foremost boat
crowd still on after us, we made ready to fire at her
in particular.

While this was doing, one of the three boats that
were behind, being forwarder than the other two,
made up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve
her, and we could afterwards see her take out her men.
We called again to the foremost boat, and offered a
truce to parley again, and to know what was her
business with us, but had no answer, only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who
was a very dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase-
guns, and fired at her; but the shot missing, the men
in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on ;
but the gunner getting quickly ready again, fired
amon them the second time, one s at of which,
thong it missed the boat itself, yet it fell in among
the men, and we could easily see had done a great
deal of mischief among them; but we taking no
notice of tha , weared the ship again, and brought
our quarter to bear upon them, and, firing three guns
more, we found the boat was split almost to pieces;
in particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern were
shot quite away ; so they handed their sail immedi-
ately, and were in great disorder. But to complete
their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them
again ; where he hit them we could not tell, but we
found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water. Upon this I immediately man-
ned out our pinnace, which we had kept close by our
side, with orders to pick up some of the men if they
could, and save them from drowning, and immedi-
ately to come on board with them, because we saw
the rest of the boats began to come up. Our men in
the pinnace followed their orders, .and took up three
men, one of whom was fast drowning, and it was a
good while before we con d recover him. As soon as
they were on board, we crowded all the sail we could
make, and stood farther out to sea, and we found that
when the other three boats came up to the first two,
they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger which, though
I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much
greater than I had apprehended, I took care that we
would change our course, and not let any one imagine
whither we were going; so we stood out to sea east-
ward, quite out of the course of all European ships,
whether they were bound to China, or any where else
within the commerce of the European nations, and
resolved to go away to the coast of Ton uin, andso on
to China, and from thence, pursuing t e first design
as to trade, find some way or other to dispose of the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the coun-
try, such as we could get. This was approved of as
the best method for our security ; and accordingly we
steered away N.N.E., keeping above fifty leagues of!
from the usual course to the eastward.

This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
first, the winds, when we came to that distance from
the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blow-
ing almost trade, as we call it, from the east, and E.
N. E., so that we were a long while upon our voyage;
and we were but ill provided with victuals for so long
a run ; and, which was still worse, there was some
danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose
boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way,
might be got in before us; and, if not, some other ship
bound to China might have information of us from
them, and pursue us with the same vigour.

However, after atedious and irregular course, and
very much straitened for provisions, we came within
sight of the coast very early in the morning ; and,
upon reflecting on the circumstances we were in, and
the danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put
into a small river, which, however, had depth enough
of water for us, and to see if we could, either overland
or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were
in any port thereabouts. The place we were in was
wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by occu-
pation or profession ; and though, it is true, we had not
much to seek of them, and except getting a few pro-
visions, cared not how little we had to do with them,
yet it was with much difliculty we kept ourselves from
being insulted by them.

I have observed above that our ship sprang a leak at
sea, and that we could not find it out ; and, however
it happened, that as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships near the bay of Siam;
yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and
sound as we desired, we resolved while we were in
this place to lay her on shore, take out what heavy
things we had on board,which were not many, and to
wash and clean her bottom, and, if possible to find
out where the leaks were.

Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at
her bottom: for on second thoughts we did not think
fit to lay her dry aground.
The inhabitants who had never been ac uainted
with such a sight, came wandering down to t e shore
to look at us, and seeing the ship he down on one side
in such a manner, and eeling towards the shore, and
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the 03 side, they
presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and
so lay fast on the ground.

On this supposition, they came all about us in two
or three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats,
having some of them eight, some ten men, in a boat,
intending no doubt, to have come on board and plun-
dered the ship, and, if they had found us there, to
have carried us away for slaves to their king, or what-
ever they called him, for we knew nothing who was
their governor.

When they came up to the ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at work on
the outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing and
graving, as every seafaring man knows how.

They stood for a while gain at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what
their design was ; but, being willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship,
and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work, to defend themselves with,
if there should be occasion : -and it was no more than
need, for in less than a quarter of an hour's consul-
tation they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really
a wreck ; that we were all at work, endeavouring to
save her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats
and when we handed our arms into the boats, they
concluded, by that motion, that we were endeavour-
ing to save some of our goods. Upon this, they took
it for granted that all belonged to them ; and away
they came directly upon our men, as if it had been in
a line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be
frightened, for we lay but in an ill posture to fight,
and cried out to us to know what they should do. I
immediately called to the men who worked upon the
stage to slip them down, and get up the side into the
ship, and bade those in the boat to row round and
come on board; and those few of us who were on
board worked with all the strength and hands we
had to bring the ship to rights. But, however,
neither the men upon the stage, nor those in the boats,
could do as they were ordered, before the Cochin-
chinese were upon them, and with two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the
men as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English
seamen, a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket
in his hand, never ofi'ered to fire it, but laid it down
in the boat, like a fool, as I thought. .- But be under-
stood his business much better than I could teach
him, for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged him by
main force out of their own boat into ours, where,
taking him by the two ears, he beat his head so
against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in-
stantly in his hands ; and, in the mean time a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musket, and with
the butt-end of it so laid about them, that he knocked
down five of them, who attempted to enter the boat ;
but this was little towards resisting twenty or thirty
men, who fearless, because ignorant of their danger,
began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we had but five men to defend it. But an accident
gave our men a complete victory, which deserved our
lgughter rather than any thing else, and that was
t is :--

Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside
of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had
caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles
just let down into the boat, one filled with boiling
pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and
such stuff as the Shipwrights use for that work ; and
the man that attended the carpenterhad a great iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men
that were at work with that hot stuff: two of the
enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellow
stood, being in the foresheets ; he immediately saluted
them with a ladle full of the stuff, boiling hot, which
so burned and scalded them, being half naked, that
they roared out like two bulls, and, enraged with the
pain, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it,
and cried out, " Well done, Jack, give them some more
of it 3" when, ste ping forward himself, he takes one
of their mops, an , dipping it into the pitch pot, he
and his men threw it about them so plentifully, that,
in short, of all the men in three boats, there was not
one that was not scalded and burned with it in a most
frightful manner, and made such a howling and cry-
ing, that 1 never heard a worse noise.

All the while this was doing, my partner and I,
who managed the rest of the men on board, had with
great dexterity, brought the ship almost to rights,
and having gotten the guns into their places again,
the gunner called to me to bid our boats get out of
the way, for he would let fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for
the carpenter would do the work without him, but
bade him heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook,
who was on board, took care of. But the enemy was
so terrified with what they met with in their first
attack, that they would not come on again; and
some of them, that were farthest ofl', seeing the ship
swim, as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to
see their mistake, and give over the enterprise, finding
it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of
this merry fight: and, having gotten some rice and
some roots, and bread, with about sixteen good big
hogs, on board two days before, we resolved to stay
here no longer, but 0 forward, whatever came of it.
We, therefore, got a 1 our things on board the same
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail.
We would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we
wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known
concerning some Dutch ships that had been there, but
we durst not stand in there, because we had seen se-
veral ships go in, as we supposed, a little before. So
we kept on N. E. towards the Isle of Formosa,"
much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship
in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man of war.

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as
we would go to the Manillas, or the Philippine
islands, and this we did that we might not fall into
the way of any of the European ships ; and then we
steered north again, till we came to the latitude of
twenty-two degrees twenty minutes, by which we
made the island of Formosa directly, where we came
to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provi-
sions, which the people there, who are very courteous
and civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly,
and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all
their agreements and bargains, which is what we did
not find among other people, and may be owing to
the remains of Christianity, which was once planted
here by a Dutch missionar of Protestants. From
hence we sailed still north, oeping the coast of China
at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all
the ports of China where our European ships usuall
come, being resolved, if possible, not to fall into their
hands,5especially in this country, where, as our cir-
cumstances were. we could not fail of being entirely
ruined-

Being now come into the latitude of thirty degrees,
we resolved to put into the first trading port we
should come at, and, standing In for the shore, a boat
came off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese
pilot on board, who, knowing us to be an European
ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed, we
were very glad of, and took him on board. I began
to talk with him about carrying us to the Gulf of
Nanquin, which is the most northern part of the
coast of China, The old man said he knew the Gulf
of Nan uin very well, but smiling, asked us what we
would 0 there.

I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China. wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
kc. and so would return by the same course we came.
He told us our best port had been to have put in at
Macao, where we could not fail of a market for our
opium to our satisfaction, and might, for our money,
have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as
we could at Nanquin. I told the old man we were
gentlemen, as well as merchants, and that we had a
mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the
famous court of the monarch of China. " Why then,"
says the old man, " you should go to Ningpo, where,
by the river which runs into the sea there, you may
go up within five leagues of the great canal. This
canal is a navigable made stream, which goes through
the heart of all the vast empire of China, crosses all
the rivers, passes some considerable bills by the help
of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin,
being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues."
" Well," said I, " Seignior Portuguese, but that is not
our business now, the great question is, if you can
carry us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we
can travel to Pekin afterwards." He said he could
do so very well, and there was a great Dutch ship
gone up that way just before. This gave me a little
shock: a Dutch ship was now our terror, for we were
in no condition to fight them ; all the ships they trade
with in those partsbeing of great burden, and of much
greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under
concern, when he named a Dutch ship, and said to
me. " Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war with
your nation."---" No," said I, "that's true, but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out
of the reach of the laws of their own country."--
" Why," said he, " you are no pirates, what need
you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable mer-
chants, sure." I started at the word pirates, and he,
seeing my confusion, said, "Sir, I find you are in
some disorder in your thoughts at my talk ; pray be
pleased to go which way you may think fit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service 1 can."--
" Why, seignior," said I, "it is true, I am a little
unsettled in my resolution at this time, whither to go
in particular, and I am something more so for what
you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in
these seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet with
them, for you see we have but a small force, and but
very weakly manned."

" 0 sir," said he, " do not be concerned ; I do not
know that there have been any irates in these seas
for fifteen years, except one, w ich was seen, as I
hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since, but
you may be assured she is gone to the southward ;
nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the
work ; she was not built for a privateer, but was run
away with by a reprobate crew that were on board,
after the captain and some of his men had been
murdered by the Malays, at, or near the island of
Sumatra." " What l" said I, seeming to know no-
thing of the matter, " did they murder the captain ?"
" N 0," said he, "I do not understand that they mur-
dered him; but, as they afterwards ran away with
the ship, it is generally believed that they betrayed
him into the hands of the Malays, who did murder
him, and, perhaps, they procured them to do it."--
"Why, then," said 1, "they deserve death as much
as if they had done it themselves."--" N ay," said the
old man, " they do deserve it; and they will certainly
have it, if they light upon any English or Dutch ship,
for they have all agreed together, that if they meet that
rogue, they will give him no nutter."

" But," said I, " you say t e pirate is gone out of
these seas; how can they meet with him then "--
" Why, that's true," said he, "the do say so ; but
he was, as I tell you in the bay of ism, in the river
Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutch-
men who belonged to the ship, and who were left on
shore when they ran away with her ; and some
English and Dutch traders being in the river, they
were within a little of taking him. Nay," said he, "if
the foremost boat had been well seconded by the rest,
they had certainly taken him; but he, finding only
two boats within reach of him, tacked about, and
fired at tnesc two, and disabled them before the others
came up: and then standing 03 to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and so he got away. But they
have all so exact a description of the ship, that they
will be sure to know him, and, wherever they find
him, they have vowed to give no quarter to either the
captain or the seamen, but hang them all up at the
yard arm."

" What!" said I, " will they execute them right or
wrong ; hang them first, and judge them after-
wards ?"'---" O, sir, said the old pilot, there is no need
to make a formal business of it with such rogues
as those: let them tie them back to back, and set
them a diving; it is no more than they rightly de-
serve."

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that
he could do me no harm, sothat I turned short upon
him : " Well, now, seignior," said I, " and that is the
very reason why I would have you carry me to Nan-
quin, and not to put back into Macao, or to any other
part of the country where the English or Dutch ships
come ; for, be it known to you, seignior, those ca
tains of English or Dutch ships are a parcel of

road, insolent fellows, that neither know what he-
ongs to 'ustice, nor how to behave themselves as the
laws of ad or nature direct ; but being proud of
their offices, and not understanding their power, they
would act the murderers to punish robbers, would
take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry ; and per-
haps, I may live to call some of them to an account for
it, where they may be taught how justice is to be exe-
cuted, that no man ought to be treated as a criminal
till some evidence may be had of the crime, and that
he is the man."

With this I told him, that this was the very ship
they had attacked, and gave him a full account of the
skirmish we had with their boats, and how foolishly
and coward-like they behaved. I told him the story
of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reasons I had to believe this story
of killing the Master by the Malays was not true, as
also the running away with the ship; but that it was
all a fiction of their own, to suggest that the men
turned pirates, that they ought to have been sure
that it was so before they had ventured to attack
us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them ; adding
that they would have the blood of those men who
were killed there in our just defence to answer
for. The old man was amazed at. this relation, and
told us we were very much in the right to go away
to the north, and that, if he might advise us, it should
be to sell the ship in China, which we might very well
do, and buy or build another in the country. " And,"
said he, " though you will not get so good a ship,
yet you may get one able enough to carry you and
all your goods back again to Bengal, or any where
e se."

I told him I would take his advice, when I came
to any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or
get any customer to buy this. He replied, I should
meet with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin,
and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to
go back again ; and that he would procure me people
both to buy the one and sell the other.

" Well, but, seignior," says I, " as you say that they
know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow
your measures, be instrumental in bringing some
honest, innocent men into a terrible broil, and per.
haps, occasion their being murdered in cold blood;
for, wherever they find the ship, they will prove the
guilt of the men by proving this was the ship, and so
innocent men may probably be overpowered and
murdered."---" Why," said the old man, " I'll find
out a way to prevent that also ; for as I know all
those commanders you speak of very well, and shall
see them all as they pass by, I will be sure to set
them to rights in the thing." We were now at the
south-west point of the great Gulf of Nanquin, and
I asked the old pilot if there was no creek, or bar-
bour that I could put into, and pursue my business
~ with the Chinese privately, and he in no danger of
the enemy. He told me if I would sail to the south-
ward, about twoand--forty leagues, there was a little
port, called Quinchang, where the fathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in, and if I put in
there, I might consider what farther course to take
when I was on shore. He confessed it was not a
place for merchants, except that at some certain
times, they had a kind of fair there, when the mer-
chants from Japan came over there to buy merchan-
dise. So we agreed to go back to this place.

I was joyful, and, I may say, thankful, when I set
my foot safe on shore, resolving, and my partner too,
that, if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set foot on board that
unhappy vessel more, and, indeed, I must acknow-
ledge, that of all the circumstances of life that ever
I had an experience of, nothing makes mankind so
complete y miserable as that of being in constant fear.

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections
I now had upon the past variety of my particular
circumstances; how hard I thought it was, that},
who had spent forty years in a life of continued dif-398 30311150}: causes.

ficulties, and was at last come, as it were, to the port
or haven which all men drive at--viz. to have rest
and plenty--should be a volunteer in new sorrowa,
by my own unhappy choice; and that I, who had
escaped so many dangers in youth, should now come
to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a.
place, for a Crime I was not in the least inclined to,
much less guilty of, and in a place and circumstance
where innocence was not like to be any protection at
all to me.

I was greatly cast down with these thou hts ; but
sometimes natural courage would take its p ace, and
then I would be talking myself up to vigorous reso-
lutions, that I would not be taken to be harbarously
used by a parcel of merciless wretches ; that it was
much better to have fallen into the hands of the
savages, who were men-eaters, and who, I was sure,
would feast upon me, when they had taken me, than
by those who would, perhaps, glut their rage upon
me by inhuman tortures and barbarities ; that, in
the case of the savages, I always resolved to die
fighting to the last gasp, and why should I not do
so now, seeing it was much more dreadful, to me, at
least, to think of falling into these men's hands, than
ever it was to think of being eaten by men? for the
savages, to give them their due, would not eat a man
till he was dead, but that these men had many arts
beyond the cruelty of death. And thus I tormented
myself with various thoughts for some time.

When we had got safe on share, the old pilot, who
was now our friend, got us a lodging, and a ware~
house for our goods; it was a little house, or hut,
with a large house joining to it. all built with canes,
and palisadoed round with large canes, to keep out
pilfering thieves, of which it seems, there were not a
few in the country. However, the magistrates
allowed us also a little guard, and we had a soldier,
with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who stood senti-
nel at our door. to whom we allowed a pint of rice.
and a little iece of money, about the value of three-
pence, per ay, so that our goods were kept very safe.

The fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had
been over some time ; however, we found that there
were three or four junks in the river, and two Ja-
panese, I mean ships from Japan, with goods which
they had bought in China, and were not gone away,
having Japanese merchants on shore. The first thing
our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was to bring us
acquainted with three missionary Romish priests,
who were in the town, and who had been some time,
converting the people to Christianity. One of these
was a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon ;
he was a jolly, well-conditioned man, very free in his
conversation, not seeming so serious and grave as the
other two did, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the
other a Genoese: but Father Simon was courteous,
easy in his manner, and very agreeable company; the
other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and aus-
tere, and applied seriously to the work they came
about, via. to talk with, and insinuate themselves
among the inhabitants, whenever they had opportu-
nity. We often eat and drank with those men, and
though I must confess the conversion, as they call it,
of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the true
conversion, required to bring heathen people to the
faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more
than letting them know the name of Christ, say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue
which they understand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like.

But to return to my star-y: This French priest Fa-
ther Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the
chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat
of the Chinese emperor, :and waited only for another
priest, who was ordered to come to him to Macao, to
go along with him ; and we scarce ever met together
but he was inviting me to go that journey with him,
telling me how he would show me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and, among the rest, the
greatest city in the world ; " a city," said he, " that
your London and our Paris put together cannot be
equal to." This was the city of Pekin, which I con-
fess is very great, and full of people.

Dining with the priest one day, and being very
merry together, I showed some little inclination to
go with him, and he pressed me and my partner very
hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent.
" Why, Father Simon," says my partner, " why should
you desire our company so much ? You know we are
heretics, and you do not love us, nor can you keep us
company with any pleasure."--" Oh," says he, " you
may, perhaps, be good Catholics in time: my busi-
ness here is to convert heathens, and who knows but
I may convert you too ?" " Very well, father," said I,
" so you will preach to us all the way." "I will not
be troublesome to you," said he, " our religion does
not divest us of manners ; besides, we are here like
countrymen, and so we are compared to the place we
are in ; and if youare szgonots, and I a Catholic, we
may all be Christians at last ; at least we are all gen-
tlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy
to one another."

We had all this while our ship and our merchandise
to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful what
we should do, for we were now in a place of very
little business ; and once I was about to venture to
sail for the river Kilam, and the city of Nanquin;
but Providence seemed now morevisihly, as I_thought,
than ever to concern itself in our affairs, and I was
encouraged from this time to think I should, one way
or other, get out of this tangled circumstance, and
he brought home to my own country again, though I
had not the least view of the manner ; and when I
began sometimes to think of it, could not imagine b
what method it was to be done. Providence,
say, began here to clear up our way a little, and the
first thing that offered was, that our old Portugnese
pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who began to
inquire what goods we had ; and, in the first place,
he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good
price for it, paying us in gold, by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small
wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each. While
we were dealing with him for our Opium, it came into
my head that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the
ship too ; and I ordered the interpreter to propose it
to him. He shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it
was first proposed to him, bnta few days after, he
came to me, with one of the missionary priests for his
interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make
to me, and that was this ; he had bought a great
quantity of goods of us, when he had no thoughts
at all of buying the ship, and that, therefore, he
had not money enough to pay for the ship, but it I
would let the same men who were in the ship navigate
her, he would hire the ship to go'to Japan and would
send them from thence to the Philippine islands with
another loading, which he would pay the freight of,
before they went from Japan, and that at their return
he would buy the ship.

The first thing we had to do was to consult the
captain of the ship, with the men, and know if
they were willing to go to Japan ; and while I was
doing this, the young man whom, as I said, my
nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to me, and told me, that he thought
that voyage promised very fair, and that there was a
great prospect of advantage, and he would be glad
if I undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would
give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I
pleased to order him ; that if ever he came to
England, and l was there, and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, and it should be
as much mine as I pleased.

I was really loath to part with him, but considering
the plrospect of advanztage, which was very consider-

02 ' 0
able, and that he was a oung fellow as likely to do
well in it as any I knew, i inclined to let him go; but
first I told him I would consult my partner, and give
him an answer the next day. My partner and I dis-
coursed about it, and my partner made a most gene-
rous offer. He told me, " You know it has been an
unlucky ship, and we both resolved not to go to sea
in it again ; if your steward (so he called my man) will
venture the voyage, I'll leave my share of the vessel to
him, and let him make the best of it, and if we live to
meet in England, and he meets with success abroad,
he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's
freight to us, the other shall be his own."

If my partner, who was no way concerned with
my young man, made him such an offer, I could do
no less than ofi'er him the same ; and all the ship's
company being willing to go with him, we made over
half the ship to him in property, and took a writing
from him, obliging him to account for the other ; and
away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved
a very punctual, honest man to him, protected him
at Japan. and got him a license to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately ob-
tained, paid him his freight very pnnctually, sent him
to the Philippines loaded with Japan and China
wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking
with the Spaniards, brought back European goods
again, and a great quantity of cloves and other spice;
and there he was not only paid his freight very well,
and at a very good price, but being not willing to sell
the ship then, the merchant furnished him with goods
on his own account ; that for some money, and some
spices of his own, which he brought with him, he
went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where
he sold his cargo very well. Here, having gotten a
good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made
a free ship ; and the governor of Manilla hired him
to go to Acapulco, in America, on the coast of Mexico,
and gave him a license to land there, and travel to
Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe
with all his men.

He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he sold his is ip: and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, somehow or other, to go to Jamaica with all
his treasure, and about eight years after came to
England exceeding rich.

In about four months, there was to be another fair
at that place, where we were, and then we might be
able to purchase all sorts of the manufacturies of the
country, and, withal, might possibly find some Chi-
nese junks, or vessels, from Nan uin, that would be
to be sold, and would carry us an our goods whither
we pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved to
wait ; besides, as our particular persons are not ob-
noxious, so that if any English or Dutch ships came
thither, perhaps we might have an opportunityto load
our goods, and get a passage to some place in India
nearer home.

Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
neys into the country. First we went ten days' jour-
ney to see the city of Nan uin, a city well worth see-
in g. They say it has a mi lion of people in it, which
however, I do not believe: it is regularly built, the
streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in
direct lines, which gives the figure of it great advan-
tage.

What are their buildings to the palaces and royal
buildings of Europe? What their trade to the uni-
versal commerce of England, Holland, France, and
Spain P What their cities to ours, for wealth, strength,
gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an infinite va-
riety ? What are their ports, supplied with a fewjunks
and barks, to our navigation, our merchants, fleets,
our large and powerful navies P Our city of London
has more trade than all their mighty empire. One
English, or Dutch, or French man of war, of eighty
guns, would fight with, and destroy all the shipping
of China. But the greatness of their wealth. their
trade, the power of their government, and strength
of their armies, is surprising to us ; because, as I
have said, considering them as abarbarous nation of
Fag-ms, little better than savages, we did not expect
such things among them ; and this indeed is the ad-
vantage with which all their greatness and power is
represented to us ; otherwise it is in itself nothing at
all : for, as I have said of their ships, so may be said
of their armies and troops; all the forces of their
empire, though they were to bring two millions of
men into the field together, would be able to do no-
thing but ruin the country and starve themselves.
If they were to besiege a strong town in Flanders, or
fight a disciplined army, one line of German cuiras-
siers, or French cavalry, would overthrow all the
horse of China ; a million of their foot could not stand
before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so
as not to be surrounded, though they were not above
a thousand in number ; nay, I do not boast if I say
that thirty thousand German or English foot, and
ten thousand French horse, would fairly beat all the
forces of China. And so of our fortified towns, and
of the art of our engineers in assaulting and defending
towns: there is not a fortified town in China could
hold out one month against the batteries and attacks
of a European army ; and, at the same time, all the
armies of China could never take such a town as
Dunkirk, provided it was not starved, no, not in a
ten years' siege. They have fire-arms, it is true,
but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in
going off: they have powder, but it is of no strength ;
they have neither discipline in the field, exercise to
their arms, skill to attack, nor temper to retreat:
and therefore I must confess it seemed strange to me
when I came home, and heard our people say such
fine things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew
that they were a contemptible herd, or crowd of igno.
rant, sordid slaves, subjected to a government quali-
fied only to rule such a people.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart
of China, about the latitude of thirty degrees north of
the line, for we were returned from N anquin. I had
indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had
heard so much of, and Father Simon importuned me
to do it. At length his time of going away being set,
and the other missionary, who was to go with him,
being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we
should resolve either to go or not to go: so I referred
him to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice,
who at length resolved it in the affirmative, and we
prepared for our journey.

We were five-and- twenty days travelling to Pekin
through a country infinitely populous, but miserably
cultivated ; the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though they boast so much
of their industry. The pride of these people is very
great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty,
which adds to that which I call their misery. The
roads here are well paved, and well kept, and very
convenient for travellers 3 but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperi-
ous, insolent people, in the midst of the grossest sim-
plicity and ignorance, for all their famed ingenuity
is no more. My friend, Father Simon, and , used
to be very merry on these occasions, to see the beg-
garly pride of these people ; for example, coming by
the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon
called him, about ten leagues of! the city of N anqmn,
we had, first of all, the honour to ride with the mas-
ter of the house about two miles: the state he rode
in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of
pomp and poverty. The habit of this greasy Don
was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrew.
being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trapping! 0!
a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tafiety, and
cuts and slashes almost on every side. It covered a
rich taifety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which
testified that his honour must needs be a most exqui-
site sloven. His horse was a poor, lean, starved,
hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for
about thirty or forty shillings ; and he had two slaves
followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along.
He had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured the
beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about
the tail ; and thus he rode by us with about ten or
twelve servants, and we were told he was going from
the city to his country seat, about half a league be-
fore us. We travelled on gently, but this figure of a
gentleman rode away before us ; and as we stopped
at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we
came by the country seat of this great man, we saw
him in a little place, before his door, eating his re-
past: it was a kind of garden, but he was easy to be
seen, and we were given to understand that the more
we looked on him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto
tree, which effectually shaded him over the head.
He sat lolling back in a great elbow chair, being a
heavy, corpulent man ; his meat being brought him
by two women slaves: he had two more, whose office,
I think, few gentlemen in Europe would accept of
their service in, viz. one fed the squire with a spoon,
and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped
off what fell upon his worship's beard with the other;
while the great fat brute thought it below him to
employ his own hands in any of those familiar offices
which kings would rather do than be troubled with the
clumsy fingers of their servants. Leaving the poor
wretch, to please himself with our looking at him, we
pursued our journey.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and
perplexity, that I have given an account of, being
over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which
made this journey much theipleasanter to me; no!
did any ill accident attend me, only in the assin or
fording a small river, my horse fell, and made me

of the country, as they call it, that is to say, threw me
in : the place was not deep, but it wetted me all over.
I mention it because it spoiled my pocket-book,
wherein I had set down the names of several people
and places which I had occasion to remember, and
which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and
the words were never after to be read, to my great loss
as to the names of some places which I touched at in
this voyage.

At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody
with me but the youth whom my nephew, the cap-
tain, had given me to attend as a servant, and who
proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had
nnbody with him but one servant, who was a kins-
man. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous
to see the court, we bore his expenses, and, under-
standing the language, he acted as interpreter. About
a week after we had arrived here, this old pilot came
to us, and told us he had some good news to tell us.
I asked him what it was, but it was some time before
we could get it out of him: at last he told us there
was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish mer-
chants in the city, and they were preparing to set
out on their journey, by land, to Muscovy, within
four or five weeks, and he was sure we should take
the opportunity to go with them, and perhaps leave
him to get back to Macao as he could. I confess I
was overjoyed at this intelligence ; and asked him if
he was sure it was true. "Yes," said he, " I met
this morning, in the street, an old ac naintance of
mine, an Armenian, or one you call a recian, who
is among them; he came last from Astracan, and
was designing to go to Tonguin, where I formerly
knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now re-
solved to go back with the caravan to Moscow, and
so down the river of Wolga to Astracan."--:' Well,
'seignior," said I, " do not be uneasy about bemg left
to 0 back alone ; if this be a method for my return
to 'ngland, it shall be your fault if you go back to
Macao at all." We then went to consulting together
what was to be done ; and I asked my partner what
he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would
suit with his affairs. He told me he would do just as
I would, for he had settled all his affairs so well at
Bengal, and left his efl'ects in such good hands, that
as we had made a good voyage here, if he could vest
it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be
worth the carriage, he would be content to go to Eng-
land, and then make his voyage back to Bengal by the
Company's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would hear
his charges to Moscow, or to England, which he
pleased ; nor indeed were we to be esteemed OVcr
generous in that part neither, if we had not rewarded
him farther ; for the service he had done us was really
worth all that, and more, for he had not only been a
pilot to us at sea, but he had been also like a broker
for us on shore ; and his procuring for us the Japan
merchant was some hundreds of pOunds in our pock-
ets. So we consulted together about it, and being
willing to gratify him, which was indeed but doing
him justice, and very willing also to have him with us
besides, for he was a most necessary man on all occa-
sions, we agreed to give hima quantity of coined gold,
which came to about one hundred and seventy-five
pounds sterling between us, and to bear his charges,
both for himself and horse, except oulya home to
carry his goods.

Having settled this among ourselves, we called
him to let him know what we had resolved. I told
him he had complained of our being like to let him
go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were
resolved he should not go back at all: that as we
had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we
resolved also he should go with us, and that we called
him to know his mind. He shook his head, and said
it was a long journey, and he had no money to carry
him thither, nor to subsist himself when he came
thither. We told him we believed it was so, and
therefore we had resolved to do something for him,
that should let him see how sensible we were of the
service he had done us ; and then I told him what
we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would our own, and that for his expenses,
if he would go with us, we would set him safe ashore
either in Muscovy or England, at our own charge,
except only the carriage of his goods.

He received the proposal like a man transported,
and told us he would go with us over the whole '
world ; and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves
for the journey ; but instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was more than four months before all things
were got together. During this time my partner and
I disposed of all the goods we had left, and laid in a
large stock of Chinese goods, such as damasks, fine
silks. raw silks, fine calicoes, tea, nntmegs, and cloves,
and a quantity of other things, amounting to about
four thousand pounds' worth. With these goods we
loaded eighteen camels, besides those we rode upon,
which, with two or three spare horses, and two horses
loaded with provisions. made us in short, twenty-six
camels and horses in our retinue. '

We set out from Pekin at the beginning of Febru-
ary. The company was very great,and made between
three and four hundred horses and camels, and a hun-
dred and twenty men, very well armed, and prepared
for the bands of marauding Tartars, if any of them
should attack us. The com any consisted of several
nations, such as Muscovites, ivonians, &c. ; and, to
our satisfaction, there were five Scotchmen, who ap-
peared to be men of great experience in business, and
of very good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were five in number calied usall together,
except the servants, to a great council, at which every
onedeposited a certain quantity of money to a common
stock, for the necessary expenses of buying forage on
the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and
for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like.
And here the appointed captains and officers to draw
us all up, an give the command in case of attack;
which we found needful upon the way.

The road on all this side of the country is very po-
pulous, and is full of potters and earth-makers, that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for China-
ware ; and, as I was going along, our Portuguese pi-
lot, who had always something or other to say to make
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would
show us the greatest rarity in all the country, and that
I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-
humoured things I had said of it, that I had seen one
thing which was not to be seen in all the world be-
side. I was very importunate to know what it was:
at last. he told me it was a gentleman's house built
with China ware. " Well," said I, " are not the
materials of their buildings the product of their own
country P and so it is all China ware, is it not ?"--
"No, no," says he, " I mean it is a house all made of
China ware, such as you call so in England, or, as it
is called in our country, porcelain."--" Well," said I,
" such a thing may be. How big is it? Can we carry
it in a box upon a camel? If we can, we will buy it."
--" Upon a camel l" said the old pilot, " why, there is
a family of thirty people live in it." I was then curious
indeed to see it; and when I came to it, I found it
was a house built, as we call it in England, with lath
and plaster, but all the plaster was really China ware,
that is to say it was plastered with the earth that makes
China ware.

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, perfectl white, and
painted with blue figures, as the large hina ware in
England is painted, and hard as if it had been burned.
As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot,
were lined up with hardened and painted tiles, like
the little 5 uare tiles we call galley-tiles in England,
all made 0% the finest China, and the figures exceed-
ingly fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of
colours, mixed with gold, many tiles making but one
figure, but joined so artificially with mortar, being
made of the same earth, that it was very hard to see
where the tiles met. The floors of the rooms were
of the same composition, and as hard as the earthen
floors we have in use in several parts of England ;
the ceilings, and, in a word, all the plastering work
in the whole heuse, were of the same earth' ; and,
after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the same,
but of a deep, shining black.

This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and liter-
ally to be called so; and had I not been upon the
journey, I could have stayed some days to see and
examine the particulars of it. They told me there
were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved
at the bottom and sides with the same, and fine statues
set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the
porcelain earth, and burned whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
may be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure
they excel in their accounts of it, for they told me
such incredible things of their performance in crock-
ery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as
knowing it could not be true. One told me, in parti-
cular, of a workman that made a ship, with all its
tackle, and masts, and sails, in earthenware, big
enough to carry fifty men. If he had told me, he
launched it, and made avoyage to Japan in it, I might
have said something to it indeed; but, as it was, I
knew the whole story, which was, in short, asking par-
don for the word, that the fellow lied. So I smiled,
and said nothing to it.

This odd sight ke t me two hours behind the cara-
van, for which the eader of it for the day fined me
about the value of three shillings ; and told me, if it
had been three days' journey without the wall, as it
was three days within, he must have fined me four
times as much, and made me ask pardon the next
council day; so I promised to he more orderly, for
indeed I found afterwards the orders made for keep-
ing altogether were absolutely necessary for our com-
mon safety.

In two days more we passed the great China wall,
made fora fortification against the "artars: and a
very great work it is, going over hills and mountains
in an endless track, where the rocks are impassable,
and the precipiees such as no enemy could possibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if the did, no
wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is
near a thousand English miles, but that the country
is five hundred in a straight measured line, which the
wall bounds, without measuring the windings and
turnings it takes: it is about four fathoms high, and
as many thick in some places.

After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a
wall, we began to find the country thinly inhabited,
and the people rather confined to live in fortified
towns and cities. as being subject to the inroads and
depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked in-
habitants of an open country.

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled; for we saw
several troops of Tartars roving about ; but when I
came to see them distinctly, I wondered more that
the Chinese empire could be conquered by such con-
temptible fellows; for they are a mere herd, or crowd,
of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding
no discipline, or manner of fight.

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures,
taught nothing, and are fit for nothing ; and this we
found the first day we saw them, which was after we
entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader
for the <<lay gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a
hunting, asthe call it ; and what was this but hunt-
ing of sheep l owever, it may be called hunting, too,
for the creatures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot,
that ever I saw of their kind, only they will not run a
great way: and you are sure of sport when you begin
the chase, for they appear generally by thirty or forty
in a flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together
when they fly.

in pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartara ; whether the were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they ooked
for another kind of prey, I know not ; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very
loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never
heard before, and, by the way, never care tohear again.
We all supposed this was to call their friends about
them ; and so it was, for in less than a quarter of an
hour a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance: but our work was over first, as it
happened.

One of the Scotch merchants of Moscow happened
to be amongst us; and as soon as he heard the born,
he told us, in short, that we had nothing to do but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time, and,
drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were resolved?
We told him we were ready to follow him. They
stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in
no order ; but as soon as they saw us advance, they
let fly theirarrows, which, however missed us very hap-
pily. It seems they mistook not their aim, but their
distance, for their arroWs all fell a little short of us,
but with so true an aim, that, had we been about
twenty yards nearer, we must have had several men
wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted ; and, though it was at a

eat distance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets

or wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, re-
solving to fall in among them sword in hand. for so
our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and
bravery 011 this occasion, and yet with such a cool
courage, too, that I never saw any man better fitted
for his command. As soon as we came up to them,
we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew ; but
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable; the
only stand any of them made was on our right, where
three of them stood, and by signs called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of scimitar in their
hands, and their bows hanging to their backs. Our
brave commander, without asking any one to follow
him, gallopped up close to them, and with his fu-
sil knocked one of them ofl' his horse, killed the se-
cond with his pistol, and the third ran away: and
thus ended our fight. But we had this misfortune
attending it, viz. that all our mutton that we had in
chase got away. We had not a man killed or hurt ;
but as for the Tartars, there were five of them killed,
how many were wounded we knew not; but this we
know, that the other party were so frightened with
the noise of our guns, that they fled, and never made
any attempt upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominion,
and therefore the Tartars were not so bold as after-
wards ; but in about five days we entered a wild desert,
which held us three days and nights march, and
we were obliged to carry our water with us in great
leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I
have heard they do in the deserts of Arabia.

In passing this wilderness, which, I confess, was at
the first view very frightful to me, we saw, two or
three times, little parties of the Tartars, but they
seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to have no
design upon us.

We travelled near a month after this, the ways
being not so good at first, though still' in the domi-
nions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the most
wart, in villages, some of which were fortified hecauso
of the incursions of the Tartars. When we came to
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half's
journey before we were to come to the city of N sum),
I wanted to buy a camel. of which there are plenty
to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses
also, such as they are, because of so many caravans
coming that way, they are very often wanted. The
person that I spoke to get me a camel would have
gone and fetched it for me, but I, like a fool, must be
oflicious, and go myself along with him. The place
was about two miles out of the village, where they kept
the camels and horses feeding.7 under a guard.

I walked it on root, With my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being very desirous, forsooth, of a
little variety. When we came to this place, it was a
low, marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall,
piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a
park, witha little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bOught a camel, and agreed for the
price, I came away, and the Chinese man that was
with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up
five Tartars on horseback, two of them seized the
fellow, and took the camel from him, while the other
three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us,
as it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me
but my sword, which could but ill defend me against
three horsemen. The first that came up stopped
short upon my drawing my sword (for they are arrant
cowards), but a second coming up on my left, gave
me a blow on the head, which I never felt till after-
wards, and wondered, when I came to myself, what
was the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid
me flat on the ground; but. my never-failing old pilot,
the Portuguese (so Providence, unlocked for, directs
deliverance from dangers, which to us are unfore-
seen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew
nothing of, nor the 'l'artars neither, if they had, I
suppose they would not have attacked us. But
cowards are always boldest when there is no danger
The old man seeing me down, with a hold heart
stepped u to the fellow that had struck me, and
laying 1101 of his arm with one hand, and pulling: him
down by main force a little towards him with the
other, he shot him 1n the head, and laid him dead on
the spot: he then immediately stepped up to him
who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could
come forward again (for it was all done, as it were, in
a moment), made a blow at him with a scimitar,
which he always wore, but, missing the man, cut his
horse in the side of the head, out one of his ears otf by
the root, and a slice down the side of his face. The
poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to
be govennd by his ride1,tl1o11gl1 the 1ellow sat well
enough too, but an ay he flew, hand carried him quite
out of the pilot' 8 reach, and at some distance, rising
upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell
upon him.

In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had

lost the camel, but he had no weapon: however, see-
ing the ' 'artar down, and his horse fallen upon him,
he runs to him, and seizinnr upon an ugly, ill favoured
weapon he had by his side, something like a pole~axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it. from him,
and made shift to knock his 'l'artarian brains out with
it. But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with
still, and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor come
on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock
still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work to
charge his pistol awain , but as soon as the Tartar saw
the pistol, 11 hether he supposed it to be the same, or
another, I know not, but away he scoured, and left
my pilot a complete victory.

By this time I was a little awake, and I wondered

where I was, 110w I came upon the ground, and what
was the matter; in a word, a few moments after, as
sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know
where ; I clapped my hand to my head, and took it
away all bloody, then I felt my head ache, and then,sum neon cnosoa. 417

in another moment, memory returned, and everything
was present to me again. I jumped upon my feet
instantly, and got hold of m sword, but saw no ene-
mies. I found a Tartar lie lead, and his horse stand-
ing very quietly by him ; and looking farther I saw
my champion and deliverer, who had been to see
what the Chinese had done, coming back with his
hanger in his hand. The old man seeing me on my
feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a
great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been
killed, and seeing me all bloody would see how I was
hurt ; but it was not much, being only what we call
a broken head ; neither did I afterwards find any
great inconvenience from the blow.

We made no great gain, however, by this victory,
for we lost a camel and gained a horse : but that
which was remarkable, when we came back to the
village, the man demanded to be paid for the camel,
for I did not give him the money when I bought it.
i disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before
the Chinese judge of the place, that is to say, in
English, we went before a justice of the peace. He
acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality,
and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked the
Chinese man, that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was: " I am no servant," said he,
" but went with the stranger." " At whose request T'
said the justice. " At the stranger's request," said
he. " Why then," said the justice, " you were the
stranger's servant for the time, and the camel being
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and
he must pay for it," I confess the thing was so clear
that I had not a word to say, but paid willingly for
the camel.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire. They call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifica-
tions go there; for this I will venture to affirm, that
all the Tartars in Karakathay, which, I believe are
somelmzillions, could got batter down the walls with

0' D
their bows and arrows: but to call it strong, if it were
attacked with cannon, would be to make those who
understood it laugh at you.

We wanted, as l have said, above two days' jot-r-
ney of this city, when messengers were sent express
to every part of the road, to tell all travellers and ca-
ravans to halt till they had a guard sent to them, for
that an unusual body of Tax--tars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles be-
yond the city.

This was ver bad news to travellers ; however, it
was carefully one of the governor, and we were
ver glad to hear we should have a guard Accord-
ing y, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and
three hundred more of the city of N sum, and with
those we advanced boldly. The three hundred sol-
diers from Naum marched in our front, the two hun-
dred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan in
our centre. In this order, and well prepared for
battle, we thought ourselves a match tor the whole
ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared ;
but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thing.

It was early one morning, when marching from a
a little well situated town, called Changu, We had a
river to pass, where we were obliged to ferr , and
had the Tartars had any intelligence, then ha been
the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being
over, the rear guard was behind; but they did not
appear there.

About three hours after, when we were entered
upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles over,
behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at hand ; and they were at hand indeed,
for they came on upon the 3 mm The Chinese, our
guard 11) the front, who ha talked so big the day
before, began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently
looked behind them, which is a certain sign, in a
soldier, that he is just ready to run away. My old
pilot was of my mind, and being near me, he called
out " Seignior Inglese," said he, " those fellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all, for if the
Tartars come on, they will never stand it." " I am
of your mind," said I, " but what must be done?"
" Done 2" said he, "let fifty of our men advance, and
flank them on each wing, and encourage them, and
they will fight like brave fellows in brave company ;
but without it they will every man turn his back."
Immediately I rode up to our leader and told him,
who was exactly of our mind ; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left,
and the rest made a line of reserve ; and so we march-
ed, leaving the last two hundred men to make another
body by themselves, and to guard the camels, only that,
if need were, they should send a hundred men to assist
the last fifty.

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumer-
able company they were; how many we could not
tell, but ten thousand we thought was the least. A
party of them came on first, and viewed our posture,
traversing the ground in front of our line, and as we
found them within gun shot, our leader ordered two
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on
each wing with their shot, which was done: but they
went off, and I suppose went back to give an account
of the reception they were likely. to meet with ; and
.indeed that salute clogged their stomachs, for they
immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it,
and wheeling 03 to the left, they gave over the design,
and said no more to us for that time, which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very
indifferent for a battle with such a number.

Two days after this, we came to the city of Naum.
We thanked the governor for his care of us. and
collected to the value of one hundred crowns, or
thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to
guard us: and here we rested one day. This is a
garrison indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers
kept here 3 but the reason of it was, that formerly
the M uscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they
do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part
of the country (which lies west from the city, for
about two hundred miles) as desolate, and unfit for
use, and more especially, being so very remote, and so
diflicult to send troops thither for its defence, for we
had yet above two thousand miles to Mnscovy, pro-
perly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days
passing over, and on the thirteenth of April we came
to the frontiers of the Mnscovite dominions. I think
the first city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might
be called, that belonged to the czar of Muscovy, was
called Argon, being on the west side of the river
Arguna. I could not but discover infinite satisfaction
that I was now arrived in, as I called it, a Christian
country, or, at least, in a country governed by Chris-
tians ; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion,
but just deserve the name of Christians, et such the
pretend to be, and are very devout in t eir we . t
would certainly occur to any man who trave the
world as I have done, and who had any power of re-
flection, to reflect what a blessing it is to be born in a
part of the world where the name of God and of a Re-
deemer, is known and worshipped.

I saluted the brave Scotch merchant I mentioned
before with my first acknowledgment of this, and
taking him by the hand, I said to him, " Blessed be
God, we are once again come among Christians!"
He smiled, and answered, " Do not rejoice too soon,
countryman, these Muscovites are but an odd sort of
Christians, and but for the name of it, you may see
very little of the substance for some months farther
of our journey.

" Well," said I, " but still it is better than Pagam
ism, and worshipping of devils." "Why, I'll tell
you," said he, " except the Russian soldiers in

risons, and a few of t e inhabitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country for above a
thousand miles farther, is inhabimd by the worst, and
most ignorant of Pagans ;" and so indeed we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of
solid earth. if I understand anything of the surface of
the globe, that is to be found in any part of the
world. We had, at least, twelve hundred miles to the
sea, eastward ; we had, at least, two thousand to the
bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and almost three
thousand miles, if we left that sea, and went on west
to the British and French channels ; we had full five
thousand miles to the Indian or Persia sea, south;
and ialbout eight hundred miles to the Frozen Sea,
nort . '

We new advanced from the river- Arguna by easy
and moderate journeys, and were very visibly ob-
liged to the care, the czar of Mnscovy has taken, to
have cities and towns built in as many places as it is
possible to place them, where his soldiers keep gar-
rison, something like the stationary soldiers placed
by the Romans in the remotest countries of their em-
pire, some of which, I had read, were particularly
placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and
for the lodging of travellers, and thus it was here;
for wherever we came, though at these towns and
stations the garrisons and governors were Russians,
and profeaed Christians, yet the inhabitants'were
mere pagans, sacrificing tojdols, and worshipping the
sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven.

Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Ar where we enter the Muscovite do-
minions, an a city of Tartars and Russians together,
called N orsinskoy, in hich the space is a continued
desert or forest, whi cost us twenty days to travel
overit. Inavillagenear thelastof those places I
had the curiosity to go and see their wav of living,
which is most insufferable. They had, I suppose, a
great sacrifice that day, for there stood out upon an
old stump of a tree, an idol, made of wood, frightful
as the devil, it had a head certainly not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw,
ears asbig as goat's horns, and as high, eyes as big
as a crown piece, a nose like a crooked ram's horn,
and amouth extended four cornered, like that of a
lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under
bill. It was dressed up in the filthiest manner you can
suppose ; its upper garment was of sheepskins, with
the wool outward, a great Tartar bonnet on the
head, with two home growing through it. It was
about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or
any proportion of parts. This scarecrow was set up
at the outside of the village, and when I came near to
it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether
men or women I could not tell, for they make no dis-
tinction by their habits, either of body or head ; these
lay flat on the ground, round this formidable block of
shapeless wood. I saw no motion among them, any
more than if they had been logs of wood, like their
idol. At first I really thought they had been so ; but
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their
feet, and raiseda howling cry, asif it had been so
many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away as
if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A
little way 05 from this monster, and at the door 01
a tent, or hut, made all of sheep-skins, and cow-
skins, dried, stood three butchers. I thought they
were such ; for when I came nearer to them, I
found they had long knives in their hands, and in
the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed,
and one young bullock, or steer. These, it seems,
were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol, and
these three men priests, belonging to it ; and the
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who
brought the offering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and
this brutish worship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my life; to see God's most glorious
and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul,
and that soul adorned with faculties and capabilities
adapted both to honour his Maker, and be honoured
by him ; I say, to see it sunk and degenerated to a de-
gree so stupid, as to prostrate itself before a frightful
nothing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags, and
that this should be the effect of mere i orance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the de ' himself,
who, envying to his Maker the homage and adoration
of his creatures, had deluded them into such gross
surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things, as one would
think should shock nature itself.

In my ra e, I rode up to the monster, and with my
sword cut t e bonnet that was on its head in two in
the middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns;
and one of our men that was with me took hold of the
sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it, when, he-
hold, a most hideous outcry and howlin ran through
the village, and two or three hundred people came
about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for
we saw some had bows and arrows: but I resolved to
visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which
was about four miles ofl', in order to provide some
horses which they wanted, several of the horses
having been lamed and jaded with the Muesli of
the way, and our long march over the last desert;
so we had sOme leisure here to put my plan in ex-
ecution. I communicated my design to the Scotch
merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had had
sufficient testimon . I told him what I had seen,
and witth in ' tion I hadsince thoughtthat
human nature had been so degenerate. I told him I
was resolved, if I could but get four or five men, well
armed, to go with me, to destroy that vile abominable
idol, to let them see that it had no power to help itself,
and consequently could not be an object of worship,
or to he prayed to, much less help them that offered
sacrifices to it.

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design,
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go
with me; but he would go first, and bring a stout
fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us.
So he brought me his comrade, a Scotchman, whom
he called Captain Richardson, and I gave him a full
account of what I had seen, and also of what I in-
tended, and he told me readily he would go with me,
if it cost him his life. So we three agreed to go,
with my man servant. I had indeed proposed it to
my partner but he declined it ; saying he was ready
to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence, but that this was an adventure quite out
of his way.

The Scotch merchant brought me a Tartar robe,
or gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow
and arrows, and had provided the same for himself
and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us,
should not be able to determine who we were. All
that night we spent in mixing up some Combustible
matter with aquavitm, gunpowder, and such other ma-
terials as we could get ; and, having a good quantity
of tar in a little pot, the next night we set out upon
our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at
night, and found that the pe0ple had not the least
jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night

was cloudy, yet the moon gave us light enough to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and

place it did before. The people seemed to be at rest,
only that in the great hat, or tent, as we called it,
v-here he saw the three priests, whom we mistook
for butchers, we saw a light ; and going n close to
the door, we heard people talking, as if t ere were
five or six of them. We concluded, therefore, that if
we set wild-fire to the idol, these men would come
out immediately, and run up to the place to rescue it
from the destruction we intended for it ; and what to
do with them we knew not ; once we thought of car-
rying it away, and setting fire to it at a distance, but
when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky
for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The
second Scotchman was for setting fire to the tent or
hut, and knocking the creatures that were there on
the head when they came out ; but I could not join
with that ; I was against killing them if it was pos-
sible to be avoided. " Well, then," said the Scotch
merchant, I'll tell you what we will do: we will try
to take them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them
stand still and see their idol destroyed.

As it happened, we had twine or packthread
enough about us, which we used to tie our fire-works
together with, so we resolved to attack these people
first, and with as little noise as we cauld. The first
thing we did, we knocked at the door: when one of
the priests comin to the door, We immediately seized
upon him, stop his mouth and tied his hands he-
hind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged
him, that he might not make a noise ; we tied his feet
also together and left him on the ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was ;
but we waited so long and nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two
more, and we served them just in the same manner;
when, oiug back, we found two more were come out
to the oor, and athird stood behind them within the
door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them,
when the third stepping back, and cryin . out, the
Scotch merchant went in after him, and ta in out a
composition we had made, that would only smo e and
stink, he set fire to it. and threw it in among them.
By that time the other Scotchman and my man,
taking charge of the two men already bound, and
tied together by the arm, led them away to the idol,
and left them there, making haste back to us. When
the fune we had thrown in had filled the but with so
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we
threw in a small leather bag of another kind, which
flamed like a candle, and,following it in, we found
there were but four people left, who, it seems,
were two women and two men, and, as we sup-
posed, had been about some of their diabolical
sacrifices.

We took them, bound them as we had the others, and
all without any noise. When we had done this, we
carried them all together to the idol. When we
came there, we fell to work with him: and, first we
daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and
such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone ; then we stopped his eyes, and ears,
and mouth, full of gunpowder ; then we wrapped up
a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet ; and, then
sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about to see if we could find
any thing else to help to burn him, when my man
remembered that by the tent or but, where the men
were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw
or rushes I do not remember: away he and one of
the Scotchmen ran, and fetched their arms full of that.
When we had done this, we took all our prisoners,
and brought them, having untied their feet and
ungagged their mouths, and made them stand up
and set them just before their monstrous idol, and
then set fire to the whole. We stayed by it a quarter
of an hour, or thereabouts, till the powder in the
eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol, blew up, and,
as we could perceive, had split and deformed the
shape of it ; and, in a word, till we saw it burn into a
mere block or log of wood, and then setting the
dry forage to it, we found it would soon be quite
consumed, so we began to think of going away ; but
the Scotchman said, " No, we must not go: for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into
the fire, and burn themselves with the idol." So we
resolved to stay till all the forage was burned down
too. and then we came away, and left them.

In the morning we appeared among our fellow.
travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our
journey, nor could any man suggest that we had been
any where but in our beds, as travellers might be sup-
pOsed to be, to fit themselves for the fatigue of that
day's journey.

But it did not end so ; for the next day came a
great multitude of the country people, not only of
this village, but of a hundred more, for aught I know,
to the town gates, and, in a most outrageous manner,
demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for
the insulting their priests, and burning their great
Cham-Chi-Thauugu, such a hard name they gave the
monstrous creature they worshipped. The people of
N ortzinsko were at first in a great consternation, for
they said the Tartars were no less than thirty thou-
sand, and that, in a few days more, they would be one
hundred thousand strong.

The Russian governor sent out messengersto ap-
pease them, and gave them all the good words ima-
ginable. He assured them he knew nothing of it,
and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad ; that it could not be from any body there;
and if they would let him know who it was, they
should be exemplarily punished. They returned
haughtily, that all the country reverenced the great
Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no
mortal would have dared to offer violence to his
image but some Christian miscreants, so they called
them ; and the therefore denounced war against
him and all the ussians, who, they said, were mis~
creams and Christians. The governor gave them
still all the good words he could: at last he told
them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morning, and, perhaps, it was some of them who had
done them this in'ury, and if they would be satisfied
with that, he won (1 send after them to inquire into it.
This seemed to appease them a little, and accordingly
the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was, intimating withal, that if
any of our caravan had done it, they should make their
escape : but that, whether they had done it or no, we
should make all the haste forward that was possible;
and that, in the mean time, he would keep them in
play as long as he could.

This was very friendly in the governor. So the
captain of the caravan pushed us on for two days and
two nights, without any considerable stop, and then we
lay at a village called Plothus ; nor did we make any
long stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena,
another of the czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where
we expected we should be safe.

It was the second day's march frOm Plothus, that,
by the clouds of dust behind us, at a great distance,
some of our people began to be sensible that we were
pursued. We had entered another desert, and had
passed by a great lake, called Schaks Oser, when we
perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling
west. We observed they went away west as we did,
but had supposed we would have taken that side of
the lake, whereas we very happily took the south
side; and, in two days more, we saw them not, for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on
till they came to she river when it passes farther
north ; but where we came to it, we found it narrow
and fordable.

The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us
towards the dusk of evening. We had, to our great
satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our camp,
which was very convenient for the night ; for as we
were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of .
it, that was about five hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge at, and indeed expected none but
the city of J arawena, which we had yet two days'
march to. The desert, however, had some few woods
in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into
the great river Udda. It was in a narrow strait, be-
tween two small, but very thick woods, that we pitch-
ed our little camp for that night, expecting to be at-
tacked in the night. We took care to make our front
as strong as we could, by placing our packs. and our
camels and horses, all in a line on the inside of the
river, and we felled some trees in our rear.

The enemy was upon us before we had finished our
situation. They did not come on us like thieves, as
we expected, but sent three messengers to us, to de-
mand the men to be delivered to them that had
abused their priests, and burned their god Cham-
Chi-Thaungu, that they might burn them with fire:
and upon this, they said, they would go away, and
do us no farther harm, otherwise they would burn us
all with fire. No one knew any thing of what they
accused us, except me and my accomplices, but we
kept our secret. The leader of the caravan sent
word he was well assured it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceable merchants, tra~
velling on our business; that we had done no harm
to them, or to any one else; and that therefore they
must look farther for their enemies who had injured
them, for we were not the people; so he desired
them not to disturb us, for if they did, we should de-
fend ourselves. They were far from being satisfied
with this, and a great crowd of them came down in
the morning ; and, after looking at us fora while,
they set up a great how], and let fly a cloud of arrows
at us 3 but we were too well fortified for them to do
any mischief ; and I do not remember that one man
of us was hurt.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to
our right, and expected them on the rear; when a
cunning fellow, a Cossack, of Jarawena, in the pay of
the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the caravan,
said to him, " I'll go send all these people away to
Sibeilka." This was a city four or five days' journey,
at least, to the south, and rather behind us. So he
takes his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback,
ho rides away from our rear directly, as it were. back
to Nortzinskoy: after this, he takes a great circuit
about, and comes to the army of the Turtars, as if he
had been sent express to tell them a long story, that
the people who had burned their Cham-Chi-Thaungu
were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians ; and that
they were resolved to burn the god Schul-Izur, belong-
ing to the Tongueses.

As this fellow was a mere Tartar. and spoke their
language, they believed all he said : away they drove
off in a great hurry to Sibeilka; and, in less than
three hours, they were entirely out of sight. So we
passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there
was a garrison of Muscovites; and there we rested
five days, the caravan being exceedingly fatigued with
thel last day's march, and with want of rest in the
flip: it.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which
was twenty-three days' march. \Ve furnished our-
selves with some tents here, for the better accommo-
dating us in the night ; and the leader of the caravan
procured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the coun-
try, for carrying our water and provisions ; and these
carriages were our defence every night round our
little camp ; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless
they had been very numerous indeed, they would not
have been able to hurt us. In this desert we saw
neither house nor tree, nor scarce a bush. We saw,
indeed, abundance of sable hunters; these are all
Tartars, of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country
i: a cart, and they frequently attack small caravans,
but u e saw no numbers of them together.

After we were out of this desert, and had travelled
two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or
station, on the great river Janezay. This river, they
told us, parted Europe from Asia, though our map-
makers, as I am told, do not agree to it. However, it
is certainly the eastern boundary of the ancient
Siberia, which now makes a province only of the
Muscovite empire, but itself equal in bigness to the
whole empire of Germany. And yet here I observed
ignorance and paganism still revailed, except in
the Muscovite garrisons. The wfiole country between
the river Oby and the river Janezay is as entirely
pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest
of the Tartars ; nay, as an nation, for aught I know,
in Asia or America. I a so found, which I observed
to the Muscovite governors whom I had opportunity
to converse with, that the pagans are not much the
wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for bein under the
Muscovite government ; which they ac nowledged
was true enough ; but they said it was none of their
business ; that if the czar expected to convert his Si-
berian, or Tonguese, or Tartar sub ects, it should be
done by sending clergymen amongt em, not soldiers ;
and they added, with more sincerity than I expected,
that they found it was not so much the concern of
their monarch to make the people Christians, as it
was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great river Oby we crossed a
wild, uncultivated country ; I cannot say itis a barren
soil ; it is only barren of people and good manage-
ment. What inhabitants we found in it were all pa-
gans, except such as are sent among them from Rus-
sia; for this is the country on-both sides the river
Ob , whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put
to eath are banished, and from whence it is next to
impossible they should ever come away. : _

We now came to Tobolski, the capital city of
Siberia. Haring been seven months on our journey,
and winter coming on apace, my partner and I called
a council about our particular affairs. in which we
found it proper, considering that we were bound for
England, and not for Moscow, to consider how to
dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges and
rein-deer to carry us overthe snow in winter time,
by which means the Russians travel more in the
winter than they can in summer ; because in these
sledge-s they are able to run night and day ; the snow
being frozen. is one. universal covering to nature, by
which the hills and vales, the rivers and lakes, are
all smooth and hard as a stone: and they run upon
the surface without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of
this kind ; I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route lay two ways ; either I must go on as
the caravan went, till 1 came to Jeroslow, and then
go either by sea or land to Dantzic, where I might
probably sell my China goods to good advantage ; or
I must leave the caravan at a little town on the
Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water, to
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping,
either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.

Now to go any of those journies in the winter
would have been preposterous; for, as to Dantzic,
the Baltic would be frozen up, and I could not get
passage ; and to go up by land in those countries was
far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; like-
wise to go to Archangel in October, all the ships
would he gone from thence, and even the merchants,
who dwell there in summer, retire south to Moscow
in the winter, when the ships are gone ; so that I
should have nothing but extremity of cold to en-
counter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie
there in an em ty town all the winter. So that, upon
the whole, I t nought it much my better way to let
the caravan go, and to make provision to winter
where l was, viz. at "1'obolski,_iu Siberia, in the lati-
tude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three

things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of
rovnsion, such as the country afforded, a warm

house, with fuel enough, and excellent company.

I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved island, where I never felt cold except when I
had my ague ; on the contrary, I had much to do to
bear any clothes on my back, and never made any fire
but without doors, and for my necessity in dressing
my food, &c. Now I made me three good vests, with
large robes or gowns over them to hang down to the
feet, and button close to the wrists, and all these lined
with furs to make them sufiiciently warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dislike
our way in England of makinglfires in every room in
the house, in open chimneys, w ich, when the fire was
out, always kept the air in the room cold as the cli~
mate. But taking an apartment in a good house in
the town, I ordered a chimney to be built, like a fur-
nace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove,
the funnel to carry the smoke went up one way, the
door to come at the fire went in another, and all the
rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just
as they heat the bagnios in England.

By this means we had always the same climate in
all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved ; and
how cold soever it was without, it was always warm
within ; and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever incom-
moded with any smoke.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should
be possible to meet with good company here, in a
country so barbarous as that of the most northerly

arts of Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within
at a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this
being the country where the state criminals of _Mus-
covy, as I observed before, are all banished, this clay
was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, colonels, an '
in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry, soldiery
and legals-tiers of Musgcovy. Here were the famous
. a634 momma cnUsoa.

prince Galilofken, or Galofiken, and his son; the old
general Robostisky, and several other persons of note,

and someladies.
By means of my Scotch merchant, whom, never-

theless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance
with several of these gentlemen, and some of them of
the first rank, among whom was a certain prince, one
of the banished ministers of state belonging to the czar
of Muscovy. I have not room to give a full account
of the most agreeable conversation I had with this last
mentioned truly great man ; in all which he showed
that his mind was so inspired with a superior know-
ledge of lhings, so supported by religion, as well as by
a vast share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world
was really as much as he could express, and he was
always the same to the last, as will appear in the story
I am going to tell.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful
winter I thought it to be; the cold was so intense,
that I could not so much as look abroad without
being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath,
and two for sight. The little daylight we had was,
as we reckoned, for three months, not above five
hours a day, and six at most, only that the snow
lying on the ground continually, and the weather
clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept
(or rather starved) under ground; and, as for our
servants (for we hired servants here to look after our
horses and ourselves), we had now and then their
fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, last they
should mortify, and fall off.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of
deer, dried and cured in the season ; good bread
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish, of several
sorts, and some flesh of mutton, and of the buffaloes,
which is a pretty good beef. All the stores of pro-
vision for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured. Our drink was water, mixed with aqua-
vitae, instead of brandy ; and, fora treat, mead in-
stead of wine, which, however, they have excellent
good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brought us in fresh venison, very fat and
good ; and sometimes beare' flesh, but we did not
much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea,
with which we treated our friends ; and we lived very
cheerfully and well, all things considered.

It was now March, and the days grown consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerable; so the
other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Ar~
change], and not for Muscovy on the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world till
May or June, and that if I was there at the begin-
ning of August, it would be as soon as any ships
would be ready to go away : and, therefore, I say, I
made no haste to be gone, as others did ; in a word,
I saw a great many people, na , all the travellers, go
away before me. It seems every year they go from
thence to Moscow for trade, viz. to carry furs, and
buy necessaries with them, which they bring back to
furnish their ships; also others went on the same
errand to Archangel, but then they also, being to
come back again above eight hundred miles, went
all out before me.

In short, about the latter and of May'I began to
make all ready to pack up ; and as I was doing this,
it occurred to me, that seeing all those people were
banished by the czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet
when they came there, were left at liberty to go
whither they would, wh did they not then go away
to an part of the worlg wherever they thought fit ;
and {began to examine what shoul hinder them
from making such an attempt.
But my wonder was over when [entered upon that
subject with the person I have mentioned, who an
swered me thus :--" Consider first, sir," said he, " the
place where we are ; and, secondly, the condition we
are in, especially," said he, " the generality of the
people who are banished hither. We are surrounded,"
said he, " with stronger things than bars and bolts:
on the north side is an unnavizable ocean, where ship
never sailed, and boat. never swam; neither, if we
had both, could we know whither to go with them.
Every other way," said he, " we have above one
thousand miles to pass through the czar's own do-
minions, and by ways utterly impassable, except by
the roads made by the government, and through the
towns garrisoned by its troops ; so that we could nei-
ther pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any
other way, so that it is in vain to attempt it."

I was silenced indeed at once, and found that they
were in prison, every jot as secure as if they had
been locked up in the castle of Moscow. However,
it came into my thoughts that 1 might certainly be
made an instrument to procure the escape of this ex-
cellent person, and that it was very easy for me to
carry him away, there being no guard over him in
the country ; and as I was not going to Moscow, but
to Archangel, and that I went in the nature of a cap
ravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the sta-
tionary towns in the desert, but could encamp every
night where I would, he might easily pass uninter-
rupted to Archangel, where I would immediately
secure him on board an English or Dutch ship, and
carry him ofl along with me ; and, as to his subsist-
ence, and other particulars, that should be my care,
till he could better supply himself.

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly
on me all the while I spoke ; nay, I could see in his
very face that what I said put his spirits into an ex-
ceeding ferment: his colour frequently changed, his
eves looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might
so even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
immediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it
were, expected what he would say to it, and after he
had paused a little he embraced me, and said, " How
unhappy are we, unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares
to us, and we are made the tempters of one another!
My dear friend," said he, "your offer is so sincere,
has such kindness in it, it is so disinterested in itself,
and is so calculated for my advantage, that I must
have very little knowledge of the world if Idid not
both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation I
have upon me to you for it. But did you believe I
was sincere in what I have so often said to you of my
contempt of the world? Did you believe I spoke my
very soul to you, and that I had really attained that
degree of felicity here that had placed me above all
that the world could give me, or do for me? Did
you believe I was sincere, when I told you I would
not go back, if I was recalled, even to be all that once
I was in the court, and with the favour of the czar my
master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an
honest man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypo-
crite 1'" Here he stopped, as if he would hear what I
would say ; but indeed I soon after perceived that he
stopped because his spirits were in motion, his heart
was full of struggles, and he could not go on. I was,
I confess, astonished at the thing, as well as the man,
and I used some arguments with him to urge him to
set himself free ; that he ought to look upon this as a
door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a
summons by Providence, who has the care and good
disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to
render himself useful in the world.

Ile-had by this time recovered himself. " How do
you know, sir," said he, warmly, " but that, instead
of a summons from Heaven, it may be a feint of
another instrument, representing in all the alluring
colours to me, the show of felicity as a deliverance,
which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly
to my rnin P Here I am, free from the temptation of
returning to my former miserable greatness; there
I am not sure but that all the seeds of pride, ambi-
tion, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in
nature, may revive and take root, and, in a Word,
again overwhelm me, and then the happy prisoner,
whom you see now master of his soul's liberty, shall
be the miserable slave of his own senses, enjoying
all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain n
this l)le~'sed cenfinement, banished from the crimes
of this life, rather than purchase a show of freedom
at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the
expense of the future happiness which I now have in
firm, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of ; for
I am but flesh, a man, a mere man: have passions
and afl'ections as likely to possess and overthrow me
as any man. 0 be not my friend, and my tempter
both together I"

If I was surprised before, I was uite dumb now,
and stood silent looking at him, an indeed admired
what I saw: the struggle in his soul was so great,
that, though the weather was extremely cold, It put
him into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted
to give vent to his mind ; so I said a word or two, that
I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him
again, and then I withdrew to my apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at, or
near, the door of my room, and I was going to open
the door ; but he had opened it and came in. " My
dear friend," said he, " you had almost overset me,
but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not
close with your offer. I assure you it is not for want
of a sense of the kindness of it in you, and I came to
make the most sincere acknowledgment of it to you ;
but I hope I have got the victory over myself."

" My lord," said I, " I hope you are fully satisfied
that you do not resist the call of IIeaven."--" Sir,"
said he, " if it had been from Heaven, the same power
would have influenced me to accept it; but I hope,
and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I
decline it: and I have an infinite satisfaction in the
parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still,
though not a free man." I had nothing to do but to
acquiesce and make professions to him of my having
no end in it, but a sincere desire to serve him. He
embraced me very passionately, and assured me he
was sensible of that, and shoul always acknowledge
it; and with that he ofi'ered me a very fine present
of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from a
man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided
them, but he would not he refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lord
ship, with asmall resent of tea, two pieces of China
dumask, and four ittle wedges of Japan gold, which
did not Weigh above six ounces; but were far short
of the value of his sables, which indeed, when Icame
to England, I found worth near two hundred pounds.
lle accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask,
and one of the ieces of gold, which had a fine stem
upon it, of the Eapan coinage, which I found he too
for the rarity of it, but would not take any more;
and he sent word by my servant, that he desired to
speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me that I knew what
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move
him any more in that afi'air; but that since I had
such a generous ofl'er to him, he asked me if I had
kindness enough to ofi'er the same to another person
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
share of concern. I told him that I could not say
l inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have been
glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance.
However if he would please to name the rson to
me, I would ive him my answer, and oped he
would not be displeased with me, if he was with In
answer. He told me it was his only son, who, though
I had not seen him, yet was in the same condition
with himself, and above two hundred miles from him
on the other side the Oby ; but that, if I consented,
he would send for him. I made no hesitation, but
told him I would do it. So he sent away the next
day for his son, and in about twenty days he came
hack with the messenger, bringing six or seven
horses loaded with very rich furs. and which in the
whole amounted to a very great value.

His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young lord at a distance till night, when
he came incognito into our apartment, and his father
presented him to me; and, in short, we concerted
here the manner of our travelling, and every thing
proper for the journey. I had bought a considerable
quantit of sables, black fox-skins, fine ermines, and
such ot Ier furs that are very rich, in exchange for
some of the goods I had brought from China: in par-
ticular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold
the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at
Archangel, for a much better price than I could have
got at London.

It was the beginning of June when I left this re-
mote place; acity, I believe, little heard of in the
world, and indeed it is so far out of the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now a very small caravan, being only
thirty horses and camels in all ; and all of them pas-
sed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor
of eleven of them. It was most natural, also, that I
should take more servants with me than I had before,
and the young lord passed for my steward ; what
great man I passed for myself, 1 know not, neither
did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst
and largest desert to ass over that we had met with
in all the journey, in eed I call it the worst, because
the way was deep in some places, and very uneven in
others ; the best we had to say for it was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
fear, and that they never came on this side of the
river Oby, or, at least, but very seldom ; but we found
it otherwise.

My young lord had with him afaithful Muscovite
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
fectly acquainted with the country, and who led us
by private roads, so that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities, upon the great road, such
as Tumen, Soloy-Kamaskoy, and several others, be-
cause the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there
are very curious and strict in their observation upon
travellers, and searching lest any of the banished
persons of note should make their escape that way
into Muscovy: but by this means, as we were kept
out of the cities, so our whole journe was a desert,
and we were obliged to encamp, and is in our tents,
when we might have had very good accommodation
in the cities on the way. This the young lord was so
sensible of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad
when we came to several cities on the way, but lay
abroad himself with his servant in the woods, and
met us always at the appointed places.

We were just entered Europe, having passed the
river Kama, which, in these parts, is the boundary
between Europe and Asia; and the first city, on the
European side, was Soloy-Kamaskoy, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama ;
and here we thought to have seen some e\ident
alteration in the people, their manners, their habits,
religion, and their business 3 but we were mistaken,
for as we had a vast desert to pass, which, by report,
is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but
not above two hundred miles over where we passed
it ; so, till we came to that horrible place, we found
very little difference between that country and the
Mogul Tartary, and the people mostly pagans, and
little better than the savages of America ; their
houses and towns full of idols, and their way of livin
wholly barbarous, except in the cities, as above, an
the villages near them, where they are Christians, as
they call themselves, of the Greek Church ; but even
these have their religion mingled with so man relics
of superstition, that it is scarce to be known, it some
places, from mere sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought indeed we should
have been robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop
of thieves; of what country they were, whether the
roving bands of the Ostiachy, a kind of Tartars, or
wild people on the bank of the Ob , and ranged thus
far, or whether they were the sab e-hunters of Sibe-
ria, I am yet at a loss to know ; but they were all on
horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at
at first about forty-five in number ; they came so near
to us as within about two musket-shot, and, asking
no questions, they surrounded us with their horses,
and looked very earnestly upon as twice. At length
they placed themselves in our way, when we drew up
a little line before our camels, being not above sixteen
men in all ; and sent out the Siberian servant, who
attended his lord, to see who they were. His master
was the more willing to let him go, because he was
not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian
troop sent out after him. The man came up near
them, with a flag of truce, and called to them, but
though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects
of languages rather, he could not understand a word
they said. However, after some signs to him not to
come nearer them at his peril (so he said he under-
stood them to mean), offering to shoot at him if he
advanced, the fellow came back no wiser than he
went, only that by their dress, he said he believed
them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Cir-
cassian hordes, and that there must be more of them
on the great desert, though he never heard that ever
an of them were seen so far north before.

is was small comfort to us. However we had
no remedy. There was, on our left hand, at about a
quarter of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of .
trees, which stood close together, and very near the
road. I immediately resolved we would advance to
those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could
there; for first, I considered that the trees would,
in a great measure, cover us from their arrows, and,
in the next place, they could not come to charge us
in a body. It was indeed my old Portuguese pilot
who proposed it, and who had this excellency attend-
ing him, namely, that he was always readiest and most
apt to direct and encourage us, in cases of the most
danger. We advanced immediately with that speed
we could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars,
or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attem ting to hinder us.
When we came thither, we found: to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of
ground, and, on the one side, a very great spring of
water, which running out in a little rill, or brook,
was a little farther joined by another of the like
bigness, and was, in short, the head, or source, of a
considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska.
The trees which grew about this spring were not in
all above two hundred, but were very large, and
stood pretty thick, so that as soon as we got in, we
saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, unless
they alighted and attacked us on foot.

But to make this more difficult, we cut down, with
much labour, great arms of the trees, and laid them
hanging, not quite cut off, from one tree to another ;
so that we made a continued fence almost round us.
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy,
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer
to stir, when, about two hours before night, they
came directly upon us ; and, though we had not per
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some
more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse, whereof we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half a shot of our little
wood when we fired one musket, without ball, and
called to them in the Russian tongue to know what
they wanted, and bade them keep oil; but, as if they
knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double fury, directly up to the wood side, not ima-
gining we were so barricadoed that they could not
break in. Our old pilot was our captain, as well as
he had been our engineer, and desired us not to fire
upon them till they came within pistol shot, that we
might be sure to kill ; and that when we did fire, we
should be sure to take good aim. We bade him give
the word of command, which he delayed so long, that
they were. some of them, within two pikes' length of
us when we fired.

We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot
so sure,) that we killed fourteen of them at the first
volley, and wounded several others, as also several
of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces
with two or three hullets a-pii-ce, at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and re-
treated immediately about one hundred rods from us,
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing
them keep at a distance, we sallied out and caught
four or five of their horses, whose riders, we supposed,
Were. killed; and coming up to the dead, we could
eusily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not from
what country, or how they came to make an excur-
sion of such an unusual length.

About an hour after. they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where
else they might break in, but finding us always ready
to face them, theywontolf again, and we resolved not
to stir from the place for that night.

We slept little, but spent the most part of the night
in strengthening our situation, and barricadoing the
entrances in the wood, and keeping a strict watch,
we waited for daylight; and when it came, it gave
us a very unwelcome discovery indeed ; for the enemy,
who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they had met with, were now increased to no less
than three hundred, and had set up eleven or tWelvc
huts and tents, as if the were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp t ey had pitched was upon
the open plain, at about three uarters of a mile from
us. We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery,
and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and
all that I had. The loss of my efi'ects did not lie so
near me (though they were very considerable), as the
thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians,
at the latter end of my journey, after so many difficul-
ties and hazards as I had gone through, and even in
sight of our port, where we expected safety and deli-
verance. As for my partner, he was raging, and said
he would rather die than be starved ; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.

The young lord was for fighting to the last also ;
and my old pilot was of opinion that we were able to
resist them all, in the situation we then were in ; and
thus we spent the day in debates of what we should
do; but towards evening we found that the number
of our enemies still increased. Perhaps, as they
were abroad in several parties for prey the first had

nt out scouts to call for help, and to ac uaint them
0 the booty, and we did not know but by t e morning
they might still be a greater number ; so I began to
infiuire of those people we had brought from Tobolski
if t ere was no other, or more Erivate ways, by which
we might avoid them in the nig t, and, perhaps, either

retreat to some towns, or get help to guard us over
the desert.

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord,
told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night by a
way that went north, towards the river Petr-as, by
which he made no question but we might get away,
and the Tartars never be the wiser ; but, he said, his
lord had told him he would not retreat, but would
rather choose to tight. I told him, he mistook his
lord, for that he was too wise a man to love fighting'1 1" nonmson (mums.

for the sake of it ; that I knew his lord was brave
enough, by what he had shown already ; but his lord
knew better than to desire to have seventeen or eigh-
teen men fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable
necessity forced them to it ; and that if he thought it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing
else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lord
gave him such an order, he would lose his life, if he
did not perform it. We soon brought his lord to give
that order, though privately, and we prepared for put-
ting it in practice.

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we made
a fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the
Tartars might conclude we were still there; but as
soon as it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see
the stars (for our guide would not stir before), having
all our horses and camels ready laden, we followed
our new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by
the pole, or north star, all the country being level for
a long way.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it
began to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark
all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short,
it was rather lighter than we wished it to be: but by
six o'clock next morning we were gotten near forty
miles, though the truth is, we almost spoiled our
horses. Here we found a Russian village, named
Kirmezinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing
of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours
before night we set out again, and travelled till eight
the next morning, though not quite so hastily as
before: and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river called Kirtza, and came toa good large town,
inhabited by Russians, and very populous, called
Ozomoys. There we heard, that several troops or
hordes of Kulmucks had been abroad upon the desert,
but that we were now completely out of danger
of them, which was to our 4. great satisfaction, youRonmsou CRL'HUR. 4 :7

may he sure, Here We were obliged to get some fresh
horses, and having need of rest, we stayed five days ;
and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Si~
herian, who brought us thither, the value of ten
pistoles, for his conducting us. -

In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our
travels by land, that river being navigable in seven
days passage to Archangel. From hence we came to
Lawrenskoy, where the river joins, the third of July,
and provided ourselves with two luggage boats and a
barge for our convenience. We embarked the seventh,
and arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, hav-
ing been a year, five months, and three days on the
journey, including our stay of eight months and odd
days at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this
place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and must
have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher come in
above a month sooner than any of the English ships ;
when, after some consideration that the city of Ham-
burgh might happen to be as good a market for our
goods as London, we all took freight with him ; and
having put our goods on board, it was most natural for
me to put my steward on board, to take care of them,
by which means my young lord had a sufficient op-
portunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore
again in all the time we stayed there, and this he did,
that he might not be seen in the city, where some of
the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and
discovered him.

We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August
in the same year ; and, after no extraordinary bad
voyage, arrived in the Elbe, the thirteenth of Sep-
tember. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods; as well those of China, as the
sables, &c. of Siberia ; and dividing the produce of
our effects, my share amounted to three thousand four
hundred and seventy-five pounds, seventeen shillings
and threepence, notwithstanding so many losses we
had sustained and charges we had been at, only re-
membering that I had included in this about six bun-
dred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had pur--
chased at Bengal.

Here the young lord took leave of us, and went up
the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where
he resolved to seek protection, and where he could
correspond with those of his father's friends who were
left alive. He did not part without all the testimo-
nies he could give me of gratitude for the service I
had done him, and his sense of my kindness to the
prince his father.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in
Homburgh, I came from thence overland to the Hague.
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in L0n~
don the tenth of January, 1705, having been gone
from England ten years and nine months.

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am
preparing myself for a longer journey than all those,

mving lived sevent ~two years, a lifeof infinite variety,
and learned sufficxently to know the value of retire-
ment, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

THE END.

 

 

KILNER AND BOWERBY, PRINTERS, HALIFAX.CHEAP BOOKS
PUBLISHED BY
MILNER&SOWERBY,

PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON,
AND SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.

 

POETICAL SERIES.

Burns' Complete Works. Fcp. 8vo. Eight
Steel plates. Gilt Back, Side, and Edges,
Bevilled Boards--3s. 6d. Full Gilt Back
andmlifidges--3s. 6d. Plain, Coloured Cloth,

Byron's Poetical Works. Fcp. 8vo. Eight
Steel Plates. Full Gilt Back, Side, and
Edges, Morocco, Elegant and Anti ue, 6s. 6d.
Bevilled Boards--3s. 6d. Full ilt Back
and Edges--3s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Frontispiece and Vignette.
Royal 32mo.--ls.

Cowper's Poetical Works. Eight Steel Plates.
Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges, Bevilled
Boards--3s. 6d. Gilt Edges--3s. 6d. Best
Cloth, Lettered--2s. 9d.

Dryden's Poetical Works. Eight Steel Plates.
Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges, Bevilled
Boards-- 35. 6d. Gilt Edges--3s. 6d. Beet
Cloth, Lettered--2s. 9d.

Gems of Poetry for those we Love. 9 Plates.
Foolscap 8vo. Gilt Back, and Centre Block
--3s. 66. Plain 2s. 9d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Full (iilt Back,2 MILNER AND BOWERBYS' CHEAP BOOKS.

Side, and Edges. Nine Steel Plates. Bevilled
Boardltls. 6d. Gilt Iddgm4s. 6d. Best
Cloth, Lettered--2s. 9d.

Milton's Poetical Works. Full Gilt Back. Side
and Edges. Eight Steel Plates--83. (id. Be-

villed Boards--35c 6d. Best Cloth, Letter-
ed--Bs. 9d.

Mom-e's Poetical Works. Eight Steel Plates.
Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges, Bevilled
Boards--35. 6d. Gilt Edges--33. 6d. Best
Cloth, [lettered--2s. 9d.

Poetical Keepsake (The) Eight Steel Plates,
Full Gilt Back, Side and Edges. Bevilled
Boards--3s. 6d. Gilt Edges--33. 6d. Best
Cloth Lettered--Qs. 9d.

Scott's (Sir W alter) Poetical Works. Nine 11-
lustrations. Full Gilt Back, Side and Edges.
Bevilled Boards--3s. (id. Gilt Edges--
3s. 6d. Best Cloth, Lettered--i's. 9d.

Shelley's Poetical Works. Eight Steel Plates.
Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges, Bevilled
Boards--3s. 6d. Gilt Edges--3s. 6d. Best
Cloth, Lettered--Qs. 9d.

Wordsworth's Poetical Works. Full Gilt Back,
Side, and Edges. Eight Steel Plates. Be-
villed Boards--3s. 6d, Gilt Edges--3s. 6d.
Best Cloth, Lettered--'Zs. 9d.

 

MISCELLANEOUS.

Abbott's Young Christian. Beautiful Frontie-
piece and Vignette. Imperial Mum--ls. 6d.
Anna Lee; or, The Maiden, The Wife and The
Mother. By T. 8. Arthur. Nine beautiful
' Coloured Page Engravings Fcp. 8vo. Gilt
Edges 33. 6d. Plain, Coloured Cloth--28. 6d.
Arabian Nights' Entertainment. Crown 8vo.
EightSteel Plates--23.6d. GiltEdges--3s.6d.

Arabian Nights' Entertainment. Fr. and Vig.
Royal . 21110. Is. 6d. Gilt Edges--ls. 9d.

Artemus W ard--llis Book. Paper Covers--4d.

Ball Room Manual. Paper Covers 2d. Cloth,
Gilt Edges 6d.

Basket of Flowers, and other Tales. By Chris-
topher Von Schmidt. Eight beautiful Steel
Plates. Gilt Back and Edges. Fscp 8vo.
Gilt Edges--3s. 6d. l'lain, Coloured Cloth--
28. 9d. Limp Cloth--ls.

Basket of Flowers. Four Plates. Demy 18mo.
Gilt Back and Edges--2s. Plain--ls. 6d.
Barlow's Cattle Keeper's Guide. Frontispieoe.

18mo. Cloth--6d.

Beaumont's Cow Doctor. Front. l8mo. Cloth,6d.

Beaumont's Cow Doctor, and Barlow's Cattle
Kee er's Guide, combined. Front. 18mo.
Clot --18.

Beautiful Thoughts--1000 choice Extracts.
Demy lSmo. ilt Edges--2s. Plain--ls. 9d.

Bible Echoes. A Daily Text Book. Frontis-

iece. Demy 48mo. Cloth, Red Edges--6d.
atlier, Gilt Edges--9d. Red or Gilt Edges,
with Tuck--ls.

Bogatzky's Golden Treasury. Foolscap 8170.
New Edition. Frontispiece. Full Gilt Back.
Centre Block, and Edges--3s. 6d. Plain--2s.

Boys Own Conjuring Book. Frontispiece,and
nearly 1200 other Engravings. Foolscap 8vo.
Gilt Back and Edges--3s. 6d. Plain--2s.

Brewer's Guide, (The) Containing the whole
art of Brewing, with Numerous Recipes for
Preparing Liquors for Sale, &c. Royal 32mo.
Cloth--6d.4 11111241311 AN!) sowmun's' CHEAP Boone.

Buchan's Domestic Medicine. Foolscap 8vo.
Coloured Plate. Roxburgh Binding 23. 9d.
Plain--28.611.

Buchan's Domestic Medicine. Im 82mo. 2s.

Buflon's Natural History. 323 ngravin s.
Foolsca 8vo. Gilt Edges-39. 6d. Plain us.

Bufl'on's atural History. 200 Engravings.
Royal 32 mo.---ls. 6d. Gilt Edges--ls. 9d.

Bunyyan's Pilgrim's Pro less. Three Parts,
complete. Mason's otes. Eight Steel
Plates and 100 small Woodcuts. Foolscap
8vo. Gilt Back, Sides, and Edges, Bevilled
Boards--33. 6d. Gilt Edges--33. Plain, Ce-
loured Cloth--2s.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progess. Two Parts. Fools-
cap.8vo.--ls. 6d.

Cennick's Village Discourses. Foolscap 8vo.
Cloth, 2s.

Children of the Abbey. Front. and Vignette.
Crown 8vo. Cloth, Plain--2s. Gilt Edges--
3s. 6d.

Christian Preacher's Pocket Companion. Demy
18mo. ls. 6d.

Clater' s Every M an his Own Farrier. Foolscap
8vo. Cloth--ls. 9d.

Clater's Every Man his Own Cattle Doctor.
Foolscap 8vo. Cloth--ls. 6d.

Clater's Farrier and Cattle Doctor, combined.
Foolsca 1 8vo.----28. 6d.

Cobbett's 1nglisl1 Grammar. Royal 321110.
Cloth--6d.

Cook's Universal Letter Writer. Front. and
Vignette. Royal 32mo. Gilt Edges--ls.
Plain--9d.

Co e' s Natural History. 425 Engravings. Me-

um 8vo --5.s.mscnusnzous snnms. 5

Coge's (Dr.) Outlines of Sermons. Foolscap

v0. Frontis iece--8s.

Culpe er's comp ete Herbal. Numerous beau-
tifu Coloured Plates. Foolscap 8vo.--4s.
Plain Plates--3s.

Culpeper's complete Herbal. Royal 32mo. N u-
merous Cuts--1s. 66.

Culpeper's complete Herbal. Coloured Plates.
Royal 32mo-35. 6d.

Cyclopwdia of Son sand Recitations. Royal
32mo. Cloth-- s. 6d.

Cyclopedia of Wit and Wisdom. Royal 32mo.
Cloth. Plain-ls. 3d.

Domestic Cookery. By Mrs. Rundell. Red
and Blue Cloth. Plates. Foolscap 8vo.--
2s. 6d. Cloth--ls. 6d.

Dr. King's Domestic Medicines. Fcp. 8vo--1s.

Edgeworth's Miss Stories for Children. Fools-
cap 8vo. ine eautiful Engravings. Gilt
Book. Centre Block and Edges--3s. 6d.
Plain--2s. 9d.

Edgeworth's Miss) Popular Tales. Foolscap
8vo. Gilt dges--ss. 6d. Plain 2s. 9d.
English Domestic Cookery. Foolscap 8vo.

Limp Cloth--ls.

Finney's Lectures on Revivals. Complete.
Royal 82mo.--ls. 6d.

Finney's Lectures on Revivals. Foolscap 8vo.
Cloth. Portrait--ls. 9d.

Finney's Skeletons ofSei-mons. Foolscap 8vo.
Front. Cloth--ls. 9d.

Finne 's Lectures to Professin Christians.
Po it. Foolscap 8vo. Clot --ls. 9d.
Fleetwood's Life of our Lord and Saviour Jesus

Christ. Imperial 82mo. Gilt--2s.
Foxe's Book of Martyrs. 18 Engraving-
Foolsca 8vo. Red and Blue Cloth. Gilt--
3s. 6d. loth--2s.

Ferguson's llistory of the Roman Republic.
Front. and Vignette. Imperial 32mo.--2s.
(iilt Edges--23. 3d.

Gibbon's Decline & Fall of the Roman Empire.
Front. and Vig. Imperial 32mo--2s. Gilt
Edges--2s. 6d.

Goldsmith's History of England. Demy 12mo.
Roan, Marbled Edges--28. (id.

Hieroglyphics] Bible. Nearly 200 Cuts. Cloth,
Red Edges--ls.

History of England (The), from the Roman
Period to the Present Time. By '1'. S. Birkby.
Ninety l'lngravings. Foolscap 8vo.--ls.

lloppus's Practical Wood, Iron, &c. Measurer.
Leather--ls. (id.

Imperial-Royal Dream Book, Fortune Teller,
and Book of Fate. combined. Foolscap 8vo.
Cloth. Boards. l'lain--ls. 6d.

Imperial-Royal Dream Book. Foolscap 8vo.
Limp Cloth--ls.

Imperial-Royal Fortune Teller and Book of
Fate. Foolscap Svo. Limp Cloth--ls.

Information for Everybody. By Dr. Chase.
Foolscap 8vo. Limp Cloth--ls.

Johnson's Dictionary. 18mo. Cloth Marbled
Edges--ls. -

Johnson's Dictionary. Royal 32mo. Cloth.
Marbled Edges--6d. Leather. Gilt Edges 9d.

Josephus, (The Works of Flavius.) Front.
Medium 8vo.--bs.

Joyce's Scientific Dialo es. Front. and Vig-
nette, 200 Cuts. Roya 32mo.--la.6d.
Jo ce's Scientific Dialogues Foolscap 870.
Lam lighter (The). By Miss Cummins. Full
Gi tBack, Side, andEdges. Nine beautiful
Engravings Foolscap 8vo.--3s. 63:1. Best
Cloth, Lettered--2s. 9d. .
Lempriere's Classical Dictionary. A new and
'complete Edition, with the accents placed,
and many additions. Demy 8vo. Cloth--5s.

'Lena Rivers. A tale of American Life. By
Mrs. M. J. Holmes. Full Gilt Back, Sides,
and Edges. Nine Beautiful Engravings.
Foolscnp 8vo.--3s. 6d. Best Cloth, Letter-
ed--2s. 9d.

' Mnngnail's Historical & Miscellaneous Ques-
tions. Revised and corrected by E. H.
Riches, LL.D.. F.R.A.S. Crown 8vo. Best
Cloth. Lettered. Red Edges--2s. 9d.

Manual of Croquet. Front. Royal 321110. Paper
Covers 3d. Lim Cloth. Gilt Edges--6d.

Markham's (Mrs. History of England. With
continuation to the Present Time, by E. H.
Riches, F.R.A.S. Upwards of One Hundred
Engravings. Crown 8vo. Best Cloth. Letter-
ed. Red Edges--23. 9d.

Mr. Merrymen's Broad Grins. Foolscap 8vo.
Limp Cloth--1s.

Murray's English Grammar. Royal 32mo.
Cloth--6d.

Pearls of Great Price. Crown 8vo. Beautiful
new Edition. Handsome Steel Frontispiece
8t Vignette. Full Gilt Back and Edges--45.

Pearls of Sacred Poetry. Demy 18mo. Plain. 1s.

Penny Table Book.

Penny Books (Mrs. Sherwood's) 10d. per
Packet of 12.8 mmum AND sownnnrs' CHEAP nooxs.

Pentn 2Books (Mrs. Mitford's) 10C/ per Packet

0 .

Queechy. By the Author of ' Wide, Wide
World.' Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges.
Nine Beautiful Engravings. Foolscap 8vo.
---3s. 6d. Best Cloth. Lettered--'Zs. 9d.

Ready Reckoner. Royal 32mo. Cloth. Marbled
Edges--ls.

Ready Reckoner Cloth Marbled Edges.
Demy 82mo.---6d.

Reciter (The General). Numerous Engravings,
Foolscap 8vo--23.

Reciter (The General.) With Engravings.
Foolscap 8m. Limp Cloth. Part l.--ls.
l'art lI.--ls.

Robertson's Ilistor of the Reign of Charles V.
Front. and Vig. m erial 321no.--23.

Robinson Crusoe. l2 llustratious. Foolscap
8vo. Gilt Back, Centre Block, &c.--3s. (3d.

Robinson Crusoe. Foolscap 8vo. 12 Illustra-
tions--2s.

Sacred Garland (The). Crown 8vo. Beautiful
new Edition. Handsome Steel Front. and
Vignette. Gilt Edges--~43.

Sacred Garland (The). Foolscap 8vo. Frontis--
piece. Gilt Edges--3s.

Sacred Garland (The). lst. Series. Front. and
Vig. Royal 32mo. Gilt Edges--ls. 6d. Se-
cond Series. Gilt Edges--ls. 6d.

Scottish Chiefs (The). By Miss Porter. Fools-
cap 8vo. Eight Steel Plates. Full Gilt
Back, Side and Edges. Red and Blue Cloth
---3s. 6d. Plain--2s. 9d.

Seven Champions of Christendom. 8 Steel
Plates. Gilt Back, Side, and Edges. Red and
Blue Cloth. Fcp.8vo. 33. 6d. Plain 2s. 9d.
Shakespeare's Com lete Works. With Preface
by Dr. Johnson; To of Author and a Glos-
sary. Portrait. Demy 8vo.-- s.

Shakespeare's Poems. Demy48mo. Cloth--6d.

Sherwood's (Mrs) Popular Tales, 7 Plates,
Foolsca 8vo. Red and Blue Cloth. Gilt
Back, dges, and Centre Block--3s. 6d.
Plain--2s.

Sherwood's (Mrs. Juvenile Tales. 8 Plates.
Foolscap 8vo. oth--2s.

Skinner's Aids to Preaching and Hearing.
Foolscap 8vo. Cloth--ls. 6d.

Smith's Bread from Heaven. Foolscap 8vo.
Front. Red and Blue' Cloth. Full Gilt Back,
and Edges--3s. 6d. Cloth--2s.

Smith's Early and Latter Rain. Foolscap 8vo.
Front. Red and Blue Cloth. Full Gilt Back
and Edges--33. 6d. Plain--2s.

Smith's Dail y Remembrancer--Morning. Front.
& Vi uette. Foolscap 8vo. Gilt Back, Edges,
and ntre Block--4s. 0d. Plain--2s. 6d.

Smith's Daily Remembrancer--Evening. Fools-
cap 8vo. Front. and Vig. Full Gilt, &c.--
48. 0d. Plain--2s. 6d.

Swiss Famil Robinson.24Engravings. Fools-
cap 8vo. ed and Blue Cloth. Gilt Back
and Ed es--3s. 6d. Plain--23. 6d.

Tales an Stories of Ireland. By Carleton,
Lover, and Mrs. Hell. Red and Blue Cloth.
Demy12mo. Cloth Plain--1s. 9d.

Tem ranceMelodist,Pa rCov., 3d. Cloth,6d.

The ook You Want.-- ow to Cure Every-
thing--How to do Everythian--Beceipts for
Everything. Foolscap 8vo. rontispieoe 2s.

The New Tem(peranoe Reciter, Paper Covers, 3d.
In Cloth-- ,d,
The New Band-of-Hope Reciter, Paper Covers
8d. Cloth--6d.

Tiler's Natural History of Beasts, &c. 100 Cuts
Royal 32mo.--ls. 6d.

Tregortha's Bank of Faith. Front. Royal 3 2mo.
Red Cloth--ls. 6d.

Uncle Tom's Cabin. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe. Full
Gilt Back, Side, and Edges. Nine Beautiful
Engravings. Foolscap 8vo.---3s. 6d. Best
Cloth, Lettered--2s. 9d.

Walker's I'ronounciugr Dictionary with Key
and upwards of 10,000 additional Words and
Phrases in daily use, recently introduced in-
to the English Language. By Francis R.
Sowerby. Demy 8vo. New and Superior
Edition. Portrait--As. 6d.

Walkingame's Arithmetic. Cloth--ls.

Key to Walkingame's Arithmetic. Cloth--ls.

Walton and Cotton's Angler. Portrait and Cuts
Foolscap 8vo. Cloth--2s. '

Watts' Scripture llistory. Fcp. 8vo. Front. 25.

Wesley's Primitive Physic and General Re-
Ceipt Book. Royal 32mo.--10d.

Wide, Wide World (The). By E. Wetherell.
Full Gilt Back, Side, and Edges. 9 Beauti-

ful En ravings. Foolscap 8vo.----3s. 6d. Best
Cloth ousted--25. 0d.

 

NEW SERIES OF SPELLING-BOOKS.
Foolscap 8w.--C'loth--6d. each.
Carpenter's Scholar's Spelling Assistant.wmn wonn mnmr. 11

Dr. Markham's S lling and Reading English.

Guy's New Britis Spelling Book.

Fenning's New London Spelling Book.

Mavor's English Spelling Book.

The Elementary Spelling Book. By Dr.
Webster.

Vyse's Universal Spelling Book.

__

UNIFORM WITH THE ABOVE.

Esop's Fables. With 100 Engravings.
Buflon's Natural History. Illustrated.
Markham's History of England.

Peter Parley's First School Reader.

Peter Parloy's S elling and Reading Book
Peter Parley's 'econd School Reader. Cloth
Walkingliame's Arithmetic.

Watts' Scripture History.

 

THE WIDE, WIDE WORLD LIBRARY.
DEMY 18M0.

New Editions. Bound in the Best Cloth.

Plain--ls. 3d. eaclt.-- Various Coloured
Cloth, Gilt Edges--ls. Gd. each--Beautiful
Frontispz'ece and Vignette in each Book.

or MXSCELLANEOUS AUTHORS.
Arabian Nights' Entertainments
Clarissa Harlowe. By S. Richardson
Cottage on the Cliff, (g'he) by'C. G. Ward
Domestic Cookery. y Mrs. Rundell.

Dr. King's Domestic Medicine and Hydropathy
Eva Stanley. A Novel

Evenings at Home

Farmer of In glewood Forest
Fatherless Fanny12 mmnm we sownaurs' our." Mons.

Foxe's Book of Martyrs

Information for Everybody, by Dr. Chase

Mabel Vaughan. By Miss Cummins

Nick of the Woods

Pamela; or Virtue Rewarded

Robinson Crusoe

Sacred Garland (The)

Smith's Believer's Daily Rememberence--
Morning, Gilt Edges only

Do do Evening

St. Clair of the Isles

Sunda School Anniversary Reciter

Swiss amily Robinson

Sybil Camp hell; or the Queen of the Isle

Tales of th?>> Wild and the Wonderful

The Gates Adar

The Lamplighter. By Miss Cummins

The White Slave

The Wars of England

The Planter's Dang liter

The Temp ted Wife

Uncle Tmpn' 3 Cabin. By Mrs. II. B. Stowe

NOVELS.---BY FANNY FERN.
Fern Loaves Rose Clark Ruth Hall

NOVELS. ---DY T. B. ARTHUR.

Anna Lee, The Maiden, Wife, and Mother
Lizzie Glenn, The Trials of a Seamstress, &c,
Love 1n lli h Life, and the Lost Bride

Love in a ttage, and Mary Momton

NOVELS.--BY MRS. MARY JANE HOLMES.

Homestead on the Hill-side
Hugh Worthington
'Lena. Rivelsnooxs AT 1s. 6d. our more. 13

Marian Grey; or the Heiress of Redstone Hail
Mary Howard ; or, The English Orphans
Nina; or, Darkness and Daylight

Rose Lee

Rose Mather

NOVELB.--BY MRS AN 5. STEPHENS.

Barb ore Stefi'ord ; or Silent Struggles
Doubly False
Fashion and Famine
Katherine Allen: or, the Gold Brick
Mary Derwent

The Heiress

The Soldier's Orphans

The Rejected Wife

The Wife's Secret

NOVELS.--BY ELIZABETH WETHEBELL

Melbourne House

Queech .
Wide, VY=ide World (The).

ROYAL 82mo.--GILT EDGES--le. 6d

All the following Books are Illustrated with either
Frontispiece, or Frmttiepiece and Vignette.

Bromie s Life of Christ Life and Exploits of Robin

Cabin oy's Story Hood, complete Garland

Christmas Eve, and other Life of the Rev. J Fletcher
Tales. Six Plates Life of Field Marshal the

Cowpor's Poems Duke of Wellin ton

Don Quixote De La Man- Milton's Poetical orks
eha (Adventures of) Moore's Laiie. Rookh and

Fashion and Famine Irish Melodies. 9 Plates

Father-less Fanny Mysteries of New York

Hungarian Brothers (The) Mysteries 0! Udolpho
Kirke White's Remains News from the Invisible
Lite 0! the Rev. J. Wesley World14 MILNER am) sowm:

New Shilling (The)

Paley's Natural Theology

Panxelnerin-tue llewurded

Planter's Daughter

Pue's Tales of Mystery and
Imagination

Pope's l'ot-tiral Works

Bose Hark. &t'. by l". Fem

Bandford and Merton (llis-
tot y of)

Seven Clunnnlous of Chris-
tendom (lltstm y of)

Simpson's Key to the Pro-
pheoies

80ft showers on the Open-
ing Bud. Imp. 321110. Cuts

m's' cumin nooxs.

Sunny Memories of Foreign
Lands. By Mrs. StOWo
Tales of Battles by Sea and

Land
Tales for Rich and Poor
Tales of Mnrried Liftnl'lutt's
Tempest and Sunshine
Thomson's Poetical Works
'l'titltl's Angel ()I' the lt'ulu'l'g
True lliehes, &(-.hv Arthur
\\'a\'erley, by Sir 'W. Scott
Wordsworth's Excursion &

White llneof llvlstonefie
Woz-dsworth'a Sell-ct l'oeuts
Young's Poetical Works

ROYAL 321110.---COLOURED CLOTH-
GILT EDGES--ls. 4d. EACII.
Embellished with lv'rontispircc, or Frontz'spicco
and Vignette.

Bogatzkv's Golden Trcu- Smith's Rllls from the Rock

wry--Morning
Bogatzky's (iolden Trea-
sury-- Evening
Brown's Concordance
Doddl'itlgo'altiso in Progress
Uervey's Meditations
Life of M rs. Fletcher
Smith (Life of the Rev. J.)
of Choltenhani
Bmitli'an-nd from Heaven
Smith's l-Iurl & Latter llain
Smith's Goo Seed for the
Lord's field [Days
Smith's Light for Dark
Smith's Sunny Subjects for
all Seasons [Like
Smith's The Book you will
Smith's Food for Hungry
Souls [of Lite
Smith's Fruit from the Two

Smith's Good News for All

of Ages

Smith's Book that you Want

Smith's The Book that Will
Suit You
Smith's Gleams of Grace
Snnth's Pearls from the
Ocean [Good Things
Smith's Glad Tidings of
Smith's Sacred Poetr
Smith's lleliever's {hily
1t eutetnbrant-er ; or, ras-
tor's M orning Visit
Smith's Bt'llCVCT'B Daily
lletnetnhraneer: or, l'as-
tor's Eta-lung Visit
Smith's Manna in the Wil-
den ltcss
Sniit It's Messenger of Mercy
Smith's Sabl-ath Reading;
or, Profitable Portions
for the Lord's Daynoose az- ls. non--enn- more.

15

Smith's Way of Salvation Bmith's Spiritual Poet
Bet forth ; and Guide to Smith'l The Love ofChgst,

God and 010

Bmith'e'i'he Vo cc of Mercy Young Men's

& the Reilwa Companion
wn Book

in the House or Mlliction Young Men's Companion
Smith's The Church on it Youn Man'- Beut Oom-

nglit to be, 6': ltefreeh-
mg Dew Drops

on.

ROYAL 32mo.--GILT EDGES--ls. EACH.

Illustrated either with Frontisln'ece 14'7th
and Vignette, or lllmm'natcd'Title.

Pom-war, Glrr Boone.
Bridal Gilt (The)
Bryant's Poetical Works
Dindem ('l'he)
Evergreen (The)
Forget-me-not (The)
Gems ofSncred Poetry [love
Gems oi'Poetry tor those we
licert'a Base (The)

Mus. Bruitwoon'e Jun-
mu: Tans.

Boys will be Boys, 4Platel

Caroline Mordaunt

Christmas Carol, etc [hood

I Joya and Sorrows of Child.

Juvenile Tales
Maid of Judah (The)
Susan Gray

Hoher'n l'oeme I Afl'ectione Swiss Cottage & other Tales

Bellian'l(hlrs.) Son a of the

Hour: of Thou ht [ lowers

Language Poetry of

Moors'u
Songs, &c.

Moore I Leila Rookh

Irish Melodies An

Two Knights (The)

 

xecnmuxone.
otee,Religlous,Moral
Anecdotes or Christian
Martyrs [History

More's (lire. ii.) liiaoellii- Aunt Emma's Stones from

neoue Poems
My Poetic Companion
Orange Bloesomu ;

Breathing: of Love
Poetical Keepsake
Poetic Gilt of Friendship
Poetry oi Love (The)
Poetr oi the Am-ctions
Boer

Poe
Sacred Iurp (The)
Sighs of Love (The)
Thomson's Heaaonl
Wedding am (The)
Young's Night Thought.

1Esop's Fables, 100 cuts
Basket of Flowers

or, 200 l'rettyLittle Talee[Men

Beecher'sLecturestoYoun
Berquin'e Children's Frien
Better Land The)
Bloomfield'a nrmer'a Boy
Book for the Lord's Day

flap of American Book of Family Worship

Bunyan'a Come & Welcome
Buuyun's Grace Abounding
B yron'e Don J uan .

Clarke's Scripture Promises

Christian's Pattern & Chris-

tian Perfection
Daily Food
Dictionary of Love, (A)
Doctor Syntax

Fawcett's Christ Precious
Flashes of Wit, eke.
Gems of Thou ht

Gems b the sy-side
Gems 0 Fiat

vyield
Goldsmith's lento! ske-

[Gardiner
Doddridge's Lite of Col. 5

, Pike's True IIapginess

Do Limp 0th Gilt

l
{Pike's Motives for Perse<

veranoo

Do Limp Cloth Gilt

' Pleasant Hours

Paul and Virginie ac

Richmond's Anna s of the
Poor

Sabbath Musings, b Bond

Greet Secret; or, How to Smith's The Love 0 Christ

be Happy!
Heart on and
Juvenile Friends (The)

Kiss {or u Blow
Law of Kindness

Smith's The Church as it
Ought to Be

, Smith's Way of Salvation

Smith's Railway & Steam-
boat Companion

Life ut'Joseph& Death of Smith's Refreshing Dew-

Abel [Foil
Lilllebright: or Wisdom
Love Gift for all Seasons
Mammals Pictures from the

Bible
Meson on Self-Knowledge
May Flower
Memoirs of Mrs. Rogers
Memoirs of Mrs. Nowell
Mitford's (Mrs) Juvenile

Tales
Ovid's Art of Love [forced
Pike's Early Religion en-

Do., Limp Cloth. Gilt
Pike's l'orsunsivee
Do Limp Cloth Gilt

Drops [Series
Sunday SehoolReciter, First
Do do 2nd Series

Suing7 Side (Thig

Ten ights inn lit-Room

Todd's Lectures to Children

Todd's Truth made Simple

Todd's Angel of the Iceberg

Todd's Greet Cities

Todd's Simple Sketches

Todd's Student's Manual

Todd's Sunday School
'Ll.' acher

Wilson (Bishop) on the
Lord's Supper, and Soon
i'riveta

ROYAL 32mo.--GILT BACK, SIDES, AND
EDGES--COLOURED CLOTH--10d. EACH.

Illustrated either with Frontispieco, Frontispiecc
and Viqnette, or Illuminated Title.

A

MISCELLANEOUS.
A Kiss {or a Blow
Angel and child
Annie Benson

Babes in the Basket

Baron Munchnusen

Book of Riddles, (The) &o.
Bunyan's World to ComeBoone AT 10d. men--aim evens.

Bunyan's Heart's Ease
Bunyan'e Croce Abounding
Bunyau's Barren Fig-Tree
Bunyan'l Solomon's Tem-
pie 8 lirituelised, &e
Bunyan 3 Jerusalem Sinner
Saved, &c
Christian's Pattern
Cottugers or Glenburnie
Death of Abel. in 5 Books
Economy of Human Life
Eliza Clitrord .
Elizabeth; or, The Exiles
of Siberia. "lemon, &e
Etiquette for Ladies 8'. Gen-
Etiquette at Love, Court~
ship, and Marriage
Experiments of Living, and
Elinor Fulton [Restored
Filiul Ali'eetiou ; or, Home
Garland oi Flowers
Goldsmitli's Poetical Works
Gritniipnpn'e 'l'ules about
Animals
Gmmlpupu'e Tales about
Birds, ere [Bible
Grandpapa'a'l'alce from the
Disto ol'Jaek & his eleven

brot ere, &Annand her The Perfect Lady

eleven meters
Holiday Stories
Household Poems
lloyle's Games
Imperial Dream Book
Imperial Fortune Teller
Just Right, or a little wrong
Juvenile Keepsake (The)
Juvenile Talee for Be a and

Girls
Language and Poetry

17

M ury Raymond
Mury Morton
Maris Monk
Mason's Select Remains
Mead'e Almost Christian
Moore's Irish'Melodiee
M ysteriee of a Convent
Nelson'e Journal
Nursery Rhymes
Paul and Virginia
Pastor's Stories
Poems for all the yearround
Poetic Gilt o! Frendship
l'oor-Llouee Sam
Pretty Little Poems for
Pretty Little People
Pretty Little Stories for
Pretty Little People
Rose Villn.
ltoyul Fortune Teller
Royal Drezun Book
Seymour Manor
SIX Months in a. Convent
Sweet Mary ; or, the Bride
mode read for her Lord
Tales or my 'ather
The Children of Hanson
. Lodge tleman
Gen-
The Art of Dancing
The Two Half-Crowns
The Hole in the Pocket
The Raven's Feather, and
Mick and. Nick
The Garden" of Wood: and
Fiowers
The Beautiful Gate, &e
The Little Town Lady, <<he

[ owere The Two Shoemaker:
of The Shepherd of Salisbury

Life of Dick Whittington Plain

Life of J oseph, son of Israel Thoughtlees Little Fanny

Little Bertha's Secret Toda's Lecturee to Children
Lover's Offering let Series

Lucy Sandford Todd's Lecture! 2nd Serial

Love in a Cottage
Tour White the Post Boy
Uncle i'nnl's Stories
Voices of the Night

MlLNl-Ilt AND Bi'\\'iiiiliY8' ('liEAl' BOOKS.

Lotte (The, etc.

Out of eht Out ol'Danger
'l'o-niorrow

\Vesley's Life of.) . Fletcher Will (The), &0.

Wesley on Christian i'er-
feotion

Wreath of Friendship

Youngimdy's Lottererter

Mus SnKuWoon's Jun:-
mu: 'l'ALus.
Boys will he lioys, 4 i'lutos
Caroline Mordnunt
Christmas Carol, oto
Joys &Borrowson'lnidhood
How to Please, So
Little lienry oz his Bearer
Little Girl's Keepsnki-(l'ho)
IJUO Chire
Mei of J udsh ('l'he)
Sergeant Dale, his dough-
ter and the Orphan iiinry
Susan Grey
Swiss Cottage & other Tales
The Little Woodman end
his Dog Closer
The Pope and the Emperor
The Little Lady, 620
Tom, tho Sailor, the.
Two Knight (The)
Miss Enoswonrn's J u":-
mu Sronms,
Basket Woman, ete.
Birth-day Present, etc.
False Key, oto.
Forgive and Forget, etc.
Les Lawrence, etc.
Orp lens (The). etc.
Simple Susan, etc.
M188 EDoswon-m's Peru-
un Tums.
Contrast (The)
Grstetul Negro The) etc.
Lame Jenn.) o o.

*

Br run: Au'ruon or ' Tun

lusxsr or Fwwrus.'

Basket of Flowers

Christmas Eve, etc.

Easter Eggs. eto. [Warrior

Eustace, the Christian

Genevieve. etc.

Godfrey, the Little Hermit

lienry of i'livhenfels, etc.

Lewis, the Little Emigrant

ltose of 'i'tumehonrg

The (lzulnnd of Hope, eto.

The Good Fridolin and The
Wicked 'i'hlcrry, etc.

The Pet Lamb, etc.

The Two Brothers, etc

Timothy and Philemon, etc

100 Pretty Little Tales

[00 New Pretty Little Tales

 

An'rnun's Juvsmur Ll-
nuAnv.

Who is Greatest f etc

Who are lleppiesti etc

i'oor Woodcutter, etc

hinggy's llehy, ete

Haven't-time sndDon't-oe-
in-s-ilnrry [nmkers

Cederdnle; or, the Peace-

Uncle Ben's New Year's Giit

'l'he Wounded Boy, etc.

The Last Penny, etc.

Our Little liurry, etc.

The Lost Children, etc.

Pierre, the Organ Boy, etc

 

An'rnus's Porous Worms
Lovers and Husbands
Sweethearts and Wives
Married and Single

Debtor and Creditornooxs A'r 1s. men-corner. mnnAnY. 19

Riches have Wings

'I'ruo Riches: or Wealth
Without Wings

Broken Merchant (The)

Drunlmrd'n Wife (The)
ltluiu in the \Vorlnl
ltetlrl'ng from Business
Keeping up Appearances

THE COTTAGE LIBRARY.

MORAL AND RELIGIOUS SERIES.

ROYAL 82m0.--COLOURED CLOTH--LET-
TERED--ONE SIIILLING EACH.

@The following

Works are well 1011
and durably bound, IlMtTfltCtl

Med, neatl
either will

Frmuiqn'ece, Iv'rmztispiece and Vignette, or II-
luminated Title ,- being the Cheapest Books ever

ofl'ered to the Public.

A Book that will Suit You
By W Nicholson Murtyis

Anecdotes of hrietiun

Anecdotes, Religious. lllo-
ml, and Entertaining

A Wreath Around the Cross

Basket of Flowers. e20.

Baxter's Seinte' Rest

Beemso! Silver from the
Star of Bethlehem

Beecher's Lectures to
Young Men

Bogatsky's Golden Trea-
sur ---Moruing

Bogs k 's Golden Tres-
sn -- venlug

Brom ey's Life of Christ

Brown's Concordance

Bunyen'e Pilgrim's Pro-
gress. 2 Parts. With Outs

Bunyen's Choice Works--
First Series [2nd Series

Bunym's Choice Worke--

Bun en's Choice Works--
8 Series

Bowen's Holy War

Christ's tenuous 'l'ltles.Dyer

Christian's Pattern, and
Christian Perfection

Christian'sEvery DsyBook

Clarke's Scripturel'romises

Ooiteger'e Key to the Holy
Scriptures

Dell Comforter

Dent -bed Triumphs

Dodd's Discourses to
Young Men

Doddridgo's Rise and Pro-
gross

Eustace the Christian Wer-
rior, &c. Six Plates [prion

Finnc 'e Revival: of Bell.-

Fox's ook of Martyrs

Franklin's Works

Gems of Sacred Poetry

Glorfi through Faith--Life
of elnrioh Btilling

Heaven. the Abode olthe
Belated Deed

Heavenly Home (The)

Heevenl Recognition

Heber's oems
Hervey's Meditations

History of the Inquisition

Law of Kindness and Kiss
for a Flow

Life of Colonel Gardiner

Life of Joseph and Death
of Abel
Life of the Rev. J. Fletcher
Life and Labours of the
Rev. T. Charles
Life of the Rev. J. Wesley
Life of Mrs, l-'letcher
Looking unto Jesus [Devils
Macgnwun's Dialogues of
Medhurst's (The llev.T.W.)
Light in the Dark Valley
Medl.urst's('l'he Rev.T.\V.)
Streams from Lebanon
Melbourne llouse. By E
Wetherell [Adam Clnrke
Memoirs of the Life of Dr.
Memoirs of Mrs. Rogers
Memoirs of Mrs, Newell
M essegvs of Mercy
Missionary Anecdotes--let
Series l Works
More's (Mrs. ll.) Poetical
Mothers orthe Wise &Good
Olney Hymns
Paley's View of the Evi-
dences of Christianity
Paloy's Natural Theology
Pope,Blair,Gray,Dodd,&c.
Power of Prayer (The)
Rays of Gold, by the Rev.
W. Walters
Religious Courtship [Poor
Richmond's Annals of the
Sabbath Musings, by Bond
Sacred Garland--lst Series
Sacred Garland--2nd Series
Sacred Harp of American
Poetry
Scripture'h-uths Illustrated
Simpson's Key to the Pro-
pheciee

I Sim pson's Plea for Religion
; Smith (Life of the Rev. J.)

of Cheltenbnm
Smith'sBroad from Heaven
Smith's Earl &Letter Rein
Smith's Goo Seed for the
Lord's field [Days
Smith's Light for Dark
Smith's Sunny Subjects for
all Seasons [Like
Smith's The Book you will
Smith's Food for llungry
Souls [of Life
Smith's Fruit from the Tree
Smith's Good News for All
Smith's Rills from the Rock
of Ages
Smith's Book that you Want
Smith's The Book that will
Suit You
Smith's Gleams of Grace
Smith's Pearls from the
Ocean
Smith's Glad Tidings of
Good Things
Smith's Sacred Poetry
Smith's Believer's Dally
Reinembrencer ; or Pas-
tor's Morning Visit
Smith's Believer's Dally
Remembrancer; or, Pas-
tor's Evening Visit .
Smith's Manna in the W1!-
demese
Smith's M essen gerof Mercy
Smith's Sabbath Reading;
or, Profitable Portions
{or the Lord's Day
Smith's Way of Salvation
Set forth ; and Guide to
God and Glory
Smith's'l'he Voxce ofMerey
in the House of Amiction
Smith's The Church as it
Ought to be, & Retiree}:-
in; Dew DropsW

nooxe u ls. men--cornea LIBRARY. 21

Smith's The Love of Christ
6: theRailwayCompanlon

Stnrm's Reflections on the
Works of God

Sunday School Reciter--
Frlst and Second Series

Susan Grey and Lucy Clare

The Book of familyWorship

The Gates Ajar

The new Ileart

Todd's Angel of the Iceberg

 

 

 

Todd's Student's Manual
Todd's Sunday School

Teacher, &c., kc.
Tregortha's Bank of Faith
True Riches, and Riches
Wlizlxlve Vgings (Th

a sen Minor 0
Watts' Logic )
Watts' Scripture History
Watts' World to Come

--_

THE COTTAGE LIBRARY.
INSTRUCTIVE & ENTERTAINING SERIES.

ROYAL 32mo.--COLOURED CLOTH--LET.
TERED--ONE SIilLLIN G EACH.

Embellished with Frontispiece, or Frontawma' '
and Vignette.

Anna Lee ; or The Maid-
en, Wife. and Moth er

Esop's Fables. 100 Cuts

American Recipt Book

Anecdotes of Napoleon
Anecdotes of Lord Nelson
Anson'sVogago Round the
World
Arabian Nights' Enter.
tainments .
Artemus Ward. and Major
J aek Downing
Bampfylde Moore Carew
(Adventures of) .
Barbara Stafford ; or, 81-
lent Struggles _
Ben quin'sChildren'anend
Bloomfield'sl'oeticalWorks
Boy's Own ConjurlngBook
Bridal Gift (The)
British Songstcr (The)
Bruce's Travels in Abys-
sinia l'elno
Buchan'a Domestic Mcdi- 2

Bufl'on's Natural History
Burn's Poetical Works
Butler's Hudibras
Byron's Childe Harold
Byron's Select Works
Byron's Choice Works
Cabin Boy's Story
Chapone, Gregory, Pen-
nington, and Dodsley
Children of the Abbey
Christmas Eve. and other
Tales. Six Plates
Clarissa Harlowe
Clater's Every Man his
Own Cattle Doctor
Clater's Every Man his
Own Farrier
Cohbett's and Murray'l
English Grammar
Cook's & Seaforth's Let-
ter Writers [Minstrel
Comic Album and Comic

| Coleridge's Poetical and

Dmmatic Works22 mmna AND sowmmvs' uni-:AP noon.

Cooper's Sea Liam
Uooper's Doerslnyer
Cooper's Spy

Cooper's Lost 0! the liohl-

cans
Cooper's Pilot
Cottage Gardener. Outs
Cowper'e l'oetleal Works
Culpeper's British Herbal

lForgot-me--not, in Pea
and Prose h,

Frankenstein : or the Mo-
dern Prometheus

Gems by the We aide
Game 0 Poetry or those
we Love

Godfrey, 'l'he thtle Hermit
and other Tales. 6 l'latos

Culpeper's Every Man his Goldsmith'u l'oetioalWorks

Own Doctor
David l'rico(Adventurrs of)
Daring Deeds of Captain
Canot
Debtor and Creditor, &o

and Vlcar of Wakefield
Gulliver and Muucheusen
Heart's Ease s'l'ho)
llenry Earl o Morelund
Ilistory o! the Russian War

Di roso's National Song llistory oil-England. Cuts

00]:
Doctor Syntax
Dodd's Beauties of Shaka-
pmu'o

l lomestoad on the Hill-side
ll ugh Worthington

Hungarian Brothers The)
Italian (The) iSam

Dodd'l Beauties of History J nst Right. and Poor- rouse

Domestic Cookery. Cuts

Don Quixote Do Ln Man-
cha (Adventures of)

Doubly False

Dow's Patent Sermons

Dryden's Poetical Works

Dl'ydull's Virgil

Eliza Clill'ord & Rose Villa

English l'opular Ballads

Etiquette and Dictionary
of Love

History ortbe Franco-Prus-
sian War with map

J uveullo Keepsake and J n-
venile Tales

Katharine Allen; or The
Gold llrlck

Kent's Poetical Works

Kirko White's Remains

Lamplighter (The)

Language and Poetry of
Flowers

Etiquette ; or the Perfect 'LenaRivorebyMrsJ[olmol

Gentleman [Lady
Etiquette; or the Perfect
Eva Stanle . A Novel
Evenings a Home
Farmorol' lngleu oodl'orest
Fashion and Famine
Fatherles< Fanny
Fern Leaves,

Fem
Fisher's Daufizhter (The)
Flowers, the r Moral, Eur

blems and Language
Flowors of Knowledge

Life of Lord Nelson

Life of Baron 'l'renek

Life of Washington

Life and Exploits of Robin
Hood, complete Garland

Life of Field Marshal the
Duke of Wellington

by Fanny ILifeoanpoleonllona arto

Life of Oliver Cremwe
Lives of Pirates and Sea
Robbers [ Robbers

3 Lives of Highwaymen andsoon u is. non--corner menu. 23

Lissy Glen & other Stories

Longfellow'sPootioalWorks

Longfellow's Song of Bie-
watha, end other Poems

Love in El hLite,and'1'he
Lost Bri e. to.

Love in s Cottsgo andMary
Moreton

Lover's 08o . a Poetic
Gilt of Prion &

Mabel Clifton--A ovol

Mabel Vaughan

Man-oi-War Life--A Boy's
Experience [Holmes

Marian Grey, by Mrs.

Married in Hoste[8tcphens

Mary Derwen by Mrs.

Mary Howard y Do.

Memoirs of e Cavalier

Milton's Poetical Works

Minnie Hermon, the Land-
lord's Dau hter

Moore's Cho ce Works

Moore's Lnlle Rookh and
Irish Melodies. 9 Plates

More's (Mrs. H.) Poetical
Works

Mysteries of New York 1st
Series [Series

Mysteries oi'New York 2nd

Mysteries of e. Convent and
Maria Monk

Mysteries of Udolpho

Mysteries of Paris [World

News from the Invisible

New ShillinSSv('l'he)

Nick of the code

Nifia :11 on Darkness and

l R
Nothzrgbutlionoy. Arthur
0' Hallorsn ; or, The Insur-
tOhie!

01 English Baron a Cos-
tle o! Otranto

0idHelmet.byE.Wetherell

Pamele,orVirtucRownrded

Poul & V' Ella
and Ramiro-u, both
(The

Planter's Daughter
Pleasinlflinstrnctor glow
Poe's es of Mys ry e
Imagination
Poems for all the Year
Round. ac. Hernans
Poems and Tales. Mrs.
Poetry of the Ads ons
Poetical Keepsake (The)
Pope's Poetical Works
Pope's Homer's Odyssey
Pope's Homer's Iliad
Popular Song Book
Queechy b E. Wetherell
Beoitor or e Million
Best: or The Hills of the
Shatomuo
Robinson Crusoe
Rob 0! the Bowl
Roderick Random (Adven-
tures of)
Romance of the Forest
Rosa Lee. By Mrs. Holmel
Rose Mather. By Do.
Rose Clark, are. by F. Fern
Royal o Imperial Fortune
Teller IShook
Royal and Imperial ream
Ruth Hall. &0. By 1'. Fern

Sandlord and Merton (His-
tora of

Scot sh lcfs e)

Scott's (Sir W.) 1 of the
Ink [Isles

e

Scott's Sir W.) Lord of the

Scott's SirW,) Lay of the
Last instrel

Scott's (Sir W. Marmion

Scott's (Sir W. Rokehy

Seven Champions otChris-
tendom (History of)

Shady Side (The;I

Shelley's Queen ab, &0.

Shelley's Choice Works
Shelley's Soloct Works

Sherwood's (MI-s.) l'nrtlng
um; Int Sea

Shipwrecks and Disasters

Sidney Do Grey

Silvur Slur

Spri - of Shillelnh

St. 1' air oflho Isles

Stcpln-n's Tran-ls in Egypt

Sunny )lunmrivsol' Furoign
Lands. lly Mrs. Stowe

Swiss l-'ninily Robinson

F yhil ('zunplmll

Tales of lintllun by Son and '
Land (and l-'islu-a

'l'nlos about Aniinnlleu-ds,

Tales and Stories of Ireland

Tales for mm nn-l l'oor

Tales of Mnniml l.ife.l'lutc8

Talus of llmno Lilo.

Tales Of Fniry Land

Thaddeus of Warsaw

Tho lliglow I'npcrs, and
The anhy l'nlu-rs

Tho ()urlnml of "ups, and
200 l'rouy Tales.

The llolruns

The Cottage on the Chi!

The Drop, lit-0p Son.
sailor's Voyngcs

Tho Evergreen, 1n Poetry
and Prose

The Mn ' Flower

The Snlilivr's nrphnns

The Hojm'lml Wife

The Tmnptcd Will)

A

The Wandering Jow

Tho Modern Nowgato Cul-
ondnr [Bank

The New J 09 Miller's J est

'l'ho Wife's Seen-l.

Tompornm'e llucitore Ind
lemllt's (an)

Tvlnpurnnn- 'l'nlcl

Tn-In'u-sl and Sunshine

'1'in Nights In a llnr-llnom

'l llomsun's l'nutlcnl Work!

'l'ilm'n Natural History

'l'wo Yum-s In-l'nru tho Must

'l'wia'o-Tnl-l 'l'nlvs

Unnlo 'l'oin's Cnhin

Vurn; or, the Child of
Adoption

Wars of England. 0 Cuts

\Vur Path (The)

\\'m'orl_\', by Sir W. Scott

\Vliilo Slave (Tho)

Wido. \\'idn World Tho)

Wilson's Wondcx'fl Chur-
actors

Wit. M the World

Wonders of Nature and Art

\\'ur-luwnrth's lCn-ursion
While lluu of llylsliun.&o

Wordswwth'sh'vlocll'm-ms

Young lllnn's Own Hook

Young Mnn'a Bnok 0t
Annm-nn-nt lpmnlnn.

Young Nun's Bvst Com-

Yuung Woman's best. Com-
pnnmn

, Young's Poetical Worksnoon in In. 8d. man now, & 6d. our. 25

ROYAL 32m0.---UALF-BOUND, RED ROAN,
ROXBURUII BINDING--ls. 3d. EACH.

Embellished with Frontispz'ecc, or 171'th
and Vignette.

Amoricnn Rorolpt Book
Arulrinn nghtu' Enter-
lumnmnla

Bogntzky'u Golden Trea-
sury-- Morning

Brown's Concordance cine
lim'lmn'a Doriicutis li mli-
linuynn'sl'ilgrilu'~Progress
'l'wo l'nrtn. With Cuts
Cottage Gardener. Cuts

Clutcr'n Eve Man bl.
()wnCalllu oclnr
Cluu-r's livery Man hi!
Own Farrier
Culpvper's British Herbal
Culpcper's Every Mun hil
()wn Doolor
Domestic Cookery Cuts.
'l'odd's Sturlvnt's Manual
Wutia' Scripture urinary

-----SOSS-----

DEMY 32mo.-----M ISCELLANEOUS--G ILT
EDGES--COLOURED CLOTH--6d. EACH.

A Full Christ for Empty Ilussoy'a Glory of Christ

Sinners
A Kiss {urn Blow
Babes In the Basket
Bailkol oi'l-'lowers
Baxter's Cull to the Un-
converted
Brook's A price of Gold
Clivsu-rilcld 5 Advice to
his Nil]
Daryumu'n Daughter (The)
Fuwcetl'a Advice to Youth
I'onolon'l l'ioua Thoughts
Ilmrt and "and
Illslnry of Jenna (The)
History of Jack and his 11
llmlliera
History of Ann and her 11
Mar-rs
m I's llu-vp Things 01' God
liill'a Ins weu

J nneway's Token for Chil-
dren

Law of Kindness

Little Henry and trimester

Mason's Crumbs _

Pure Gold l-'rom "whim"
of Windom

Rowe's Dl-rout Exercises

Sabbath Talks about J csua

Sublmlli Talks with Little
Cliihln-n on the realm!

Smwed Par-try

Smu'u Force of Truth

Slllllh's Guide to God and
Glory

Susnn Gray, By Mrs. Shen-
Wood

Young Cottager (The)

Young Lady's LetLer Wrio
tor26 mmnn arm sowannre can? Booze.

DEMY 32mo.--ABBOTT'S WORKS--GILT
EDGES--COLOURED CLOTH--8d. EACH.

Caleb ln Town

Caleb in the Country
Child at Home

China and the Engllah

Corner Stone

Eve Day Duty
Fires de Religion
Hoary Head

Little Philosopher

MoDonner
Mother at Home
Path of You
School Boy
Teacher

Way to do Good
Way 0! Salvation
Young Chrlltlan

PENNY GUIDES T0 GAMES, AND OTHER
IN-DOOR AMUSEMENTS, &c.

Guide to the Art of Danc-

in

Cu! e to the Lover's Let-
tor Writer

Guide to the New London
Letter Writer

Guide to the Interpreta-
tion of Dreams

Guide to the Art of Con-
juring

Guide to Tricks with Cards

Guide to the art of For-
tune Telling

Guido to l'uradoxce and
Puzzles

 

Guide to Bealquo & anrte

Guldeto Gamea of Whist

Guide to Piquet, Put, and
Speculation

Guido to Caesino, Vlngt-un
Drag, and All-Fours

How to make Plea & Pud-
dluge, by Mrs. Randell

How to make Soupa,Graviea
& Sauoca,by Mu. Randell

How to Carve, by anOld
Hand

How to cook Fish & Game.
by Mrs. Randell.

JUVENIIJE SERIES-
ROYAL 32mo.----BEAUTIFU L I LLUMIN AT-
ED PAPER COVERS--SIXI'ENCE EACH.

Illustrated either with Frontiwiecc, or 14?th
and Vignette.

Mas. Buxnwoon'sJuvlo
mu: ram.

Boys will be Boys, 4 Plate:
Caroline Mordaunt

Christmas Carol, etc

Joys and Sormwl otOhfido
hood

flow to Please. &onooxs M ed. sacu-rarnn counts. 27

Little no

Little Girl's

Lue Clare

Mal o! Judah (The)

Susan Gra

Sergeant ale, hls daughv
tor and the Orphan Mary

Swiss Gotta och other Tales

The Little oodman and
his Dog Cmsar

The Po and the Emperor

The L ttle My, as

Tom, the Sailor &0

Two Knights (The)

Mlsosnunous.

A Kiss for a Blow

Angel and Child

Annie Benson

Babes in the Basket

Baron Munchausen

Book of Riddles, (The) &e.

Comie Album

Comie Minstrel

Cook's Letter Writer

Oottagers of Glenbumle

Death of Abel. In 5 Books

Eoonom of Human Life

Elisa Cl lIerd _

Elisabeth ; or, The Exiles
oi Siberia [tlemen, &e

Etiquette for Ladies 8: Gen-

Etiquette of Love, Court-
ship, and Marriage

Experiments of Living, and
Elinor Fulton [Restored

Filinl Alfection ; or, Home

Garland 0! Flowers

General Receipt Book

Goidsmith's Poetical Works

GrandpaEa's Tales about

A
Grandpapa'e Tales about
Birds, &e [Bible
Grandpapa'e Tales from the

Heart and Hand

a his Bearer Hierogl
eepsake(The) Histo

hleal Bible Cats
0 Jack & his eleven
brot era, & Annand her
eleven sisters
Holiday Stories
Household Poems
Hoyle's Games
Just Right, or allttle wrong
Juvenile Keepsake (The)
Juvenile Tales for Bo s and
l"(girls d P[ owe?!
gu an oet
Lite amok Whittln rtvon
Life ofJoseph, aono Israel
Little Bertha's Secret
Lover's Offering
Maria Monk
Mary Ra mond
Mason's elect Remains
Moad's Almost Christian
Moore's Irish Melodies
My Poetic Companion
Mysteries of a Convent
Nursery Rhymes
Paul and Virginia
Pastor's Stories
Poetle Gift of Friendship
Poor-House Sam
Pretty Little Poems to:
Pretty Little People
Pretty Little Stories {or
Pretty Little People
Rose Villa
Royal Fortune Teller
Royal Dream Book
Seaforth's Letter Writer
Seaside and Fireside
Semi-Quaver
Seymour Manor
Six Months in a Convent
Smlth's Refreshing Dew
Drops
Sweet Mary 3 or, the Bride
made read for herLord
Tales of my 'sther Lodge
The Children of onset:
The Perfect Lady & Gen-
tleman

The Art of Dancing

The Beautiml Gale, &c

The. "Men's Feather, and
Mick and Kirk

The Garden or Weeds and
Flowers

The Liitle Town Lady, &c

The Two Shoeinukers

The Shepherd of Salisbury
Plain

The Two Half-Crowns

Clho imperial-Royal Dream
Book [Teller

Thelmperiai-Roynll'ortlme

'J'lioughlless Little Funny

Todd's Lectures to Children
lst Series and 2nd Series

Tom White, the Post Boy

Voices of the Night

Wesley's Primitive Physio

Wit and Wisdom

Wreath of Friendship

Young Lady'chtterWi-itor

 

Miss Eonmwon-ra's J uvs-
NILE Sroiui-zs.

Basket Woman. etc.

Birth-dry ['iescnt, etc.

Fake Key, etc.

Forgive nnd Forget, etc.

Lazy Lawrence, etc.

Orphans (The) etc.

Simple Susan, etc.

 

Miss Enouwon'rn's Porc-
LAR 'l'ALEs.

Contrast (The)

Grateful Negro (The) etc.

Lame Jerras. etc.

Lottery (The) etc.

Ouxol new uutoIDangeretc

To-morruw

Will (The) etc.

13? 'm: Arm-non. of 'Tn
Basxn or l-'Lownts.'

Basket of Flowers

Chri>tmas Eve, etc.

Easter Eggs, etc. [Warrior

Eustace, the Christian

Genevieve, etc

Godfrey, the Little Ucrmlt

llenry of l-lichenl'eln, etc

Lewis. the Little Emigrant

Rosi- of Tannebourg

'l'he Garland of Hope, etc.

The Good Fridolin and The
Wicked'l'hieriy, etc.

The Pet Lamb, etc.

The Two Brothers. etc.

Timothy and l'hilemon,eto

100 Pretty Little Tales

100 N ew Pretty Little Tales

An-ruun's J uvnmu LI-

nrunv.

Who is Greatest? etc.

Who are Happiest 1 etc.

Poor Woodcutter, etc,

Maggy's Baby, etc.

Haven't-time and Don't-be-
in-n-liurry [makers].

('edardulm or, the Peace-

Uncle-llen'e New Year's Gift

The Wounded Boy, etc.

The Last Penny, etc.

Our Little Harry, etc.

The Lost Children. etc.

l'ierre, the Organ Boy, etc.

Aarmvu's For-cum Wonxs

Lovers and Husbands

Sireeth03rt3 and Wivel

Married and Single

Love in lligli Life

Love in 3 Cottage

Lest llride (The)

Two Brides (The)

Lni-y Snndiord: or AStory
of the Heartmoons AT 4d. & 6d. max, mun & mun atom. 29

Mary Morton _ I)runlmrd's Wife he)
Riches have \Vmgs Rising in the Wor d
lhle Riches; or Wealth Retiring from Business

without Wings Keeping up Appearencu

Broken Merchant (The)

 

 

Demy 321M. Miscellaneous. Paper Covers, <<teach,
A Full Christ for Empty Hussey's Glory of Christ

Sinners J une wey's Token for Chil-
A Kiss for e Blow drcn
Balms in the Basket Law of Kindness

Basket of Flowers verted Little lionry and his Beam
Baxter's Call to the mom Mason's Cruinhs
BrOok'sApples oi' GoldLSon Pure Gold from the Mines
Chesterflclil's Advice to his or Wisdom
Christian's Journal Rowe's llcvout Exercises
Duirynisn's Daughter ('I'he)|S<<hbnth Talks shout Jesus
ancctt's Advice to Youth Suhlmth Talks with Little
Fencion's Pious Thoughts Children on the Psalms
}l enrt and Hand Sacred i'ootry
History of Jesus (The Scott's Force of Truth
History of Jack and h s 11 Smith's Guide to God and
Brothers Sisters Glory [wood
Bistor of Ann on her 11 'Susnn Gray, by Mrs. Sher-
llill's eep Things of God Young Cottagcr (The) [tor

 

 

Hill's It is Well Young Lady's Letter Wri-
__4.deg.----
Demy 32m. A Math Works. Paper CovereALd each.
Caleb in Town M cDonner
Celeb in the Country Mother at Home
Child at Home Path of Peace
Chins and the English School Boy
Corner Stone Teacher
Every Day Duty Way to do Good
Fireside Religion Way of Salvation
IIou-y Heed Young Christina
Little Philosopher

 

JUVENNILE SERIES.
Royal 32mo.----Limp Cloth.--Frmisriece, or
Fmtiepiece J: Vignette. Each.

ms. Bussvoon's un- Caroline Mordeunt
mu Tens. Christmu Carol etc

Boys will be Boys, 4 Plates J oysasorrowso80 Human 8.: sowannrs' cnmr- sooxs.

How to Please, dzc

Just Right, or a little wrong

Little Henry 6: his Bearer Juvenile Keepsake (The)
Little Girl's Keepsakea'he) Juvenile Tales for Boys and

Luc Clare

Mai of J ndah (The).

Susan Gray

Sergeant Dale, his daughter
and the Orphan Mary

SwissCotta o & other Tales

The Little oodmnn &o

The Pope and the Emperor

The Little Lady, &0

Tom, the Sailor, dzo

Two Knights (The)

Misosnunaous.
A Kiss for a Blow
Alleine's Precious Promises
Axel and Child
Annie Benson
Babes in the Basket
Baron Munchsusen
Book of Riddles, (The) is
Cooke's Letter Writer
Cottagers of Glenburnie
Death of Abel. In 5 Books
Economy of Human Life
Elisa Clifford [tlemen, &o
Etiquette for Ladies & Gen-
Etigiuette 3);! Love, Court-
s p, an arriage
Etiquette; or the Perfect
Lady and Gentleman
Exper ments of Living,and
Elinor Briton
Garland of Flowers
General Receipt Book
Goldsmith's Poetical Works
III-tog of Jack & his eleven
bro ers, & Ann and her
eleven sisters
Holiday Stories
Hours of Thought
Hoyle's Games
Imperial Fortune Teller
Imperial Dream Book

Girls
Language of Flowers
Life or lck Whittin ton
Life of Joseph, son of steel
Little Bertha's Secret
Manual of Croque . Gilt
Maria Monk
May Be mond
Mo eru ecitcr
Moore's Irish Melodies
My Poetic Companion
Mysteries of a Convent
Nelson's Journal
N ew Domestic Cookery
Nursery Rhymes
Paul and Virginia
Pastor's Stories
Poems for all the year round
Poetic Gilt of Friendship
Poetry of the A [factions
Poor-House Sam
Pretty Little Poems for
Pretty Little Peo le
Pretty Little Star es for
Pretty Little People
Raven's Feather, he
Rose Villa
Royal Fortune Teller
Royal Dream Book
Seaforth's Letter Writer
Seymour Manor
Bighs of Love
Six Months in a Convent
Smith's Refreshing Dew-

Drops
Sweet Mary: or, the Bride

made read for her Lord
Tales about lmals
Tales about Birds
Tales from the Bible
Tales of my Father
The Art 0 Dancing

The Beautiful Gate, MBoom: AT 6d. EACH--LIMP cmru.

The Children of Hanson
Lodge

The Hole in the Pocket

The Wresth of Friendship

The Heart's Base

The Disdem

The Bridal am

The Ever n

The Two elf-Crowns

The Lover's Oiiering

The Wedding Gift

The Little Town Lady, &o

The Two Shoemakersn'lain

The Shesherd of Salisbury

Tho h ess Little Fanny

Tom lie, the Post Boy

Uncle Paul's Stories

Wesley's Primitive Physic

Wit and Wisdom

Young Lady'sLetterWriter

Miss Enoswon-rn's J un--

)uu Grouse.

Basket Woman, etc.

Birth-Day Present, etc.

False Key, etc.

Forgive and Forget, etc.
Lawreme, etc.

Orp (The), etc.

Simple Sheen, etc.

Ines Ennwonrn's Porc-
un Tans.

00th (The)

Grateful Negro (The) etc.

Lemehrves, etc.

Lo The etc.
Ohm tontomengerfic

To-morrow

Will (The), to

B! m Aux-non or 'Tn:
or Prawns!

Basket of Flowers

Christmas Eve etc.

Easter etc. rior

Eustace, eOhristian ar-

81

Genevieve etc.

Godfrey, the Little Hermit
Henry of Eicheniels, etc.
Lewis, the Little Emigrant

"'8

The Gar-lend of Hops, etc.
The Good Frldolin and The

Wicked Thi , etc.
The Pet Imnb e .
The Two Brothers, etc.
Timothy and Philemon, etc.
100 Prettgmttle Tales
100 New otty Little Talc.

Aer-sun's Jmnm L1-
mu".

Who is Greatest! etc.

Who are lisp )iest? ete.

Poor Wooden 1', etc.

Maggy's Baby. etc.

H aven'lii-time and Don't-be-
n~a~ urry makers.

Cedardsle; or, the Peace-

Uncle Ben's NewYear's Gilt

The Wounded Boy etc.

The Lest Penny, e

Our Little Harry, etc.

The Lost Chil etc.

Pierre, the Organ y, etc.

Aams'sPorvmwom

Debtor and Creditor

Lovers and Husbands

Swee and Wives

Married and Sin 1e

Love in High e

Love In a 00

Lost Bride (The

Two Brides (The)

Lee Sandford; <<Astor,
o the Heart

Mary Mouton

Riches have Wings

Ten Nights in a Ber-Boom

Tme Riches: or Wait)
without Wings

Broken Merchant (The)
Dmnkerd'e Wife Yi'he) Comic Minstrel
Rising in the Wor d Gems of Wit snd Humour
ll

Retir g hem Business Kisses of Josunes Seoundus
Keeping up Appesrsnoos snd Jesn llonneions
--- Little's rooms
Dun <<mo. Ln" Cnorn. Ovid's Art of Love
Summon Eson. Semi-Qnsver
Aii'eetion's Gm Shake esre's Poems
Oomie Album Tosst- sstes '

DEMY 82mo.--LIMP CLOTII--COLOURED
"PLATE--GILT EDGES--Gd. EACH.

Edi-Room lisnusl Hand-Book to the Flower
Etiquette of Love Garden

Etiquette oi Courtship History of Jack sud his
Etiquette of Marriage eleven Brothers
Etiquette for Ladies History of Ann and he:

Etiquette tor Gentlemen eleven Sisters
Elixir of Besuti Language of Flowers
PS31 sew-(11131; Blue-Bell {angungde 31""
an e Ring so on
Snowdrop Mi Daisy. <<Ill! if Q'VLCTTL- ..uw..'.,.'..r.h'3.1w.:4131l.f1.vt;a...l'u4.1.;3.x.
' (iii SS . t T. .,>>J.. Q' _- :5? 5,)! ..

. A'-: - I... .u J I 'ifl Q q . .,
. . fi 39"
xsna. SS. .. .4 . ""78 .0 5 .fl "#9.". .A .1?>>

29+... . .
"mama

 

    

      
 

 

.r ..I' . .
0""..- 'anu'nm'vhi .'.~ to."

 

     

  
  

".V "IL I. Ln.'
..'.1uu.llyul}y 'rh...' l, I. a!
h] '3" .3! $

13.... 12))

I ' 91057 lv't . 5 '. 2%.).le on]. h