Landing [mm the wreck.--p. 20.LIFE AND ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE;

BI DANIEL DB FOR.

A COMPLETE EDITION, CAREFULLY REVISED.

PHILADELPHIA:
HENRY G. BAIRD,

(noel-no: lo I L on";
I. 3. con KARI!!! t nun aunts.

1852.

I .: ~ ' . ' \. _' ~
. , _ ~_'_- I . ' y..r'f~...n.u'~ . ....v__-_.u-'-.1.A.A. .'L-'Agdi'a

Prinwl by T. K. 8: P. G. Collins.ROBINSON

 

 

SECTION I.

ROBINSON'S FAMILY, ETC.--HIS ELOPEMENT FROM HIS PARENTS-

! was born in the year 1632, in the city of
York, of a good family, though not of that
country, my father being a foreigner of Bre-
men, named Kreutznaer, who settled first at
Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise,
and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at
York; from whence he had married my mother,
whose relations were named Robinson, a very
good family in that country, and after whom I
was so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreut--
maer; but, by the usual corruption of words
in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and
so my companions always called me.

'I had two elder brothers, one of whom was
lieutenant-colonel to an English regiment of
foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at
the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards.
What became of my second brother, I never
know, any more than my father and mother
did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not
bred to any trade, my head began to be filled
'very early with rambling thoughts. My father,

who was very aged, had given me a competent
share of learning, as far as house educatinll
and a country free-school generally go, and
designed me for the law; but. I would be satis-
fied with nothing but going to sea: and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay, the command of my father, and
against all the ontreaties and persuasion: of
my mother and other friends, that there seemed
to be something fatal in that propension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery
which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me
serious and excellent counsel against what he
foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was con-
fined by the gout, and expostulatod very wanniy
with me upon this subject: he asked me what
reasons, more than a mere wandering incli-
nation, I had for leaving his house, and my
native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my for-
tune, by application and industry, with a life
of ease and pleasure. He told me it was men
of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of superim firtuaes, on the other, who went abroad
upon adventures, aspiring to rise by enter-
prise, and make themselves famous in under-

' ofanattneoutofthecommonroad;
that these things werealleithertoo farabove
me, or toofarhelovw me; that mine wastho
middle state, orwlnt mightbe called the upper
station of low life, which he had found, by long
experience, was the heat state in the world, the
most suited to human happiness; not ex
to the miseries and hardships, the labour and
sufi'erings of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not emharrassed with the pride, luxury,
ambition, and envy of the upper part of man-
kind: he told me, I mightjudge of the happi-
ness of this state by one thing, viz. that this
was the state of life which all other people
envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed
in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave
his testimony to this, as tlte just standard of
true felicity, when he prayed to have " neither
poverty nor riches."

l-Ie bade me observe it, and I should always
find, that the calamities of life were shared
among the upper and lower part ofmankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest dis-
asters, and was not exposed to so many vicis-
situdes as the higher or lower part of mankind:
nay, they were not subjected to so many dis-
temper: and uneasineesee, either of body or
mind, as those were, who, by vicious living,
luxury and extra ice, on one
or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and
mean and insufficient diet, on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natu-

consequences of their way of living; that
the middle station of life was calculated for all
kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments;
that peace and plenty were the handmaids of
a middle forttme; that tern , moderation,
quietness, health, society, all le diver-
sions, and all desirable pleasures, were the
blessings mending the middle station of life;
that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and eornfortablyout of it,
notemharra-ed withthelabours ofthehands
orofthehead,notsoldtotbelifeofslaveryfor
daily bread, or harassed with perplexed cin-
cumstancea,whichrobthe eoulofpeaee, and
the bodyofrost, mmgedwiththepassion
of envy, or aecrot binning hm ofambition for

ing, without the bitter-
(eeling that they are happy, and learning, by

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

every day'; experience. to know it one sets-
sibly. '
After this, he pro-ed me earnestly, and in
the mom afi'octionate manner, not to play the
young man, nor to precipitate myself into mi-
series which nanae, and the station of life I
was born' in, seemed to have provided against.
that I was under no neon-ity of seeking my
bread; that he would do well tor me, and en-
deavour to enter me fairly into the station or
life which he had been just recommending to
me; and thatiflwas notvery easy andhappy
in the world, it must be my mere fate, or fault,
that must hinder it; and that he should have
nothing to answer fir, having thus discharged
his dutyin warning me against measures which
he knewwould betomy hurt: inaword, that
ashewoulddo very kind things for me if!
would stay and settle at home as he directed;
so he would not have so much hand in my mis-
fortunes as to give me any encouragement to
go away: and, toclose all, he told me I had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used the same earnest ions to
keep him fi'orn going into the Low Country
wars; but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and though, he said, he would not
cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to
say to me, that if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me; and I would have
leisure, hereafter, to reflect upon having neg-
lected his cotmsel, when there might be none
to assist in to recovery.

I observed ,yin this last of his discourse,
which was truly prophetic, though, I suppou,
my father did not know it to be so himself; I
say, I observed the tears run down his face
very plentifitlly, especially when he e of
my brother who was killed; and that, when he
spokeofmy bavingleisuretorepent,andnone
toassist me, hewasso moved,that he broke
ofl'the disoourse,andtoldmehisheertwaseo
full, he could any no more to me.

I was sincerely afl'ected withthis discourse,
as, Indeed whoeould beotherwiee'l and!>>
solvednottothinkofgoing abroad any more,
but to settle at home, my'l'ather a
desire. But. alas! afowdaysworem, it allofl':
and,inshort,topreventanyd'myfathet's
further i in a few weeks afier I
resolved to run qu'
thingth resolution enough togothvough with
it, andmyfatherhad hetterg'ive mehiacon-
sent tlIaot'oroeme togowithoutit; thathas
now eighteen years old, which was too late to
go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attor-
ney; that I wasaure, if Idid, [should never
urveout mytime,andlahould certainly run
away from my masterhcforemy timewasout,
goweca;antlifahowouldspeak tomy
father to let me make but' one voyage
il'Icamehomeagain, anddtdnot like It I
would gonomore; and!wouldpromise,by a
double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion:
she told me she knew it would he to no pur-
pose to speak to my father upon any such a
subject; that he knew too well what was my
interest to give his consent to any thing so
much for my hurt; and that she wondered how
Icould think of any enchthing. afler such a
discourseasl had from my father, and such
kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used to me: and that, in short, if I
would ruin myself, there was no help for Ina;
but I might depend I should never have their
consent to it; that for her part, she would not
have so much hand in my destruction; and I
should never have it to say, that my mother was

Thwgh mymothevrefusedtolmveitto
my father, yet, as I have heard afterwards,
she reported all the discourse to him; and
that my father, afler showing a great concern
atit,eaid to herwith nigh, Thatboy might
be happy, it'hewouhl stay at home; but, if
hegoea abroad,hewillbe the moetmisenhle
wretchthateverwashorn: Icangive nocon-
sent to it.

Itwasnottillalmostayearafier this that I
hrokeloose hinthemeantimel conti-
nued obstinately deal'to all propoeals ol'settling
to business, and fi'eqttently mg with
my father and mother ammbemg so
positively determined again: what they knew
my inclination prompted me to. But, being
one day at Hull, whither I went cantally, and
without anyptnpoee purpoeed' melting an elopement
at that time, and one ot'my oempanionsthen
goingtoLondon by ten inhia fither'sahip p,
and prompting me to gowith than by them-
mon allurement of men, viz. that it
ahouldooetme nothingfixmy ypaasage, Icon-
sulted neither father nor mother any more, not
Iomuchasaent themwordol'it; hutlet't them
to hear of it as they might, withoutaskingGod'a
blessing, or my father's, without any conside-
ration ofcircumstanceaor eneea, and

 

willing when my father was not. in an ill hour, God knowlt
SECTION H.
mm ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LEI--VOYAGE
'ro comma. '

On the lat ofSe ptemher,1651, I wenton
board a ship hound I)l'or London. Never any
young adventurer's misformnca, Ibelieve,be-
gan yotmger, or condoned longer, than mine.
Theahip had no aoonergotoutol'theHum--
ber,thanthewindbegantoblow,andthe
waveatorise,inamostfi'ightfulmanner; and
aslhadneverbeenatseabel'ore,l waemoet
mespreesihly sick inhodyandterrified in mind:
Ibegan now aeriomlyto reflect nponwhatI
haddone, and how justlwaas overtaken by
the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly leaving
myfiather'ahot-e. All the good ctr-meteor
mypareou,myfither'atean,andmy mother's
entreatiee,camenowfiedtinlo mymind. and
mycunscience,whiehwaanotyetcometothe
'ch ot'hudne- towhich it hasheen since,
moan-hi ate with the ofadviee,
"mesh-minty".

All thiswhilethestorm inereased,andthe
sea, which I had never beenupon before, went
Very high, though nothing like what I have
eeenmanytimesaince; no,norwhatI aawa
fewdays after;but,suchuitwan,aioughto
afl'ect methen,whowaa but a Iailor,
undhad never known any thing ofthe matter.
Iexpected everywavewould haveawalhwad
usup ,andthateverytimethevhipl'elldown,
ufthwghyinthetmnghorhollowd'theaea,
we neverrisemore; andinthisagony
ol'mind Imademanyvowaandreaolmitu,
thatit'itwonld pleaseGod to spare mylil'e
lhisvoyage,ifever[gotmy footonceondry
land,Iwwldgodirectlyhotnetomy Ether,
andneversetitintoaahipagainwhilellived;
thatlwouldtake hia advice, andneverrl-
myself into such miserieaasmeae anymore.
Nowlaawplainlythegoodha-ofhieobuvn-
tions about the middle station of hfe hon easy,
how Comfortable, he had lived all his days, and
never had been ex to tempests at sea or
troubles onshore; and I resolved that I would

like a true repealing prodigal, go home to my
father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued
during the storm, and indeed some time after ,
but the next day, as the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, I began to be a little inurerl to
it. However, I was very grave that day, being
also a little seasick still: but towards night
the weather cleared up, the wind was quits
over, and a chamring fine evening followed;
the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose so
the next morning; and haIinglittlc or no II ind,
and a. smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
right was, as I thought, the most delightful that
I ever saw.

I had slept well' In the night, and was now
no more seasick, but very cheerful, looking
with wonder upon the sen. that was so rough
and terrible the day before, and could be so
calm and pleasant in a little time after.

And now, lest my good resolutions should
continue, my companion, who had indeed en-
ticed me away, came to me, and said, \V ell,
Bob, clapping me on the shoulder, how do you
do after It" I IIarrant you were frightened,
wa' II 't you, last night, when it blew but a cap-
full of wind ?--A cap-full, do you call it? said
I; 'tIvas a terrible storm--A storm, you fool!
replies he, do you call that a storm? "I hy,
it was nothing at all; give us but a ship
and searoom, l"and we think nothing of such a.
squall of wind as that: you are but a frt. 'sh-
water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl
of punch and we'll forget all that. D'y I: see
what charming wcather 'tis now? Toy make
short this sad part of my story, we went the
way of all sailors; the ptmchwtrs made, and I
was made drunk with it; and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repen-
tance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all my resolutiom for the future. In a
word, as the sea was returned to its smooth-
ness of surface and settled calmness by the
abatement of the storm, so the hurry of my
thoughts being over, my fears and appre prehen-
siona l,of being swallowed up by the sea forgot-
ten, and the current. of my former desires re-
turned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises
I had tirade in my distress. I found, indeed,
some intervals of reflection; and serious
droughts did, as it were, endeavour to return
again sometimes; but I shook them ofl' and
roused myself from them, as it were from a

distemper, and, applying myself to drink and

company, soon mastered the return oftbooe
fits,---for so I called them; and I had in five
or six days got as cornplute a victory over eon-
science as any young sinner, that resolved not
to be troubled with it, could desire. But I
was to have another triiIl for it still; and Pro-
vidence, as in such cases generally it does, re-
solved to leave me entirely without creme:
for if I would not take this for a deliverance,
the next was to be such a one as the wars:
and most hardened wretch among us would
confess both the danger and the mercy of.
The sixth dayof our being at sea, Ive more
intoIarIIIouth roads: the Mud having been
contrary, and the III-other calm, we had made
but little II III since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we
lay, the II Ind continuing contrary, Iiz. at south--
west, for seven or eight days, during which
time a great many ships from Newcastle came
into the some roads, as the common harbour
where the ships might wait for a wind for the
river Thames. ""e had not, however, rid
here so long, but we should have titled up the
riIer, but that. the wind blew too fresh; and,
after no had lain {bur or five days, blew very
hard. "on ever, the roads being reckoned as

good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and
our ground tackle very strong, our men were
unconcerned, and not in the least apprehen-
sive of danger, but spent the time in rest and
mirth, aller the manner of the sea. But the
eighth day, in the moming, the wind increa-
sed, and Ive had all hands at work to strike
our topmasls, and make every thing snug and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as pos-
sible. By noon the sea went very high in-
deed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
several seas, and we thought, once or twice,
our anchor had come home; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet-anchor; so that
we rode with two anchors ahead, and the en.
bles veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed,
and now I began to see terror and amazement
in the faces of even the seamen themselves,
The master was vigilant in the business of
preserving the ship; but, as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him soflly
say to himself several times, Lord, be meroifirl
to us! we shall be all lest; we Ihall be all
undone! and the like. During these fin:
hurries [was stupid, lying still in my cabin,
which was in the slot-rage, and cannot describe
my tent . I could ill reusume the firotpeni-
tenee, which I had so apparently trampled

upon, and hardened myselfagainst; I thought
tbatthebitterneuofdeathhadbeehMIndADVENTURES or nosmsos CRUSOE. 5

thanhis would be nothing too, like the first:
but when the master himself came by me, as!
said just now, and said we should be all lost, I
was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of my
cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight
I never saw: the sea went mountains high,
and broke upon us every three or (bar minutes.
\Vhen [could look about, I could see nothing
but distress around us; two ships, that rid
near us, we found had cut their masts by the
board, being deeply laden; and our men cried
out that a ship, which rid about a mile ahead
of us, was foundered. Two more ships, being
driven from tlteir anchors, were run out of the
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that wi.
not a mast standing. The light ships fared
the be'st, as not somuch labouring in the sea;
but two or three of them drove, and came
close by us, matting away, with only their
spritsails out, before the wind. Toward
evening, the mate and hoatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the
furemast, which he was very loath to do; but
the boatswuin protesting to him. that if he did
not, the ship would founder, he consented;
and when they had Cut away the foremast, the
maintnast stood so loose, and shook the Ship
so much, they were obliged to cut it away also,
and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I
must be In at all this, who was but a young
sailor, and who had been In such a fright boa
film at but a little. But if I canexpress, at
this distance, the thoughts 1 had about me at
that time, I u as in tenfold more horrOr of mind
upon account of my former convictions, and
the having returned from them to the resolu-
tions I had chkedly taken at first, than I was
at death itself; and these, added to the terror
of the storm, put me into such a condition,
that I can by no words describe it, but the
worst was not come yet ; the storm continued
with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never known a. worse.
\Ve had a good ship, but she was deep laden,
attd so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen
every now and then cried ottt, she would
founder. It was my advanme, in one re-
spect, that I did not know what they meant
by founder, till I inquired. However, the
storm was so violent, thatI saw, what is not
often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others, more sensible than the rest, at
their prayers, and expecting every moment the
ship wouldgo to the bottom. In the middle of
the night, and under all the rest of our dis-
tresses, one of the men, that had been down
on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a

leak; another said, there was four feet water
in the hold. Then all hands were called w
the pump. At that very word, my heart, as I
thought, died within me; and i fell backward:
upon the side of my bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, who was able to do nothing
before, was as well able to pump as another:
at which I stirred up and went to the pump,
and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light oolliers
who, not able to ride out the storm, were
obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would
not come near us, ordered as to fire a gun, as
a sigmal of distress. I, who Lnew nothing
what that meant, was so surprised, that I
thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful
thing5 had happened. In a word, I was so sur-
prised, that [fell down in aswoon. Asthis
"as a time when every body had his own life
to think of, no one minded me, or what wan
become of me: but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his
fnt, let the lie, thinking 1 had been dead; and
it was a great while beforei came to myself.
W'o worked on- but the water increasing in
the hold, it was apparent that the ship would
founder; and though the storm began to abate
a little, yet as it was not possible she could
swim till we might run into a port, so the
master continueda ftringg uns for help; and a
light ship, who had rid it.g out] It". ahead of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with
the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
it was impossible for us to get on board, or for
the boat to lie near the ship' a side , till at last
the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a
rope Otcr the stem with a buoy to it, and then
veered it out a great length, whidt they, after
great labour and hazard, took hold of, and we
hauled them close under our stem, ahd got all
into their boat. It was to no purpose for them
or us, after we were in the boat, to think of
reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let
her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore
as much as we could ; and our master promised
them, that if the boat was staved upon shore,
he would make it good to their master; so
partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat
went away to the northward, sloping towards
the shore almost as far as Whitman-Ne".
We were not much more than a quarter of
an hour out of our ship when we saw her sink;
and then I understood, for the first time, what
was meant by a ship fotmdering in the sea. I
must acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told Inc, she was linking,
for, from that moment, they rather put me into
the boat, than that I might be said to go in.
My heart was, as it were, dead within me,
partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
Ind the thoughts of what was yet before me.

"'Iule we were in this condition, the men
yet labouring at the oar to bring the boat near
the shore, we could see (when, our boat mount-
ing the waves, we were able to see the shore)
a great many people running along the strand,
to assist us when we should come near ; but we
made slow way towards the shore; nor were
we able to reach it, till, being past the light-
house at \Vinterton, the shore falls off to the
westward, towards Cromer, and so the land
broke 011' a little the violence of the wind.
Here we got in, and, though not \\ ithout much
dimcully, got all sat}: on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great huma-
nity, as well by the magistrates of the town,
who assigned us good quarters, as by the par-
ticular merchants and owners of ships; and
had money given us sufficient tocarry us either
to London or back to Hull, as we thought. fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back
to Hull, and have gone home, I had lit-en happy;
ant! my father, an emblem of our blessed Sa-
viour's parable, had cvon killed the futled calf
for me; for, hearing the ship I went in was
Casi away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great
while before he had any assurance that {was
not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on with an obsti-
naey that nothing could resist; and though I
had several times loud calls from my reason,
and my more composed judgment, to go home,
yet I had no power to do it.--I know not what
to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret,
overruling decrcefthat hurries us on to be the
instruments of our own destruction, even though
it be before us, and that we rush upon it with
our eyes Open. Certainly, nothing but some
such decreed unavoidable misery attending,
and which it was impossible for me to escape,
could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired
thoughts, and against two such visible instnlc-
tiens as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me
before, and who was the master's son, was
now less forward than I: the first time he s
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were sepa-
rated in the town to several quarters; I say,
the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone
was altered, and, looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head, he asked me howl did:

telling his father who I was, and how I had
come this voyage only for a trial, in order to
go farther abroad. His father, turning to me,
with a grave and concerned tone, Young man,
says he, you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for A plain and
visible token, that you are not to be a sea-
faring man.--Why, sir? said I; will you go
to sea no moral--That is another case, said
he; it is my calling, and therefore my duty;
but as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what
you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this
has all befallen us on youraccount,like Jonah
in the ship of Tarshish.--Pray, Continues he,
what are you, and on what account did you go
to sea? Upon that I told him some of my
story; at the end of which he burst out with a
strange kind of passion. "'hat had Idone,
said he, that such an unhappy \vretch should
come into my ship! I would not set my foot
in the same ship with thee again for a thou-
sand pounds. This indeed was, as I. said, an
excursion of his spirits, which were yet agi-
tated by the sense of his loss, and was farther
than he could have authority to go.--However,
he afterwards talked very gravely to me; ex-
horted me to go back to my father, and not
tempt Providence to my ruin; told me, I might
see a visible hand of Heaven against me ; and,
young man, said he, depend upon it, if you do
not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappoint-
ments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon
you.

We parted soon after, for I made him little
answer, and I saw him no more; which way
he went, 1 know not: as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by
land ; and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life
I should take, and whether I should go home or
go to sea. As to going home, shame opposed
the best motions that ofl'ered to my thoughts;
and it immediately occurred to me how I
should he laughed at among the neighbours,
and should be ashamed to see, not my father
and mother only, but even every body else.
From whence I have often since observed,
how incongruous and irrational the Common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to
that reason which ought to guide them in such
cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to sin,
and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed
of the action, for which they ought justly to be
esteemed fools ; but are ashamed of the return-
ing, which only can make them be esteemed
wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained
metime, uncertain what measures to take,
and what course of life to lead. An irresisti-
ble reluctance continued to going home; and as
I stayed awhile, the remembrance ofthedistrerts
I had been in were ofl'; and, as that abated,
the little motion I had in my desires to a return
were off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried Inc first away
front my father's house, that hurried me into the
wild and indigested notionof raising my for-
tune, and that impressed those conceits so for-
cihly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good
advice, and to the entrenties, and even the corn-
mands of my father; I say, the same influence,
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate
of all enterprises to my view; and I went on
board avessel bound to the coaster Africa ; ones
our sailors vulgarly call it1 a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfixtune, that in all these
adventures I did not ship myself as a sailor;
whereby, though I might indeed have worked
a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the same
time, I had learned the dutyand office of a
foremost-man, and in time might have quali-
fied myselftor a meteor lieutenant, if not a
master: but as it was always my fate to choose
for the worse, so I did here; for having money
in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back,
I would always go on board in the habit of a
gentlemen; and so I neither had any business
in the ship, nor learned to do any. It was my
lot, first ol'all, to fall into pretty good company
in London; which does not always happen to
such loose and misguided young fellows as I
then was; the devil, generally, notomitting to
lay some snare for them very early. But it
was not so with me: I first fell acquainted
with the master of a ship, who had been on
the coast of Guinea,and who, having had very
good success there, was resolved to go again.
He, taking I fancy to my conversation. which
was not atalldisegreeableatthat time, and

hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me, that in would go the voyage with
him, I should be at no expense; I should be
his mesmate and his companion; and if I
could carry any thing with me, I should have
all the advantage of it that the trade would
admit; and perhaps [might meet with some
encouragement. I embraced the ofi'er, and,
entering into a strict friendship with this
captain, who was an honest and plaindealing
man, I went the voyage with him, and carried
a small adventure with me; which, by the
disinterested honesty of In Hand the in,
I increased very considerably; for I carried
about flirty pounds in such toys and trifle. as
the captain directed me to buy. This forty
pounds I had mustered together by the assist-
anoe of some of my relations whom I corro-
sponded with; and who, I believe, got my father
or, at least, my mother, to contribute so much
as that to my first adventure. This was the
only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and ltonestyof my friend the uptaitt;
under whom also I got a competent knowledge
of the mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keepan account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to
understand some things that were needful to be
understood by a sailor: for, as he took delight
to instruct me,I took delight to learn; and, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and
a merchant: for I brought home five pounds
nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure,
which yielded mo in London, at my return,
almost three hundred pounds, and this filled me
with those aspiring thoughts which have since
so completed tny ruin. Yet even in this my
age I had my mislbrtnnes too; particularly,
that I was Continually sick, being thrown into
a violent calenture "by the excmive heat of
the climate; our princip pal trad n'bt u
the coast, from the latitude of fingeenuilgegrg
north, even to the line itself.

 

SECTION

III.

nosmsott's CAPTIVIT! AT SALLEE--ESCAPB WITH [DRY--ARRIVAL AT I'Bl
BBAZILS.

IvvnnowsetnpforaGuineatradertand
my friend,tomygreatmisfirnune,dyingsoon
after his arrival,I resolved to go the some
voyage againtand Iembarlted in thesame
veuelwithonetvhowashismsteinthefoh

nier voyage, and had now got the command
of the ship. This was the unhappiast voyage
that ever man made; for though I did not carry

quite a hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, sotbatIhadtwohnndredpoundslefi,8 ADVENTURES or nontxsox causoe.

and which Ilodged with my friend's widow,
who was very just to me, yet Ifell Intn terrible
misfortunes in this voy ag.e and the first was
this, viz.--0ur ship p, making her course to-
wards the Canary Islands, or rather between
those islands and the African shore, was sur-
prised in the gray o! the momtng, bya Turk-
ish lover, of Sallee, who gave chase to us
with all the sail she could make. We crowd-
ed also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry, to get clear; but
finding the pirate gained upon us, and would
certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight, ourship having twelve guns,
and the rover eighteen. About three in the
afternoon he came up with us; and bringing
to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead
ofathtvartourstem, as he intended, we brought
eight ofour guns to bear on that side, and
poured in a broadside upon him, which made
him sheerofi'again, after retuming our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot li'om near
two hundred men which he had on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our
men keeping close. He prepared to attack
us again, and we to defend ourselves; but
laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks,
who immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the sails and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, half-pikes, powderwhesu, and such
like, and cleared our deck of them twice.
However, to cut short this melancholy part of
our story, our ship being disabled, and three
of our men killed and eight wounded, we
.were obliged to yield, and were carried all
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the
Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful
as at first Iapprehended; nor was I carried
up the country to the emperor's court, as the
rest of our men were, but was kept by the cap-
tain ofthe rover as his proper prize, and made
his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for
his business. At this surprising chwe of my
circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now
looked back upon my father's prophetic dis-
course lo me, that lshould be miserable, and
have none to relieve me; which I thought was
now so efi'ectually brought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven
had overtaken me, and I was undone, without
redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste

ofthemiserylwestogothrough, aswillap-

peninthesequelofthiastory.
As my new patron, or nutter, had taken

mehometohishouao,ao1wuinhopesho

would take me with hira when he went to sea
again, believing that it would, some time or
other, be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or
Portuguese man of war, and that then I should
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away ; for when he went to sea, he
left me on shore, to look after his little garden,
and do the common dmdgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came home again
from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
mhin, to look afier the ship.

Here I meditatcd nothing but my escape,
and what method I might take to efl'ect it, but
found no way that had the least probability in
it. Nothing presented to make the supposi-
tion of it rational; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to that would embark with me;
no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or
Scotcltman there but myself ; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myselfwith the
imagination, yet I never had the least encou-
raging prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance
presented itself, which put the old thought of
making some attempt for my liberty again in
my head. My patron lying at home longer
than usual, without fitting out his ship, which,
as I heard, was for want of money, he used
constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the
ship '8 pinnnce, and go out into the road a fish-
ing- andashealways tookmeanday young
Morocco with himtoys row the boat, we made
him very merry, and I proved very dextcrous
in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he
would send me with a Moor, one of his kine-

n,end the y,ot.Ith tho Moreeco, as they
caleled him, to catch a dish offish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing
in a stark calm morning,a fog rose sothick,
thatthoughwewcrenothalfaleagu ofiomtho
shore, we lost sight ofit; and rowing, we
knew not whither, or which way, we laboured
all day and all the next night, and when the
morning come, we thund we had pulled of to
sea, instead of pulling in lbrthe shore, and that
we were at least two leagues from the shore :
however, we got well in ' , thwgh with a
great deal of labour, and some danger, for the
wind began toblow pretty fresh In the morn-
ing: but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster,
resolved to take more care of himselft'or the
future; and having lying by him the longboat
of our English ship he had taken, be resolved
he wouki notgoafisbinganyntore without a
compass and some provision, so he ordered
tbecarpenter ofthe shimwho was anEnglishsown-runes or aoatnson causes. 9

slave, to build a little state-room or nbin in
the middle of the toughest, like that of a barge,
with a place to stand behind it, to steer and
haul home the main sheet, and room before
for a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
She sailed with what we call a shoulder~of-
mutton sail, andthe boom jibbed over the top
of the cabin, which lay very rysnug and low,
and had in it room {or him to lie, witha
slate or two, and a table to eat at, with some
small loclters to put in some bottlesol' such
liquor as he thought fit to drink, and particu-
larly his bread, rice, and coti'ee.

"It: wont fiequently out with this boat a
fishing, and as I was most dextcrous to catch
fish lirr him, he never went without me. It
happened, that. he had appointed to goout in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two
or three Moors of some distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided ertraor.
dinarily, and had therefore sent on board the
boat, overnight, a larger store of provision
than ordinary, and hadordered me to get ready
three fitsees, with powder and shot, which
were on board his ship p, for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he directed, and
waitz-d the next morning <<with the boat washed
clean her ensignantl pendants out, and every
thing to accommodate his guests: when, by
and by, my patron came on board alone. and
told me his guests had put off going, upon
some business that fell out, and ordered me,
with the man and boy, as usual, to go out
With the boat, and catch them some fish, for
that his friends were to sup at his home; and
cornrnmanded, that as soon as I had got some
fish I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliver-
ance darted into my Ihotlghls,l'0r now I found
I was like to have a little ship at my command;
and my muter heinggone ,I prepared to fur-
nish myself, not for a fishing httsinea, but for
a voyage; though i knew not, neither did Iso
much as consider, whither I should steer; for
any where, to get out of that place, was my
way.

Myfirst coetrivanoewastomakeapre-
tenee to speak to this Moor,to get something
for our subsistence on board- tbr I told
hirnwe mustnot e to eat of our
paoon'sbread: hesaid, that untrue,- eo he
brought a large basket of rnsk orbbcuit, of
their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into
the boat. I knew where my patron's case of
bottles wood, which it was evident, by the
make, weretakenuttd' meEngliah prize,

andIconveyed theminto the boatwhile the
Moorwas onshore,asiftheyhadbeen
there beforet'orour outer. [conveyed also
agreatlump ofbeee-wu intotheboet,which
weighed above hall'a hundred-weight, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw,
ands hammer,allwhichwereot'great tIseto
usalterwards, ' ythe wax,tomake
candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
which heinnooentlyeatne intoalso: his name
was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or
Moley: so I called to him, Moley, said I,
our patron'sgtmsare outboard theboot,can
younot get a little powder andshot? it may
be we may kill some alcamies (fowls likeotr
curlewc) for ourselves, for I know he keeps
the gunner's stores in the shin--Yes, says
he, I will bnng some; and accordingly he
brought a great leather pouch, which held
about a pound and a halfoi'powder, or rather
more, and another with shot, that had five or
six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
theboat: attltesarnetimel found somepow-
der of my master's In the cabin, with
which I ,filled one of thelarge bottles inthe
case, which was almost empty, purring what
was in it into another; and thus furnished
with every thing needl'ul, we sailed out of the
port to fish. Themtle, whichirat theeo-
trance of the port, knew who we were, and
tooknonotico ofus; andwowere not above
a mile out of the port, before we hauled in
email, and at us down to fish. The wind
blow from N N. E. which was oootraryto
my desire; for, baditblownsoutberly, [bad
boy mretohavemadethecoastofs pain,
a at last reached tothe bayofCadiz: but
my renlutions were, blow which way it
would, I wouldbegonofi-om the borridplaee
where I was, and leave the rest to fine.
Al'terwehadfishedsometimeandcatehed
nothing,forwhenlhadfishon myhookl
would not pullthem up,that he mightaotsee
them, I said tethe Moor, This will not do;
our master will not be thus served; we most
stand farther 05. He, thinking no harm,
agreed: andbeingat thehead ol'theboetnet
thesails:and thad the helm! runthe
boat near aleague firther. andthenbrought
to, as if I would fish. Then giving the boy
thehclm, Ineppedi'orwardtowherethe
Moor was, and I took him by surprise, with
myartnunderhis waist, andtoesed himcleu
overhaul into the see. He rose immediately,
Sir ho swamliltea covk,and ealledtotne,
begged to be taken in, and told me he would
goallthe worldoverwitbme. He swam so
Itrongafier theboat,thathewouldhave10

reached me very quickly, there being but
little wind; upon which I stepped into the
cabin, antl fetching one of the fowling pieces,
I presented it. at him, and told him, I had
done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet,
I would do him none: But, said I, you swim
well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm: make the best of your way to shore,
and I will do you no harm: but ifyou come
near the boat, I will shoot you through the
head; lbr I am resolved to have my liberty.
So he turned himself about, and swam for the
shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it
with case, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to hate taken this
Moor with me and have drowned the boy, but
there "as no venturing to trust him. then
he was gone, I turned to the boy, wltom they
called Xury, and said to him, Xttry, if yEu
will be {Etithful to me I will make you a. great.
man; but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me, (that is, swear by Mahomet and
his father's l)eEUR|ftl,) I must throw you into tlto
aea too. The boy smiled in my face, and
spoke so innocently, that l could not mistrust
him; and swore to be faithful to me, and go
all war the world with me.

\Vhilc I was in tiew of the IIIoor that was
swimming, I stood out directly to sea with the
boat, rather stretching to windward, that they

milllitthink me gone towards the Strait' s mouth,
(as indeed any one that had been In their wits
must have been supposed to do ;) for who
would have supposed we were sailing on to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast, where
whole nations of negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us; where
we could never once go on shore but we should
be devoured by savage beasts, or more merci-
less savages of human kind. 7

But as soon as it grew dusk to the evening
I changed my course, and steered directly
south and by east, bending my course a little
toward the east, that I might keep in with the
shore; and having a fair =fresh gale of wind,
and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail, that
I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the
afternoon, when I made the land, I could not
be less titan one hundred and fifty miles south
of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Mo-
rocco' s dommtons, or indeed of any other king
thoreabout: for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the
Moms, and the dreadful apprehensions [had
of falling into their hands, that I would not.
stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor,
the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in

t manner five days; and then the wind shift-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

ing to the southward, I concluded also that if
any of our vessels were in chase of me, they
also would now give over: so I ventured to
make to the coast, and came to an anchor in
the mouth ofa little river; I knew not whator
where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw,
nor desired to see, any people; the principal
thing I wanted was fresh water. \Ve came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to
swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and
discover the country: but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of
the barking, rearing, and howling of wild crea-
tures, of we know IIot what kinds, thatthe

boy was ready to die with fear, and begged
of me not to ng shore till day. "full,
Xury, said I, then I will not; but it may
be we may see men by day, who will he as
bad to us as those lions--Then we may give
them the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing;
make them run away. Suclt English Xury
spoke by conversing among us slaves. How--
ever, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and
I gave him a dram out ofour patron's case of
bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's
advice was good, and I took it. We dropped
our little anchor, and lay still all night: I say,
still, for we slept none; for in two or three
hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not
what to call them) of many sorts, come down
to the seashore, and run into the water, wal-
lowing and washing themselves, for the pleasure
of cooling themselves; and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed
so was I too; but we were both more frightv
encd when we head one of these mighty crea-
tures swimming towards our boat: we could
not see him, but we might hear him, by his
blowing, lobe a monstrous, huge, and furious
beast. Xury said It was a lion, and it might
be so, for auvht I know; but poor Xury cried
to me to weigh the anchor, and row away.
No, says I, Xury; we can slip our cable with
a buoy to it, and go ofl'to sea: they cannot fol-
low us far. I had no sooner said so, but I
perceived the creature ( whatever' It was) It ithin
two oars length, which something surprised
me , however, I immediately stepped to the
cabin door, and, taking up my gun, fired at
him; upon which he immediately turned about,
and swam to the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrible
noises, and hideous cries and howling: that
were raised, as well upon the edge of th-
shore as higher withinthe country, upon the
noise or upon of the gun; a thing, I believe,
those creatures had never heard bcthre. This
convinced me there was no going on shore for
us in the night upon that coast: and how to
venture on shore in the day, was another ques-
tion too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had beenas badas to have fal-
len into the paws of lionsand tigers; at least, we
were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go
on shore somewhere or other for water, 1hr we
had not a pint let! in the boat: when and
where to get it was the point. Xury said, if
I would let him go on shore with one of the
jars, he would find if lllere was any water,
and bring some to me. I asked him why he
would go; why [should not go, and he stay in
the boat. The boy answered will! so much
nfl'ection, that he made me love him ever
elier. Says be, If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go way--"fell, Xury, said I, we will
both go; and if the wild mans come, we will
kill them; they shall eat neither of us. So I
gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a
tlram out of our patron's case of bottles, which
I mentioned before ; and we hauled in the boat
as near the shore as we thought was proper,
and sowarled to shore, carrying nothing but
our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat,
fearing the coming of canoes with savages
down the river; but the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, ram-
bled to it; and, by and by, I saw him come
running towards me. I thought he was pur-
sued by some savage, or frightened by some
wild beast, and I therefore ran fonvards to
help him; but when I came nearer to him, I
saw something hanging over his shoulders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like o
hare, but dim-rent in colour, and longer legs:
however, we ware very glad of it, and it was
very good meat: but the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found
good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards, that we need not
take such pains for water; (bra little higher
up the creek where we were, we found the
water fresh when the tide was out, which
flowed but a little way up; so we filled our
jars, and, having a tire, feasted on the hare we
had killed; and prepared to go on our way,
having seen no footsteps of any human crea-
ture in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyge to this coast be-
fore, I knew very well that the islands of the
Canaries, and the Cape de Verd islands also,
hynotferftont the coast. Betas I had no

I]

instruments to take an observation, to find
what latitude we were in; and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they
were in, I knew not where to look for them,
or when to stand off to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some
of these islands. But my hope was, that if I
stood along this coast till I came to the part
where the English traded, I should find some
of their Vessels upon their usual dosign of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, the place
where I now was, must be that country which,
lying between the Emperor of Moroceo's do-
minions and the negroes, lies waste, and un-
inhabited, except by wild beasts; the negroee
having abandoned it, and gone farther south,
for fear ofthe Moors,and the Moors not think-
ing it worth inhabiting, by reason of in bar'-
rcnncss: and, indeed, both forsaking it because
of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leo-
pards, and other furious creatures which har-
bour there: so that the Moors use it for their
hunting only, where they go like an army, two
or three thousand men at a time; and, indeed,
for near a hundred miles together upon this
coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howl-
ings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in the day time, I thought I
saw the Pico of Tcnerilfe, being the top of the
mountain Tencrifi'e in the Canaries, and had
a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reach-
ing thither; but having tried twice, I was
forced in again by contrary winds; the see also
going too high for my little vessel; so I re-
solved to pursue my first design, and keep
along the shore.

Several times I was obliged toland for frofl
water, after we had left this place; and once,
in particular, being early in the morning, we
came to an anchor under a little point of land
which waspretty high; and the tide beginning
to flow, we lay still, to go further in. Xury,
whose eyes were more about hint than, it
seem, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells
me, thatwehad bestgofnnherofl'the shore;
for, says he, Look, yonder lies a dreadful
monster on the side of that hilloek, fast asleep.
I looked where he pointed, and saw I dread-
ful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion, that lay on the side ol'the.sltore, under
the shade of a piece of tho hill,_-thet hung, II
it were, over him. Xury, says I, you shall
go on shore and kill him. Xury looked fright-
ened, and said, Me kill! he eat me at one
mouth: one mouthful he meant. However, I
saidnotnore to the boy. butbade bimboltill;12

and I took our biggest gun, which was almost
musket bore, and loaded it with a good charge
of powder, and with two slugs, and laid itdown ;
then I loaded another gun with two bullets;
and a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the heat aim
I could with the first piece, to have shot him
in the head; but he lay so, with his leg raised
a little above his nose, that the slugs hit his
leg about the knee, and broke the bone: he
started up, growling at first, but finding his leg
broke, fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I
had not hit him on the head; however, I took
up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move 08', firetlag again, and shot him
in the head, and had the pleasure to see him
drop, and make but little noise, but lie strug<
gling for life. Then Xury took heart, and
would have me let him go on shore. Well,
go, said I: so the boy jumped into the water,
and taking a little gun inone hand, swam to
shore with the other hand, and coming close
to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to
his ear, and shot him In the head again, which
dcspalclted him quite

This was game, indeed, to us, but it was no
food; and I was very sorry to lose three
charges of powder and shot upon a creature
that was.good for nothing to us. However,
Xury said he would have some of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the
hatchet: For what, Xury'! said I. Me out
off his head, said he. However, Xury could
notcutofl' his head; but he cutofi' a foot,and
brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
great one. I hethought myself, however, that
perhaps the skin of him might, one way or
other, he of some value to us; and I resolved
to take of his skin, if I could. So Xury and
I went to work with him: but Xury was much
the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed, it took us both up the
whole day; but at lut we got ofl' the hide of
him, and s preading' It on the top or our cabin,
the sun eti'ectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop we made onto the southward
continually, for ten or twelve days, living very
sparingly on our provisions, which began to
abate very much, and going no oflensr into the
shore than we were obliged to for fi'eah water.
My design in this, was to make the river
Gambia, or Senegal; that is to say, any where
about the Cape do Verd, where I was in
hopes to meet with some European ship; and
ifIdidnot, Iknownotwhatcourselhadto

ADVENTURES 05' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

take, butto seekfitrthe islanda,orpenah
amongtheae Ilmewthatalltbeshq-
fi-om Europe, which sailed either to the coast
of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East Indies,
madethis cape,orthooeislands:aod,ina
word, I put the whole of my forums upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some
ship, or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about
tendayslonger,aslhave said, Ibegantosee
thatthe land was inhabited;and intwo or
three places, as we nailed by, we saw people
stand upon the shore tolook at us: weeould
also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined tohave gone on
shore to them; but Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, No go, no go. How-
ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might
talk to them; and I found they ran along the
shore by me a good way. I observed they
had no weapons in their hands, except one,
who had a long ,slender stick, which Xury
said was a lance, and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim; so lkept at
a distance, but talked to them by signs,"
well as I could, and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me
to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat: upon this, I lowered the top of ray sail,
and lay by, and two ofthem ranup into the
country; and in less than hall'an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of
dryfleshandsomecorn,suchas isthe pro-
duco of their country; but we neither knew
what the one or the other was; however, w'.
were willing to accept it. But how to come
at It was ourncxt e, for I was not for
venturing on shore to them, and they were as
muchal'raidot'us: but theytook aeafe way
be us all, for they brought it to the shore, and
laid it down, and wentand stood a great way
off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we
had nothing to make them amends: but an
opportuhity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfitlly; for while we were lying by
thesbore,cametwn mighty Ointment)"
pursuingthe other (aswetook it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the see;
whether' It was the male pursuing the female,
orwhetherthey were in sportorin rage, we
could nottoll, yanymorethanwe could tell
whetheritwasusualor strange; but Ibelim
it was the latter, because, in the first place,
those ravenous cream seldom but' as

night; and,in the second place, we fitund

the people terribly frightened, especiallyth
women. The manthat had the lance, ordan,
did not By PS11m them, but the rest did; how-
ever,as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon
any of the "gross, but plunged themelt'es
into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion: at last, one of thetn
began to come nearer our boat than I at first
expected; but I lay ready for him, forI had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition,
and bade Xury load both the others. As
soon as he came fairly within my reach, I
fired, and shot him directly in the head : im-
mediately he sunk down into the water, but
rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if
he was struggling hr life, and so indeed he
was: he immediately made to the shore; but
between the wound, which was his mortal
hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died
just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment
of these poor creature-gal the noise and fire of
my gun; some of them were even ready to die
arr fear, and fell downas dead with the very
terror; but when they saw the creature dead,
and sunk in the water, and that I made sign:
to them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore,and begun to search for
thecreature. I found him by his blood stain-
ing lht! water; and by the help ofarope, which
I along round hint, andgave the negroes to
'.aul, they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted,
and finetoanadmirable degree; andthe ne-
grocs held up their hands with admiration, to
think what it was I had killed him with.
The other creattne,frightened with the flash
offireandthenoiseol'thogun,swamonshoro,
and ran up directly to the mountains from
whence they came; nor could I,>> that do-
tance, know what it was. I found quickly the
negroes were for eating the flesh of this crea-
ture, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me; which, when I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were
very thankful be. Immediately they fell to
work with him; andthough theyhndnoknife,
yet, with a piece of wood, they took
off his skin as readily, and much more readily,
than we could have done with a knife. They
ofi'erodmesome d'the flesh, which I declined,
making asiflwouldgive it them, buttnnde
signs hemmwhidttheygavemovery
freely,and hronght men greatdnltnoreof
theirproviaioas,whidt,thoughldid notun-
dsrstand, yet I accepted. I then nude-igl-
tnthenitraatnswater, ad holtlootonoot'
Ily jII'I to tit-u, tinting it bottom upward, to

18

showthatitwasempty,andthatI Wanted to
have it filled. They tilled immediately to
some d' their fiends, and there came two
womn, and brought a great vessel nude ot'
earth,andhumt,as I suppose, inthenn; this
they set down to me, as More, and I sell
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were u stark naked
as the men.

I was now finished with roots and corn,
such as it was, and water; and leaving my
friendly negroes, I made forward for about
eleven days more, without od'ering to go near
the shore, till [saw the land run out a great
length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five le es before me; and the sea
being very calm,I kept a large offing, to make
this point. At length, doubling the point, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly
land on the other side, to seaward: then I
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that
this was the Cape do Verd, and thaw the
islands, called, from thence, Cape do Verd
Islands. However, they were at a dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I had best
to do; for if I should be taken with a gale of
wind, I might neither reach one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I
stepped intotheeabin,andsat rundown,me
having the helm; when, on a sudden, the boy
cried out, Master, master, a ship with a sail!
and thefiiolish boywufrightenedwtd'hia
wits, thinking it must needs become ot'hia
master's ships sent to pttrsue as, when I Itnew
wewm gottenfar outofthoirreach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately
saw, not only the ship, but what she was, via.
thatitwuaPorniguesuhip,-nd,aslthonght,
was bound to the coast of Guinea for new.
But, whenIobservedthe coarse die-toad,
I was soon convinced they were hand some
other way, and did not design to come any
nearer to the shore: upon which, I stretched
outtnmasmuehulcould,readvingto
speak with them, if '

\Vitballthe sail Ioonldtnnh. Ifiitntdl
shouldnotbeahletocotnein theirway, Ill
thattheywouldbegonebyboforelcouldt-kc
any signaltothom', bntaftethaderuwdedtn
tho nut-oat, and began to despair, they, it
seamen" Ins,by the help oftheirpenpao-
me and tin: it was some European
boat,which, theysnpposad, nnltbolongtn
mahip thatwas last; no thoydttltened sail,
to lot Ins coins up. I was new-aged w'nh
this,andaslhadnypsnu'saiponhoard,
Inndeawafiofittothqfwalipald
distru,andfiredagtn,bothwhidithny.wz14

for they told me they saw the smoke, though
they did not hear the gun. Upon these sig-
nals, they very kindly brought to, and lay by
forms; and in about threehoura' time I came
up with them. '
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese,
and in Spanish and in French, but I understood
noneofthem; but,at last, a Scotch sailor, who
was on board, called to me, and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that
I had made my out of slavery fiom the
Moors, at Sallee: they then bade me come on
hoard, andverykindlytooltme in,andall my
It was an inexpresaible joy to me, which any
one will believe, that I was thus delivered, as
I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and almost
hopeless condition as I was in; and I imme-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSDE.

diately offered all I had to the captain of the
chip, as a return for my deliverance; but be
generously told me, he would take nothing from
me, but that all I had Ihould be delivered safe
to me, when I came to the Brazils. For, say-
he, I have saved your life on no other terms
than I would be glad to be saved myself; and
it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken
up in the same condition. Besides, said he,
when I carry you to the Brazila, so great a
way from your own country, if I should take
from you what you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that life I
have given. No, no, Senhur lngles, (Mr.
Eugliehman,) says he; I will carry you thither
in charity, and these things will help to buy
your subsistence and your passage home there
again.

SECTION IV.

HE SETTLE! I." THE BRAZILS AS A PLAMER-----mu "OTB" VOYAGE,
AND IS SHIPWRECKED.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he
was just in the performance, to atittlc l for he
ordered the seamen, that none should offer to
touch any thing I had: then he took every thing
into his own possession, and gave me back
an exact inventory of them, that I might have
them, even so much as my three earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and
that he saw, and told me he would buy it of me
for the ship's me; and asked me what I
would have for it ? I told him, he had been so
generous to me in every thing, that I could
not ofl'er to make any price oftheboat, but
left it entirely to him: upon which he told me
he would give me a note of hand to pay me
eighty piecu of eight for it at Brazil; and
when it come there, if any one ofl'ered to give
more, he would make it up. He offered me
also sixty piece: of eight more for my boy
Xury, whichI was loath Intake; not that I
wasnottvilling tolet the captainlnve him, but
I was very loath to sell the poor boy'a liberty,
who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring
my own. However, when I let him know my
min, homedittobcjmt,andofl'ercd me
this medium, that howould give the boy an
obligatianto not him freein ten years,ifhe
turnedChrinian: upon thin, and Xury saying
hemewilling togoto him,Iletthecaptain
have him.

I

We had a very voyage to the Brazils,
and arrived in the Bay do Todoe los Santos,
or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days
alter. And now I was once more delivered
from the moat mixerahle of all conditions of
life; and what to donext with myself, I was
now Inconsider.

The generotu treatment the captain gave
me, I can nem enough remember: he would
take nothingof me for my e, gave me
twenty ducats for the leoplrIl's skin, and forty
forthe lion's skin, which! had in my boat,
andcansedevery thingth the ship
to be punctually delivered to me ; and what
I wuwillingtoaell,heboughtofme; such
uthecase of bottlea,twoofmy guns, and:
piece of the lump of been-wax,---for I had
made candles ofthe rest: inn Wotd,I made
about two hundred and twenty pieces d'eight
ofallmyurgo: and with this atodt,lwent
on ahore in the Brazila.

I hadnotheen long here,helhreIwaere-
commendedto the house of a good honest
man, likehinnelf, whohsdaningenioas they
call it,(that ia,a plantation andavugae-
house.) Ilived with him m6nm,andac-
quainted nay-elf, by that means, with
manner of planting and of making sugar: and
seeinghow well the planters lived, and how '
theygot rich Meninlreldved, if lcouldep'm "MP"

  
     
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

get afloneetosettletbem,l would turn
planter among them: endeavouring, in the
meantime, to find out somewayto getmy
money, which I had let! in London, remit-
ted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of
a letter of naturalization, I purchased as much
land that was uncured as my me would
reach, andformedaplanformyp tation
and settlement; such a one as might be suit-
able to the atoii which I to myself
to receive fiom England. PM

I had a ne' Ig,hhour a Portugueseol'Lisbon,
hutbornot'Eoglishparents, whose name was
Wells, and inth such circumstances as!
was. I call him my neighbour, because his
plantation lay next tomine, andwe wanton
very sociahly together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for
food than any thing else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land
began to come into order; so that the third
year we planted some tobacco, andrnade each
ot'us a large piece ofground ready for planting
canesintheyear tocome: hutwehothwant-
ed help; and now I found, more thanhel'ore, I
had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never
did right, was no great wonder. I had no
remedy, huttogoon: I hadgotinto anom-
pl oyment quite remote to my genius, and di-
rectly con to the life I delighted in,and
for which I l'ovsook my father's home, and
broke through all his ygood advice: nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or
upper degree of low life, which my father
advised me to before; andwhich, if! resolved
togoon with,lmightaswell havestay ednt
home, and never have fatigued myself In the
world, aslhaddone: andlnsedoflen toeay
to myself, [could havedonethis aswellin
England, arnong my fiends, ashave gone five
thousand miles of to de' It among strangers

distanceasnevertohearfiomanypartofthe
worldtlntbadtheleastbnowledgeot'me.
Inthismnner,llmedtolookuponmycm-
ditioo with theutmos: regret. lbsd nobody
loconverse with, butnowandthenthisneigh-
hour; noworhtohodone,butbythelahour
d'myhanb: andlnaedtosay,l'livedjust
likeamancastawaynponsomedesolateisland,
thathadnobmiydierebuthimself. Butbow
jufllusitbeenlandhowshooldanmenro-
fleet, that when they comparetbeir present
oonditionswiibothuatbataraworse,Heaven
mayobligstbemtomakotho eaehange,and
hemvincsdd'hi'orwfelicitybytheir
W:lq,bowjuhasitheen.that

and savages,io a wilderness,andat rocba,

mnnrunns or nonmson causon. l5

theorulysolitarylifilrefieetedonflnanisland

ofmeredesolation,shwldbemylot,whohld

so oern unjustly it with the life which

I then led in which, had I calm! had,

:d all probability, been exceeding prosperot.
"Ch.

Ivvas,' m solnedegvee,settled inmymea-
sures forcarryirtg on the plantation, before my
kindtl-iend, the captainoftbeebip Ihattook
me up at aea,wentback; fatheship remained
there, In providing his lading, andP preparing
for his voyage, near months; when, tel-
ling himwhatlittleatochlhadleiihehindm
inLondon,he gavemethiafi'iendlyandsin-
an advice: Senbor lnglez, says he, (for-o
healwayscalledme,)ifyouwillgivemelet-
ten, andaprocuration herein flit-Into me,
withorderatothepersonwhohasyourmoney
inLondon, to aendyourefl'ectstoLisbm, to
such personsas I shall direct, and' In such
goods asareproper for this cotmtry, I will
hringyoutheproduceot'them, Godwilling,at
myreturn: hugsince htnnanafi'airaareall
mhjecttocbangesanddisasthwouldhave
you give orders for but one hmalredpounds
sterling, which. you say, is balt' your stock,
andletthehazardherlm forthefirst,>> that
it'itcomesafe, you may order therestthe
aarneway;and,ifitmisurry,youmayhave
theotherbalftnbaverecoursetofirywrcup-
ply. This was so wholesome advice, and
lookedsofi'iendly,thatloouldnotbotbeeon-
vineeditwasthebestcourseloouldtakeuo

Iacoordinglypreparedlettsntothegentle-
womanwithwbomllefimy money, ands

IwrotetheEnglisbeeptam' captah'swidowafidl
account ot'all my advennrrea;myslavery,en-
cape,aadhothadmetwiththeP
captainstsegthebumanityofhisbhaviow,
andwhatconditionlwasnowin,withallotber
necessarydirectimformylupply;andwhm
thishonestmptahcametobihon,hefilmd
means, by some of the Enfi'mh merchants
there,tosetalover,nottheorderonly,buta
fIIllwooontofmystorytoamerdIantatLan-
don, who it efl'ectrmlly to her;
whereoponshenotulydeliveredthemoney,
Munofbermpoeaegseatthel'm
captainaverybandsunepreaentfirbisbu-
manityandcharitytome.16

aincss to think of them,) he had taken care to
have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils,
necessary for my plantation, and which were
of great use to me. When this cargo arrived,
I thought my fortune made, for I was surprised
with the joy of it; and my good steward, the
captain, had laid out the five pounds, which
my friend had sent him as a present for him-
self, to purchase and br' me over a servant,
under bond for six years service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little
tobacco, which I would have him accept, being
of my own produce. Neither was this all: but
my goods being all English manufactures, such
ascloths, stufl's, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell them to a very great advantage;
so that I might say, I had more than four times
the value of my first cargo, and was now infi-
nitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in tho
advancementof my plantation: for the first thing
I did, I bought me a negro slave, and a Euro-
pean scrv'ant also ; I mean anotherbesides that
which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made
the very means of our adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great suc-
cess in my plantation; I raised fifty great rolls
of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had
disposed of for necessaries among my neigh-
bours : and these fifty rolls, being each of above
one hundred pounds weight, ware well cured,
and laid by against the return of the fleet from
Lisbon: and now, increasing in business and
in wealth, my head began to be full of projects
and undertakings beyond my reach; such as
are, indeed, often the ruin of the best heads
in business. Had I continued in the station
I was now in, I had room for all the happy
things to have yet befallen me, for which my
father so earnestly recommended a quiet, rc-
tired life, and which he had so sensibly de-
scribed the middle station of life to be full of :
but other things attended me, and I was still
to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries;
and, particularly, to increase my fault, and
double the reflections upon myself, which in
my future sorrows I should have leisure to
make, all these miscarriages were procured by
my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish
inclination, of wandering about, and pursuing
that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and these measures
of life, which nature and providence concurred
to present me with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away
fiom my parents, so I could not be content

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

now, but I must go and leave the happy view I
had of being a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue a rash and immode-
rate desire of rising faster than the nature of
the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of human mi-
sery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could
be consistent with life, and a state of health in
the world.

To come, then,by just degrees, to the par-
ticulars of this part of my story.--You may
suppose, that having now lived almost four
years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive
and prosper very well upon my plantation, I
had not only learned the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow-planters, as well as among
the merchants at St. Salvador, which was our
port; and that, in my discourses among them,
I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the man-
ner of trading with the negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase on the coast for trifles--
such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets,
bits of glass, and the like--not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c. but no-
groes, for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my
discourses on these heads, but especially to that
part which related to the buying negroes;
which was a trade, at that time, not only not
far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been
carried on by the aesienm, or permission of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed
from the public; so that few negroes were
bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company with some
merchants and planters of my acquaintance,
and talking of those things very earnestly,
three of them came to me the next morning,
and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of the last
night, and they came to make a secret proposal
to me: and, after enjoining me to secrecy, they
told me that they had a mind to {it out a ship
to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations
as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so
much as servants; that as it was a trade that
could not be carried on, became they could
not publicly sell the ne when they came
home, so they desired to make but one voyage,
to bring the negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations: and,
in a word, the question was, whether I would
go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and
they ofl'ercd me that I should have anequal
share of the Negroes, without providing any
part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must be con-
fessed, had it been made to any one that had
not a settlement and plantation of ltis own to
look after, which was in a fair way ofcoming
to be very considerable, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered
and established, and had nothing to do but go
on as I had begun, for three or four years
more. and to have sent for the other hundred
pounds from England: and who, in that time
and with that little addition, could scarce have
fittled of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for
me to thittk of such a voyage, was the most
preposterous thing that ever man, in such cir-
cumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own de-
stroyer, could no more resist the ofl'er, than I
could restrain my first rambling designs, when
my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In
a word, I told them I would go with all my
heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and Would dispose of
it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried.
This they all engaged to do, and entered into
writings or covenants to do so; and I made a
fiirmal will, disposing ofmy plantatiOn and ef-
fects, in case of my death, making the captain
of the ship, that had saved my life, as before,
my universal heir; but obliging hltn to dispose
of my effects as i had directed in my will ; one
half of the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to [we-
scrve my effects, and to keep up my plantation:
had I used half as much prudence to have look-
ed into my own interesl,and have made a judg-
merit of what I ought to have done and not to
have done, I had certainly never gone away
from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all
the probable views of a thriving circumstance,
and gone avoyage to sea, attended with all its
common hazards, to say nothing of the rea-
sons I had to expect particular misfortunes to
myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly
the dictates of my fancy, rather than my rea-
son; and accordingly, the ship being fitted out,
and the cargo furnidted, and all things done
In by agreement, by my partners in the voy-
age. I went on board in an evil houragain, the
lat of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my father and
mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to'
their authority,and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty

17

tons burden, carried six guns, and fourteen
men, besides the master, his boy, and myself;
we had on board no large cargo of goods, ex-
erpt of such toys as were fit for our ttade with
the Negroes, such asbeatls, bits of glass, shells,
and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses_
knives, scissors, hatehets, and the like.

The same day I went on board, we set sail,
standing away to thb northward upon our own
coast, witltdexign to stretch over tor the Ali'i-
can coast. When they came about ten or
twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it
seems, was the manner of their course in those
days, we had very good weather, only ex-
cessive hot all the way upon uurown coast, till
we came to the heightofCttpe St. Augustine :
from whence, keeping farther of at sea, we
lost sight of land, and steered as if we were
bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha,
holding our course N .E. by N. and leaving
those isles on the east. In this course we
passed the line in about twelve days' time,
and were, by our last observation, in 7 de-
grees 22 minutes northern latitude, when a
violent tornado, or hurricane, took us who
out of our knowledge: it began from the south-
east, came about to the north-west, and then
settled in the north-east; from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that, for twelve days
together, we could do nothing but drive, and,
scudding away before it, let it carry us whi-
ther ever fate and the fury of the winds di-
rected ; and, during these twelve days,l need
not say that I expected every dsy to be swal-
lowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship
expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror
oftho atom, one of our men died of the cal-
enture, and one man and a. boy washed over-
board. About the twelfth day, the weather
abating a little. the master made an observa-
tion as well as he could, and found that he
was in about ll degrees north latitude, but
that be was 22 degrees of longitude ditference,
west from Cape St. Augustine; so that be
found he was got upon the coast of Guiana, or
the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Anta-
zons, toward that of the river Oroonoque, com-
monly called the Great River; and began to
consult with me what course he should take,
for the ship was leaky and very much disabled,
and he was going directlyback to the coast of
Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over
thecharlsofthesea-eouuof Amerieawith
him, we concluded there was no inhabit-d
oatmtry Er uato have recourse to, till we came
within the circle tithe Caribbeo islands, Ind
therefore resolved to stand away for Barba-
does; which by keeping of to sea, to avoid
the indraught of the pbay or gulf of Mexico,
we might wily perform, as we hoped, in
about fifteen days' nail. whereas we could not
possibly make our voyage to the coast of
Africa without some assistance, both to our
ship and ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course,
and steered away N. W. by W. in order to
reach some of our English islands, where I
hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise
determined; for being in the latitude of twelve
degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same
itnpetttosity westward, and drove us so out of
the very way of all human commerce, that had
all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were
rather in danger of being devoured by savages
than ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very
hard, one of our men early in the morning,
cried out, Land! and we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her mo-
tion being sonopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all
have perished immediately; and we were imme-
diately driven into our close quarters, to shelter
as from the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one who has not been
in the like condition, to describe or conceive
the consternation of men in such circumstances :
We knew nothing where we were, or upon what
land it was we were driven, whether an island
or the main, whether inhabited or not inha-
bited; and as the rage of the wind was still
great, though rather less than at first, we mold
not so much ashope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the
wind, by a kind of miracle should imme-
diately turn about. In a word, we sat looking
upon one another, and expecting death every
moment, and every man acting accordingly, In
preparing {hr another world ; for there was
little or nothing more for us to do in this: that
which was our present comfort, and all the
comfort we had, was, that, con to our ex-
pectation, the ship did not break yet, and that
the master said the wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a
little abate, yet the Ihip having thus struck
uponthe sand, and sticking toofastfortn to
expect her getting ofi', We were inadreadful
condition indeed, and had nothing to do, but to
think of saving our lives as well as we could.
We had a boat at ouruernjuubefore the

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

storm, but she was first ataved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and, in the next.
place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was
driven of to sea; so there was no hope from
her: we had another boaton board, but how
to get her ofl' into the M was a doubtful thing,-

' however, there was no room to debate, for we

fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute, and some told us she was actually
broken already

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid
hold of the boat, and with the help of the rest
of the men, they got her flung over the ship's
aide : and getting all into her, let her go, and
committed ourselves, being eleven in number,
to God's mercy, and the wild sea: for though
the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea
went dreadful high upon the shore, and might
be well called den wild see, as the Dutch call
the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed;
for we all saw plainly, that the sea went so
high, that the boat could not live, and that we
should be inevitably drowned. As to making
sail, we had none; nor, if we had could we
have done any thing with it; so we worked at
the car towards the land, though with heavy
hearts, like men going to execution (hr we all
knew that when the boat came nearer to the
shore, she would be dashed in a thotuand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us to-
wards the shore, we hastened our destruction
with our own hands, pulling as well as we
could towards land.

What the shore was--whether rock or sand,
whether steep or shoal--we knew not; the
only hope that could rationally give us the
least shadow of expedion, was, if we might
happenintosomebayorgulf, orthe mouthof
some river, where by great chance we might
haverunourboatin,orgottmdertheleeofthe
land, and perhaps made smooth water. But
there was nothingofthil appeared; and as
wemade nearerand nearertheeborc, the land
looked more frightful than the sea.

Afterwebadrowed, orratberdriven,ahottt
lleagueandahalf, uwereckoned It arug-
ing wave, mountainlike, came rolling astern
of us,and plainlybadc lumped the cwpde
grace. lnaword, ittookuswitbsuchafury,
thatitovenetthe boatatonce; and separa-
tingus,uwellt'romtheboatufrcmonc
another, gave us not timehardly to say, "0
God!" forwe wereall swallo-sedup In a mo
ment.

Nothing can demihe the confusion d
thought which I felt, when I lunk into the
water, ix though I swam very well, yet I
could not deliver myself from the waves on an
to draw my breeth,ti|l that wave having driven
me, or ratherearried me, a vent way onto-
wards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and loll me upon the land almost dry,
buthalfdeadwiththewater [took in. [had
so much presence of mind, aawell as breath
left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
then I expected, I got upon my feet, and en-
deavoured to make on towards the land as
fast as I could, before another wave should
return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impossibleto avoid it; for I saw the sea
come after me as high as a great hill, and as
filrious as an enemy which I had no means or
strength to contend with: my business was to
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the
waIer, if I could; and so, by swimming, to
preserve my breathing, and pilot myself to-
wards the shore, if possible; my greatest oon-
com now being, that the wave. as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when
it came on, might not carry me back again
will: it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried
me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own
body; and I could feel myselfcarricd with a
miuhty force and aw'tllneea towards the shore,
avcry greatway; butI held my breath, and
assisted myself to who still forward with all
my might. I was ready to burst with holding
my breath, when,u I felt myself rising up,
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head
andhandsdtootout above thoaurfaneofthe
Water; and though it was not two seconds of
time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath, and new courage.
I was covered again with watera good while,
butnot so long butIheld itou; and finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return,
Istruclrforward against theretumofthe
Waves, end felt ground again with my feet. I
stood still a few momenta, to recover breath,
and till the water went fiom me, and then took
to my heels, and ran with what strength I had
farther towards the shore. But neither would
this deliver me from the fury ofthe see, which
camepouringinafiermeagainzandtwice
moreIw-eslifiedup by thewaveaand earned
W as before, the 'shore being Ingvery flat.
The lasttimeoftbeaetwohad well nigh
been fatal to me; for the eeehaving hurried
me along, as before, landed me, or rather
dashed me,ageimte piece of arock,andthat
with web force, tlm' It led me senseless, and
indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance;

for the blow taking my aideand beast, beat
the breath, as it were, quite out of my body,
and had it returned again immediately, I mus
have been strangled mthnwater: but! reco-
vered a little before the return of the waves,
andaeeingIahwldegainbeeovered withthe
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece oftbe
rock, and so tohold my breath, ifpo-ible,till
the wave went back. Now eathe waves were
not so highuthe first, beingnearer land,I
held my hold till the wave abated, and then
fetched another run, which brought me so near
the shore, that the next wave, though it went
over me, yet did notao awellow me up as to
carrymeaway; endthenextnmItook,Igot
to the mainland; where, to my comfort
I clambered up the cliflir of the shore, and not
me down upon the grass, free fiom danger,and
quite out of the reach of the water.

[was nowlnnded, andeefeonahore; and
began to look up and thank God that my life
was saved, in a case wherein there were, some
minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I
believe it is impossible to expreu, to the life,
whattheecstasiesand tramporta oftheaoul
are, when it is no saved, as I may say, out
ofthe grave: and I did notwmdernowat the
custom, viz. that when a malefaetor, who has
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just
going to be turned 05, and has a reprieve
brought to him; I say, I do not wonder that
they bring a surgeon with It, to let him blood
that very moment they tell him of It, tint the
surprise may not drive the animal spirits li'om
the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefe, confound at brat.

Iwallredahwtonthoehoreflifiingupmy
hands, endmywholebeing,es Imy lay.
wrapped up in the contemplation of my delyi-
verence; making alhousendgeatureeendmo-
tions, which I cannot describe; reflecting
upon my comrades that were drowned, and
thatthereshould notbeoneaordnvedhut
myself; for, u for them, I never eaw them
atlerwards,oreny sign of thermomept three
oftheir hats,onecep,andtwolboeathetwere
notfellows.

Icestmyeyeatothemndodveaael--when
thebreeeh andfrothd'theaeabeingsobig
Icouldhardly seeit,itlay eoferofl'-endcon-
lidered, Lord! howwuitpoaiblel'couldgu
onshore?

Alterlhedsolacedmymindwiththeeotn-
fort-He pert ofmycondition,lhogento look
mtdme,toaeewhatkindofapleeelwesin,
and-what was neat to be due; and I soon
formdmycosnfortaabetenndlhetdnaword.
I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet,
had no clothes to shill me, nor any thing either
toeatordrink, to comfort me; neither did I
see any prospect before me, but that of pertah-
ing with hunger, or being devoured by wild
beasts: and that which was particularly afllict-
ing to me was, that I had no weapon, eitherto
hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance,
or to defend myself against any other creature
that might desire to kill me for thein. In a
word, I had nothing about me but a knife, I
tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box.
This was all my provision; and this threw me
into such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while, I mn about lilte a madman. Night
earning upon me, I began,with a heavy heart,
to consider what would be my lot if there were
any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing
at night they always come abroad tor their

prey.

Alltheremedythat od'erodtomythoughts,
at that time, was, to get up into athick bushy
tree, like a fir, but thorny--which grew near
me, and where I resolved to sit all night--and
outsider the next day whatdealh I should die,
foruyetlsaw noprospectoflife. [walked
aboutafurlongfmmtbeahore,toseeifl could
findanyfresbwatertodrink,whieh Idid, to
mygreatjoy:and havingdnnk, andputa
little tobacco into my mouth to prevent hunger,
I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavouredto placemy oelfsc, astlut iflahould
fall asleep ,I might not fill- and having cut me
a short stick, like a truncheon, firmy defence,
Itookttp my lodging; nndhavittg been ex-
ceasively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept
as comfortably on, I believe, few could have
done in my condition; and ibund myself the
most refreshed with it that I think I ever was
on such an occasion.

 

SECTION V.

ROBIII'SON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLATE ISLAND--PBOCURES A STOCK 0'
ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK--CONSTBUCTS HIS HABITATION.

Warm I walred it was broad day, the wea-
ther clear, and the storm abated, so that the
sea did not rage and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most m, that the ship
was lifted ofl'in the night from the stand where
she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and w
drivenupalmostasfitrastherockwbichIat
first mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by the wave dashing me against it. This being
within about a mile from the shore where I
was, and the ship seeming to stand upright
still, I wished myselfon board, that at least I
might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in
the tree, I looked about me again, and the lint
thing [found was the boat; which lay, as the
wind and the sea. had tossed her up, upon the
land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walkedas fares I could upon the shoreto
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of
water, between me and the boat, which was
about halfa mile broad; soIcame hack for
the present, being more intent upoagetting at
theship,whereIhopedto findm aomethingfor
my present nuisance.

Alittle after noon, I kind theses very
alm,andthe tideebbed sofaront, thatIcould
me within a quarter ofa mile of the ship:
and hotel tinmd a flesh renewingofrny grieft

for I new evidently, that ifwe had kept on
board,wehadbcenallsafe:thatistosay,we
had all got safe on shore, and! had not been
so miserable as to be left entirer destitute of
all comfortandcornpany,asI nowwas. This
forcedtearsfrommy yeyesagain; bututhere
wasliltle relief tnthat,Iresolvod ifpoem ble,
togettotheahip; soIpulledofl'my clothes,
for the woatherwuhottoexuemity,andtook
the water: but when Ieame to the ship, my
dilfieultywas still greatertohtowhowto get
outboard; forasshelayaground,and higbout
ofthe water, therewas nothing within myreadt
tolayholdof. Iswamrwndh'ertwiee,and
the second timeIapied asmall piece ofa
rope,whichlwondercd Idid notseeat first,
hangdown by the fore-chains solow,astha'
withgreat difliculty, Igot hold ofit,and by
thehelpofthstropegotintotbe forecastleof
the ship. Herelfotmdthattheshipwashttlged,
sndhadagreatdealefwaterinherholdgbtu
thatshelaysoonthesideofabardrofbard
sand, orratherearth, that beraternlay lifted
upuponthebank,andherbeldlow,ahno'to
thewater. By thismeansallhorquarterwu
henndallthatwuiathatpsrtwasdry; fir
younatybesuremyfiruworkwuto nerds
andtoseewhatwas spoiledandwbat-wsa'
he: and, first, I Wthu lithe dtrp'sseven-runes on ROBINSON causes. 81

provisions were dry and untouched by the
water; and, being very well disposed to eat,
I went to thebread-room, and filled my pockets
with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other
things, ththad notitne tolose. Ialsot'ound
some rum in the great cabin, ofwhich I took
alarge dram, and which I had indeed need
enough of, to spirit me for what was before
me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to
furnish myself with many things which I fore-
saIv would be very nec to me.

Itwas in vain to sit still and wish fixwhat
wasnottobe had, and this extremityroused
my application: we had several spare yards,
and two or three large spars of wood, and a
spare topmost or two in the ship p; I rfiolvcd to
fall to work with these, and flung as many over-
board as Icould for their weight, tying
every one with a rope, that they might not
drive away. When this was done, I went
down the ship's side, and pulling them to me,
I tied four of them fast together at both ends,
aswellas I could,intlte flit-morn rall,a.nd
laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them, croIIsways, I found I could walk upon it
very well, but that it was not able to bear any
great weight, the pieces being too light: so I
went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I
cut a spare topntast into three lengths, and
added them to my rafi, with a great deal of
labour and pains. But the hope of furnishing
myself with necessaries, encou me togo
beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another oecaston.

Myral'twasnowstrongenoughtobearany
reasonable weight. My next care was what
to load it. with,snd how to preserve what I
laid uponitt'rom thesurt'ot'thesea; buthas
not long considering this. I first laid all the
planksorboardsupon itthatloouldget,and
having considered well what I most wanted, I
got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon myrafi} these Itilled with provi-
sions, viz. bread, riee, three Dutch cheeses,
five pieces of dried goats' flesh, (which we
lived much upon,) and a little remainder of
Eumpeancom,whichhadbeenlaidby for
some [owls which we bad I. to sea with
tn,buttbefi>wlswerekilled. Therehadbeen
Iomebarley andwheat together, but, tomy
great disappointment, I found atterwuds that
theratshadeatsnor spoileditall. Asthr
liquors, Ithtmd aeveralcases ol'bottlss belong-
ingtoourahipper, inwhieh weresomecordinl
waters, and, inall, aboutfiveorsixgallcns
ct'rati. These I stowed by thenIelves, there

sing no need to put then: into the chestnut

any roomfor them. WhileIwu Mingth'u,
li'oundthetidebeg,antoflow thoughvery
calm; andIhadthe mortification tossemy
coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I ind let! on
shore,upon the sand, swim away, ast'ortny
breeches, which were only linen, and own
knead, Iswamonboard inthem,andtny
stockings. However, this put me upon rum-
maging for clothes, of which I filled enough,
btntooknomorethsntwantedt'or tune,
for I had other things which my eye was more
upon;u,first, toolstoworkwithon shore:
and it was alterlong searching thatIt'otmd
the carpenter a chest, which was indeed a very
Ineful prizetome,and muchmore valuable
than a ship-lading ofgold would have been at
that time. Igot it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look
into it, forI knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition
and arms. There were two very good tbwling
pieces in the great cabin, and two pistoh; these
I secured first. with some powderhorm and
asmnll hagot'shot, andtwooldrusty swords.
I know there were three barrels of powder In
the ship p, but knew notwhere our gunner ind
stowed them; but with much search I fiIuntl
them, twoot' them dry and good,thetbirdhad
taken water. These two I gottomy rail, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail,
oar, nor rudder; and the least ofwind
would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: let, A smooth,
calm sea: 2dly, The tide rising, and setting
in to the shore: Sdly, What little wind there
was, blew me towards the land. And thu,
luving found two or three broken can
ing to the boat, audbesides thetoolawhich
were in the chest, I found two-awe, an axe,
andahammer; andwith this ear-gel putto
sea. For a mile, or thereahouts, my rafl. went
very well, only thst I found it drive a little dis:
tantfiotntheplacewherelhsdlandedbefore;
by which I perceived that there wassome in-
draught of the water, andeonsequently Ihoped
tofindsomecreekorriverthere, whieblmight
mnkeuse ot'asaporttogetto landwithaty
cargo.

As Iimaginedno it was: thereappeared
beforemea littleopeningot'thelaod, and I
founda strongcurrentat' the tideset into it;
so! guided myrafi, as wellas IeoIIld,tnget
intothemiddleot'thestreans. Butherelbad
like to hove sufl'ered a secure! shipwrod,
which, if'Ihsd,Ithinkverilywouldbave
broken myheart; fixbowing nothingtffis

L5.22

msgrnyrafiran Igrwndatone endot'it
upon ashoal, and notbeing aground at the other
end, itwanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped ofi' towards that end that was afloat,
and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by setting my back against the cheats, to keep
them in their places, but could not thrust of
the rafi with all my strength; neither durst I
stirfrotn the post-no I was in, but holding up
the chests with all my might, I stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more
upon a level; and a little aller, the water still
rising, nty ran floated again, and I thrust her
otI' with the oar I had into the channel, and
then drivingup higher, I at length found myself
in the mouth of a. little river, with land on both
sides, and a strong current or tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to
get to shore, for I was not willing to be dnven
too high up the river: hoping, in time, to see
some ship 'at sea. and therefore resolved to
place myselfas near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right
shore of the creek, to which, with great pain
and dificulty, I guided my rail, and at last
got so near, as that reaching with my
ear, I could thrust her directly in; but here I
had like to have dipped all my cargo into tlte
sea again; for that shore lying pretty sleep,
that is to say, sloping, there was no place to
land, but where one end of my float, if it ran
on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink
lower, as before, that it would endanger my
cargo again. All that I could do, was towait
till the tide was at the highest, keeping the
raft with my car like an anchor, to hold the
side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of
ground, which I expected the water would flow
over; and so it did. As soon as I finmd
water enough, for my ralt drew about a foot of
water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her, by
sticking my two broken oars into the ground,
one onone side, near one end, and one on the
other side, near the other end: and thus I lay
till the water ehbed away, and left my raft and
all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was toview the ootmtry, and
seek a proper place for my habitation, and
where to stow my goods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was, I yet
knew not; whether on the continent, or on an
island; whether inhabited, or not inhabited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not.
There was a hill, not above a mile from me,
which rose up very steep and high, and which
seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay

ADVENTUREI OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

asinaridge from it, northward. Itotkotn
one of the fowlingpiews, and one of the pie-
tols, andahornot'powder; and'hthusarmed, I
trave ed for d' u to e of that
hill; where, m, reith grestwplabotu and
dificulty, got up to the top, Isnw my fate,to
my great al'fliaion, viz. thatI was in an island,
environed every way with the sen, no land to
be seen. except some rocks, which lay a
way ofl', and two small islands, less than this,
which lay about three leagues to the west.
lfoundalsotltattho islandeasinwas
barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe,
uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. Atmy yearning hack
Ishot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon
a tree, on the side of a wood. I believe
it wasthefirstgunthathad been fired there
since the creation of the world: I had no
soonerfired, butl'rom allthepartsot'thewood
there arose an inmnnenble number of lords,
of many sorts, making a confused screaming,
andcrying, every one awarding tohia usual
note; but not oneol'them ofanykindthatI
knew. As for the cream I killed, I took it
tobeakindot'a hawk, its colour andbeak
resembling it, but it bad no talons or claws
more than common. Its flesh was earrion,
and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery cry, I came back
to my rail, and fell to work to bring my cargo
on shore, which took me up the rest of that
day: what to do with myself at night I knew
not, nor indeed where to rest: for I was afraid.
to lie down on the , not knowing but
some wild beast might devour me, though, as
I afterwards fotmd, there was rea'lly no need
for those fears. However, as well a: I could,
I barricadoed myself round with the chests and
boards that! hadbroughton shore, and made
a kind of a but for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet saw not which way to supply
myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures, like hares, run out of the wood
where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I t yet
get a greatmany things outofthe ship, which
would be useful to me, and particularly some
oftheriggirtgandaails,and suchotherthings
astnightoometolandnndlresolvedtomake
anothervoyageon boudtbeveeeelflfpoesi-
bio. Andasllmew thatthefirststam that
blew rnnst neoemrily break her all' in pieces,
lresolvedto setsllotherthings till!

Inn.
gotevery thingunnt'theabipthatleould
'9'. mlafldtmldmiuony,
mmydnogllu,whoC/herlmidukohck
char-mbunhi-wcd W01"
molvcdtogoubcfilc,wheulhclidcwu
dorm-ad Ididlownlylhnlltrippcdhc-
forelwenlfiommyhnt;hvingnothingon
but ; chequered Ihifl. spin! linen dnwm,
Indcpnirofpumpconmyfoot.

Igumhwdwclhipubcfirgmdprc-
pared c Icemd n3; Ind having had expo-
riwcooflhoMInciihumdclh'uu-aun-
wicldly,norloadcdiuohud,b\nycllbvought
twaymaulthinpvau-ofid tome: u,fin',
inthccarpemu'cm,lfomdiwootthm
bapofmflsnndcpike-ngmmw-jwkm
dozcnortwaolhuchcu;ud,ahovelll,lbu
ml mefiil thing called I ' . All
lheseI secured W, with maul things
belongingmchcgunnctg ' ,Iwoor
threcironcmm,nndtwohlmbofmuakct
hulleu,sevcn match, Ind umber finding-
pieec, Willi mo null qmdty of pode
more; | bugfiillofmdlchot,lndn
gmatmllol'lhoulad; lmtbillutmso
heavyflcouldnothoislilflplogflitonnhe
ship's lids. Buidulhelalhings,ltookall
lhemen'lclothcslhnlmldfind,ndtspun
fmlopnil, uhmunock, Ind come bedding;
Iridwilhthiclloudcdmylcoondnfi,lnd
brought than Ill nl'c on thin, to my very
gruieomfon.

Inumdumalppnbcuimlmgdwing
my absence fi-om Ihchnd, mypmvisiou might
wdemucdonshunzhtwhmlmhck,
Ifoundnolignofnnyvilim; onlylhcnm
[creature like 1 wild cat, upononc oflhe
chem, which, when lame mud: it, ran
"my a little distance, and than mod still.
She utverycompacdandmoomcd,lnd
lookedfiillinmyflco,uiflhchlduminlto
beacquainlcdwi'lhncflpnunudlnygmto
her,buz,ulhcdidnotundcnlmdit,shom
perfectlyunconcancdn it, notdidshcofi'er
matiumyguponwhichlmuodhsnbitof
bisonil,lhough, hythc ny,1wunotvcry
l'mcol'il, (army-tournament: W,
Iapuedheuhil,lny,udslsowemmil,
mlledol'it,mducii,|ndlookcd(upleued)
forms; hnlthukod banandcouldspuo
my:unhomchcdafl'.

ving got my ascend ergo on choro--

Wlmfihwopcmhchnokdpondc,
Ind bringihunbypnmhfirthymlflo
baryfieinglugcub--Imtoworkto
mo moulitdcungwiththc-ilflndm

'II

 

dlthocmpkydzubudcubupintcildo
mmdllnoxcngtotunifyitfiomnnynddcn
wcilhafiummorban. '
Whalhcddmthimlhlochcduptlu
doorol'lhctcntwimmhoudswithinnnd
monpiychcn'gmwonondwihoulgmd
Win50!>> o the bed- upou the gland,
luyiug my two piswbjilt at my head, and my
gun-llwgihbymflwonuohcdfonhofiqt
limc,|nddcplveryquictlyullnight,fotl
waverymuylndhuvyafixlhonighlbo-
linolhldslcptliulo,andhcdlnbandvcry
hudnlldxy,uwclllofcwhdllbmolhhp
flunlhcthip,uC/ogcnhcaonuhon.
lhudlbobiuuz chili-dam
that "or m hid up, I believe, futons mu:
but I wu notatisficd Ilill: for while thu dup
muprighiinthnpmmthoughilmghz
togctoverylhingolnofhonhnlcoulduo
cvcryd:y,nlowwucr,lmC/onhoud,und
brought any Iomothingorovlwr: Impati-
cululy,thctbird Iimolwomflhrooghuny
umuchofthcriggingulcwkl,ualsonll
lhcamnllyopulndropo-lwinclcwldgel,
with t piece of mun-,whichiu lo
mendihc nil-upon Miamlndlhohnncl
ofwclgunpowdcr. Innwuddhtwghuny
tllihcnilsfimmdlut; onlylhnlwufiil
mmimmhpimundbtingunlchuc
limeulcould; forthcywmnommdfl
wbcufls,bmunaccmmouly.
Buuhuwhidicnmflmcdnonillmwu,
that,lm0fnll,lficrlhadmdoivcwlix
mhvoytgcauthuo,nndtboughtlhad
nomingmtoclpoctfimlhclhipflnswu
wonhmymcddlingwith;lny,nfiardllhic,
Ilblmdtglw ofbrud,lndlhm
largenmlcllofnnormirib,lnd|baxo{
mnnduhncloffinoflwuhilwum
prisingtomoJeccmelh-dgimmm
ing In, more promising, <<up: what was
spoiled by line wucr. I soon emptied the
Md" ""3m 51.3
pucclby ,inpicccl '
Immundfinnwmdflgoulllhilnfeoo
flawed-o.24

entered the little cove, where I had landed the
rest of my goods. not being able to guide it so
handily as I did the' other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water; as
for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo. it was a. great
part of it lost, especially the iron, which I ex-
pected would have been of use to me:
however, when the tide was out, I got most of
the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the
iron. though with infinite labour; fix I was fain
to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. Aficr this I went
every day on board, and brought away what
I could get.

l had been new thirteen days ashore, and
had been eleven times on board the ship; in
which time I had brought away all that one
pair of hands could well be supposed capable
to bring; though I believe verily, had the calm
weather held, I should have brought away the
whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing, the
twellih time, to go on board, I found the wind
began to rise: however, at low water, I went
on board; and though I thought [had rum-
maged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing
could be found, yet I discovered alocltcr with
drawers in it, in one of which [found two or
three razors, and one pair of large scissors,
with some ten oradozen of good knives and
forks; in another I lbund about thirty-six
pounds value in money, some E an coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold,
and some silver.

I smiled to myself atthe sightof this money:
0 drug! I exclaimed, what art thou good for?
Thou art not worth to rue, no, not the taking
05' the ground; one of those knives is worth
all this heap: I have no manner of use for
thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to
the bottom, as a creature whose life is not
worth saving. However, upon second thoughts,
I took it away: and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvass, I began to think of melting
another raft; but while I was preparing this, I
found the sky overcast, and the wind began to
rise,snd in aquarterofan hour itblew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to
me, that it was in vain to pretend to makes
rafiwith the wind of shore; and that it was
my business to be gone before the tide offload
began, or otherwise I might not be able to
reach the shore at all. Accordingly I let my-
self down into the water, and swam across the
channel which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with difictilty enough,
partly with the weight of the things I had about
me,andpartly thoroughness ofthe water; for

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CBUBOE.

thewind rose veryhastily,ata'l beforeitwu
quite high water it blew a storm.

Butlwasgothornetomylittletent,wbere
I lay, with all, my wealth abwt rue very se-
cure. It blew very hard all that night, and in
the morning, when I looked out, behold, no
more ship was to beseen! Iwasaliltlosurw
prised, but recovered myselfwith this satisfac-
toryretlection, viz.that I had lostnotime,
nor abated no diligence, to get every thing out
ofherthatcould bettsefilltome,and that, in-
deed, there was little left in herthat I was able
to bring away, in badhsd more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the
ship. or of any thing ottt of her, except what
might drive on shore, from her wreck; as, in-
deed, divers pieoos of her afterwards did; but
thtsethings were ofsmallttsetorno. .

My thoughts were now wholly employed
about scarring myselfagninst either savages, '
if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were
in the island; and I had many thoughts of
the method how to do this, and what kind of
dwelling to make, whether I should make me
a cave in the earth. or a tent upon the earth:
and, in short, I resolved upnnhoth; the man-
ner and description of which, it may not be
improper to give an account of

[scan ibundthepltteel wasin wasnotfor
my settlement, particularly because it was upon
alow, moorish ground, near the sea, andl be-
lieved it would not be wholesome; and more
particularly because there was no flesh water
near it: sol resolved to find a more healthy
and more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation,
which I found would be rforme: first,
air and fresh water, I just now mentioned:
secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun:
thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, who-
ther men or beasts: fourthly, aview to the sea,
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage fir my deliverance, of
which I was not willing to banish all my ex-

ion yet.

In search for a plus proper lbr this, Ifound
a little plain onthe side of a rising bill, whose
front towards this little plain was mpas a
house side, so that nothingcould come down
uponrnefrom the top. 0n tho-ids of this
rock there was a hollow place, worn a little
way in, like the entrance or door ofa cave;
but there was not really any cave, or way into
the melt, at all.

Onthe fistofthe green, justbefore tbishol-
low place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This
plain was not above a hundred yards broad,
and abomtwiceaslongnndlayliltes gros-"VIEWIEI 0" ROBINSON CRUIOI.

heforemydeer. end,ettheendofit,de-
unaided irregularly everynydown iuothe
lo-gmundhytheee-ide. nwuonlheN.
N.W.sideol'thehill;eothetitwudicltend
funntlnheatmrydly,tilliteemotonw.
andhys.un,orthennhoute,whieh,inthoee
commie-Janeen!>>

Beforehetup myteogldnwnhlf-cilde
before the hollow-piece, which techie-bout
tI-n yudl init- eomidiuleter fiunthoroeh,
emltwentyyudeinitedilneter,fiunitehe-

ginning gendending.

ln thiehll I pitched m mo!
Itmngotnkeo,dri' themintothogroundtill
Iheyutoodmyfirmlike piluflhobiggefi and
beingoinol'thegromdebontfiveieetnnde
lulfiuidnhupenedonthewp. Thetmtovn
dirlnotstandehoveeixheheefiomonen-
00m.

Thenlmokthepieeuol'onhlewhichl

anietheehip, leidthem
momher,withindncildo,
mmd'fl-mnto tothetop
stolen in the ineide, "mm?"
Mtwfoetlndlm $thin
pout;nodthiefmcemeom,thunei--
thamnwhemeouldgethitoitormrit.
Thieeoetmengreudenlol'timeendlnhonr,
oepecinflyeocntthepiloehlhewoot,hving
diemtndiephcquiddrieethemiototheeuth.
Them-mimothiepbeelmndetoo'he
nothyndoor, hothynehenledderm
tlIetop;whichludder,whenlv-uin, lifl-d
over-name; Ind-olwuoompleuly fenced
inondfoflified,u [Winin'nllthe
'09",me dept-ewe in the
night,whidtodmieeloonldnothnndone,
though,uitnppcuednfierwudl,lherewu
noneedofnllthieenutienngniuuheenemi-
thulepprehcndeddnngerfinm.

25
brown, one
between Nth-e
when>>.

 

SECTION VI.

CARR!" ALI. I"! "CHIS, PIOVISIONI, I'I'C. II'I'O BIS meruflom--Dlu-
. mans! 0f IOLI'I'UDII--COISOLATOIY IIILICTIOFII

Into this (once, orfottrem, with infiIitele-
hour, [curried IIll my mine-all my pmieiool,
ammunition, Ind m, d' which you have
mountain-hon; Ind I mdoolugetau,
which. to preoervome fienthemhe,thet III

eponol'theyeuereveryvioleetthmJ
mode double, viz. one mile! lent within, end
one lugermuehove it,|ndooveted the up-

hedwhichlhndhvoughtondlore,hutine
hammock. which wu indeed. verygoodone,
nudbelongedlolhemnteoftheehip

Into this Ian: I Mush: ell my WI
lndevery thingthntwouldepoilhy thewet;

endhuing tht-oncloeedlll mygeolen-de
:Kdtheeziidnneehwhichtillml?leflopen,

so My mid n
Ihortllddet. ,b'
Whenlhddmethhlheglnlowwh
myintothemckflndhiingingeflthe
endptoneethuldugdownotl WI",
tenglkidthemtmwithinmy feneeintho
natureofetemeenothuitnindthegmmd
withheboutel'ooteedehelfund thulmnde

is

u the lightning itself: 0 powder! M1
veryheennmkwithinmewhnnlthongh,"
uooeblnflullmy might hedeettoyed;

mwhich, In. my defence only,
vidingmet'ood, uhhonghgeminly depended.

[In-nothing neereonnxiouehootmyown

(longer, though, h-dthopev-deI-tookie, [Ind
werknonwhohndhmme.

Such Itepteueiondid thiemeke upon me.
thumertheuotmwumJlniduidenll
my wake, myhuildingnndlirtify'ngnnilp-
myedftomekehngeudhmeunoeep

cunefitmightnotnlltehofin atonement]
tokeepitwupergthnitmeddnuthepee-26

siblc to make one part tire another. I finished
this work in about a fortnight; and I think my
powder, which in all was about two hundred
and forty pounds weight, was divided in not
less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel
that had been wet, I did not apprehend any
danger from that: so I placed it in my new
cave. which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen,
and the mt I hid up and down in holes among
the rocks, so that no wet might come to it,
marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing,
I went out at least once every day with my
gun, as well to divert myself, as to see if I
could kill any thing fit for food ; and, saucer as
I could, to acquaint myselfwith what the island
produced. The first time I went out, I pre-
sently discovered that there were goats upon
the island, which was a great satisfaction to
me; but then it was attended with this mis-
fortune to me, viz. that they were so shy, so
subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the
most difiicult thing in the world to come at
them: but I was not discouraged at this, not
doubting but I might now and then shoot one,
as it soon happened; forafter I had found their
haunts a little, 1 laid wait in this manner for
them: I observed, if they saw me in the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
would run away as in a terrible fright; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice ofme,
from whence I concluded, that by the position
of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward, that they did notreadily see objects
that were above them: so, aficrwards, I took
this method--I always climbed the rocks first,
to get above them, and then had frequentlya
fair mark. The first shot I made among these
creatures, I killed a she goat, which had a
little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and
took herup, and not only so,butwhen I car>>
ried the old one with me, upon my shoulders,
the kid followed me quite to my etiolosure ,
upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale,
in hopestohavebred it up lame; but itwould
not eat; sonas forced to killit,andeatit
my self These two supplied me with flesh a
great while, for I ate sparingly, and preserved

my provisions (my bread especially) as much
aspossibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found
it absolutely necenary to provide a place to
make afire in, andfuel to burn; andwhat
Ididtbrthat,asalsohow I enlargedmycave,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

and what conveniencosImade, I shallgivsa
fullaccountofitinits rplace.butl
must first give some little aceotmt of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which, it may
well beau , were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition,
forastasnot castaway upon thatisland'
without being driven, as is said, by a violent
storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage; anda great way, viz. some hundreds of
leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade
of mankind, I had great reason to consider it
as a determination of Heaven, that in this
desolate plwoe, and' In this desolate manner, I
should end my life. The tears would run

plentifitlly down my face when I made these
reflections; and sometimes I would espostu-
late with myself why Providence should thus
completely ruin its creatures, and render them
soabsolutely miserable; so abandoned without
help, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly
be rational to be thankful for such alife.

But something always returned swill upon
me to check these thoughts, and to reprove
mo: and particularly, one day, walking with
my gun in my hand, by the seaside, I was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condi-
tion,when reason, as it were, expostulatod with
me the other way, thus: Well, you are in a
desolate condition, it is true ; but, pray remem
her, where are the rest ofyou'! Did not you
come eleven of you into theboat? Where are
the ten '! Why were not they saved, and you
lost 7 Why were you singled out? Is it
hetterto be here orthere'! And then! pointp
ed totho sea. All evils are tohe considered
with thegood thatis in thom,andwithwhat
worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well
I was furnished for my subsistence, and what
would havebeen my case if it had not hap-
pened (which was a hundred thousand to one)
that the ship floated from the place where she
firststruck,andwasdrivensoneartothe
shore, that I hadtimo to getalllhese things
out ofher: whatwould have been my case,
ifIhadbeento havelivsdinthe condition in
whichIat firsteame onshore, withoutnsces-
sariesoflife,ornecoaariutosupply andpro-
cure them '! Particularly, saIdIaloud (though
to myself) whatshouldl have done withouta
gun, without ammunition, without any tools to
make anything,ortowork with, withoutclothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering '3
andthat nothadallthesetoanIficientquan-
tity, and was inafair way toprovidemysolf
insuch amanneraa to live withoutmygtm,
when my ammunitim was spent: so.tbatI'Anveu'runns or manner cnueon. 27

had a tolenble View ofeuhaieting, without any
want," longaallind: Ibrl nominated,
fiomthe beginning, howlwould peoridefor
the accidents that might happen, and for the
time that was to come, not only alter my
ammunition abould be apent, but even alter
my health or mph ehould decay.

Iconfeee,lbadnot entertained anynotion
or my ammunition being deetroyed at one
blast, I mean my powder being blown up by
lightning; and thin made the thoughts of iteo
surprising to me, when it lightened and thin-
dered, a: I ebaenedjuetnnw.

Andnowbuingtoenter ietoaineludiely
reluiooofe aeeneol'eileu life, and}, W.
as wunevuhnrdflinthewflbeforql
shall take it fium ita beginning, andeontinua
it in its order. It was, by my account, the
wthofSe ',when,intheinanneru
ahoveeaid,l int eettbotupon thiehnrrid
inland; whentbe aunbeingto whit-autum-
nal equinox, wa- almoet just om my head:
fir! reekonedmyaelt'by obaenetion,tnbein
the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two mi
nuteenorthoftheline.

 

SECTION VII.

uoBllSOII'S X00! 0" IICIOHIRG Till--DIMCUL'I'I'IS 1118136 l'IOH "m
0" men--an ARRANGIS HIS BAIII'AI'IOR.

Am: [had been there about tenortwelve
days, it came into my to that l ehould
loeemy reckoning oftime fol-want ol'bouka,
and penand ink,and should even krget the
aabbath dayl from the working days: but. to
prevent this, I out it with my knife upon a
largepoet,inca italleuera;andmakingit
intoagreaterou, eetitupontheehorewbm
Ifimlanded,viz."lcameon ehore here on
the 80th efSeptember, 1659." Upon the aidee
ofthie square ponlcutevery day anotchwith
my Imil'e, endoreryeeventhnowh Ira-anion;
againuthereet,andeeeryfiretdayofthe
month as long again as that long one: and
thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoning oftime.

But it happened, that among the many thinga
which I hmught out of the ship, in the neural
myucs which. u above mentioned, I made
to it. I got several thing-of lea value, butnot
at all Ira: useful to menvhieh I fumd, acme
tirnv: after, in rurnnnging the cheats; an, in
particular, pm, ink, and paper; several par-
evls in the eaptain'e, mate'e, gunner'e, and
carpenter's keeping; three or "m,
tome mthematieal instmnenu,diab, pet-spee-
tivee.chart.s.andboohofnavigalimt allwhieh
l huddled together, whether I might want them
er-maleolfottndtheeverygeudBibleamhieh
cum to me in my eargot'nm End-nil, and
"'nichll'mdpacked upamongmylhinglzm
l'nrtugtreaebonhaleo,lmi,anatigmrmo'
three pop"! prayer ion", and mental other
boot", all whidl I earefinlly aeumd. And!

mttatnotfirgetthatwehadintbeehipedogfind
two eat-,ofwho-e eminent hiatory I may have
occasion to nay aemething, initaplace: he I
narriedboththeeatewithme;andaefortbedog
hejumpedoutoftheahiphituefljandawamm
ahoretomethedayenerlwentonahorewithmy
fireteargo,aod wua tnmyeervant tomefor
mauyyeara: lwantednothingthatbeeouldfeteh
me,norenyeornpnnythatheenuld makeupto
me, I only wanted to have him talk to me,
btttthatwouldnot do. Allah-erred bebre,
Ifoundpeu,ink,andpnpev,andlhmbanded
thomlotheutmoat',andlahallahowthatwhih
mylnk lasted, I kept thing- veryeuct, bta
afier thatwaegone, Ioouldnot; forleouldnot
makeanyink,hyanymeanethatloeulddeviee.

'ptnmeinmindthatiwantedmany
things, notwithstanding'alll had annealed to-
grthertand ol'theee,thie ot'iehwaa one;
ualeeaepade,pictaxe,andehovel,todiger
remove theearth; needlee, pine, and thread;
uforlinen,leoonlearnedlowantthatwide-
eutmuchdifiwlty.

Thiewantot'toolemade every week! did
goonbeavily: and itwaenearawheleyear
hehelhadentirelyfinidaedmylittle pale,er
moundedmybahicatioa. Thepilaeoretabee,
whid'tmll heavyaalewlilwelllifi,m
a lougfime in cutting and preparing 'm the
woode,andme,by&r,inbrhC/inglune;an
thatlepenteemetimeetwohyeinenningad
bringing bomeeneoftheee pea, and atb'ad
day indriving itinln the grumdzirwbio
purpoao,lgtla|fiavypieeeolwnnd at",28

but at last bethought myselfof one ofthe iron
crows; which, however, though I found itan-
swer, made driving these posts or piles very
laboriotu and tedious work. But whatneed I
have been concerned at the tediousness of any
thing I had todo,seeingI hadtimeenoughto
do it in? nor had I any other employment, if
that had been over, at least that Icould foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek ft! food;
which I did, more or lees, every day.

I now began tootmsidEr seriously my condi-
tion, and the circumstance I was reduced to;
and I drew up the state of my afl'airs in writing,
not so much to leave them to any that were to
come after me, (for I was like tohave butfew
heirs.) as to deliver my thoughts from daily
poring upon them, and afflicting my mind: and
as my reason began now to master my dee
dcnry, I began to comfort myselfas well as I
could, and to set the good against the evil,that
I might have something to distinguish my case
fi'om worse ; and I stated very impartially, like
debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I aufl'ered, thus:

EVIL.

I am cut open a horrible
desolate island, void d
nope of mower].

tam stunted out and set-a
ran--d. as it were, from-LI the
world, to be miserable.

I am divided from man-
ltntl, a solitaire; one ha-
niches] {mm human society.

I have no clothes to cover
me.

I am wlthout any defense,
or mum to resist any vio'
tent. of man or beast.

Ihavenoaoultnlpnl to,
erreheveme.

0001).

But I am alive: and not
drowned, as all my ship's
somp-ny were.

But I am singled not too
from-ll the ship's crew. to
be spam! from death ; and
he III-t miraculously saved
mo. from death, can deliver
mel'rem this condition.

But I am not starved. and
perivhinx in a barren plus,
slanting no sung-nee.

But hm his hot dilute
where. It I ma elothes,I
could hardly wear them.

But I am mat on an Island
Ihefei see no wild beaatl to
hurt me, as I saw on the
will ofAfriu : and \vltatlfl
had been lhipimhd there I

But God wonderfully suit
the ship in near "mush to
the share, that I have not out
so many Iteceasary things as
wtll either supply my wants,
or enable me to lu|| tly my.
selfer as loogas I'ltve.

Upon the whole,herewasan undoubted tee-

timony, that there was scarce any condition in

he world so miserable, but there was some-
thing negative, or something positive, to be
thankful for in it: and let this stand as adi-
rection, from the experience of the most mise-
rable of all conditions in this world, that we
may always find in it something to comfort
"selves from, and to set, in the description
ofgoodandevil,on the credit side ofthe ao-
was.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON -CRUBOE.

Ha ' nowhroughtmy mind alittleto ro-
lish uiyfifiodition, and given over looking out
tosea,toseeiroouldvpyaehip; I say,giv-
ing over these things, I began to apply myself
to accommodate mywayofliving, andtomake
things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation,
which was a tent tmderthe sideofa rock, sur-
rounded witha strongpaleofposts andoables;
but I might now rather call ita wall,for I
raised a kindofwallagainst itoftta'Es,about
about two feet thick on the outside: and after
sometime" think itwas a year andahalf)
[raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
andthatched or covered it with boughs oftrees,
and such thinpas I could get, tokeep out the
rain; which I found, at some times ofthe year,
very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all
my into this pale, and into the cave
which I had made behind me. But I must
observe, too, that at first lhiswasaoonfused
heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order,

otheytooltup all myplace; Ihadno room
to turn myself: so I set myself to enlare my
cave, and work farther into the earth; for it
was a loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily
to the labourIbestowed on it: and when I
found [was pretty safe asto the beastsofprey,
I Worked sideways, to the right hand, into the
rock, andthen turning to the right again, worked
quite out, and made me a door to come out in
the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress,
as it were, a backwsy to my tent and to my
storehouse, but gave meroom tostow my goods.

And new I began to apply myself to make
luchneccesarythingsaslfoundlmostwanted,
particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts
I had in the world; I could notwrite, oreat,
ordo several things with so much pleasure,
without stable: so I went to work. And here
I mustneeds observe, that as reason is the sub-
stance and original of the mathematics, so by
stating and squaring every thing by reason,
and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be, in time, master of
every mechanicart. [had never handled a
tool inmylife; and yet, in time, by labour,
application, and oontrivanoe, I fwnd, at last,
thathanted nothinghutloouldhave made,
especially in had had tools. However, I made
abundance ofthings, evenwithout tools; and
somewithno morotoolsthananadu and
a hatchet, which were never made
thet way before, and that with infinite labour.
Forenmple, it'Iwanted aboard, Iliad no
othernyhniowidmnm,mitonnn
#9 befon me,nndliewitflnconeilhcC/ side
wilhmyun,tilllhndhrmghtiuohouihin
an phnk,nndthen duh iinmouhwilhmy
we. Ilisuuo,hythismethodloouldmnko
butonehonrdofnwholom; but this! hul
no remodyforhn puience, nnymove thnn I
had for: prodigious deal offline Ind labour
whichillooklneupwmnkonplutorhoud:
buxmyiimeorlabowwuliubwordlnndno
iumuwcll employed one wayunnolhnr.
Howeveerdomonuhlonndnchnir, u
Iohservednhovefinihofintpheo; nndlhinl
diduul oflhe nhortpioouofhoudnhnl
brmxghtonmynfifiom die-hip. But when
Immhtomoomohouds,unhovo, Imndc
lugs shelvel, <<mama: of: hands
haifioneovernmlhernllnlongouelidcnfmy
cave, colnynll my look, mils, nod iron work
on;and,innwotd,loupnrueevorythingnl
large in their place-,thulmighl mflyoomo
at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of
d.emck,lohnngmygm,nndnllthinguhu
wouklhnngupuolhnhndmyenveheonmn,
itlookedlikengmcninnguineofnfl neoco-
sarytlflnggnndlhndnverylhingwmdyu
myliaM,lhnlilwlsngthlmlomelo
see all my inluchocder,nndenpecinlly
tofindmyuoclofnllnmriuww
And nowitwu dull hog-n wheep n
journal of every dny'l employment; for, in-
deed,nfim, I m in womuchhmry,lnd
woulyuwlnbommuinmuchdinompomro

ofmind;nndmyjournnlwndd.eoo,hnnhcon
fnllofnunydullmmgl:fiwmmple, 1mm
have laid thus--"Wm All"! lad
gottolhonflndhnduenped drowning, in-
mdofbeingthnnkfulloaodfirmy deliver-
uno, hnving first vomilod, with ihc grant
qmmityofnltwuer which wugomninlo
my staunch, nndreooveringmymlfnlinle, l
mnhouttlioohon,wringingmyhnndl, nnd
butingmyhadnndfuo, udniming army
mitery,nnd cryingout,lwumdane,undonc!
u'll,tiredgndEURninC/,lwufovcedtoliodown
onlhe tonne-o .hutdImmnlup,
firfeuofheing dove-nod."

Sound": Illuminndnflorlhndhoen
onbonrdihoplhip nndgotnlllhnlcouldm
ofhecho-Mnolforburgoninguptothotop
ofnlitdomoumninnndlookinguntomin
hopad'ooeingnnhip: thonfnncylhu,ntn
mldimncofllpiodnnilmlnunmynlfwilh
thehopaofitnnd, nflerlookinglundily,"
lwunlmosthlind, looeilquite,nndlii down
udweeplikeadfldnndlhnoinacuemy
mim'yhymyfolly.

But, luvinggouenowr than Ihhgn' In name
measure. Ind hnving nailed myhoI-oholdmlf
Indhnhimioo, mndemnnublcnndnehnir,
mdnlluhmdsomenhwtmoulcodd,lbo--
gmlokecpmyjoinniwfflwhichllhnflhero
givoyoulhooopy,(thwghinizwillhewldnll
thesepnnicuhnover ngnin,)ulouguii
lu'ed; for,hnvingnomonink,lwufowed
toleueiiofi'.

 

SECTION VIII.

'OIHISOI'S JOURNAL--DETAILS OF HIS DOMESTIC ICOIOXY All) COMBI-
VANCM--SHOCX OF AN EARTHQUAKE

THE JOURNAL

Rim-nucnnwlh, 1659. I.poormisenhlo
Inson "mayhem; wncked,dumg
ndmdfiiim,inihom,amoondlm
on this dining! W dud, which I
:11": :16 Inmorbnrm; Ill Ihnmt
:Ip's bo' drownodnndm
"n. damn-fly In: :-
Allthcrutol'lhntday Ilpeminnfllicting
mlfuthodismnl cirunnmneul wan
brush! but. I had noiihnr find, home,
clothes, wnnpu,nornlncnlofly Io:and,in
dunnird' Inyvdiefinw nothing but death
bile-o; lhuldmfieilhgrhedevowedby

wild bem,mnrdmd hynvngenmrnuved
todnnlhforwnnloffood. Anho of
nighllnlcplinnmJorhrd'wfl-im;
NIMM],WBIMIHML
Octonul. Inthommningluw,wmy
grul-uprioefllnahiphdloundwilhlho
highliiemndvvudrimummnngninm
newthcidnnd;whinh,uilwumcam-
fonononnhnnd,(hoaoinghcrritnpright,
Mwmhml Mirthwind
IbnedJmightgw cum-nasal!>>
findindmmtofbrformyrdiafi)
no,onihoolhchnnd, itrmwedmygrinfu
Iholouol' myeonndu,who,limnginod,if
nhadnllunyedonboud,mighhnn-vvd30

the ship, or, at least, that they would not have
been all drowned, as they were; and that, bad
the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat, out ol' the ruins of the ship, to
have carried us to some other part of the world.

I spent great part of Ihisday In perplexing my-
self on these things; hut,at length, seeing the
shipaltnost dry, I went upon the sand as neartts
I could, and then swam on board. This day also
it continued raining, though with no wind at all.

From the lst of October to the 24th. All
these days entirely spent in many several voy-
ages to get all I could out of the ship; which
I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon
rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather; but it
seems this was the rainy season.

Oct. '20. I overset my raft, and all the
goods I had got upon it; but being in shoal
water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I
recovered many of them when the tide was
out.

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during which Iitne the
ship broke in pieces (the wind blowing n. lit-
tle hatder than beliire,) and was no more to be
seen, except the wreck of her, and that only
at low water. I spent this day in covering and
securing the goods which I had saved, that the
rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost
all day, to find out a place to fix my habitation ;
greatly concerned to secure myself from any
attack in the night, either from wild beasts or
men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper
place, under a rock, and marked out a semi-
circle for my encampment; which I resolved
to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortifica.
tion, made of double piles, lined within with
cables, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 301b, I worked very
hard in carrying all my goods to my new ha-
bitation, though some panot' the time it rained
exceedingly hard.

The 3lst, in the morning. I went out into the
island with my gun, to seek for some food, and
discover the country ; when I killed a she-goat,
and her kid followed me home, which [after-
wards killed also, because it would not feed.

November I. I setup my tent undera rock,
and lay there for the first night: making it as
large an I could, with stakes driven' In to swing
my hammock upon.

Nou.2 . I setup all my chests and boards,
and the pieces of timber which made my rails;
and with them formed a fence round Inc,a
little within the place I had marked out for
my fortification.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed
two {owls like ducks, which were very good
food. In the aftemoon I went to work to
make me a table.

Mo 4. This morning I began to order
my times of work, ofgoing out with my gun,
time of sleep, and time ofdiveraion; viz. every
morning I walked otn with my gun for two or
three hours, if It did not rain . then employed
myself to work till about eleven o'clock: then
a- e whnt l had to live on; and from twelve to
two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive but; and then, in the evening, to
work age ni. The working part of this day
and the next was wholly employed in making
my table, for I was yet but a very sorry work-
man; though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I be-
lieve they would any one else.

NW 5. This day went abroad with my
gun and dog. and killed a wild eat: her skin
prettysol't, but her flesh good for nothing: of
every creature that I killed I took off the skins,
and preserved them. Coming back by the sea.
shore, I saw many sorts of sea-low] which I
did not understand; but was surprised, and
almost frightened, with two or three seals;
which. while I was gazing at them (not well
knowing what they were,) got into the sea,
and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I Went
to work with my table again, and finished it,
though not to my liking; nor was it long be-
fore I learned to mend it.

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th,]01h, and part of
the 12th (for the llth was Sunday, according
to my reckoning,) I took wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado, brought it to a tole-
rable shape, but never to please me ; and, even
in the making, I pulled it in pieces several
times.

Notr. I soon neglected my keeping Sun.
days; for, omitting my mark for them on my
post. I lorgot which was which.

Now. Is. This day it rained; which re-
freshed me exceedingly and cooled the eanh ,
but it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened the dreadfully,
tor fear of my powder. As soon as it was
over, I resolved to separate my etock ol' pow-
der into as many little parcels as possible, that
it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I
spent in making little square cheats or boxes,
which mig hthold abouts pound,ortwopounds
atmoet,ot'powder; andeqpttningthepowder
in,I-toweditinp!:ceaaa secure and aero-
motefiomonesnotherupoesible. On one
ofthese threednyl I killed niarge hirdthnt
wugoodtoentthutlknewnotwhsttn
all it.

Nov. 11. This dey I began to dig behind
my tent, into the rod, to nuke room for my
father convenience.

Non. Three things I wonted exceedingly
for this work, viz. n piekue, n shovel, sud n
wheelbarrow, or hnket; no I duisted from
my work, and began to oouider how to supply
thesewants, sndnnkemesornetools. As
for s pickue, I msde use of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though henvy: but
the next thing was s shovel or spsde; this
was so absolutely neoesnry, that, indeed, I
could do nothing efi'ectuelly without it; but
what kind ot'one to Ineke I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next dsy, in searching the
woods, I found 3 tree ot'thnt wood, or like it,
which, in the Bruile, they all the. iron tree,
from its exceeding herdneee: of this, with
greet labour, and slmost spoiling my no, I
cut 1 piece; and brought it home, too, with
ditficnlty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hudnenloi'the wood, end my
having no other wey, made me I long while
upon this machine: iii I worked it efl'ectually,
by little and little, intothe form of s shovel or
spade; the handle exactly like ours
in England, only that the brood pert lining
noiron shod uponitnt bottom, it would not
last me so long; however, it served well
enough for the uses which I hsd oecssion to
put it to; but never won n shovel, I believe,
made niler that fashion, or so long a melting.

I was still deficient: for I wanted e hnsket,
orswheelbsrrow. AhnsketIoonldnotmnke
by any mans, hsving no such things In twigs
that would bend to lnnke wicker-were, st
least, none y:etfoundout snd sstothewheel-
barroW,IfanciedIoouldmkeellhutthewheel,
bulthotlhsdnonotionof; neitherdidIknow
how to go shout 1t: besides, I had no possible
mytomnkeirongudgeons RI thespindleor
exisot'ths wheeltnrunin; soIgnveitover:
and, forestry ear-ryingnwny ytheenrthwhiohldug
outoftheenve,Inndemes likeshod,
which the labourers tarry mortar in for the
bricklayere. This wls not so difimlt to me
"themk' thedsovelundyetthis sndthe
shovel,lnd esttenmtwhiehlmndein vein
to nuke n wheel-snow, took me up no less
then fottrdnys; I mean, nlwnyl my
morning went with my gun, which I
omitted, end very widen: feiled also bringing
Moe something fit to ant.

Nov. Q. Myotherwork hevingnownood

31

still, because of my msking these tools, when
they were finished I went on; end working
every day,umyltrengthandtime allowed,I
spent eighteen dsys entirely in widening end
deepening my cove, the: it might hold my
goodsoommodiot-ly.

N011. Duringnilthistime,lworkedto
make this room, or enve, specious my! to
accommodatemeasswnrehonseor magazine,
I kitchen, I dining-room, and n eelinr. As
for e lodging, I kept to the tent; except that
sometimes, in thewet season ofthe year, it
rained so hard thet Ieould not keep myself
dry;whicheutsedmenfierwsrdstoeovrrell
my place within my pole with longpoles, end
intheformofrsfiers,lenning ' themek,
sndlosdthemwithflsgssnd leave-of
treee,likesthstoh.

Decline: to. I begsnnow to think my
aveorvnultfinished; whenonnluddenfit
seemslhatlmedeittoolsrge lsrge)sgrentqnnntity .
ofenrth felldown fi'om the topsndoneside:
sonmeh,thet,in short, it flightenedme, and
notwithoutrensontoo;briflhedheentmder
it,Ishould never hove wentedsgrsve-digger.
UponthisdisnsterJhedogrentdenlofwork
todo overngnin,fizrlhsdthelooseenrthto
carryout; 1nd, whidtwesol'mereimportnnee,
Ilndthece In ,eothntlm the
mmmemz'gwflmnpdown. igb

Dnc. II. This day! went PS0ka with it
seeordingly; end got two shores or pom
pitched uprighttothe top,withtwopiecee of
board across over eechpost: this I finished
thenext dny; sndsetting merepestsup with
honrdnrin shout nweeknsere'l ind thereof
secured ,endtheposts,stsndinginrews,served
mo forpsrtitiomtopnrtofi'myhonse.

Due. 17. From this dsytn the m, I
pieced shelves, and knocked up nnils on the
posts,tohs.ng everythingnpthsteouldhe
hungup: sndnowlbegsntobeinsomeorder
within

Dec. 20. I envied every thing into the
eeve,sndhegnntofnmishmyhome,sndset
upsomepiooeed'bonrdeflikendreesento
ordermyvicttnlsupon;hutbonrds tohe
verysesreewithme:nisolnademesnnther
table.

Dec. 2'. Mnehrninsllnight snd nil dsy
nommng' ' out.

Duels. Rsinslidsy.

Dec. 28. No rein; end the earth mum
"hm-"mm... - .....

v.21. eds :snd
mother," that latched hm ledithome
inestring: whenIhnditheme,Ihomdand
epiinteredupitn leg,wh'uhwnshr&o.82

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived;
and the leg grew well, and as strong as ever:
but, by nursing it so long, it grew tame, and
fed upon the little green at my door, and would
not go away. This was the first time that I
entertained a thought of breeding up some
tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. %, 29, 80, Sl. Great heats, and no
breeze; so that there we no stirring abroad,
except in the evening, for food: this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within
doors.

JANUARY 1. Very hot still; but I went
abroad early and late with my gun, and lay
still in the middle of the day. This evening,
going farther into the valleys which lay towards
the centre of the island, I found there was
plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard
to come at; however, I resolved to try if I
could not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog. and set him upon the goats: but I was
mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
dog: and he knew his danger too well, tbr he
would not come near them.

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which,
being still jealous of my being attacked by
somebody, I resolved to make very thick and
strong.

N. B. This wall being described before, I
purposely omit what was said in thejoumal: it
is sufficient to observe, that I was no less time
than from the 3d of Ianuaryto the 14th of
April, working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall ; though it was no more than about twenty-
five yards in length, being a half circle, from
one place in the rock to mother place, about
twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the centre, behind it.

All this time I worked vetyhand; the rains
hindering me many days, nay, sometimes weelu
together: but I thought I should neverbe pen-
fectly secure till this wall was finished; and it
is scarce credible what inespressible labour
every thing was done with, especially the
bringing piles out of the woods, and driving
them into the ground; for I made them much
bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the cute
side double fenced, with a turf wall raised up
close to it, I persuaded myselfthat ifany peo-
ple were to come on shore there they would
not perceive any thing like a habitation: and
it was very well I did so, as may beohaerved
hereafier, upon a very remarkable occasion.

Duringthis time, I made my hands inthe
woods for game everyday, when the rain perb

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

mitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in
these walks, of something or other to my ado
vantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeotu, who build, not as woodpigeons, in a
tree, but rather as housepigeons, in the holes
ofthe rocks: and, taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to breed them up lame, and did
so; but when they grew older, they flew all
away; which, perhaps, was at first for want of
feeding them, for I had nothing to give them:
however, I frequently mind their nests, and
got their young ones, which were very good
meat. And now, in the managing my house-
hold afi'airs, I found myselfwanting in many
things, which I thought at first it was impos-
sible for me to make; as indeed, asto some of
them, it was: for instance, I could never make
acask tobe hooped. Ihada small runletor
two, as I observed before; but I could never
arrive to the capacity ofmaking one by them,
though I spent many weeks about it: I could
neither put in the heads, nor join the staves so
true to one another as to make them hold
water; so I gave that alsoover. In the neat
placerasata loss forcandlo;sothat.
as soon as it was dark, which was generally
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remember the lump of bees-wax with which
I made candles in my Afi-ican adventure; but
I had none ofthat now: the only remedy I had
was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow; and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a
wickofsomo oakum,I madame alarnp; and
this gave me light, though not a clear steady
light like a candle. In the middle ofall my
labours it happened, that in rummaging my
things, Ifound a littlehag; which, as I hinted
before, had been filled with corn, for the feed-
ing of poultry ; not for this voyage, but before,
as I suppose, when the ship came from Lis-
bon. What little remainder of corn had been
in the hagwas all devoured with the rats, and
I saw nothing in the but husks and dust;
and beingwillingto have the bag for some
other use, (I think, it was to put powder in,
when I divided it for fearof the lightning, or
sornesuchuae,) Iabook tbehnshsot'cornout
ofit,on one side ot'my fortification, under the
rock.
Itwasalittlobeforethegreatrainjmtnow
mentimod,thatl threwthis stnfl'away; taking
nonotice ofanything,andnotsomucb alre-
metan-ing that I had thrown any thing there:
whenaboutamanthafierfisawlomofew
stalks of something green, shooting out of the
grotmd,whiehlfanciedmightbe someplantI
hadnot m;butlwas|nprised,andper
foctly astonished, when, aller a little longer
time, I saw about ten ortwelve ears come out,
which were perfect green barley of the same
kind as our European, nay, as our English
barley.

It Is impossible to express the astonishment
and confusion of my thoughts onthis occasion:
I had hitherto acted upon no religious founda-
tinn at all; indeed, I had very few notions of
rn-li-vion in my head, nor-had entertained any
sense of any thing that had hefallen me,
o'iicrwise than as chance, or, as we lightly
5:", what pleasesGod; without so much as
inquiring into the end of Ptovidence In these
thinus, or his order In governing events in the
worhl. But after I saw barley grow there, in
a climate which I lmew was not proper for
corn and especially as I knew not how it

came there, it startled mo strangely; and!
began to suggest, that God had miraculously
caused this grain to grow without any help of
seed sown, and that it was sodirected purely
for my sustenance, onthatwild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought
tears out of my eyes; and I to him my-
self that such a prodigy of nature should hap-
nr-n upon my account: and this was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it still, all
along by the side ofthe rock, some other strag-
gling stalks, which proved to he stalks of rice,
and which I knew, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions

of Providence (or my support, but, not doubt-
' ing that there was more in the place, Iwent
over all that part of the island where I had
been before, searching in every corner, and
underevery roek,formoreofit, butlcould
not find any. At last it occurred to my
droughts, that I had shook out a hagot'chick-
en's meat in that place, and then the wonder
began to cease: andI must confess, my reli-
gious thankfulness to God's ' once began
to abate too, upon the discovering that all this
was noIhing but what was common; though I
ought to have been as thankful for sostrangs
and unforeseen a providence, as if it had been
miraculous: for II was really the work of?>>
vidence, as to me, that should orderorappoint
that ten or twelve grains ofcovn should remain
unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the
rest, aail'ithad been droppedfrom heaven;
anal-o, thatIahouldthrowitoutinthatpar-
ticular place, where, itheingintheahadeof
a high rock, it sprangttp inmediately- ,
Whereas, in had thrown it any where else, at
thattime, itwouldhavehoon binned upand

destroyed. 3

I carefully saved the ears of this core, you
may he sure, in their season, which was about
the end of June; and, laying up every corn, I
resolved to sow them all again , hopin't, in
time, to have some quantity sutficient to sup-
ply me with bread. But it was not till the
fourth year that Icould allow myself the least
grain ofthis corn to eat, and even then but spa.-
ringly, as l shall show afterwards, inits order;
for I lost all thatl sowed the first season, by
not observing the proper time: as I sowed Just
before the dry season, so that it never came up
at all, at least not a it would have done, of
which In its place.

Besides this barley, there .were, as above,
twenty or thirty stalks of rice, whichl pre-
served with the same care; and whose use
was of the same kind, ovto the same purpose,
viz. to make me bread, or rather fund; for I
{mind ways toeookit up withoutbaking, though
I did that "also attersometime.--Buttoreutm
to my Journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or
four months, to getmy wall done: andthe Mth
oprril I closed it up; contriving togot into
it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder,
that theremighthe no aignon the unsido of
my habitation.

ArIuI. 16. I finishedtheladder; solvent
up with the ladder to the top, and then pulled
it up after me, and lot it down in the inside:
this was a complete enclosure to me; for within
I had rootnenough, and nothingoouldcomeat
me from without,unleas It could first mount my
wall.

Thevery nestday aflerth'uwallwasfinishod,
I had almost all my labourovsrthmwn at once,
andmyse If killed; the case was thou--A! I
was busy' to the inside of it, behind my tent,
jwt at the entrance intomy cave, I was ten-
rihly frightened with a most dreadful surpri-
sing thing indeed; for, all on a sudden, I found
diocarthcomocrumhling down fiomthe roof
ofmy cave, and from the edge ofthe hillover
myhead,andtwoot'thepootsIhad set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was
heartily scared; but thought nothing of what
really was the cause, only thinking that ofthetop
ofmycavewaafialling' In,as someof it had
done heiore: andforfear I should be buried
in it, I ranforwardto myladder, and uotthitk-
ing myself safe there neither,I overlay
wallforfearofthe pieceaofthe lfillwhich I
expected might roll down upon
sooner stepped down upon the filth grand,
than! plainlyaaw itwua terribleearthqnake:
flat the ground I stood on shook three time! at
about eight minu- distance, with three ad34

shocks u would hsveorerturned the est
building thst could be supposed to bsve stood
ontheesrth; ends grestpieeeofthetopofs
rock, whichstoodsbouthslt'smtlefiom me,
next the see, fell down, with such s terrible
noise s: I never hesrd in sll my life. I per-
ceived also thstthe veryseswss put into violent
motion by it; end I believe the shocks were
stronger under the wnter than on the island.

I was so much unused with the thing itself
(hsving never felt the like, nor discoursed with
my onethsthnd) thsthss like onedesd or
stupified; end the motion of the earth msde
my stomach sick, like one thst wss tossed st
sen: but the noise of the fslling ofthe reek
swslted me, as itwere; end rousing met'rom
the stupifiod condition I wsn in, filled me with
horror, and I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods,
and bu ryingsllstonce; this sunk my very
soul within the s second time.

After the third shock wesover, end "at
no more foreometime,lbegnn totskeeou-
rsge:y yet I hsd not been enough to goover
my wall strain, for fesr of being buried slive,
but not still upon the ground greetly astdown,
snddboonsolste, nothowingwhsttodot All
this while, I hsd not the least serious religious

thought nothing but the common Ind, Inns
Meg me! sndwhen itwss over, that went
swsy too.

While I utthtl, I found the sir overeat,
end growdoudy,ssifitwouldrnin; end soon
sfterthe wind rose by littlesnd little, sothst
in lsesthsnhell'en hour it blew smoetdresdfitl
hurriesne: the ses wss,sll on s sudden, oo-
vered with fosm Ind froth; the shore was
covered with s hreschofthewster; the trees
were tornup bytherools; end I. terriblestorm
it wss. This held shout three hours, and then
bepn toshste; sndintwohounmore itwss
quite cslm, and began to nin very hsrd. All
this whilol set upon the ground, very much
terrified snd dejected; when, on s sudden, it
csme into mythoughts,thstthese winds snd
rein being the consequence ofthe esrthquske,
the eerthquslte itsell'wls spent end over, end
I might venture into my ave sglin. With
this thought my spirits hegsn to revive; snd
thereinslsohelp tngtopersusdemeflwent
in,sndsst down Inmyteot butthersinwss
soviolsnt, thst mytentwssresdyto behesten
downwith it: sndelsforoedtogetintomy
esve, though very much sfrsid end messy, for
fisrit should fsllonmyhesd. This violent
rsln breed motonnew work,vis. locut n
hole through my new fortifiestion, like a. sink,
- tobtthewstergnmwhiehwotdd eke hsve

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

drowned my esve. Afier I Ind hem h my
esveforsometitnenndfotmdnomoreshoeks
oftheesrthqushe fllow,l beg-n to heme
composed. Andnow to support my spirit;
which indeed wsnted it very much,l went to
my little store, sndtook s smell sup of rum;
which, however, Idid then, end slwsys,very
spsringly,knowingloouldhsvenomorewhcn
that stwss It continued rsining all that
night,sndgrestpsrtd'thenextdsy,eotlmtl
oouldnotstirehrosd: hutmymindheingmore
oompoeed,lbegnntothinkd'whstlhsdhest
do; concluding, that if the island was subject
totheee skes, there wouldho noliving
fir meinseeve,butlmustconsiderol'build
ingtne some little but insn open plaee, which
I might surround with s well, u I hsd done
here,snd so make myself seatre from wild
heuts ormen: for if! myed where sts,l
should oertsinly, one time or other, be buried
Ilive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove
my tent fiorn the piece where it novr stood,
being just under the ' precipice of the
hill, Ind which, if It should be shsken sgnin,
wouldoertsinlyfillupon ponntytent. I spentthe
twonextdnys ,ingbe thel9thsnd20thof
April, incontrivingwheresndhowtoremove
my hshitstion. The fesroi' being swsllowed
slivesfl'ectedme so, thstlnever lslept inquiet;
Ind et the apprehension of ytng shrosd,
witho'ut any fenee,wssslrnoeteq uslto It but
still, whenllooked shout, sndssw how every
thing was put in order, how plesssntly l wss
onneesled,snd how ssl'efrom dsnger, itmsde
meverylosth toremove. lathe mesh time,
itoocurred to methstitwonld require svsst
desloftimeformetodothie;sndthst1must
be contented to rtm theriskwhere I was, till
lhsdformedseonvonient esmp,sndreeured
itsoestoretnovotoit. Withthiseonclueion
Imposed myselffitr I time: Ind resolved
thstlwouldgotoworhwithsllspeedtobuild
meswsllwithpilessndesbles,&c.inscirele
us before, sndset upmytontin it whenit
wssfinisbed; hutthstlvrenldventure tostsy
where Instill itwssresdy, end fit tore-
tnoveto. This wssthe2lst.

Ann. 5. Thenen morning! begun to
consider ofrnesns to put this mes-no into
execution; buthssstsgrestlocshoutthe
tools. Ihsdthreehrgessmsndebmdsnoe

ol'hstehets, (firwe esrried the hsteheu its
nsfiewiththolndisns.) butwithmnfiehep-

ping sndeutting knottyhsrdwood, theywere
Illfulld'notehes,sndml: Indthoughlhd
,Ieooldnotttrrnitsndgrindtsy

toolstoo. Thisesusedmessmnehthondl
as a statesman would have bestowed upon a
grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life
and death of a man. At length I contrived a,
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot,
that I might have both my hands at liberty.
Nora. I had never seen any such thing in
England, or at least. not to take notice how it
was done, though since I have observed it is
very common there: besides that, my grind-
stone was very large and heavy. This ma--

35

chine cost me a full week's work to bring it to
perfection.

Armt. 28, 29. These two whole days I took
up in grinding my tools, my machine or turn-
ing my grindstone performing very well.

APRIL 30. Having perceived that my bread
had been low a great while, I now took a. sur-
vey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-
cake a day, which made my heart very
heavy.

 

SECTION IX.

ROBINSON OB'TAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECKo--HIS ILLNESS AND
AFFLICTION

MAY 1. In the morning, looking toward the
seaside, the tide being low, I saw something
lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it
looked like a cask: when I came to it, [found
a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore
by the late hurricane; and looking towards
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel that was driven on shore,
and soon found it was a. barrel of gunpowder;
but it had taken water, and the powder was
caked as hard as a stone: however, I rolled it
farther on the shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands, as near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more.

\Vhen 1 came down to the ship, I found it
strangely removed. The forecastle, which lay
before buried in sand, was heaved up at least
s'ut feet: and the stern (which was broke to
pieces, and parted from the rest, by the force
of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging of
her) was tossed, as it. were, up, and cast on
one side: and the sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her whcn the tide was out; where-
as there was a great piece of water before, so
that I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming. I was
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must he done by the earthquake ; and as by
this violence the ship was more broke open
than formerly, so many things came daily on
shore, which the sea had loosened, and which
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the

land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the

design of removing my habitation; and I bu-

sied myself mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any way into
the ship: but I found nothing was to be ex-
pected of that kind, for all the inside of the
ship was choked up with sand. However, as
I had learned not to despair of any thing, I
resolved to pull every thing to pieces that I
could of the ship, concluding that every thing
I could get from her would 'be of some use or
other to me.

Mn 8. I began with my saW, and cut a
piece of a beam through, which I thought
held some of the upper part or quarterdeck
together; and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could from
the side which lay highest; but the tide coming
in, I was obliged to give over for that time.

MAY 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport; when, just going to leave off, I caught
a young dolphin. I had made me a long line
of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks; yet I
frequently caught fish enough, as much as I
cared to eat ; all which I dried in the sun, and
ate them dry.

MAY 5. Worked on the wreck: out another
beam asunder, and brought three great fir
planks off from the decks; which I tied toge-
ther, and made swim on shore when the tide of
flood came on.

MAY 6. Worked on the wreck ; got. several
iron bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron
work; worked very hard, and came home Very
much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

MAY 7. Went to the wreck again, but not
with an intent to work: but found the weight
of the wreck had broke itself down, the beams
being cut; that several pieces of the ship86

seemed to lie loose; and the inside of the hold
lay so open that I could see into it; but almost
full of water and sand.

IVIAY 8. \Vent to the wreck, and carried an
Iran crow to wrench up tlte deck, wltich lay
now quite clear of the water and sand. I
wrenched up two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow
in tlte wreck fur next day.

MAY 9. "'ent to the wreck, and with the
crow made way into the body of the wreck,
and felt several (asks, and loosened them with
the crow, but could not break them up. I felt
also a roll of English lead,and could stir it;
but it was too heavy to remove.

MAY l0 to M. \Vent every day to the
wreck; and got a great many pieces of timber,
and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred
weight of iron.

MAY I5. I carried two hatchets, to try if I
could not cut a piece of the roll of lead, by
placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it
with the other; but as it lay about a foot and
a half in the water, I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet.

MAY 16. It had blown hard in the night,
and the wreck appeared more broken by the
force of the water; but I stayed so long in the
woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide
prevented ntyb noing to the \\ reek tltat day.

Mn 17 I saw some pieces of the wreck
blown on shore, at a. great distance, two miles
oti' me, but resolved to see what they were,
and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away.

MAY 24. Every day, to this day, I worked
on the wreck; and with hard labour I loosened
some things so much with tlte crow, that the
first blowing tide several casks floated out, and
two of the seamen's chests: but the wind
blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead,
which had some Brazil pork in it; but the
oalt water and the sand had spoiled it. 1 con-
tinued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to gut food;
which I always appointed, during this part of
my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ehbed out:
and by this time I had gotten timber, and plank,
and iron work, enough to have built a good
boat, it'Ihad known how: and I alsogot,at
several times, and in several pieces, near one
hundred weight. of the sheet lead.

Jun: l6. Going down to the seaside, I fotmd
a large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I
had seen: which, it seems, was only my rnis-
fortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity:

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRL'LSOE.

for hat! I happened to he on the other side d
the Hand, I might have 'trtd hundreds of them
everyday, as I found afterwards,- but perhaps
had paid dear enough for them.

JUNE 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I
fltund in her threescore eggs: and her flesh
was to me, at that time, till: most savoury and
pleasant that I ever tasted itt my life; having
had no flesh, but of goats and fuwls, since I
lantletl in this horrid place.

Jest: 18. Rained all that day, and I stayed
within. I thought, at this time, the rain felt
cold, and Iwas somewhat chilly ; which I knew
was not usual in that latitude.

Jusr 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the
weather had been cold

JUNE 2'0. No rest all night; violent pains in
my head, and feverish.

Jun: 21. Very ill ; frightened almost to
death with the apprehensions of my sad con-
dition, to be sick, and no help: prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm of? Hull, but
scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts
being all confused.

JUNE 2-2. A little better; but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickney.

Just: 23. Very bad again; cold and shiver-
ing, and then a violent headach.

Jun: 24. Much better.

JUN]: 25. An ague very violent: the fit held
me seven hours; cold fit, with faint sweats
after it.

Jo's: 26. Better; and having no victuals to
eat, took my gun, but found myself very weak:
however, I killed a she-goat, and with much
difliculty got it home, and broiled some of it,
and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.

Just: 27. The ague again so violent that I
lay abed all day, and neither ate nor drank.
I was ready to perish for thirst; but so weak,
I had not strength to stand up, or to get my-
self any water to drink. Frayed to God again,
but was liglttheaded: and when I was out, I
was so ignorant that I knew not what to any;
lay and cried, Lord, look upon me!
pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me!
else for two or three

Lord,
I suppose I did nothing
hours; till the fit wearing 06', I fell asleep, and
did not wake till far in the night. When I
awoke, I found myself'rnuch refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as I
had no water in my whole habitation, I was
forced to lie till atoning, and went to sleep

in. In this second sleep I had this terri-
ble dream: I thought that I am sitting on the
ground, on the outside of my wall, where I set
when the stem blew alter the'earthquake, and
that I saw a man descend from a great black
cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon
the ground: he was all over as bright as a
flame, so that I could but just hear to look
towards him: his countenance was must he>>
pressibly dreadfitl, impossible for words to de-
scribe: when he stepped upon the ground with
his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as
it had done before in the earthquake; and all
the air looked, to my ension, as if it
had been filled with flashes of lire. He had
no sooner lauded u the earth, but he moved
forward towards me, with a long spear or wea-
pon in his hand, to ltill me; and when he came
[It a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke
to me, or 1 heard a voice so terrible that it is
impossible to express the terror of it: all that
I can say I understood, was this: Seeing all
llltesc things have not brought thee to repent-
anee, now thou shalt die; at which words, I
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his
haml, to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account,
will expect that I should be able to desrribe
the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision;
i mean, that evon while it was a dream, I even
dreamed of those honors; nor is it any more
possible to describe the impression that uh
tnaincd upon my mind when I awaited, and
found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge: what I
had received by the good instruction of my
father was then worn out, by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wicked-
ness, and a. constant conversation with none
but such as were, like myself. wicked and
protimc to the last degree. I do not retnetn-
ber that I had, in all that time, one thought
that so much as tended either to looking up-
ward towards God, or inward towards a reflec-
tion upon my own ways; but a certain stupid-
ity ot' soul, without desire of good, or con-
sciousncss of evil, had entirely overwhelmed
me; and I was all that the most hardened,
unthinking, wicked creaun'e among our coup
mon sailors, can be supposed to be ; not hav-
ing the least sense, either of the fearot' God,
in danger, or of thanld'ulues to him, in deliver.
Incas.

In the relating what is already past of my
story, this will be the more easily believed,
when I shall add, that through all the variety
of miseries that had to this day befallen me,
I never had scrunch as one thought ot'its
beingthehandofGod, or thatit was a just
punishment for my sin; either my rebellious
behaviour against my' father, or my present
sins, which were great; oreven as apunisb-

37

menu {hr the general course of my wicked life.
When I was on the desperate elpeditionon
the desert shores <<if/Africa, I neverbad so
muehasonethoughtot'whazwouldbeeomeat
me; orona wish to God todirect mo whithr
Ishould go, ortokeep me Evomthodanger
which apparently surrounded me, as well from
voracious creatures as cruel savages: but I
was quite thoughtless of a God or a Provi-
denoe ; acted like a mere brute, from tho
principlesot' nature, and by the dictates of
common sense only; and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by
the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt
with justly and honour-ably, as well as charitao
bly, I had not the least thankfulness in my
thoughts. \Vherr, again, I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drownirg, on this
island, I was as for from renvxsc. or looking
on it as a judgement: I only said to myself
<<then, that l was an unfortunate dog, and born
to be always miserable.

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and
found all my ship's crew drowned, and myself
spared, I "'5 surprised with a kind ofeutasy,
and some trans of soul, which, had the
grace ol'Gnd assisted, might have come up to
t:ue thankfulness: but it ended where it began,
in a mere common flight ol'joy; or, as I may
say, being glad I was alive, without the least
reflection upon the distinguished goodnes of
the hand which had preserved me, and had
singled me out to be preserved when all the
rest were destroyed, or an inquiry why Provi-
dence had been llllB merciful to me: just the
same common sort of joy which seamen gene-
rally have, after they are go: Ial'e ashore ion:
a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next
bowl of punch, and forgot almost as soon as it
is over: and all the rest of my life was like it.
Even when I was, allerwards, on due consi-
deration, made sensible of my condition,--
how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of
the reach of human kind, out of all hope of
relief, or prospect of rcdemptinn,--as soon as
I saw but a prospect of living, and that I
should not starve and perish for hunger, all
the sense ol'my affliction wore ofl', and I began
to be very easy, applied myself to the works
proper for my preservation and supply,and was
far enough from being amicted at my condi~
tion, as a j from Heaven, or as the
hand ol'God against me: these were thought:
which very eeldorn entered into my head.

The growing up ofthe corn, as is hinted in
my Journal, had, at Meant: little influence
upon me, and began to affect me with serious-

ness,aslongsslthoughtithedmethin'38

miraculous in it; but assoon as that part of
the thought was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore of also, as I
have noted already. Even the. earthquake,
though nothing could be more terrihle in its
nature. or more immediately tlirectinit to tlte
iuv' ihlc Pow er which alone directs SUL'J thin-1s,
yet no sooner "as the fright m er, but the un-
pre In it Itad made wettt off also. I had no
more sense of God, or his judgments, much
less of the present atllietion of my circum-
stances luring from his hand, than if Ihad
been itt tlte most prosperous condition of li :.
But now, wlten I began to be sick, and a lei-
sure view of tlte tn" ries of death came to
p'aee i fhelhre me; when my spirits hogan
to sink uttder the burden ofa strong (lislt-ttlpcr,
and nature was exhausted with the violence of
the fever: cot cit-nee, tltat had slept so long,
began to awake; and Ireproachcd myselfwith
nty past life, in wlticlt I had so evidentlv, hy
uncomturm wickedness, provoked the jt tice
of God to lay me under uncommon strokes,
and ['5 dea'. \\ t'h me in so vindictive a manner.
These rellecl ions oppre. ed Inc for the second
or third day of my d ntper; attd itt the
violence, as well of the ft or as of the dread-
ful reproaehes of nty conscience, extorted from
me some words like praying to God: though I
cannot v it was a prayer attended either
with do. 5 or with hopes; it was rather tltc
voice ol'tnere fright and distress. My thoughts
were confused; tlte convictions great upon Iuy
mind; and the horror of dying itt such a tui-
serahle condition, raised vapours in my ltead

 

 

 

 

   

  

  
 
 

  

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

with the more apprehension: and, in these
hurries of my soul, I knew not what my
tongue uti-vht express: but it was rather excla-
ma'ion, such as, Lord, what a. miserable crI-a.
ture am I! If I should be sick, I shall cer-
tainly die for want of help; and what will be-
Come of me ? Then the tears burst out of my
eyes. attd I could say no more for a good wl ile.
In tl s interval, the good advice ofmy father
came to my mind, and presently his predic-
tion, wltich I mentioned at the III"; in: of
this story, viz. that if I did talte thts hrtli>h
step, God would not bless me; and I sl uld
have lei. re hereafter to reflect upon having
neglected hiseounscl, when there might be none
to a . st itt my recovery. Now, said I, aloud,
I'll dear father'swords are come to pa ;God's
jt slice has overtaken me, and I have none to
help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Pr!>>
\'idt-ttce, which had mercifully put ntt-iu a sta-
tion oflifi- wherein I might have heeu happy and
easy; but I would neither see it. m\'.~t'lf, nor
learn from my parents to know the ble.-sin2of it.
I left them to mourn over my folly; and ttow I
am left to mourn under the consequences oI'it:
I refused theirhelp and a. istanee, who would
have pushed tile in the world, and would have
made every thing easy to me; and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great lhr even
nature itself to >ltpp0rl; and no 'stant:C/-, to:
comfort, IIO advice. Then Icr d ottt, Lord,
be my help, fIrI am in great distress. This
was the ftrst prayer, "'1 may call it so, that I
had made for many years. But I return to

my Journal.

 

 

     

  

 

 

 
  

 

SECTION X.

IIIS RECOVERY.---HIS COMFORT IN

EXCURSION INTO THE INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND.--I-'0RMS HIS

Jt'xr. 23. Having been somewhat refreshed
w"h lllt, ~ep I had had, and the lit heiog en-
ti 'Zv 1.1T. I got up; and thoueh the MU" and
Itl'rl'r of tnv dream was very ',great, yet Icon-
:i: h- red that the lit of the aguc Would return
auaiu the next day, and now was my time to
get smut-thine to refresh and support myself
when I should be ill. The first thing I did
was to fill a large square casevbottle with
water: and set it upon my table, in reach of
my bed: and to take oII'the chill or aguish dispo-
sition of the water, I pttt about a. quarter of a
pint of ntm into it, and mixed them together.
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and

   

 

READING THE SCRIPTI'JRES.--

MAKES ax
"nownn."

broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little :
I walked about; but was very \\ and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the ease
of ntv miserable condition, dreading the return
of my distemper the next dav. At night, I
made ntv supper of three ofthc turtle's cogs
which Iroastrd tn the ashes, and ate, as we
call it, in the shell: and this was the first hit
of meat I had ever asked Grid's blessing to, as
I could remember in my whole life. Afler I
had eaten, I tried to wtalk but found myself
so w,eak that I could hardly carry the gun,
(for I never went out without that ;) so I went
but a little way, and sat down upon the ground,
39

 

.ooking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth. As I
sat here, some such thoughts as these occur-
red to me: What is this earth and sea, of
which I have seen so much? Whence is it
produced '1 And what am I, and all the other
creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal ?
Whence are we? Surely, we are all made
by some secret power, who formed the earth
and sea, the air and sky. And who is that?
Then it followed most naturally, It is God
that has made all. Well, but then, it came
on, ifGod has made all these things, he guides
and governs them all, and all things that con-
cern them; for the power that could make all
things, must certainly have power to guide and
direct them: if so, nothing can happen in the
great circuit (If his works, either without his
knowledge or appointment.

And if nothing happens without his know-
ledge, he knows that I am here, and am in
this dreadful condition: and if nothing hap-
pens without his appointment, he has appoint-
ed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to
my thought, to contradict any of these con-
clusions: and therefore it rested upon me
with the greatest force, that it must needs be
that God had appointed all this to befall me;
that! was brought to this miserable circum-
stance by his direction, he having the sole
power, not of me only, but of every thing that
happens in the world. Immediately it lol-
Iowa], Why has God done this to me? What
haveI done to be thus used? My conscience
presently checked mo in that inquiry, as if I

had blasphemed: and methought it. spoke to
me like a voice, 'Wretch! dost thou ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful
mispent life, and ask thyself, what thou hast
not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert not
long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not
drowned in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the
fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee
man of war; devoured by the wild beasts on
the coast of Africa; or drowned here, when
all the crew perished but thyself? Dost tlwu
ask what thou hast done 'I I was struck dumb
with these reflections, as one astonished, and
had not a word to say ; no, not to answer to
myself; and, rising up pensive and sad, walked
back to my retreat, and went over my wall, as
if I had been going to bed: but my thoughts
were sadly disturbed, and [had no inclination
to sleep; so I sat down in the chair, and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my
distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought, that the Brazilians take no
physic out their tobaceo for almost all distem-
pers ; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in
one of the chests, which was quite cured;
and some also that was green, and not quite
cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt: for
in this chest I found a cure both for soul and
body. Iopened the chest, and found what I.
looked for, viz. the tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one
of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and
which to this time I had not found leisure, or40

so much as inclination, to look into. Isay,
I look it out. and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table. What use to
make uflhe tobacco! knew not, as to my dis-
teI 'Ir whe'her i: was good for it or not:
but I m l several experiments with it, as if!
was resolved it should hit one way or other.
I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it
in my month; which, indeed, at first, almost
stupitied tny brain : the tobacco being green and
strung, and such as I had not been much used to.
Then I took some and steeped it an hour or
Iwu in some mm and resolved to take a dose
of it when [lay down: and, lastly, I burnt
some Itpon a pan of coals, aittl belil my nose
close over the smoke of It aslong as I could
be m it; as well for the heat, as almost
fur sum-cation. III the interval of this 0pc-
ration. I took up the Bible and betvan to read;

but tuv head "astoo much disturbed with the
tobacco to hear reading, at least at that time;
only, having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these:
'I (Sal! utl mi: in tlte day oftrouble, and I will
d II\ r thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
These words were very apt to my case; and
made some Intprcsston upon my thonglits at
the titucof reading them though not so much
as they did afterwards; iiIr, as for being :10-
lit-emi the word had no sound, as I my say,
to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my apprehension of things, that, as the
children of Israel said when they were pro-
mised flush to eat, " Can Gods prcad a table
In the wilderness?" so I been to say, Can
even God himself deliver Inc from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any
hopes appeared, thisprevailed very often upon
my thoughts: but, however, the words made
a <<rent impression upon me, and I mused
upon tltcm very often. It now grew late; and
the tobacco had, asI said, dozed my head so
much, that I inclined to sleep: soI left my
lamp ltl aiug iu the cave, lost I should want
auv thing in the night, and went to bed. But
re I laydown, [did what I cher ltad done
in all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to
God tofultil the promise to me, that if Ical-
led upon him in the day of trouble he would
de IIer me. After my broken and imperfect
prayer was over. I drank the ruin in whichI
had steeped the tobacco; which was so strong
and rank of the tobacco, that indeedl could
scarce get it down: immuliately upon this I
went lobed. I found presently the rum flew
up into my head violently; but I fell into a
Iound sleep, and waked no more till, bv the
sun, it must occassarily be near three o clock

 

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

in the alicmoon the next day: nay, to thil
hour I am partly of opinion, that I slept all
the next day and night, and till almost three
the day after; for otherw Ise, I know not how
I should lose a day ottt of mv reckoning Iuttto
days of the week, asit appeared smite years
after I had done ; for ifI had lost it by cross-
ing and recrossing the line, I should haw. lost
more than one day; but certainly I lost .1, day
in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or the other,
when I awaked I found my -lf exceedingly rc-
freshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful.
when I got up, I was stronger than I was the
day bclbrc, anti my stomach better, forI was
hungry; and, in short, I had no lit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better.
This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, ofcnurse; and
I went abroad with my gttu,bttt ("J not care
to travel too far. I killed a seaiim'l or two,
something like abrand goose, attd brought them
home ; but was not very forward to eat them;
so I ate some more ofthe turtle' s I: which
were very wood This evening I renewed the
medicine, which I had supwsed did me good
the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped In rlun,
only I did not take so much as belbrc, nor
did I chew any of the leaf, or hold Iuy head
over tlte smoke: however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the Ist ofJuly, as I
hoped I should have been; for I had a little of
the cold fit, but it was not much.

JULI'Q. I rencIIed the medicine all the
three ways; and dosed myself with it as at
first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

JULY 8. I missedq the fit for good and all,
though I did not recover my full sttength Fur
some weeks after. "'hile I was thus gath-
ering strength, my thoughts ran exceed" ly
upon this scripture, "I will deliver the g"
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay
ntuch upon my mind, in bar of my ever ex-
pecting it: but asI was tlIscouraging Iuys'ell'
with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind
that I pored so much upon my deliverance
from the main affliction, that I disregarded
the deliverance I had receive]; and I was,
as it were, made to ask myself such questions
as these. viz. Have I am been deliVered, and
wonderfully too, fromsickness: front the most.
distressed condition that. could be, and that
was so frightful to me 1' and what notice have
I taken of it? Have I done my part? God
has delivered me, but I have not glorified
him; that is to say, I have not owned and
been thankful for that as a deliverance: and
how canI expect a greater deliverance? This
touched my heart very much; and immediate-
ly I knelt down. and (are God thanks aloud
for my recovery from my sickness.

Jun 4. In the morning! took the Bible;
and beginning at the New Testament, Ibo-
gan seriously to read it; and imposed upon
myself to read awhile every morning and every
night; not binding myself to the number of
chapters but as long as my thought- should
engage me. It was not long after Iset seri-
ottsly to this work, thatI found my heart more
deeply and sincerely affected with the widt-
etlnt-ss of my past life. The impression of my
dream revived; and the words, All these
things have not brought thee to repentance, ran
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly
begging ofGod to give me repentance, when
it happened providentially, the very wne day,
that, reading the scripture, I came to these
words, " He is exalted a Prince and a Sn--
viunr: to give repentance, and to give remis-
sion." I threw down the book: and with my
heart as well as my hands lifted up to lice-
run, in a kind of costasy of joy, I cried out
aloud, Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repent-
ance! This was the first time in all my life I
could say. in the true sense of the words, that
I prayed; for now I prayed with a sense of
tnv condition, and with atrue scripture view
of hope, founded on the encouragement of the
word ofGod: and from this time, I may say,
I beg-an to have hope that God would boar me.

New I began to construe the wards men-
tioned above, " Call on me, and I will deliver
thee," in a different sense from what I had
ever done before; for lhen I had no notion of
any thing beingcalled deliverance, but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in: for
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet
the island was certainly a prison to me, and
that in the worst sense in the world. But
now I learned to take it in mother sense: now
I looked back upon my past life with such
horror, and my sins appeared Io dreadful, that
my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance
from the load of guilt that bore down all my
comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from
it, or think of it; it was all of no consideration,
in comparison with this. And I add this part
hero, to hint to whoever shall read it, that
whenever they come to a true sense of things,
they will find deliverance from sin a much
greater blessing thandeliverance from affliction.

My condition began now to be, though not
less miserable as to my way of living, I"
much easier to my mind: and my thoughts

4!

being directed, by constantly reading the scrip
ture and praying to God, to things of a higher
nature, I had 1. great deal of Comfort within,
which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, as
my health and stre th returned, Ibestirred
me to furnish mysel with every thing that I
wanted, and make my way ofliving as rogular
as Icould.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was
chiefly employed in walking about with my
gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time,
as a man that was gathering up his strength
nfier a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to be
imagined how low I wu, and to what wealt-
nt-ss I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps
what had never cured an ague before; neither
can I recommend it to any one to practise, by
this experiment: and though it did carry oi?
the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening
me; for I had frequent convul~ione in my
nerves and limbs for sometime: I learned from
it also this, in particular; that being abroad in
the rainy season was the most pomicious thing
to my health that could be, especially in those
reins which came attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind; for as the min which came
in the dry some was almost always accom-
panied with such storms. so I found that this
rain was much more dangerous than the rain
which fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above
ten months: all possibility of deliverance from
this condition seemed to be entirer taken from
me ; and I firmly believed that no human shape
had ever set foot upon that place. Having
secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to
my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what
other productions I might find, which I yet
knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to
talte a more particular survey of the island
itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found)
tiller I came about two miles up, that the title
did not flow any higher; and that it was no
more than a little brook of running water, very
fresh and good: but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of
it: at least, not any stream. On the banks of
this brook I found many pleasant sanmahe or
meadows, plain, smooth, endorfiverod with
grasstandontherisingparts memento
the higher grounds, (where the water, as it
might be supposed, never urerflowed,) I Stud
a greatdeal oftnbacoo, green,andgrowingm
a very great and strong stalk: and there were4'2.

divers other plants, which I had no knowledge
of, or understanding about, and that might,
perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I
could not find out. I searched fbr tlte cassava
root, which the Indians, in all that climate,
make their bread of; but [could find none.
I saw large plants of aloes, but did not under-
s'aud them. I saw several sugar-canes, but
wild; and, for want of cultivation, imperfect.
l contented myself with these discoveries for
this time; and came back, musing with myself
what course I might take to know tlte virtue
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover; but could bring it to
no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in tlte Brazils,
that I knew little of the plants in the field; at
least, very little that m'uht serve me to any
purpose now in nty distress.

The next day. the 16th, I went up the same
way again; and after going something farther
than I had gone the day before, I found the
brook and tlte savannahs begin to cease, and
the country become more woody than before.
In this part I found difi'erent fruits; and parti-
cnlarly I found melons upon the ground, in
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees:
the vines, indeed, had spread over the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were now just in
their prime, very ripe and riclt. This was a
surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly
glad of them. but I was wamed by my expo-
riettce to eat sparingly of them; remembering
litat when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who
ware slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an excel-
lent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure
or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried
grapes or raisins are kept; which I thought
would be (as indeed they were) a wholesome
and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were
to be ltad.

I spent all that evening there, and went not
back to my habitation; tthielt, by the way,
was the first night, as I might say, I had lain
from home. At night, I took my first contri-
vancc, and got up into a tree, where I slept
Well; and the next morning proceeded on my
discovery, tmvelling nearfour miles, as I might
judge by the length of the valley; keeping still
due north, with a ridge of hills on the south
and north sides of me. At the end ofthis
march I came to anopening, where the country
seemed to descend to the west; and a litlle
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the
side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that
is, due east; and the country appeared so

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE-

fresh, so green, so flourishing, every thing
being in aconstant verdure, or flourish of spring,
that it looked like I planted garden. I tie-
scended a little on the side of that delicious
vale, surveying it with a secret kind of plea-
sure, (though mixed with other afilieting
thoughts,) to think that. this was all my own;
that I was king and lord of all this country in-
defeasibly, and had a right of 'ion; and,
if I could convey it, I might have itin inherit-
ance as completely as arty lord ofa manor tn
England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-
trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees: but
all wild, and very few bearing any fruit: at
least not then. However, the green limes that
I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but
very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water, which made it very whole-
some. and very cool and refreshing. I found
now I had business enough, to gadterand carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, aswell
of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish
myself Ii)! the wet season, whichI knew was
approaching. In order to this, I gathered a.
great heap of grapes in one place, a loser heap
in another place; and a great parcel of limes
and lemom in another place i and, takinga few
of each with me, I travelled hotneward; and
resolved to come again, and bring a bag or
sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest
home. Accordingly, having spent three days in
this journey,I came home, (so I must now call
my tent and my cave 2) but before I got thither,
the grapes were spoiled; the richness of llto
fruits, and the weight of the juice, having
broken and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing: as to the limEs, they were
good, but I could bring only a few.

The next day being the 19th, I went back,
having made me two small bags to bring honte
my harvest; but I was surprised, when, coming
to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and
fine when I gathered them, I found them ail
spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about,
some here, some there, and abundance eaten
and devoured. By this] concluded there were
some wild creatures thereabouts which had
done this, but what they were I knew not. How-
ever, as I found there was no layiq them up in
heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack; but
that one way they would be destroyed, and the
other way they would be crushed with their own
weight; I took another course: I then gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out-branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the
limes and lemons, I carried as manv back as I
could well stand under.
WhenIeamehomefitomthisJournechon-
templated with great pleasure the ti-uitfulneas
of that valley, and the pleasantnossof the littl-
ation; theeecurityfromstormeon tlntride; the
water and the wood: and concluded that I had
pitched upon a place to fix my abode in, which
was by far the worst partof the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place equally
safe as where I was now situate; if possible,
in that pleasant fruitful pan of the island.

This thoqhtmn along in myhead; and I
was exceeding fond of it for some time, the
pleasantness of the place tempting me: but
when [came to a nearer view of it, I consi-
dered that I was now by the seaside, where it
was at least possible that something might
happen to my advantage, and, by the me ill
fate that brought me hither, might bring some
other unhappy wretches to the same place;
and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose
myseif among the hills and woods in the centre
of the island, was to anticipate my bondage,
and to render such an afl'air not only impro-
bable, but impossible; and that therclbre I
ought not by any means to remove. However,
I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent
much of my time there for the whole remain-
ing part ofthe month ofJuly; and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved, as above stated,
not to remove, yet I built urea little kind of n
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a.
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as
I could reach, well staked, and filled between
With bnrshwood. Here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together ; always
going over it with a ladder, as before: so that
I fancied now I had my country and my see-
coast house. This work took me up till the
beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and be-
gan to enjoy my labour, when the rain came
on,and made me stick close to my first habi-
tation: for though I had made I tent like the
other, with a piece of nail, and d it very
well, yet I had not the shelter ofa hill to keep
me from storms, nor a. cave behind me to
retreat into when the rains were extraordi-
nary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I
bud finished my bower, and began to enjoy
myself. TheSdofAugtmglfotmdthe grapes
I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed
were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I
beganto taketbemdov'mfromtbetrees; and
itwaaaery happythatIdid so," the rains
which thllowed would have spoiled them, and

43

I should have lost the bestpart ofmy winter
find; for I had above two hundred large
bunchesofthem. Nosoonahad I takenthenr
all down, andcarried moetoftlwmhometomy
cave, but it began to rain: and from hence,
which was the 14th of Augmt, it rained, more
or lees, every day till the middle of October;
and sometimes so violently, that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season,l was much surprised with
the increase of my family. I had been con-
cerned for the loss of one of my cats, who ran
away from me, or, as I thought, had been
dead; and I heard no more ofher, till, to my
astonishment, she came borne with three kit-
tens. This was the more strange to me, be-
cause, ahout the end of August, though I had
killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quiten different kind from
our European outs: yet the young eats were
the some ltind of housebreed as theold one;
and both of my cats being ferrules, I thought
it very strange. But fi'orn these three, I after-
wards come to be so pestered with cats, that I
was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild
bensts,and to drive them from my house as
much as possible.

From the ldth of August to the 28m, inces-
sant rain; so that I could not stir, and was
now very careful not to be much wet. In this
confinement, I began to be atraitened [hr food;
but venturing out twice, I one day killed a
goat, and the last day, which was the 26th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat
to me. My food was now regulated thus: I
ate a bunch of raisins lbr my breakfast; a.
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled,
{hr my dinner, (Err, to my great misfortune, I
had no vesel to boil or stew any thing :) and
two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the
rain, I worked daily two or three hours at en-
larging my cave: and by degrees worked it on
towards one side, till I came to the outside of
the hill; and made a door, or way out, whim
came beyond my fenceorwall: andso I came
in and out this tray. But I was not perfectly
easy at lyingeoopen: for as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure;
whereas now, I thought I lay exposed: and
yet I could not perceive that there was any
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I
had yet seen upon the island beinga goal.

Seminar 80. I was now come to the
unhappy anniversary of my landing, I out up
thenotchesonmy poat,andfoundI hadbeen
on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I
ltept this day as a solemn first; setting it apart44

for religious exercise, prostrating myself on
the ground with the most serious humiliation,
confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgments upon me, attd praying
to him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ ; and having not tasted the least refresh-
ment for twelve hours, even till the going down
ofthe sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as
I began it. I had all this time observed no
saltlmth-day; for as at first] had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time,
entitled to distinguish tlte weeks, by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
dny, and so did not really know what any of
the days were: but now having cast up the
days, as above, Ifitttnd I had been there a
year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart.
every seventh day for a sabbath: though I
found, at tltc end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little afier
this, toy ink beginning to fail me, [contented
myself to use it more sparingly; and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.

The rainy season and the dry seamn began
now to appear regular to me, and I lenmed to
divide them so as to provide for them accord-
ingly; but I bought all my experience before I
had it; and wltat I am going to relate was
one of the most discouraging experiments that
1 had made at all.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few
ears of barley, and rice, which I had so sur-
prisingly found sprung up, as I thought, of
themselves. I believe there were about thirty
stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and
new I thought it a proper time to sow it after
the rains; the sun being in its southem posi-
tion, going from me. Accordingly I dug a
piece of ground, as well as I could, with my
Wooden spade; and dividing it into two parts,
I sowed my grain; but," I was mwing, it
casually occurred to my thoughts that I would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know
when was the proper time for it; so I sowed
about two-thirds of the seed, leaving about a
handful of each: and it was a great comfort to
me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain
of what I sowed this time came to any thing;
,for the dry month following, and the earth
having thus had no rain after the seed was
town, it had no moisture tousist its growth,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

and never mme up at all till the wet least!!!
had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been but newly gown. Finding my first need
did not grow, which I easily imagined was
from the drought, I mitt for a moister piece
of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
up a piece of ground near my new hotver, and
sowed the rest of my seed in February, a lit-
tle belbre the vernal equinox. This having
the rainy month of March and April to water
it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a
very good cmp; but having only part of the
seed left, and um daring to now all that I had,
I got but a small quantity at last. my whole
crop not amounting to above half a peek of each
kind. But by this experiment 1 was made
masterof my business, and knew exactly when
was the proper time to sow; and that I might
expect two scedtimes, and two harvests, every
year.

\'Vhile this corn was growing. I made a ltt-
tle discovery, which was of use to me after~
wards. As soon as the rains were over, and
the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, 1 made a visit up the
country to my bower; where, though I had not
been some months, yet I lintnd all things just
as I left them. The circle or double hedge
that I had made was not only firm and entire,
but the stakes which I had cut out of some
trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out
and grown with long branches, as much as a
willow-tree usually shoots the first year after
lopping its head; but I could not tell what tree
to call it that these stakes were cut from. I
was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to
ace the young trees grow; and I pruned them,
and led them to grow as much alike as I could
and it is scarce credible how beautilitl a figure
they grew into in three years: so that, though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I
might now call them, soon covered it, and it
was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under
all the dry season. This made me resolve to
cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge
like this, in a semicircle round my wall, (I
mean that of my first dwelling.) which I did;
and placing the trees or stakes in a double
row, at about eight yards distance from my
first fence, they grew presently; and were I!
first a fine cover to my habitation, and afler>>
wards served for a defence also; as I shall
observe in its order.
 

SECTION ,Xl.

.OBINSON MAKES A TOUR T0 EXPLORE HIS ISLAND.---EMPLOYED IN BASKET
MAKING.

I rouun now that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer
and winter| as in Europe, but into the rainy
seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus: From the middle of February
to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being
then on or near the equinox. From the middle
of April till the middle of August, dry; the
sun being then north of the line. From the
middle of August till the middle of October,
rainy; the sun being then come back to the
line. From the middle of October till the mid-
dle of February, dry; the sun being then to
the south of the line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer
and sometimes shorter, as the winds happened
to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience,
the ill consequences of being abroad in the
rain, I took care to furnish myself with provi-
sions beforehand, that I might not be obliged
to go out: and I sat within doors as much as
possible during the wet months. This time I
found much employment, and very suitable also
to the time; for 1 found great occasion for
many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with but by hard labour and constant
application; particularly, I tried many ways
to make myself a basket: but all the twigs I

. could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that
they would do nothing. It proved of excellent
advantage to me now, that when I was a boy,
I used to take great delight in standing at a
basket-maker's in the town where my father
lived, to see them make their wicker-ware; and
being, as boys usually are, very oflieious to
help, and a great observer of the manner how
they worked those things, and sometimes lend-
ing a hand, I had by these means full know-
ledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted
nothing but the materials; when it canto into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree liom whence
I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be
as tough as tho sallows, willows, and osiers, in
England : and I resolved to try. Accordingly,
the next day, I went to my country-house, as I
called it ; and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
Ifound them to my purpose as much as I could
desire: whereupon I came the next time pre-
pared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there was great
plenty of them. These [set up to dry within
my circle or hedge; and when they were fit
for use, I carried them to my cave: and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in
making, as well as I could, several baskets;
both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up any
thing as I had occasion for. Though I did46

not finish them very handsomely, yet I made
them suficiently serviceable for my purpose:
and thus, afterwards, I took are never to be
without them; and as my wicker-ware do-
cayed, I made more; upecially mung deep
baskets, to place my corn in, inelead of sacks,
when I should come to have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and em-
ployed a world of time about it, I bestirred
myself to see, if possible, bow to Iupply two
other wants. I had no vessel to hold any
thing that was liquid, except two mnleta,
which were almost hill of rum; and borne
glass bottles, some of the common eize, and
others (which were case-bottles) square, for
the holding of waters, spirits, &c. I had not
so much as a potto boil any thing; excepta
great kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and
which was too big for such use as I desired it,
viz. to make broth, and atetv a bit of meat by
itself. The second thing I would fain have
had, was a tobacco-pipe; but it w impoui-
ble for me to make one; however, I found a
contrivnnce for that too at last. I employed
myself in planting my second row of stakes or
piles, and also in this wicker-wanting, all the
summeror dry season; when another businesa
took me up more time than it. could be ima-
gined I could spare.

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind
to ace the whole island; and that I had travel-
led up the brook, and soon to where I had
built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea, on the otherside of the island.
I now resolved to travel quite across to the
seashore, on that aide: ao taking my gun, a
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and thot than usual ; with two biscuit-
cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my
pouch, for my store; I began my journey.
When I had paged the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea,
to the west; and it being avery clear day,[
fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it. lay very high,
extending from W. to W. S. W. at a very
great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifieen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this
might be ; otherwise than that I knew it must.
be part ofAmerica; and, asIcoocluded, by
all my observations, must be nearthe Spanish
dominions; and pcrhapa was all inhabited by
savaged, where, if I shook! have landed, I had
been ina worseoondition thanlwas now. I
therefire acquieaoed in the dinpnaitiona of
Providence,whichlbegan nowtoownandto
balicvoorderedcwryth'ngtbrthobeet; lay,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

I quieted my mind With this, and lefl. ofl'
alflicting myself with fmitlcas wishead' being
there. Besides, after some pause upon thin
afl'air, Imidered that ifthiv land was the
Spanish count, I should certainly, one time or
other, lemmas! pm orrapmnnc way
or other: but ifnot,then it was the savage
coast'betwm the Spanish country and the
Brazila, when inhabitants are indeed the worst
ofsavaga; for they are cannibal: or men-
eaterl, and fail not to murder and devour all
human beings that fall into their hands.

With these cmidcrationa, walking very
leisurely forward, I found this aide of the is.
land, where I now wu, much pleasanter than
mine; the open or savannah fields sweetly
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of
very tine woods. I saw abundance of parrots;
and fain would have caughtone, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak
tome. I did, after taking aortic pains, catch
a young parrot ; for I knocked it down with a
stick, and, having recovered it, I brought it
home: but it was some years before I could
make him speak; however, at last I taught
him to call me by my name vcry familiarly.
But the accident that followed, though it be a
trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly amused with thisjourncy
I found in the low a haree, as I thought
them to be, and foxes: but they difl'ered greatly
from all the other kind: I had met with
nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though
I killed uveral. But I had no need to be
venturous: for I had no want of food, and of
that which was very good too; especially
those three Ions, viz. goats, pigeons, and tur-
tle, or tortoise. With these, added to my
grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have
furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company; and though my case was de
plorable enough, yet I had great cause for
thankfulneas; as I was not driven to any ex.
trcmitiee for food, but had rather plenty, even
to daintiee.

I never travelled on this journey above two
miles outright in a day, or thereabout; but I
took aontany turmand returns, to see what
discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where I resolved to sit
down for the night; and then I either rcpoood
myaelf in a tree, orltnrmmded myoelf with a
row ofatakunat uprightinmgmmdyeilhfl
from onoueetoanotber,oraounowild
manna could come at me without waiting me.

A- scone-I cameto mole-shore, [was
nupriaedtoaeeuntlhadtakenupmylotoa
thewaat aide oftheialandflorhero It"
47.

thoaherewucovered with imumerahle turtlea; a mark, I concluded I would gnhome again;

whereas, on the other aide, I had fotmd but
threeinayeerand ahalt'. Berewaaalao
an infinite number if fowla ti many kinda;
wmeol'which Ihadaeat,andaomeofwhieh
Iliad notacenbefore,andmanyel'themvery
good meat; liutauchaa Iknewnotlbe Inne-
ot', except thoae talled penguins.

I couldhavoahotaamanyasl pinned, but
was very ' ofmy'powderandabot;lnd
therefore had more mind to kill "he-goat, if I
could, which I could better feed on. But
tli h there were many here, more
th'i'r'tgon my side the islandm it won with
much more difficulty that I could come near
them; the country being flat and even, and
they saw me much sooner than when I waa
upon a hill.

I confess this aide ol' the country waa much
pleasanter than mine; yet I had not the least
inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my
habitation, it become natural to me, and I
sot-mud all the while I wan here to be as it
were upon a journey, and from home. How-
crcr, I travelled along the seashore towards
lht: out, I suppose about twelve miles; and
dicesettingupagreatpole upon theahorelbr

and that the neat journey I took ahould be on
theothu aide d'lheisland, out from my
dwellingandao mmdtilllcamoto mypoat
again: ol'wbidt in ita place.

[took anodierwayteeotne heckthanlhat
Iwent, thidtingleeoldeuily keep aomuch
dmegmhwfiw' thatdlncould not miss
my in; by viewing countr : but
I Bud myrelftnilahen; firbeing comeynbout
two or three milel, I found myaell' descended
inteaverylargevalleyfiutaoaurmmuledwhh
hills. and theae hilla covered with wood, that
lecttldnotaeewhichwaa mywnybyanydi-
reclionbtlthatol'lhe-m,nor even then,
unleaa I knew very well the poaitien of the run
at that time of the day. And it happened to
my farther misfortune, that the weather pmved
bat] for three or four daya while I was in this
valley: and not being able to m the sun, I
wandered about very uncomfortable, and at
last was obliged to find out the seaside, look
formy pant, and come back the same way I
wont ; and then by easy journeys I turned
homeward, the weather being exceeding hot.
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things very heavy.

SECTION XII. -

HI RETURNS 10 HI! CAVI.--HIS AGRICULTURAL "HOURS All) SUCCESS.

Itt this journey, my dog surprised a young
aid, and seized upon it; and running to take
hohl of it, I caught it, and aaved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home
if I could; for I had ol'len been musing whe-
ther it might not be ponaible to get a kid or
two, and eoraiae abreed of tamegoats, which
might supply me when my powder and that
should be all spent. I made aeollar for this
lillle creature, and with a string which I had
made of some rope-yarn, which I alwaya can-
ried about me, I led him along, though with
me difficulty, till I tame to my hotter, and
themlencloaedhimand lellbimflor Iwaa
very impatient to be at home, from whence I
Ind been about above a month.

Iceland expre-whataaatisfaetion it waa
to metocome intnmy old hmdi,andliedown
imy hammnd bed. This littlewandering
jot-ney,withmta aottled placeofabodo,had
hnoa'ao to me, thumy own bouae,
aalmlled ittemyael," a perfeetaettlo-

ment to me, compared to that; and it tenden-
edevery thing aboutmeeo comfortable," I
resolved I would never go a great way from it
agnimwhile itahnuldbemylnt tnatay on the
island. -

I reported myselfhero a weeh,io reatand
regain myaell' after my long journey: during
which, moat ot' the time was taken up in the
weighty alfair of making a cage for my Poll,
whobegan nowtobemore domestic, andlo
bemighty well acquainted with me. TbnnI
began tothinkofthepoorkid which [had
painedwithin my little oircln,and reanlvedln.
fetch it home. orgite itaomol'oqd : accordingly
I went,|ndfound itwhorellell it, (for'mdeed
iteouldootgetout, but waaalmoatatarved
firwantol'lbod. went and cutbouglhof
treea,and hr-ancheaot'auoh shrub- aeI owld
find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I
lied itaaldidbehre,lnlud it away; bani!
wuaotamewith beingbtmgryflhatlhadno
needtohatetird igixitl'olhnedmeliea48

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

log: and as I continually fed it, the creature
occame so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it was from that time one of my domestics
also, and would never leave me ailerwnrds.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
was now come, and I kept the 30th ofSeptem'
her in the some solemn manner as before,
being the anniversary of my landing on the
island ; having now been there two years, and
no more prospect of being delivered than the
first day I came there. I spent the whole day
in humble and thankful acknowledgments for
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary
condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more mi-
serable. I gave humble and hearty thanks to
God for having been pleased to discover to
me, that it was possible I might be more happy
even in this solitary condition, than I should
have been in the enjoyment of society, and in
all the pleasures of the world: that he could
fully make up to me the deficiencies of my
solitary slate, and the want of human society,
by his presence, and the communications of
his grace to my soul; supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his provi-
dence here, and to hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel
how much more happy the life I now led was,
with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the
past part of my days: and now I changed both
my sorrows and my joys: my very desires
altered, rny affections changed their gusis, and

my delights were perfectly new from what they
were at my first coming, or indeed for the two

years past. Before, as I walked about, either -

on my hunting, or for viewing the country,
the anguish of my soul at my condition would
break out upon me on a. sudden, and my very
heart. would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in;
and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an un-
inhabited wilderness, without redemption. In
the midst of the greatest oomposures of my
mind, this would break out upon me like a
storm, and make me wring my hands, and
weep like a child ; sometimes it would take me
in the middle of my work, and I would imme.
diately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: this was
still worse to me; but if I could burst into
tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it
would go off; and my grief being exhausted,
would abate. '

But nowI began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and
applied all the comforts of it to my present
state. One morning, being very sad, I opened
the Bible upon these words, " I will never leave
thee, nor forsake thee :" immediately it oc-
curred that these words were to me; why else
should they be directed in such a manner, just
at the moment when [was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man?
Well then, said I, if God does not forsake me,
of what ill consequence can it be, or what
matters it, though the world should forsake me;

I
ming,ontheothahand,iflhadallthe
world,andahould lolothehvourandblesaing
oquodflherowouldbe no comparison inthe
loss .

From this moment I began to conclude in
my mind, that it was posaible for me to be
more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition,
than it was probable I should ever have been
in any other particular state in the world ; and
with this thought I was going to give thanks
to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak
the words. How cans! than be such a hypo-
critt', said I, even audibly, to pretend to be
thankful for a condition, which, however thou
maycst endeavour to be contented with, than
wmildest rather pray heartily to be delivered
from? Here I stopped: but though I could not
say I thanked God for being here, yet I sin-
cerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes,
by whatever afflicting providences, to see the
former condition of my life, and to mourn for
my wickedness, and repent. I never opened
the Bible, or shut it, but my very aoul within
me blessed God for directing my blend in
England, without any order of mine, to pack
it up among my goods; and for assisting me
afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the
ship.

'l'htts, and in this disposition of mind, I he-
gan my third year; and though I have not
given the reader the trouble of so particular an
acmunt of my works this year as the first, yet
in gmeral it may be observed, that I was very
seldom idle; but having regularly divided my
time, according to the several daily employ-
mvnls that were before me; such as. tint, My
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptum,
which I constantly set apart some time for,
thrice every day: secondly, Goingabrond with
my gun for food, which generally took me up
three hour-s every morning, when it did not
rain: thirdly, Ordering, curing, preserving,
and m'ling what I had killed or catched lbr
my suppy; these took t of the
day; also itis to beconuridm, 3:? in the
middle of the day, when the Ill) was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great
tostirout; eothatahoutfiiurhoursintho
evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that some-
times Ichanged my hours of hunting and
working, and wenttoworkinthemning,
and abroad withmygtmintheallernoon.

Tothis short time allowed for labour,I
desire may be added the exceeding laborious-
ne-d'my work; thernyhours which, for

49

wantol'toolo, want ol'help, and want dakill,
everything I did look up out of my time: for
example, I was full two and forty days melting
menboanlforahingshelflwhichIwantedin
my cave; whereas, two uwyero, with their
tools and a aawpit, would have out six ofthent
out ol'the same tree in halfa day.

Mycase was this; it was large treewhich
was to be cut down, because myboatdwas
tobeabroad one. Thistreelwaa three
days cutting down, and two more in cutting at?
the buughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece
of timber. \Vitlt incapreseible hacking and
hewing, I reduced both the sides of it utto
chips, till it was light enough tome; then
I turned it, and made one aide of it unnoth and
flat as a board, from end to end; then turning
that side downward, out the other side, till I
brought the plank to be about three inches
thick, and stnooth on both aides. Any one
may judge the labour of my hands in such a
piece of work; but labour and patience car'-
ried me through that, and many other things:
I only observe this in particular, to show the
reason wlty so muclt of my time went away
with so little work, viz. that what might be a
little to be done with help and tools, was a vast
labour, and required a prodigious time to do
alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this,
with patience and labour I went through many
things; oral, indeed, every thing that my cir-
cumstances made necessary for me to do, as
will appear by what follows.

I was now in the months of November and
December, expecting my crop of barley and
rice. The ground I had manured or dug up
for them was not great; for, no Iobserved, my
seed of each was not above the quantity ofde
a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing
in the dry season: but now my crop promised
very well; when, on a audden,I found] was
in danger of losing it all again by enemies of
several sorts, which it was scarce possible to
keep from it; as, first, the goats, and wild
creatures which I called ham, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as soon at it came up, and ate it so close,
that it could get no time to ahoot up into stalk.

I aaw no remedy for this, but by melt ing an
enclosure about it with a hedge, which I did
withagreatdealot'toil: andthotmre,becnuso
it required med. However, as my arable
land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it
tolerably well fenced in about three weeks'
time; and shooting aomeot' the creatures in
the daytime, I set mydog to guard it in the
night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would atand and herb all nightlon';50

so In a little time the enemies forsook the place,
and the com grew very strong and well, and
began to ripen space.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while
mycornwasintheblade,sothebirdawere as
likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear:
for going along by the place to see how it
throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls, I know not of how many sorta, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be
gone. I immediately let fly among them, (for
I always had my gun with me;) I had no
sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, fi'om among
the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw

that in a few days they would devour all my
hopes; that I should he starved, and never be
able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I
could not tell: however, I resolved not to lose
my corn, if possible, though I should watch it
night and day. In the first place, I went
among it, to see what damage was already
done, and found they had spoiled a good deal
ofit; but that as it was yet too green for them,
the loss was not so great, but that the remain-
der was likely to be a good crop, if it could be
saved.
I stayed by it to load my gtm, and then com-
ing away, I could easily see the thieves sitting
upon all the trees about me, as if they only
waited till I was gone away; and the event
proved ittobe so; forasI walked off, asit'
gone, I was no sooner out of their sight, than
they dropped down, one by one, into the corn
again. I was so provoked, that I could not
have patience to stay till more came on, know-
ing that every grain they eat now was, as it
might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
quence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired
again, and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for; so I took them up, and
served them as we serve notorious thieves in
England, viz. hanged them in chains, for a ter-
ror to others. It is impossible to imagine that
this should have such an effect as it had; for
the fowls not only never came to the corn, but,
in short, they forsook all that part of the island,
and I could never see a bird near the place as
long as my scarecrows hung there. This I was
very glad of. you may be sure; and about the
latter end of December, which was our second
harvest of the year, I reaped my com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to
cut it down: and all I could do was to make
one as well as I could, out ofone efthe broad-
atvorvls, or cutlaases, which I saved among the
arms out of the shin. However, as my first

ADVENTURES Ol' ROBINSON CBUSOE.

crop wasbutemalthadnogreatditfictdtyto
cutitdown: inahert, Ireaped it myway,for
Iout nothing ofl'buttheears, and carried it
away in a great basket which I had made, and
sorubbed itout with myhands; andattheend
ot'all my harvesting, I found that out ofmy
halfpeck of seed I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of bar-
ley; that isto say,bymyguees,lbr I hadno
measure.

However, this was great encouragementto
me; and I foresaw that, in time, it would
please God to supply me with bread; and yet
here I was perplexed again; for I neither knew
how to grind, or make meal of my corn,or
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor ifmado
into meal, how to make bread (of it; and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake
it: these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure
a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in the mean
time, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of pro-
viding myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for
my bread. It is a little wonderlitl, and what
I believe few people have thought much upon,
viz. the strange multitude of little things ne-
cessary in the providing, producing, curing,
dressing, making, and finishing this one article
of bread. I, that was reduced to a mere slate
of nature, found this to my daily discourage-
ment, and was made more sensible of it every
hour, even after I had got the first handful of
seed-com, which, as I have said, came up un-
expectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth;
nospade or shovel to dig it: well, this I con-
quered, by making a wooden spade, as l ob-
served before; bttt this did my work in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great
many days to make ll, yet, for want of' iron, it
not only were out the sooner, but made my
work the hardcr, and performed It much nurse.
However, this I bare with, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the
badness of the performance. When the corn
was sown, I had no barrow, but was forced to
go over it myself, anddrag agreat heavy bough
ofatree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, ratharthan take or barrow it. When
it was growing and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted to fence it,
secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it
home,thresh, part itfrom thechafl', and save
it: thenlwanteda milltogrindit,sievea to
migyautandaalt tomboit intobread,
andanoventobokoit; andyetalltbeaothinga
Idid witbom,aa dial! beobaerved;andthe
cornwasan ineotitnable comfort andadvan-
lagetolne:alllltil,uI-id, madecvery
thing laborioua and tedious to me,but that
therewaanobelpfor; neithorwavmytimeao
muchloastomo,beeame,atlhaddividedit,

l

5!

acertainpartofitwaaeverydayappointedb
theeeworh; andaaIreaolvaltouaemo'
themtbrbreadtilllhadagnaterqmtity
hyme,Ibadtha nenaixmonthatoapplymy.
Ielf wholly,bylabwrand invention,to furniah
myoelfwith uteoailapmper hr theperfiwming
alltheoperationeneeaaearyformakingeornfi
tbrmyuae.

 

SECTION XIII.

BIS MANUFACTURE 0' romav, A! D COMRNAIICI '03 BAKING BREAD.

Bu'rnowlwas topmparemore land; lbr
[had seed enoughto aowaboveanacreof
ground. Before I did thia, Ihad a week's
work at least to make me a spade; which,
when it w" done, was but a my one indeed,
and very heavy, and required double labour to
work with it: however, I went through that,
and sowed my need in two large flat pieces of
ground, asnoarmyhouseaalcouldfindthem
to my mind, and firmed them in with a good
hedge; the stakes of which were all cut of
that wood which I had not before, and knew it
would grow; an that, in one year's time, I
knew Iahould have a quick or living hedge,
that would want but little repair. Thia work
took me up fullthreamontha; beeauaeagreat
partofthe timewaainthe weteeaaon, when
Icouldnotgoobroad. Within doors, that is,
when it rained, and I could not go out, I found
employment on the following minus; always
observing, that while I was at work, I diverted
myself with talking to my parrot, and teach-
ing him to apeak; and I quickly learned him
to knowhisownuune, andat last tospeak it
out pretty loud, Poll; which was the first word
I ever heard spoken in the island hyany mouth
but my own. This, therefore, was not my
work, but an assistant to my work; for new, as
I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as followa: I had long atudied, by aome
means or other, to make myself some earthen
vessels, which indeed I wanted much, but
knew not where to come at them: however,
considering the heat of the climate, [did not
doubt but i" could find out any day, I might
boteh up tome ouch pot as might, being dried
inthesun,be hardand strongenough to bear
handling, and to hold anything that was dry,
on! required lobe keptao; andaathis was
necesary in the preparing corn, meal, &c.
Whlobwaa thethinglwaalmonJresolvedto

make some as large an Icould, and fit onlylo
good like jam, to hold who! should he put into
em.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather
laugh at me, to tell how my awkward way.
I took to raise this paetil: whatodd. misshapen,
ugly things I made; how many of them fell in,
and how many fell out, the elay not being atifl'
enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over violent heat ofthe aim,
being set out too haatily; and how many fell in
pieces with only removing, as well before as
after they were dried: and, in a word, how,
after having laboured hard to find the clay, to
digit, totemperit, tobringithome, and work
it, [could mt make above two large earthen
ugly thing: (I eannot call them jail) in abotn
two montln' .

However, an 'the run baked these two very
dryaodhard,Ilifted dtemverygendyup,and
set them down ' in two great wicker baa-
keta, which [had made on purpoee for them,
that they might not break; and aa between the
pot andthe basket therewaaa little room to
spare, Iltufi'ed it full ofthe rice and barley
atrawmndthesetwopotabeingtostand alwnya
dry, I Wt would hold my dry com, and
perhapa the meal, when the corn waa bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my deaign
for large pota, yet I madeaeveral maller thing:
with better meow; rueb as little round pots,
Bet dishes, pitcherl, and pipkina, and any
thingmyhand turned to; and the heat ofthe
run baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which
was to get an earthen pot to hold liquids, and
bearthefire, whichnone oftheoeooulddo. It
happened aome time afier, linking a pretty
large fire for cooking my meat, when I wont
'to put it out alter I had done with it, I found
abrolten piece ofmeot'myearthenwareveo-52

sale in the fire.burnt as harden astone, and
red as a. tile. I was agreeably surprised to
see it; and said to myself, that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would
burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire,
soasto makeithurnsomepots. I hadno
notion ofa kiln, such as the potters burn in, or
of glazing them with lead, though I had some
lead to do it with; but I placed three large
pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my firewood all round
it, with a great heap of embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the out-
side, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in
the inside redhot quite through, and observed
that they did not crack at all: when I saw
them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay
melted by the violence of the heat, and would
have run into glass, ifI had gone on; soI
slacked my lire gradually, till the pots began to
abate of the red colour; and watching them all
night, that I might not let the fire abate too
fast, in the morning I had three very good, I
will not say handsome, pipkins, and two other
earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired;
and one ofthem perfectly glazed with the run-
ning of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I
wanted no sort of earthenware for my use;
but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them,
they were very indifferent, as any one may
suppose, as I had no way of making them but
as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman
would make pics that never learned to raise
paste. No joy at a thing of so mean a nature
was ever equal to mine, when I found I had
made an earthen pot that would bear the fire;
and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold, before I set one on the fire again, with
some water in it, to boil me some meat, which
it did admirably well; and with a piece of a
kid I made some verygood broth; though I
wanted owned, and several other ingredi-

ents requisite to make it no good as I would
have had it been.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar
tostamp orbeatsorne cumin; forastothe
mill, there was no thought of arriving to that
perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this wantI was at a great loss; fir,"
alltrades in the world, I was as perfectlyun-
qualified for a stonecutter as for any what-
ever; neither had I anytools to go about it

with. Ispentmanyadaytofindoutagreat

ADVENTURES Oi' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

stone big to cut hollow, and make &
foramortar; hutcould findnoneatall,eacept
whatwasinthesdidroek,andwhichlhadno
way to dig or cut out: nor, indeed, were the
rocks in the island of suflicient hardness, as
they were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a
heavy pestle, nor would break the corn with-
out filling it with sand: so, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it
over, and resolved to look out a great block of
hard wood, which I found indeed much easier;
and getting one as big as I had strength to stir,
I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with
my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help
offire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place
in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their
canoes. Afler this, I made a great heavy
pestle, or heater, of the wood called iron-wood;
and this [prepared and laid by against I had
my next crop of corn, when I proposed to my-
self to grind, or rather , my corn into
meal, to make my bread.

My next difiiculty was to make a sieve, or
search, to dress my meal, and to part it from
the bran and the husk, without which I did not
see it possible I could have any bread. This
was a most dificult thing, even but to think on;
for I had nothing like the necmry thing to
make it; I mean fine thin canvass orstufi', to
search the meal through. Here I was at a
full stop for many months; nor didI really
know what to do; linen I had none loll, but
what was mere rage; I had goatslhair, but
neither knew how to weave it nor spin it; and
had I known how, here were no tools to work it
with: all the remedy I found for this was, at
last recollecting I had, the aeamen's
clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckcloths of calico or muslin, with some pieces
of these I made three small sieves, proper
enough for the work: and thus I made shift for
some years: how Idid afterwards, I shall show
in its place.

The bakingpartwasthe nextthingtobe
considered, and how I should make bread
when I came to have corn: fol-Just, I had no
yeast: as to that part, there was no supplying
the want, so I did not concern myselfmueh
about it; but Err an oven I was indeed puuled.
At length I bund out an expedient for that
also, which was this; I made some earthen
vesels, very broad, but not deep, that is to
say, about two feet diameter, and not above
nine inches deep: Melburned inthefire,
asIhaddonetheother,andlaidt-hem by;
and whenlwanted tobakc,I made agree:
tireupon my hearth,whichIhadpaved with
moqufilumfuymm-kingmdhn-
hguboghnldnddnmudlmmm.
Whenlhofimwoodwuhnodimoembeamt
liveeotllenwthomfon-udnpunmehunh,
lo ulo cover it mover, undlhmlot Ihem
lielill :hoheuthmnry hot; than manp-
ingunydllho ember-.1 to: down my loaf,
wimmnndcwaringthmwithlhewlhm
pondrew thaembcndlmmddwouuidoot
lhepot,lo keep in Ind-duo (bobcat; ud
mmuwelluindubmminthowodd,
[baked my buley loueu, und beenmefin;
liuletime,ggood intotholmgain;
forI undo myselfuvenl cum nndpuddingu
aftherice;but madenopiea,u1h1dno-
thing to put into them nap! the fleshoffowla
<<gum

1: need not be wondered at, if a}! flaw
lhinguookmoup mootpmafthethird year
ofmy abode hero; for, it is to be observed,
inlheimernls ofthmdminglflhndmynew
Inn" and husbandry!>> man-go: I raped

53

myminium,nnduniad about.
wollulmmld,nndhidiC/upintboelr,il
myl Makeuflilllhldtinelofub'lom;
forlhudnofloorlolhmhilmmrw
tolhreshilwilh.

Andm,'bdood,mynockofminaeu-
inngllywmudmhniUmyhm-bigw:
Imwd'tpheomhy itupinflorlhe'm-
muffinmmyialdodmsommh,
dutlhndonbehnrlaymwemy bushds,
udofriceumuchmrmfimomuchthu
nowlmolmdwbogintounitfuelyfiu
mybrudludbocnquitogooe ngrcu while:
lmolndullolouewhuqmmitymldbo
mfliciemfixmtwholoymflMlomm
oncenyw.

Upondmwholoflfmmddludn'onybuhoh
ofbu-loymd rieoweremneh moth"!
oouldoonmoinnyw3nIIo-olvedlom
jmnhuamoquamity sveryymthnlmd
dwindfinhopeothflmehnqmflywwfl
fully pmvidc me wilhbcud, he.

 

SECTION XIV.

nnrnm I!!! ESCAPE no! 73: ISLAND.--BUIL'DS A amour--nun: 0' ml
BCEEu.--IISIGHATIOK 1'0 318 connzom--m 3mm A "W 13ml.

Authewhilethmthhg-mdoinggou
mybomre my thoughunn Limes
uponlhopmspectofhndwbichlbadm
fimthoolhusidaofmokhndalndlwu
mtwilhoutmoumzwidsenhnlwuon
nhmlhm;fnncying. 81::ththth
hud,nnduinh.himdeomvy,lmigmfiud
menyorothanooonnymynlffmhn.
udperhlpuuhufidmmdaupo.

Buullth'uwhilelm-danodlonmfor
thedmgen duet-edition,le
mightfuflinlothehnfilofummdpen-
hp-mchulnighthnommlolhink fu-
wommmmwfimdmzm
Flmmhthoirmfldlmldmt
Wimflnnnfln-ndmdboing
and," <<chain. mmsxnud
MMMWJfi-Cuibhunm
mm W, or m; and I W;
Mhhimdqthulcoddubofuofl'fim
Nikon. Tummy, wanna.
annibgkqddmthoynighkfllnmulhoy
Mmflmwfloh'dflhiflofiefi
hathmmvhcnlhqhvobeuflnwtwdy
W:nnhml,whowuhnm,ud
mflmblhfloumd'moufllhuomh'l,

Iny,wbichlwghuohancmidondwefl
ofilhddidwlupinmylhoughulflm,
Wmnfim;yu

E5
E
g
i
E54

t them to the boat, resolving to try what
I could do: suggesting to myself, that if I_could
but turn her down, and repair the damages she
had received, she would be a very good boat,
and I might venture to sea in her.

I spared no pains, indeed, in th'u piece of
fi-uitless toil, and spent, I think, three or four
weeks about it: at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, I fell
to digging sway the sand, to undermine her,
and so as to make her fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide her right in the
fall. But when I had done this, I was unable
to stir her up again, or to get under her, much
less to move her forward towards the water;
so I was forced to give it over: and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over the main increased,
rather than diminished, as the means for it
seemed inmossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was
not pmible to make myselfa canoe, or peria-
gua, such as the natives of those climates make,
even without tools, or, as I might say, with-
out hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This
I not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with the idea of making it,
and with my having much more convenience
for it than any of the Negroes or Indians; but
not at all considering the particular incon-
veniences which I lay under more than the In-
dians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into
the water when it was made, a diflieulty much
harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences oN-ant of tools could be to them: for
what could it avail me, if, after I had chosen
my tree, and with much trouble cut it down,
and might be able with my tools to hew and
dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat,
and burn or cut out the inside to make it hol-
low, seas to make about ofit: if, after all
this, I must leave it just where I found it, and
was not able to launch it into the water'!

One would imagine, if I had had the least re-
flection upon my mind of my circumstances
while I was making this boat, I should have im-
mediately thought howl was to get it into the
see: but my thoughts were so intent upon my
voyage in it, that I never once eomidered how
Iehould get itofl' the land: and it was really,
in its own nature, more for me to guide it
over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five
fathorns ofland, where it lay, to set it afloat
in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like
a be! thatever man did, who had any ofhis
senses awake. I pleased myselfwith the de
sign, without determining whether I was able

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

to undertake it; not but that the dificultyot
launching my boat cnrne often into my head;
but I put astop to my own inquiries into it,
by this foolish answer: Let us first make it; I
warrant I will find some way or other to get
it along when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method; but
the eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to
work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and I
question much whether Solomon ever had
such a. one for the building of the Temple at
J emsalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter
at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet, where it lessened, and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour
that I felled this tree; [was twenty days hack-
ing and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vest spreading head of it, cut off: alter this, it
costmc smooth to shape it anddub it toa
proportion, and to something like the bottom
of a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought
to do. It cost me near three months more to
clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it: this! did, indeed, with-
out fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the
dint of hard labour, till I had brought it tobe
a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six-and-twenty men, and conse-
quently big enough to have carried me and all
my cargo.

W'hcn I had gone this work, I was
extremely delighted with it. The boat was
really much bigger than ever I saw a tattoo or
a periagua, that was made of one tree, in my
life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you
may be sure; and there remained nothing but
to get it into the water; which, had I accom-
plished, I make no question but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most un<<
likely to be perfumed, that everwas undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water
failed me; though theyeost me inexpreasible
labour too. It lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not more; but the first in-
convenience was, it was up hill towards the
creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
ment,I resolved todigintothewrfneo of the
earth, and so make a declivity: this I began,
anditcostme aprodigious dealofpains'
(but who grudge pair! that have their deli-
verance in view 1') when this was worked
through, and thisdificnlty managed, it was
still much the same, for I could no more stir
thecnnoethanIeould tbeotherhoat. That
1 measured the distanceof ground, and resol-
vedtocut adoek oreanfl,tobring the
uptatheeanoe,eoeingloouldnot the
was down to the water. Well, I began thin
work; andwhenl beganto enterttptllm it,
and calculate how deep it was to be dug,"
broad,howthe Itufi'wu to bethrownout, I
found by the number of hand: I had, having
none but my own, that it must have been ten
or twelve year! before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore lny so high, that
at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; this attempt, lhttuzh with
great reluctancy, I wu at length obliged lo
givu over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw,
though too late, the (oily of beginning a work
halite we count the coat, and before we judge
rightly of our own strength to gothrough with It.

In the middle of thin work, I finished my
fourth year inthin place, and kept my anniver-
sary with themedevationflndwithumuch
eoml'ortnsbethre; for,by acoutantatudy and
serious application to the word ofGod, and by
the assistance of his grace, I gained a difl'erent
knowledge from what I had before; I enter-
tained dilrerent notion: of things; I looked
now u the world u a thing remote, which
I had nothing to do with, no expectation Gum,
and, indeed, no deairea about: in a word, I
had nothing to do with it, nor we- ever likely
to have; I t it looked, as we may per-

rns look upon it hereafter, viz.asaplaceI

lived In, butwucome outaf it; and well
might isay, as father Abraham to Dives, " Be-
tween meandmistgl'wgulffixed."

In the first place, I war hero removed fiotn
all the wickedneuot' the world; I had neither
the hat of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the
pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had
all that l was now capable ofenjoying: I was
lordofthewbole manor;or,ifI pleased, I
might cell myself king or over the
whole country which I had pmeasion of,
there were no rivals; I had nocompetitor,
none to dispute aovere' or command with
me:1rnighthaveraiudabi ofeorn,
butlhadnouaefoI-it; aollet u littlegrnw
naluioughtenough formy coca-ion. I had
tortoiaeornrrtlemthutnowandtbenone
wasumnehulcouldpntto anyone: Ihad
timberenough to havebuilt a floater-hip:
and I Ind grape- to lnve nude wine,
ortohave cured interailina, to have loaded
that fleet when it had boa: built.

ButallIeouldmkot-eot'wuallthatwal
Valuable, I had mough to eat and aupply my
wanta,andwhatwanlheruttome? HI
killed morefledithanlcetddeahthedognn-t
eatit,orvermin;it'lwwedraoreeornthnn

55

Icouldeltfltmuatbeqoiied; them"
Ictrtdownwerelyingterotonthegrumdrl
couklnmkenomoretueofthemthanlbrfuel,
and thatlhadnootheroeaaionforbutto
dreaamyfood.
Inawonhthenatnreandexperienceot
thing! dictated to me. upon jtntrefloction, that
allthogood thing. oflhiawerldareoi'mfar>>
Iher good to usthanl'orouruae; antithat
whatever we may heap up to give others, we
enjoy only In much as we can use, and no
more. The most covetoua griping miser in
the world would have been cured of the vice
of covetousnets, if he had been in my case;
fbr I pmsesscd infinitely more than I Itnew
what to do with. I had no room findeaire,
except nuns forthingl which! hall not,and
they were comparatively buttriflea, thou g'h In-
deedot' grea.tuaetome Ihad,ulhinted
before,apareelofmoney,uwellgoldaaailver,
about thirty-six pound- sterling. Alan! there
thenaety,eury,uaele-anPSlay: Ihadno
mannerofbtmineaefirit;andloflanthwght
within myselfithatlwould havegivenaband-
fulol'itforagroeoot' ipea,or fora
hand-milltogrindmyoorn;nay,lwouldhave
given it all for aixpenny worth of turnip and
carrot seed fromEnglandmrfora handful of
peasandbeam,andahottle ofink. Alit
wu,Ihadnoltheleastadv-ntagebyit,orbe-
netitfiomit; buttheroitlayinadrawor,aod
grew mouidy with thedunpot'thecaveinthe
wet season; and if! hadhadtbedrawerl'ull
oi'diamonds, it had been thesune caae,--they
hadheenofnomannercfvaluetome,hecame
oi'nouee.
Ihadnowbmughtmyatateot'lifetobe
muchmecomfortahleinitaelt'tbanitwuat
firat,and much easier tnmymind,uwellal
to my body. I bequenlly eat down to meat.
with lltunltl'ulnm, and admired the hand of
God's providence, which hadthua aproad my
tableinthewiidernes:lleunedtolwkmure
uponthe brightnideofmyconditian," less
uponthedarkridenndtooomiderwhatlen-
joyed, rather than wht I wanted: and thin
gave meaometunea nubmmfona,"
Icannot them;lehichItaheno-
ticeel'here,topmthoaediaeontentedpeopla
inmindofit,whocannotonjoycomfirtahly
whatGodhasgrven them,becanae tbeyaee
andcovetaomelhingthathehalnotgimtbom.
Allourdiacontentaaboutwhatwo want,ap-
pearedtemetoqxingfiomthewantdthanh-
fitlneaaforwhatwebave.
Anotherrefleetionwavot'pnatuetome,
anddmrbtleal wouldbe aotnanyonetbat
abouhli'allintomehdiueaaaammewlltad58

this was, to my present condition with
what I at firsteqtected it would he; nay,with
what it would certainly have been, if the good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered
the ship to be cast up near to the shore, where
Inotonlycould come at ber,but could bring
what I got out of her to the shore, for my
relief and comfort; without which, I had
wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence,
and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

. I spent whole hours, I may say whole days,
In representing to myself, in the most lively
colours, how I must have acted if I had got
nothing out of the ship. Icould not have so
much as got any food, except fish and turtles;
and that, as it was long before I found any of
them, I must have perished; that I should have
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage;
that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any
contrivance, I had no way to Bay or open it,
or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels,
or to cut it up; but mum gnaw it with my
teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of
the goodness of Providence to me, and very
thankful for my I condition, with all its
hardships and misforttmes; and this part also
I cannot but recommend to the reflection of
those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is
any atlliction like mine? Let them consider
how much worse the cases of some people are,
and their case might have been, if Providence
had thought lit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me
also to comfort my mind with hopes; and this
was, com ' my pmentoondition with what
I had deserved, and had therefore reason to
expect from the hand of Providence. I had
lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well
instructed by my father and mother; neither
had they been wanting to me, in their endea-
yours to infuse an early religious awe of God
into my mind, a sense of my duty, and what
the nature and end of my being required of me.
But, alas! falling early into the seafaring life,
which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the
fear of God, though his terrors are always be-
fore them; I say, fallingearly into the '
life, and into seafaring company, all that little
sense of religion which I had entertained m
laughed out ofme by my measmates; by a
hardened despising of dangers, and the views
ofdeath, which grew habitual to me; by my
long absemo from all manner of ities
toconyerse with any thing but whatwaa like
mysel,orto earany ' thatwas or
tending tannin it. mm; M'

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Sovoidwaslofeverything thatm good,
orofthe least acme ofwhat Iwas,orwasto
be, that in the greatest deliverancesl enjoyed,
(such as my escape from Sallee, my being taken
up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my be-
ing planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving
the cargo from England, and the like,) I never
had once the words, Thank God," much as
onmy mind, or in myrnouth; nor in the great-
est distress had I so much as a thought to pray
to him, orsomuch as to say, Lord, have mercy

me! no, nor to mention the name of
God, unless it was to swear by, and blas-
pheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for
many months, as I have already observed, on
account of my wicked and hardened life post;
and when I looked about Inn, and considered
what particular providences had attended me
since my coming into this place, and how God
had dealt bountifully with me,--hnd not only
punished me less than my iniquity had deserved,
but had so plentifully provided for me,--this
gave me great hope: that my repentance was
accepted, and that God had yet mercies in
store for me.

With these reflections, I worked my mind
up. not only to a resignation to the will of God
in the present disposition of my circumstances,
but even to a sincere thankfirlness for my con-
dition; and that I, who was yet a living man,
ought not to complain, seeing I had not the
due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so
many mercies which I had no reason to have
expected in that place, that I ought never more
to repine at my condition, but torejoice, and to
give daily thanks for that daily bread, which
nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought; that I ought tuconsidcr I had been
fed by a miracle, even as great as that offeed-
ing Elijah by ravens; my, by a long series of
miracies: and thatI could hardlyhavenamed
a place in the uninhabitable partof the world
whereIcouldhave beencastmoreto my ad-
vantage; a place where, as I had no society,
which was my afllietion on onehand, so I found
no ravenous beasts, no fitriotl wolves or tigers,
to threatentny life; no momma! orpoieonous
creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt;
manages, tomtmderand devourme. In a
word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way,
soitwasalifeof anodrerundlwanted
nothingtomakeitalifeofeotnfort,buttomake
myself sensible of God's to me,and
careovermeinthiscoodition; andallerldid
makeajnstirnprovementof measuring-,1
went away,andwasnomoremd.

I had now been here so long, that my

'1'
thingewhieh I hwghtatdterelhrnyhelp
were-either quite gene, or very mud: VII-3d,
Ind near lpent.

Myink,esloheened,hedbeenganeirme
time, all but a very little, which I eked on with
water, a little end I little, till it wu no title, it
scarce left any of black upon the
paper. A: long" itluted,lnedetleofit
[0 minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened to me: lad,
first, by eating up time- put, I remember
that there wee n mange concurrence ofdnye
in the various providence. which hefell Ine,
tnd which, if I had been mpeutitiously in-
mincd to observe days In fetal or (inmate. I
might have hnd reason to have looked upon
with n greet deal of curioeity.

First, I hedobeerved,tlutthemdsy
that I broke Any fiom my father end my
friends, end rut nwny to Hull, in order to go
to sea, the same day met-wards I was taken
by the Sallee nun-of-wu, and made n due;
mesmedeyoftheyeardmlesapedout
oftho Marthe ship inY-nnouth Ronda,
that me any-you nfierwuds I made my
cscepel'nmSnllee inthe bent: and the lune
dayoftheywlwns bornon,viz. tho Nth
of September, that nine tiny I hed my life no
minculomly caved twenty-oi: year: diet,
whenlwucuton shore inthie islandzeo
that my wicked life and my eolitery life beg-n
both on one day.

The next thing to my ink heingwuted, wu
that ot'my bread, I mean the biscuit which I

brought out of the ehip: this I had huehnnded
to the lest degree, nllo ' myself but one
mkeofhreadedeyfor eyeer;|nd

yetlwuquitewithom breedfirneereyeu
before! got nnyeorn oftnym;nnd greet
thndlobethanfliflfltntllndenylt
all, the getting it being,uhubeen Ilreldy
oheerved,nextto '

My dothee,too,heguttodecny mightily:
nlo lineuflhldnoneforn while,"-
cePt some itinnwhichlfiiundin
thecheets oftheothernennen,nndwhiehI
carefully , been." my time. I
couldheernodotheeenhntnnhirtnndit
mew grenthelptonethntlhndnmong
all the men's clothes ofthe dim-Inna three
duenoflhirte. Therewerenbofindeedee-
vunlthiekwudieomnt'the eentnen'ewhich
werelemhnttheyweretoohotlowenr:nnd
thonghitietmethuthewentherwunovio-

mlconldnot gognitennked,no,thengh I
hmhdhdmhwhiehlwu>>mnor
can rammmtxmwtm

57

all done. The reason wheronld nntp
ainnnkedwngleouldnotbeerthehentd
meowellwhenqniteneheduwflhlotne
elotheeon:nny,thererybeetfreqnentlyblie-
teredmyekin:whereu,withlehirton,theeir
iuelt'tnedeeunenotion,nndwhiulingtmdee
the-himwutwofeldcoolerthnn witnontit.
NemecouIdI-eeerhringmyeelftegoomiu
theboetol'themwithmtneepor tum.
hmdthemhentingwithnwhvioleneeu
itdoeeinlhnt phee,woddgivemelheheed~
Idt Muphydutingeodirealywonmy
withuneenporhetonuothntleould
notheuit; whereu,iflputonmyhnt,it
would gouay.
Upouthmviewefihegutoeouideuhout
putting the few ngl I hid, which I celled
dothee,intoeomeorder:lhed wernwtnll
thewnisteoete Ihul, endmyth-ineu wen
nowlotryit'lcwldnotnukejwkeumof
thegrentwntchcoeu that [had by me, end
with luchother mterinlsulhnd;|olm
toworinteiloring,ornther,indeed,nbotdi-
ing,fizrlmdemoetpitmworkofit. How-
ever,Iunderhifitotmketweorthnenew
weisteoetr,whichlhopedmufleenemen
greetwhile:ul'orbteechuordrewen,lmede
hutnveryeorryehihindeedfiillnflerwudl.
Ihlvernentionedfihntlnredtbeiinro!
ellthe ereetureethntlkilled,lnemPSm~
hotedoneezmdlhndhtmgthenw,mbed
outwithstieh,intheun,hy which menus
lomeofthemwetelodrynndhuddntthey
werefitfixlittle,bntothenlhmdverymefial.
'l'hefiutthingltuded'theeewungreu
upfwmyMwiththehnlronthcoutlfle,
todtootofl'theninznndlhillpetformedno
mn,thueflwthielmdenenmitdclothee
whollyoftheekinnuhetietonyuwnincoet,
and breeehel, open u the be", Ind both
boeeflortheywere nthertnntingtokeep
meeeolthnnwnrtn. Inunnotoniitto
nekmwledge that they were wretchedly
mde;fi>>rirIwun\hndwpenur,Iwue
mailer. Hmver,theyweremehul
medererygoodrhiflwithznndwhenlwu
ehroedflfitheppenedtorlimtheheirofuy
uistooetnndenpheingWJWI-kep
midw- .
Afiumhlwegrutdulot'tineend
pimton-kemennntnhreh: Imfludin
gunmtolane,eedhedeC/rutnin00mke
one; [had seen thundein the Futile.
wheretheywereveryuefulinthegeuheen
whidtuethere;andlfehthehuhenryj':
ugrentherenndmlomhe'n'neuer
equinox:beeidee,ulwuohligedmhemeh
dined, itwunnnrtneflthingugll
well forthereinsuthe beets. Itockn
worldol'pninslt it, and we: lgrwwhile be-
fore I could make any thing likely to hold;
nay, otter I thought I had hit the wey,Ispoileo
two or three before I made one to my mind;
but at lest I made one that answered indifl'cr-
cntly well; the main difioulty I found was to
make it tolet down: [could make it spread, but
it' it did not let down too, and draw in, it was
not portable fer me any way but just over my
head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, I made one to answer, and covered
it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast
05' the rain like u penthouse, and kept 06' the
sun so efl'rctuully, diet I could walk out in the

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

hottest ot'the weather with greater sdv-ntege
than I could before in thawolest; and when
Ihednoneedotit,couldcloseit, endcerry
it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortsbly, my mind
being entirely composed by resigning to the
will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon
the disposal ofhis providence. This made my
life better then sociable ; for when I began to
regret the want of conversation, I would ask
myself, whether thus conversing mutually with
my own thoughtn,und,as I hope I may say.
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was
not better than the ulmostenjoymcut of human
society in the world 1'

SECTION XV.

EB MAKES A SMALLER CAKOE, IN WHICH HE ATTEMPTS T0 03013.2 BOUND
1'82 ISLAND.---HIS PERILOUS SITUATION A'I' SEA.--IIE RETURNS HOME.

I cAnsorr say thet otter this, for five years,
my extraordinary thing heppenod to me, but
I lived on in the same course, in the same
posture and place, just as before; the chief
things I we; employed in, besides my yearly
labour of planting my barley and rice, and
curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of
one year's provision beforehand: Issy,beeides
this yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of
going out with my gun, I had one labour, to
metre me sconce, whichet lest! finished: so
that by digging e canal to it of six feet wide,
end four feet deep, I brought it into the creek,
elmost helf'e mile. As for the first, which
we: so vastly big, as I made it without consido
ering betbre hind, as I ought todo, how I should
be nble to launch it, so, never being able tobring
it into the weter,or bring theweter to it, I was
obliged to let it. lie where it was, as a memo-
rendumtoteech metobewiserthe nexttime:
indeed, the next time, though I could not get e
lreeploper forit, end wesin Iplecewherel
eonldgetget the wetevto it at my lessdis-
tencoflmn, as I have aid, near hell's mile,
yeusl sewit was prectimhleat leet,Inever
geveitover: and thoughIwuneartwoyeers
shoot it, yet I never grudged my lsbmr, in
bopesat'hrvings bonito ott'roaeuttut.

However, though my 'ule peringu: wu
hishedgctthesiuot'itwunotntellen-

unable to the design which I had in view
when I made the first; I mean, of venturing
over to the lure firms, where it was above
forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness
of my boat assisted to put an end to that design,
nndnow Ithoughtnornore ot'it. Aslhada
boat, my next design was to make e cruise
roundtheislund; foresI had beenontheother
side in one place, crossing, as I have already
dmibed it, over the land, so the discoveries
I made in that little journey made me very
eager to mother of the coat; and now
I bed sheet, I thought of nothingbut sailing
mind the inland.

For this purpose, that I might do every
thing with discretion and eonsidemtinn, I fit-
ted up slittle must inmy host, end mode a sail
to it out of someof the pieces of the ship's sails
which lny in store, and ot'whieh I had e greet
stock by me. Having titted my mast and sail,
and tried the boot, I hand the would sail very
well: then [undo little lockers, or boxes, at
elch end of my boot, to put provisions, neces-
saries, emmtmition," into, to be kept dry,
eitherfromrlin or thespreyot'thssee; and:
little long hollow planeI cut in the inside of
theboet,wbere1eould hymygununekings
fleptohangdownoverit, tokoepitdry.

Ifixed mytmrbrelln alsoin eetepet the
stern, like-melt, to mndover myheed,nnd
keepthebeetofthemod'me,like newn-
59

 

ing; and thus I every now and then took a
little voyage upon the sen, but never went far
out, nor far from the little creek. At last, be-
ing eager to view the circumference of my little
kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and ac-
cordingly, I victunlled my ship for the voyage,
putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should
rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen
pot full of parched rice, (3 food I ate agreat
deal of,) a little bottle of rum, halfa goat, and
powder and shotfor killing more, and two large
watchcoats, of those which, as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamcn's chests;
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to
cover me in the night.

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth
year of my reign, or my captivity, which you
please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for
though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to he east side of it, I found a.
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues
into the see, some above water, some under
it; and beyond that a. shoal of sand, lying dry
half a league more, so that I was obliged to
go a. great way out to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going
to give over my enterprise, and come back
again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and, above all, doubting how I
should get. back again; so I carnete an anchor;
for I had made me a kind of an anchor with a

'piece of a broken grappling which I got out
of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun an
went on shore, climbing up on a hill, which
seemed to overlook that point, where [saw the
full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea lion) that hill where
Istood,I perceived a strong, and indeed a
most furious current, which ran to the east, and
even come close to the point; and I took the
more notice ofit, because [saw there might be
some danger, that when I came into it, I
might he carried out to sea by the strength of
it, and not be able to make the island again:
and, indeed, had I not got first upon this hill,
I believe it would have been so; for there was
the some current on the other side the island,
only that it set elf at a farther distance, and I
saw there was a strong eddy under the shore;
so I had nothing to do but to get out of the
first current, and I should presently be in an
eddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the
wind blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E. and
that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach ofthe sea. upon the point ;
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close
to the shore, for the breach, nor to go far
oti', because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, ind
having abated over night, the sea was calm,
and I ventured: but I am a waming-piece
again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I was
not even my boat's length tivom the shore, but
Ifound myself in a great depth of water, and60

aettrrentlike the sluiceof amill; it carried my
hoataltmg with it with such violence, that all I
ooulddocouldnotlteep hersomuchasonthe
odgenfit; but I found it hurried no farther
andfarthc outfiomtheeddy,whiehwason
mylefl hand. There wasnowind stirringto
help me, and all I could do with my paddles
aignified nothing: and now I began to give
myself over for lost; for as the current was on
both sides oftho island, I knew in a few
leagues' distance they must join again, and
then I was irreeoverahly gone; nordid I see
any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no
prospect before me but of perishing, not by the
sea, for thntwas enlm enough, but of starving
for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on
the shore," big almostas I could lih,and
had tossed it intothe boat; and Ihadagreat
jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my
earthen pots; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to he sure,
there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thousand league: at least?

Andnow Isaw how easy itwast'orthepro-
videnee of God to make even the most miser-
able condition of mankind worse. Now I looked
back upon my desolate solitary island, as the
mostpleasant place inthe world; and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was tohe
'out there again. I stretched out my hands to
it,with eager wishes: 0 happydesert! said I,
Ishallneverseethnemore. Omiserable
creature! whither am I going! Then I re-
proached myself with my unthankfiil temper,
and how Iliad repined at my solitary condi-
tion; and now whatwould I give to he on
shore there again! Thus we never see the
true state of our condition till it is illustrated
to us by its centuries, nor know how to value
what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is
scarce possible to imagine the comm-nation
I was now in,beiiig driven from my beloved
island (for so it appeared to me now to be)
into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and
in the utmost despair of ever recovering it
again. However, I worked hard, till indeed
my was almost exhausted and kept
myheatasrnuch tothenorthwsrddhat is,

ahottthalfanhourmoreflthlewaprettygmtle
galeBytliistinieIwaagot atafrightt'ul
distance Guru the island, and had the least
doudyorhazyweather intervenedflhadheen

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI.

undoneanotherwaytoo; ththsdno
onboard,andshouldneverhnvo known how
to have steered towards the island, "'1 had
hutonoeloetsightot'it; bulthoweatherwn-
tinuing clear, I applied myself to get up my
mastegain,andspread my sail, standingaway
to the north as much a: possihie, to get out of
the current.

JustasI hadsetmy mestandsail,and the
boat began to stretch away, I new even by the
clearness of the water some attention of the
current was near; for where the current was
so a , the weterwas foul; hut perceiving
thewatereleardfumdtheeurrentahate; and
presently! found to the east, at about a half
amile,abreochoftheeeauponsomeroeks:
these rocksifotmd causedthecurrenttnpart
again, andasthe main stress ot'itranawny
more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-
east, so the other returned by the repulse of
the meks,and madeastrong eddy, whichrsn
back again to the northwest, with a very
sharp stream

They who ltnowwhat it is tohave a reprieve
brought, to themupon the ladder," to berea-
eued from thieves justgoing to murder them
or who have been in such-like extremities.
may ygueu what my present surprise of M
was, andhowgladlyI put my boatiniothe
streamofthiaeddy; sndthewind aleofiesh-
ening,howgladly yl my sailtoit,run-
ning cheerfully before the wind, and with a
strong tide oreddy tinder foot.

Thiseddy ceniedmeahoutalsagoeinmy
way back again, directly towards the island,
but about two leagues more iothe northward
than the curent which carried me away at
first: so that when! umeneartheialandJ
foundmyselfopentothenorthernrhoreof it,
that is to say, the otherendot'the island,
oppositetothatwhichlwentoutliom.

When I hadmadesomethingnairethana
league ofway by the helpot'thiaeurrentor
eddy,Ifoond itwas servedme no
farther. However,I found heinghetwm
twogreatcurrents,viz.thatnnthesouthside,
whiehhadhin'ried me away, andthaton the
north, whiehlay abomaleagneontheotha
side;I say, between thesetwo, inthewska
ofthe ialand,Ifinmdthswateratkutstill,
andrunningnoway; sndliaving atillabteeas
d'windfairfermeJkeptmnrtgeringdireetly
for the island, though notiiuhing sneh flesh

wayasldidhet'ore.
Ahontfotn'o'cloeh in the "sailig, hehg
theawithinaleaguedtheialand, Ihindthe

pointot'theroehwliichoousionedthisdim-
ter, stretching out, as is described before.'
haulhwudmndwtingofi'tbeanentmove
ooutberly,bnd,ofeouue,mndeenotbereddyto
thenortb; undthielhrndverymong,hutnot
directly settingthewnymycoune by, which
wudue wombat-bout full with. How-
ever,hnving n {rah ple, I stretched Ira-nu
th's eddy, nlnnting north": end, innbout
enhour,eemewithinnbonumileofthelhoro,
where,itbeingunoothwmr,looonC/ottolend.
When I wuon sham! fell on my boot,
and gnve Godthnnh for my deliverance, re-
eolvingtoley aside all thoughlaof my deliver>>
once by my bent; and Iufieehing mylelf with
suchthingusl Ind,I brought my bontcloee
totheshore, in n liulewvelhulbad spied
undermine trees," hid Ino downtoeleep.
beingquiteepentwitbtbe Inbourlndfitigue
ofthevoyage.
Imnowulgreetlouwhichwnytoget
bomewithmybou: Ihndruneumuch heard,
endknewtootnuchol'the 4311!,>>le of
mempting it by the way] wentout; nndwhat
mightbe ntlhe other-hie (I mean theweet
side) Iknew mgnarhadlenymindtorun
my moreventure; eoIonly resolved in the
morning to take my way weetwerd dong the
shore,endtoleei!thmw:r;omekwb::el
might lay up myfrignte in y,eouto ve
her again, ifI wanted her. Innboutthree
miles, or thereebout, counting the shore, I
cametonverygood inletorbnynboutn mile
over, which narrowed till it come to n very
little rivulet or brook, where I found n very
convenient harbour for my boot, and where
Ihelaynsil'ehebulheeninnlittledockmede
onpurpoeeforber. Herelptnin,endheving
stowed mybont very nfe,Iwent unebore,to
lookaboutme,nndeeewliere1m
Isoonfoundlhndbutnlitllepn-edbytho
place where I bed been before, when I tn-
velledonl'ootto imitate; lotskingnothing
out ot'myhontbtdmygtmlndumbrohfor
itwasexoeedinghotflbegnntny march. The
wey wueomfortahleenoughnfiermchnvor
Igeulhndbeennpon,endlrewbedmyold
bower inthe evening. where I found every
thingstmdingullenitgforlnlnyekeptit
in goodorder,being,ulnidbefore,my
countryhotlo. Igotoverthefenee,endlnii
me downin thelhede, tore-I mylimbenforl
m veryweery, end fell "loop: butjndge
you, ifyoueen, that read my uory,wlntn
Int-prise I" be in when! wunwnkened
oustd'myhephynvoioe, callingmeb my
film several timel, Robin, Robin, in
Cm; poor Robin Crusoe! Where ere
command Whereueyou'l Where
nyonbeen'l

61

Imwdaddupnhgbeingl'efiped
withrowing,orpeddling,u itiseelled.tbe
firetpertd'tbedey,endwithwelkingtbehtp
terpertfihnldidnotwelre yum:
fleeing between duping Ind wakinythought
Idreemedthueomebodyspultetome;buu
the voice continued torepeot Robin Crusoe,
Robin Canoe," In! I townie more
perfectly,e.nd m at lintdrendfully fightened,
and muted upin the Minuet eomternnlion;
bunnoloonerweremy eyee open,butInw
myPoll eittingonthetopot'thebedgezend
immediately knewitwuhethu eto me;
forjminsmhbemoeninglengugelhedued
totalktohimnndteoebhim; endhehed
leaned it eonerfectly, that be would lit upon
myfinger,nndlay hilbillcloeetomyfiee,
enday,PoorRohinCrueoe! Wbereoreyou?
Where hove you been? How am you here?
mdsuehthingeulhndtnughthim.

However, event I knew itwutbe
pnrrot,nndtbuindeediteotlldbenohodyelse,
it wean while before I could compo-e
myrelf. First,lwesemedhowtbecrea~
mregotthithernndthen, howhe ehoultljllt
keepnboutthe pllce, end no where else: but
ulwnswellntisfieditewklbenobodybut
boneetPoll,Igoloverit;lndholdingoutmy
hmd,nndenlliughimbybil nune,Poll,the
Iocilhlemntmeenmetomnndntuponmy
tbunth,nsheusedtodo,|ndconti.nued talking
to me, Poor Robin Crtloe! undhowdid I
oomehere'lendwherehedlbeen'ljtutuif
hebedbeenoverjoyedtoleemeegeinund
nlmriedhimhomeelongwithme.

Inowhndenoughofnmblingtoml'or
eometime,end bed enough to do fix my
day-,tolltnill,lndreflectnponthe danger!
bndbeenin. Iwouldhavebeenverygledto
havehed mybontegein on myeide ofthe
islnnd;btnlknewnothowitwuprutienble
togetiubout. Aetotbeeane'ided'theidnnd,
whiehIhadgonerotdehewwellenongh
there wunovenmringthetny;myvery
heart would dwink, end my veryblofir'
chill,butto think ofit; ends! to the"
lideoftbeiolundfldidnotknawbowiy
betheregbutwpnuhgtheanentnn
theumeforeengeinsttheehueettheendu
itpuledby itontbeotherJt-ightrnntho
nmeriekol' being drivendowntbeneen,
nndcerriedbytbe'lhnd,u1hed"enbo-
foreofbeingenrriednwnyliunit; Io,with
theeethmght-Jeonuntedmyeelftobewith-
mmyMWith-dbeenthepmdnet
ofeonlnymnnth'lkhonrtomebeigendd
nomuymontogetitintotheeen.

Intbhpvemmentd'myteqerlmined62

near aye", lived a. very sedate, retired life,
as you may well suppose; and my thmghte
being veryth , as to myeondi-
lion, and fully comforted in resigning myself
to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except
that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the
mechanic exercises which my necessities put
me upon applying myself to; and I believe I
could, upon occasion, have made a very good
mt", especially considering how few tools

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected
perfection in my earthenware, and contrived
Well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely easier and better; because
I made things round and shapeahlo, which be-
fore were filthy things indeed to look on. But
I think I was never more rain of my own per-
formance, or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-
pipe; and though it was a very ugly clumsy
thing when it was done, and only burned red,
like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and
firm, and would draw the smoke, [was ex-
ceedingly comforted with it, for I had been
always used to smoke: and there were pipes
in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
thinking that there was tobacco in the island;

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI}.

and aflerwarda,whenIaearchedtheabip
again,I could not come at any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware alao I improved mudt,
and made abundance of neceaenry baskets, as
well as my invention showed me; though not
very handsome, yet they were such as were
very handy and convenient for my laying things
up in, or fetching things home. For example,
ifIkilled agoat abroad, I could hang itupin
a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieoeo,
andbring it home ina basket; and thelikeby
a turtle: I could cut it up, take out the eggs,
and a piece or two of the flesh, which was
enough for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also
large deep baskets were the receivers of my
corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it
was dry, and cured, and kept it in great basket.

I began now to perceive my powder abated
considerably; this was a want which it was
impossible for me to supply, and I began aeri-
ously to consider what I must do when I should
have no more powder; that is to say, how I
should do to kill any goats. I had, as is ob-
served, in the third year of my being here,
kept a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I
was in hopes of gettinga he-goat: but I could
not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid
grew an old goat: and as I could never find in
my heart tokill ber,shedied at last of mere age.

 

SECTION XVI.

HI BMBS A FLOCK 0F eons--ms DAIRY.--HIS DOMESTIC HABITS AID mu
0? LIVING.--IHCBMSIIG PROSPERITY.

Burro now in the eleventh year of my re-
Iidence, and, as I have said, my ammunition
growing low, I set myself to study some art to
trap and snare the , to see whether I
could not catch sotneof them alive; and parti-
cularly, I wanted a she-goat great with young.
For this purposeI I made snares to hamper
them; and I do believe they were more than
once takeninthenubut iny tackle was not
good, for I had no wire, and I always found
them broken, and my bait devoured. At
length I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug
several large pita in the earth, in places where
I badobaerved the goataused to feed, and
over those pits I placed hurdles, of my own
making too, with a great weight upon them;
andseveraltimeaI put carsofbarlayanddry
nee, without setting the trap; and I could

emily perceive that the goats had gone in and
eaten up the corn. for I could see the marks
of their feet. At length I set three traps in
one night, and going the next morning, I
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten
and gone; this was very discouraging. How-
ever, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble
you with particulars, going one morning to
see my traps, I found in oneof them a large
old lie-goat, and in one of the other: three
kids, a male and two females.

Altothe old one, I knew not what todo
with him; he was aofierce, I durat not go
into the pit tohim; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, which was what I
wanted: I could have killed him. but that I'll
not my business, nor would it answer my and;
no I even let him out, and he ran away, as if
he hedbeenl'rightenedoutol'hiewits. But!
hedl'orgotthen,whatlhadlearned
dmhungerwilltarne elion. Iflhadlethiln
stay there three or four days without ind, end
then have curried him some water to drink,
and then a little com, he would hue been I:
tame es one of the kids; for they are mighty
eegaeious, tractable creatures, where they ere
well used. However, fix the present I let
him go, knowing no better at that time: then
I went to the three kirk, Ind taking them one
by one, I tied them with string-Mother,
Wylll'l some dificulty brought them all homo.

it we: e good while before they would feed;
h. It throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted
tlII- -m, and they began to be tune. And now
I found that if! expected to supply myselfwilh
goat 'e flesh when I had no powder or shot lefi,
breeding some up tame was my only my ,
when, perhaps, I might have them about my
house like e flock of sheep. But then it oo-
curred to me, that I must keep the tune from
the \\ illl, or else they would always run wild
when they grew up: and the only my for this
was to have some enclosed piece of ground,
well fenced, either with hedge odgeor pole, to keep
tlncm' In so effectually, that those within nigh).
not break out, or those without bruit In.

This was a. great undertaking for one pair
of hands; yet as I saw there was an absolute
necessity fixdoing it, my first work was to
find out e proper piece of ground, where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eel, Inter
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from
the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will
think I had very little eontrivuieo, when 1
pi' ched upon 1 place very proper for ell those,
(beinge plain open pieceol' meedowlend, or
savannah, as our people call it in the western
culoniee,) which had two or three little drills
of fresh water in it, and at one end we: very
woody; I say, they will smile It my forecast,
when I shall tell them, I hegen my enclosing
this piecool'grotmdineuchemnner, that
my hedge or pale must have been at leak two
IniiL-s about. Nor wee the III-dues- of it so
great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles
about, I was like to have time enough to do it
in; but i did not eoneider tho! my goats would
henswildineomucheompaseae iftheyhad
had the whole island, end I should have no
much roomtochuethemin,thatlehouid
never catch them.

My hedge was begun and curried on, I be-
lieve ehout 69y ends, when this thought
marred to me , no I_

doeea pieceofahomonelmndredlndflly
in length, end one hundred ylrde in
hreldth: which,uitwouldmaintninalmeny
ulnhouldhaveinnnymmhletimono,
u my nook inereued, 1 could odd more
groundtomyenclomre.
Thismactingwitheomepmdenoe,aadl
wenttoworkwitheotmge. lwuahouzthreo
monthebedginginthefiutpieeo;end,tilll
heddmiyltotheredthothreehidointhe
beetpanafignndmedthemtofaedumr
moupouible, to make them familiar; and
veryoflenlwould gonad curry themeotne
earsofhuloy,orehendfldofrieo,endfeed
themoutot'myhend:eothatenermyenclov
Imewasfinished,endlleC/themlooee,they
would follow me up and down, bloating afier
mefurehandfulofoom.
Thisemweredmyendgandinehoutaym
nudehalflhedafloekofahouttweiregm,
kidsand oil; and intwo years more, 1 bed
threeendlbrty,berideleevenlthultoohend
killedformy food. Aflerthetleneloeedfire
several piecesol' toi'eedthemin, with
littlo penstodrive them me, to take them:-
Iwented, endgeteeoutol'onepieoeofground
into-nether.
Bmthieweenotnll;i>rnowlnotonlyhed
gome'fleehto feed onwhenlpleued,hut
milk too; n thing which, indeed. in limbo-
ginning, ldid notlomuchuthiri J, Ind
which, ,wbeniteuneintomyf" I was
rally on . now Ietop
mydeiry ,'sameometimeeageflonortwo
oftnilhheday. AnduNeture,whogivee
nippliee {food to every endure, dietetee
even-belly how tomekeueeot'it,eol,
thethednevertnilkedeoow,muchleuagoet,
oreeenbutterordieesemedomnlywbenl
ween boy,elloragreetnnny <<aye and
misclrnageo, anodemhothbunerandcheeee
etlest,andaleoeelt,(thoughltinmditpartly
medetomyhendhytheheatofthemupon
eomeofthe roelteof the-ea.) endnever
wmteditaflerwerde. How mercifully canour
Crentor treethie mummeveninthoeeeon-
ditione in which they named to be over-
wholmedindwumionlfluwmhewm

the bittereet ludgivetlcaneeto
praisehim thrdmgeoneendpriml Who:
eteblewuhere formoinawilder-

nes,whereluwnothing, ntfiret,hutto
peruhfiirhunger!

Itwouldharemedeaetoiennflefiohen
eeenlneendmyliulefamilylidown todin-
nor: tlmwaemy III-jury, theprineeend
lordot'thewholeieland; Ihdtheliruol'
Illmymbjeetlunlyeheohumnndgl64

could bang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and norebcls all my subjects.
Then loses hewlikesking Idined too,all
alone, attended by my servants: Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was
now grown very old and crazy, and had found
no species to multiply his kind upon, sat sl-
ways at my right hand; and two cats, one on
one side of tlto table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I
brought on shore at first, for they were both of
them dead, and had been interred near my
habitation by my own hand; but one of them
having multiplied by I know not what kind of
creature, these were two which I had pre-
serval tame; whereas the rest ran wild in the
woods, and bemno indwd troublesome to me
at last; for they would often come into my
house, and plunder me too, til] at last I was
obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many; at length they lefi nun--With this
attendance, and in this plentiful manner, I
lived; neither could I be said to want any
thing but society: and of that, some time after
this, I was like to have toomueh.

I was something impatient, as I have ob-
served, to have the use of my boat, though very
loath torun any more hazards; and therefore
sometimes I sat conniving ways to get her-
about the island, and at other tines I eat my-
self down contented enough without her. But
lhsdastrangeuneasiness in my lindtn go
down tothe point (I the island," as I
have said, in my last ramble, I M qr the
hill to see how the shore lay, and how the cur-
rent set, that I might see what I had to do:
this inclination increased upon me every day,
and at length I resolved to travel thither by
land, following the edge of the shore. I did so;
but had any one in England been to meet such
a_ln:rn as I was, it must either have frightened
him, or raised s great deal of laughter: and as
I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could
not but smile at the notion of my travelling
through Yorkshire, with such snequipage, and
in such a dress. Be pleased to take askth
of my figure. asfollows:

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of
n goat's skin, with aflsp hanging down behind,
as-well to keepthe sun from me as tosbootthe
ntnofl' from running into my nook: nothing
being sohlmftzl in theseclirutes as the rain
upon the flesh, under the dothes.

Ihsd iflmtjlchetofgoat'sskinflbelfifll
coming down to about the middle 11' the thigh,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 03050:.

and spairol'oporrkneed breechesofthlsame,
the breaches were made of the skin of an old
he-gost, whue hair hung down such a length
on either side, that, like , it reached
tothe middle of my legs; stockings and shoes
Ihadnone,buthadmsde me spairofsome~
things, I scarce know what to call them, like
buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spatterdasbes: but of a most barba-
rous shape, as indeed were 'all the rest of my
clothes.

I had on a broad belt ofgoet's shin dried,
which I drew together with two thongs of the
same, instead of buckles; and in akind of a
frog on either side of this, instead of s sword
and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet;
one on one side, and one on the other. I had
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the
same manner, which hung over my shoulder;
and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung
two pouches, both made ol'goat's skin too; in
one of which hung my powder, in the other my
shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on
my shoulder my gun; and over my head a great
clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but whidt,
afler all, was the most It thing I had
about me, next to my gun. As tbr my face,
the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like
as one might expect fromaman not at all care.
ful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees
of the equinox. My beard I had once sum-red
to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard
long; but as I had both scissors and razors suf-
ficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
gren- on my upper lip, which I had trimmed
into a large pairof Mahomelan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallce;
for the Moors did not wear sud), though the
Turks did: ofthese mustachios or whiskers, I
will not say they were long enough to hung my
hat upon them, but they were of a length and
shape monstrous enough, and such as, in Eng-
land, would have passed for fiightful.

But allthis is by the bye; for, as to my figure,
I had so few to observe me that it was of no
manner of uenee; so I say no more to
that part. In this kind offig'uro I went my new
journey, and was out five or six days. I Ira-
velled first along the seashore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor,
to get upon the rocks; andhaving no boat now
to take care of, I went over the land, a bearer
way,tot.hessmeheightthat Imupon before;
when looking forward to the pointd'the rocks
which lay out, and which I "(obliged to
double witbmybost, Is is saidsboveru
surprised to see the sea sll smooth and quiet
no rippling, no motion. no unrest, snym
dterethaainanyotherplaces. Iwasata
strange loss to understand thie, and resolved to
Ipendaometime intheobeerving it, toaee if
nolliingfrom the setaofthetide had maimed
it ; but I was presently convinced how it was,
viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west,
and joining with the current of waters from
some great river on the Il'lore, must be the
occasion of this current; and that according as
the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or
from the north, this current came nearer, or
went further from the shore; for waiting them
abmtts till evening, Iwent up to the rockagain,
and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly
saw the current again as before, only that itran
farther all, being near half a league from the
shore; whereas, in my case, it not close upon
the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along
with it; which, at another time, it would not
have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had
nothing to do but toobserve the ebbing and the
flowing of the tide, and [might very easily bring
my best about the island again: but when I
began to think ofputling it in practice, I had
such a terror upon my spirits at the remem-
branccol'thedangorlhad been in,thlt [could
not think of it agin with any.potience; but,
on lho contrary, I took up another resohrtion,
which was more safe, though more laborious;
and thin was, that I would build, or rathermake
me another periagua orcanoe; and lohave one
for one side of the island, and one for the other.

You are tounderatand, that now I had, as
I may call it, two plantations in the island;
one, my little fortification or tent, with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the cave
behind me, which, by this time, I had en-
larged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One ofthese, which was the
driest and largest, and had a door out beyond
my wall or fortificatim, that is to say, beyond
where mywall joinedtotherock, was all
filled up with the large earthen pots, of which
I have given an account, andwith fourteen or
filiecn great badtets, which would hold five or
six bushels each, where I laid up my atom of
provision, especially my corn, some in the ear,
cut off short from the straw, and the other
rubbed out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long
stakesor pilea, than piles grow all like treea,
and were hythia time grown Io big, and

aprcadaoverymuch,thattherewunotthe~

least appearance, to any one'a view, of any
habihtion behind them.
Near this dwelling at mine, but a little far-
ther within the land, and upon lower grated,
5

65

lay my two pieces of corn land,which I kept
duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly
yielded me their barveet in its season: and
whenever I had occasion lix more corn, 1 had
more land adjoining as fit as that.
Beeideathis, I hadmy country seat; and I
had now a tolerable plantation there also: for,
first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair: that is In any, I kept
the hedge which encircled it in constantly
fitted up to its mun] height, the ladder stand.
ing always in the inside: I kept the trees,
which at first were no more than my stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall, always
cut so, that they might spread and grow thick
and wild, and make the more agreeable shade;
which they did efl'ectually to my mind. In
the middle of this I had my tent always stand-
ing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles,
not up for that rmrpoae,and which never wanted
any repair or renewing; and under this I had
nude me aaquabor couch, withthe skinsof
the creatures I had killed, and with otltersott
things; and a blanket laid on them, such as
belonged to our sea bedding, which I had caved,
and a great watchcoat to coverme: and here,
whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for
my cattle, that is to say, my goats: and as I
had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to
fence and enclose this , I was so anxi-
ous to see it kept entire, lest the goats should
break through, that I never let! 03', till, with
infinite labutr, I had stuck the outside of the
hedge aolitllol'emall ataltes,andeonearto
oneanother,thnt it wurathera pale then a
hedge, andthere was ecarceroom toputa
hand through betweenthem; which afterwards,
when those stakes grew, as they all did in the
neat rainy season, made the enclosure strong
like a <<IL--indeed, stronger than any wall.
This will Utify for me that I was not idle,
andthatlsparednopainstobringtopasa
whatever neccsary for my comfort.
able support; for I considered the keeping up
ahreedoftamecreatureathusatmyhand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk,
butter, andcheesefixmeasloogasllivedin
theplace, ifitweretobefortyyears;and
that keeping them in my reach depended en-
tirely uptm my perfecting my coolest": to web
a degree, that I might be cure ofkeeping them
together: which, bythis method, indeed, I an
effectually lectured, thatwhen these little stakes
began to grow, I hadplanted themeovery
thick,that I watforcedto pull manhu-

up again.66

In this place also I hall my grapes growing,
which I principally depended on for my winter
store of raisins, and which I never failed to
preserve very carefully, as the best and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet: and. indeed,
they were not only agreeable, hut medicinal,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the
last degree.

As this was also about halllway between my
other habitation and the place where I had
laid up tny boat, I generally stayed and lay

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

here in my way thither; for I used fi'equently
to visit my boat; and I kept all things
about, or belonging to her, in very good
order: sometimes I went out in her to di-
vert myself, but no more hmrdous voyages.
would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's
cast or two from the shore, 1 was so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of my knowledge
again by the currents or winds, or any other
accident. But nowI come to a new scene
of my life.

 

SECTION XVII.

UNEIPECTED ALARM AND CAUSE FOB APPREHENSION.--HE FORTIPIBS HIS 130D!-

!! happened one day, about noon, going
towards my boat, I was exceedingly surpdsed
with the printof a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the
sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if
I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see
any thing; I went up to a rising ground, to
look farther; I went up theshore, and down
the shore, but it was all one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it
again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but there
was no room for that, for there was exactly the
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a
flint: how it came thither I knew not, nor
could I in the least imagine; but, after innu-
merable fluttering thoughts, like a man pen-
fectly confused and out of myself, I came
home to my fortification, not feeling. as we
say, the ground I went on. but terrified to the
last degree: looking behind me at evury two
or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree,
and fancying every stump at a distance to be
a man. Nor is it possible to describe how
many various shapes my afl'rightcd imagina-
tionreprcsented things to me in,how many wild
ideas were [hand every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimsiea
came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle, (for sol think I
called it ever after this,) I fled into it like one

pursued; whether I went over by the ladder) "as, open a high

cover, or for to earth, withmore terror of mind
than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night: the farther I was
from the occasion of my fright, the greater my
apprehensions were; which is something con-
trary to the nature of such things, and espe-
cially to the usual practice of all creatures in
fear; but I was so embarrassed with my own
frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed no-
thing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was aowa great way of! it. Some
times I fancied it must be the Devil, and rea-
son joined in with me upon this suplmsitiun;
for how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks were there
of any other footsteps? And how was it pos-
sible a man should come there '! But then to
think tlnt Satan should take human shape ttpttn
him in such a place, where there could be no
manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print
of his foot behind him, and that even fur no
purpose too, for he could not be sure I should
see it,--th'u was an amusement the other way.
Iconsidered that the Devil might have found
out abundance of other ways to have terrified
me than this ofthe single print of a foot; that
as I lived quite on the other side of the island,
he would never have been so simple as to
leave a. mark in a where it was ten thou-
sand tonne whetherlahould oversee itornot
and in thesand too,which thefirst surge ofthe
wind, would have defaced

as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with the

rock, which I had called adoor, I cannot re-
member; no, nor could I remember the next
morning; for never frightened hate fled to

thing itself, and with all the notion we
usually entertain of the subtlety of the Devil.
" Abundanceof such things astheae minedDiscovering a (bot-prim.--p. 66.
67

 

to argue me out of all apprehensions of Its be-
ing the Devil; and I presently concluded then,
that it must be some more dangerous creature,
viz. that it must be some of the savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered
out to sea in their canoes, and either driven
by the currentsor bycontrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, but were
gone away again to sea; being as loath, per-
haps, to have stayed in this desolate island as
I_would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my
mind, I was very thankful in my thoughts that
I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that
time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some
inhabitants had been in the place, and per-
haps have searched farther for me: then terri-
ble thoughts racked my imagination about
their having found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, I should cer-
tainly have them come again in greater num.
bers, and devour me; that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they
would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn,
and carry away all my flock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want.

. Thus my fear banished all my religious hope,
all that former confidence in God, which was
founded upon such wonderful experience as I had
had of his goodness, as it' he that had fed me
by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by his
power, the provision which he had made for
me byhis goodness. I reproached myself with
my laziness, that would not sow any more corn

 

one year than would just serve me, till the next
season, as if no accident would intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thnught sojust a rcproof,
that I resolved for the future to have two or
three years' corn befirrehand ; so that whatever
might come, I might not perish for want of
bread.

How strange a chequer-work of Providence
is the life of man! and by what secret different
springs are the affections hurried about, as
ditl'erent circumstances present! Today we
love what tomorrow we hate; today we seek
what tomorrow we shun; today we desire
what tomorrow we fear, nay, even tremble at
the apprehensions of; this was exemplified in
me, at this time, in the most lively manner
imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was
that I seemed banished from human society,
that I was alone, circumscribed by the bound-
less ocean,cut oflTrom mankind, and condemned
to what I called silent life; that I was as one
whom heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the
rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of
my own species would'have seemed to me a
raising me from death to life, and the greatest
blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme
blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that
I should now tremble at the very apprehensions
of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the

nod at but the shadow or silent appearance
ofa man's having set his foot in the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life: and
it afforded me a great many curious specula-tions aflerwards, when Ihad a little recovered
my first surprise. I considered that this was
the station oflit'e the infinitely wise and good
providence of God had determined for me;
that asICouId not foresee whetthe ends of
divine wisdom might be in all this, an I "I
not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was
his creautre, had an undoubted right, by ace-
tion, to govern and dispose of me absolutely as
hethought fit; andwho, as I was aereeture
that had ofi'ended him, had likewise a judicial
right to condemn me to what punishment he
thought fit; and that it was my part to submit
to hear his indignation, because I had sinned
agaimt him. I then reflected, that as God,
who was not only righteous, but omnipotent,
had thought fit this to punish and efl'lt'ct me,
eohe was ublcto deliver me; that if he did
not think fit to do so, it was my.unqueationed
duty to mign myself absolutely and entirely
to his will; and, on the other hand, it was
my duty also to hope in him, pray to him,end
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of
his daily providence.

These thoughts tool: me up many hours,
days, nay, I may any, weeks and montlts; and
one particular client if my cogitatiotte on this
occasion I cannot omit: One morning early,
lying In my bed, and filled with thoughts about
my danger from the appearances of savages, I
found it diecornpoeed me very much; upon
which these words of the Scripture came into
my thoughts, "Call upon me in the day of
trouble,and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out
of my bed, my heart was not only comforted,
butlwasguidedand edtopreyeen-
neelly toGod for deliverance: when I haddone
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it
to read, thefirst words that presented to me
were, " Wait on the Lord, and he of good
cheer, and he ahall stungthen thy heart; wait,
Iaay, ontheLord." Itisi ibletoex-
press the comfort this gave me. In answer, I
thankfully laiddowntheg'book, andwesnomore
sad, at least on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitetions, appre-
hensions, and reflections, it came into my
thoughtsoneday, thetallthis mightbeamere
chimereofmy own,endthatthiaihotm.tg lithe
the printofmyyewnitot,wheclcameon shore
ti'otnmyboat: thiadteered tne upelittletoo,
endlbegentopereuede tnyeelfitwasalla
deluion, that itwae nothing else but myowlt
that: endwhymightI noteetnethetweyl'rom
the boat, as well as I was going tngdut way to
the heat? Again, I considered eke, that I
could by no means tell, for min, where I

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

had trod,andwherelhadnot; antithat if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I
hadplayedthepartoftltoae fools who tryto
make stories of epeeuee and epperitions, and
thenerefrightenedat tnemmorethenanyhody
New I begantetakeconrage,end to peer
abroadegein, for I had not stirrednutofm)
castle fix three days and nights, so that I be-
gan to starve for provisions; for I had little or
nothing within doors but some barley cakes
and water: then [know thettny goats wanted
to be millrd too, which usually was my even-
ing diversion; and the poor matures were
in greatpatn patnand inconveniencet'or want ofit ,
and, indeed, it almost apo iled some of them,
and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging
myself, therefitre, with the bctiet' that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
andthatlmtghtbetruly said to startat my
own itadow, I began to go abroad again, and
went to my country house to milk my flock: but
to see with what fear I went forward, how
dien I looked behind me, how I we: ready,
every now and then, to lay down my basket,
and run for my life, it would have made any one
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience,
or that I had becnletely most terribly frightened;
and so, indeed, I had. However, a I went
down thus two or three days, and having seen
nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
thinkthere was really nothing in it butmy
own imagination; but I could not persuade
myself fully ofthia till I ahculd go dowp to the
shoreagein,andeeethis pnntgol'afoot,and
measure it by my own, and see if there was
any sitnilitude or Stem, that I might be as-
surcd itwes myown foot: but whenIcatne
to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me,
thatwbenIlaidup my boaylcouldnot poe-
siblybe on shore any where thereahout: se-
condly,when I cametn measure the Inarlt with
my ownfoot, I fitmdmy footnoteo large by a-
greatdeal. Both thesey things filled my head
with new , and gave me the va-
pounegeintothe highest degree, so that I
ehookwitheold likeone inen ague;andl
wentheme ' filledwiththebeliefthat
some nun or men had been on shore there;
or, inehort, thetthe islendwas inhabited, and
surprised before I was aware; and
whateoursetotake funny aeettritylknewnm.
0 wint ridiculou- resolutions men take when
withfear! It deprives them of the

use of humane-"Ilium reason otl'era for
their to" ' I proposed to my-
self was, to throw down my edema, and
turn all my tame cattle wild 'ntothe wont.
lest the enemy should in! them, are! that i!-
gout the island in Mdthesameathe
like booty: then to the sink things! digging
up mytwoeosnields, leatheyehould find
such n groin then, end still be anptnd to
fiequmttheishnd: lhtm'odemulinh mybower
endtuitnhattheymightnotseeanyvestiges
of habitatim, and be to look farther,
innrdertofindmttheperminhnbiting.

These were the subject of the Em night's
eogitntions alter! waseomeheme ngsin, while
the ions which had so overrun my
mind were fresh uponme, and myhead was
iitll ofvapotln, as above. This fear ul'dangur
is ten thwsud times more terrifying than
dengerileelfi when npparent tn the eyes; and
we find the burden of anxiety greater, by
mueh,thantheevilwhiehwearennximnnhom:
andwhich waawoue thsnall this, i had not
that relief in this trouble (ion; the resignation
1 used toprectise, thst Ihopedto hsve.l
looked, [ thought, like Soul, who complnined
not only that the Philisfines wove him,
butthatGod had lbvsahenhim; forldidnot
now take due way- tocempose my mind, by
crying toGod in my distress, nnd resting upon
his providence," I had denebet'ore,tix my
defence Ind delivers"; which, in had done,
I had It leest been me cheerfully supported
under this new surprise, end perhaps carried

it with more resolution.

This nonunion of my thoughts kept me
nwake all night; but in the morning I fell
asleep; and having, by the amusement of my
mind, been, ns it were tired, and my spirit-
exhumed, I slept very soundly, end waked
much better than I had ever been
before. And new [began to thinksedately;
nnd,uponthentmoudehntewilhmyself,l

entirelyahnndnned as I mightimagine that
nlthsugh there weronouted inhahitanta' who

wills,eotheymadennsteyhere,htlwentofl'
againwith allponsible weed; seldanmyin'
onenight on shore, lest theydtnnld not luv.
thehelyefthetidennnddnylightbnfinpin;
an! MdterefiireJ had nothing" dohuttn
unidernfeomes-l'eremsginaselshould
see any asvngeslsndupon thespot.

Newlbegansurelylorepentthatlhaddu'
mycsveso lorgeasto bring-ileum
again,whieh dean-sluid, enmeoutbeyond
whet-e my {animation joinedtntherock: upon
namely camidering this, therefore,l resdved
Indrawmeneecolul fordfimiomintltesnme
manner on semicircle, at ndistanen fiom my
well, just when [had plentedadnuhlemwof
Irene nbout'twelve yen: We, of which I
made mention: the" trees having boenplsntod
so think before, they wanted but few piles to
be driven between them, thst they might be
thicker and stronger, and my well would he
sooufinisbedzsothntlbsdnowadwhlewall,
end my utter well was thickened with pieces
oflimber,oldcnbles,andeverythingleould
think of, to unite it strong; having in itaeven
little holes,aboutasbigulmightpntmynrm
outat. Intheinsidoofthia,lthichened my
wall to about ten feet thick, with continually
bringing euthoutol' my cave,and|nying its:
the footot'thevvsll, sndwslkingupon it; end
throughthe seven holeelconu'ived toplnnt the
mmltets,ol'whichltoolsnmieethatlhndgot
sevenonshonoutoftheship: theselplanted
like my moon. and fitted them into from.
thntheldthemlike awriage,sothstlcould
firealltheseven gtmsin twomimnes'time-
thiswnlllwesmanyn monthinfiniah
ing,andyetnever thoughtmyselt'nfe till!
wnsdune

Wheothiswasdooerniekallthegvntmd
without my wall, foragreatlength every way,
as fit" with etslres, or stitis, of the mien-like
wood,whichlfiiund so aptlo grow, uthey
could well stand; insomuch, thetlbelievd
might set in near my that-and ofthem,
leaving nprelty large space betweeetbemud
mywnll,thet1mighthnveroomtoeeesn
enemy,snd they might have no sheltsrfrun

theyotmgtnaflflheytflmtptedtow

myouterwnll.

Thue, intwoyean' time, I hula thick
gmvoundinfiveorsiayearstimelhnda
woodbel'ore my dwelling, ' lemon-
muthichandstrengnhatnwuindeedpee-
fectlyimpa-nhle; sndnotnen,ofwhnt hind
never. everinginsthntthsrewaeany
thingbeyonditnmaohlessnhhimtitm. As
firthewaywhiohlproposodnumynel'top
innodetl,(furl Mine-Wives"70

eeuingtwo hddmmne toa part of the rock
which was low, and then broke in, and loft
roomto place another ladder upon that; so
when the two ladders were taken down,no man
livi could come down to me without doing
himself mischief; and if they had come down,
they were still at the outside of my outer
wall.

Thus! tooltallthe measures humanpru-
dence could suggest for my own preservation;
and it will be seen, at length, thatthey were
not altogether without just reason; though I
foresaw nothing at that time more thanmy
mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether
careless of my other affairs; forl had a great
concern upon me for my little herd of goats;
they were not only a ready supply to me on
every occasion, and began to he stiflicient for
me, without the expense of powder and shot,
but also without the fatigue ofhunting alter the
wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advan-
tage ofthem, and to have them all to nurse up
0V0? agatn.

For this purpose, after long oonsideration,l
could thinkd'hut two ways to preserve them:

ADVENTURES OF KOBINSON CRUSOE.

onewas,tofinrl another convenient place to
diga cave midergrotmd,and to drive them
into it every night; and the otherwas,to on-
close two or three little bits of land. remote
fromone another.andaamuch concealed as!
could, where t might keep about halfa am.
young goat! ineachplace; so thatifanydis-
aster happened to the flock in general, I might
be able to raise them again with little trouble
andtime: and this, though it would require a
great deal of time and labour, I thought was
the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out
the most retired parts of the island; and I
pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed,
as my heart could wish for: it was a little
damp piece ofground, in the middle of the hol-
low and think woods, where, as is observed, I
almost lost myselt'onoe before, endeavouring to
come back that way fi'om the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land,
near three acres, so surrounded with woods,
that it was almost an enclosure by nature; at
least, it did not want nearso much labour to
make itsoas the otherpiooosofgrotmdl had
worked so hard at.

 

SECTION XVIII.

PRECAUTIONS AGAIIIS'I' SnPklsla--ROIIISON DISCDVIBS THAT Bl! ISLAND ms
BEEN Vlst BY CANNIBALS.

I IXHEDIATELY went to worlt with this
piece of ground, and in less than a month's
time I had so fenced it round, that my flock,
or herd, call it which you please, who were not
so wild now as at lit'st they might be supposed
to he, were well enough seemed in it: so,
without any farther delay, I removed too young
she-goats, and two h to this piece; and
when they were there, I continued to perfect
the fence, till i had made it as secure as the
other; which, however, I did at more leisure,
and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour 1 was at the expense ot'purely
from my apprehensions on the account of the
print of a. tnttn's foot which I had seen; fir,
as yet, I never saw any human creature
come near the island: and 1 had now lived
two under this uneasiness, which, indeed,
made my life much leescortd'ortablethanit
was before, u may be well imagined by any
whoknowa what it is to live in the eautant
ananofthefcarofman. And thislmust

observe, with grief too, that the disoomposure
ofmymindhadtoogreatimpressionsalso upon
the religious part of my ts: for the dread
and tenor of falling into the hands of savage-
and cannibals layso upon my spirits, that!
seldom found myself in a due temper for appli-
cation to my Maker, at least not with the se-
date calmnees and resignation of soul which I
waswonttodo: I rather prayed to Godal
under great affliction and of mind,
surrounded with or, and in 2 tion
every night of being murdered and devoured
before mot'ning;and [must teatifyfrom my
experience, that a temper of peace, thankful-
noas, love, and afl'eaion, is much the more
proper flame the prayer than that of terror and
disootn ; and that under the dread of
miachitlimpending,amnianomorefitfie
a comforting pertormanee of the duty of pray-
ingtoGod,than boil for-repentance one
sick-bed; Ear these ' afl'eet the
mind, astheothersdothehody; anddtedio
wof the mind moot. neceemrily be u
greet odiability uthetut'the hody,eed much
raw;_mrmC/w6dbeinr Fwy-um
d' the mind, not of the body.

Buttogoon: ellerl bed tliueecrndone
pert ofrny little living stock, I went than the
whole island, numbing for enother private
piece to meke ouch enother depoeit: when,
wenderingmoreto the west pointofthoislend
thenlhndever done yet,end lookingoutto
see,IthotIghtIeewe,hoetupon them,"
egreltdisteme. Ihedlbunde ive
glass or two in one of the eeemen'e ohm,
which I sewed outof our Ihip, but I had it not
ebout me; end thie we: .0 remote, that I could
not tell whet to make of it. though I looked
at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look
any longer; whether it we: I boot or not, I do
not know, but u I demanded from the hill I
could see no more of it; on I gev'e it over;
only I resolved to go no more out without e
perspective gloss in my pocket. When I we:
come down the hill to the end of the island,
where, indeed, I had never been before, I we:
presently convinced thet the fleeing the print of
enun'sfootwunoteuche thingin
theislendeeli Inegined: end, butthet It we:
I opecielp rovidence thetI we: out upon the
side of the islend where the eevegm never
come, I should euily have known thot nothing
wesmwefiequentfltmfwtbecemeo fmmthe
main, when they happened to be e little too for
out et lee, to shootout- to thet side of the
island for hnrbour: likewise,ee they otlen met
end fought in their cenoee, the victoryheving
token eny prisonerl, would ' them over to
this shove, where, eocording to their drcedful
custom, being ell cemihnle, they would kill
end eat them; of which bereeIer.

WhenI wee cornedewn thehilltotbe
shore, es I said ebore, being the southwest
point of the idend, I wee perfectly confounded
end errand; nor in it paeible liar me toex~
press the horror If my mind, et Ieeing the
shore spread with tltulle, bends, feet, end other
bonee of human bodice; end, peniculerly, I
oheervede place wheretherebadhoenefire
mnde,endeeircledugintheeerth, like e
cockpit, where I supposed the eerege wretchee
hnd atdow'ntotheir inhrnnenl'eutingonpon
the bodies of their follow-creatures.

lwueo wished with the eight of these
thinge, thet I enterteined no notion ofeny
dengerto myselffi'omit forelongwbib: ell

were baied' In the thought:
a!" e pitch ofinbunn, bellilh brutality,
end the horror of the h a' homo

WMWIhdheudd'ndlcn,

 

71

yetlnoverhed ooneereviewofbefere:iu
ebort,lturned ewey myt'eee fiaethoborrid
oped-do,- myetomeeh peweich,endl wee
jrutetthepointot'feinting,wbennetuedie-
chuged the dieador fiommy staunch; end
heving vauited with women viobtice, I
wuelittlerelieved, butoouldnotboertoetey
inthephcoemt; eolgottneupthe
hillqeinwitbelltheepeedlcould,endwelhed
ontowerde myownhebitetion.

WhenIeerneelittleoutoftbupmofthe
blend, I otood otill ewhile. eeemued, end
then reco myself, I looked up with the
utmoet efl'ectionot' my call, end, wrtheflood
ofteere in my eyes, gen God thenlte, tlllt
hed cost my fimlotinepertofthewwld
wherelwes distinguished frorneuchdreedful
metureeeetheee; endthet,thoughlhed eo-
teemed my preeent condition very minerehle,
lied yet givenrne mmeny comfortein it,thet
Ihedetillmoretogivethenksforthentoeout-
plein of: end this,ebove ell,thotI bed, even
in this miserable condition, been comforted
with the knowledgeof Himelf, endthebope
of Hi: blaming; which we! I felicity more
then eufliciently equivelent to ell the misery
whichIhed eufl'ered, orcmtld Iufl'cr.

Inthit fremeofthenkfirlneqlwentbome
to my ceetle, end to be much eerie:
now,eetotbo eefety oftnycircumetencee,
theneverIweebefore: tbr Iobeerved thet
thou wretchee never come to this island in
eeerch of whet they couldget; perbepe not
necking, not venting, or not expecting, any
thing here;endheving often,nodoubt,beeh
up in the coveredwoody pertofit,witbout
findingenythingtotbeirpurpoeo. Ihnewl
bed been herenow elmoet eighteen yeen, end
never new the lust Mop-ofhumncree-
tureethere before;end Imrghtbeeighteen
your: more es entirely conceeled u I wee
now,ifIdid notdieooverneelftothem,
which! had nomemerofocceeiontodo; it
being my onlybueine-tokeqimyee lfeluirely
med-dwherelwuumlealfamdebetter
oortofcreattmthencennibelewmhmy-
ult'lrnownto. Yetlontert-einedltlzheneb-
horrence oftbe uvege wretcheethetl hove
been epeehirrgofiendofthewutehod inbo-
mncmtomot'their endutingene
enotheru p,thetIcontinuod end-ed.

end lrept clone within my own circle, for elmoet'

two emeflerthinwbeeI-y-ymeir-
cle,Irneenhyitmy three Vinny
eeetle,mycounu'yeeet,wbichlculledmy
bower,endrey encloeIne inthewoah: na
didlhtener'thilfiweny <<berm-thee.-
neodauefirmy MSShttreevuiee72

which nature gave me to these hellish wretehee
was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them
as ofseeing the Devil himself. I did not so
much as go to look aller my boat all this lime,
but began rather to think ofmaking me another;
for I could notthink of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the
island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea; in which if I had hap~
pcned to have fallen into their hands, I knew
what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had
that I was in no danger of being discovered by
these people, began to wear olfrny uneasiness
about them; and I began to live just in the
same composed manneras before; only with
this diti'erence, that I med more caution, and
kept my eyes more about me, than I did before,
lest I should happen to be seen by any of them;
and particularly, I was more cautious of firing
my gun. lest any of them being on the island
should happen to hear it. It was therefore a
very good providence to me that I had fur~
nished myself with a tame breed of goats, and
that I had no need to hunt any more about the
woods, or shoot at them; and ifl did catch
any of them after this, it was by naps and
snares, as I had done before: so that for two
years after this, I believe I never fired mygun
once 05', though I never went 01!! without it;
and, which was more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them
out with me, or at least two of them, sticking
them in my goat'sdsltin belt. I also furbished
up one of the great cutlasses that Iliad out of
the ship, and made me a beltto hang itonalso;
so that I was now a moat lormidable fellow to
look at when I went abroad, if you add to the
former description of myself, the particular of
two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging
at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for
some time, I seemed, excepting these cautions,
to be reduced to my former cairn sedate way
of living. All these things tended to show
me, more and more, how far my condition
was from being miserable, com to some
others; nay, to many other particulars of life,
which it might have pleased God to have
made my lot. It put meupon reflecting how
little repining there would he mankind
at any condition of life, if people would ratllor
compare their coalition with those that were
worse, in orderto bethanld'ul,thanbe always
comparing them with those which are better,
to assist their murmurings and complaining.

Asinmy presentcendition there as not
reallv manythingswhiehlwanted, so, indeed

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUBOE.

Ithoughtthattbofi'ighta [had beeninsbout
these savage snatches, andthe concern Ihad
beenin formyown preservation, had takenofl'
the edge of my invention for my own conve-
niences; and I had dropped a good design,
whichIhadoncobeot my thoughts toomuch
upon,andthatwas,totryifleou|dnot malts
some ofmy barley into malt, and then try to
brew myself some beer. This was really a
whimsical thought, and I reproved myselfoften
for the simplicity of it; tor [presently saw
there would be the want of several things no-
cessary to the making my beer, that it would
be irnpocsible for me tosupply: as, first,casks
to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as
I have observed already, I could never com:-
pass; no, though I spent not only many days,
but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but
to no purpose. In the nest place, I had no
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no oopperorkettleto make it boil; and
yet, with all these things wanting, I verily be-
lieve, had not the frights and tenors l was in
about the savages intervened, I had under-
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pan too;
for I seldom gave any thing over without ac-
complishing it, when once I had it in my head
to begin it. But my invention now ran quite
another way ; for. night and day, I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these monsters in their cruel, bloody enter-
tainment, and, ifpossible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take
up alarger volume than this whole work is
intended to be,to set down all the oontrivances
I hatched, or rather hrooded upon, in my
thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or
at least frightening them so as to prevent their
coming hither any more: but all this was ab-
ortivo ; nothing cool be poaible to take efl'ect,
unless I was to be there to do it myself: and
whatoouldoneman doanang them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of
them together, with their darts, at their bows
and arrows, with which they could shoot as
truetoatnarkaslcouldwithmy gun?
Sometimes Ithought ofdiggingaholn under
the place where they made their fire, and put-
ting in five orsiapounda of gunpowder, which
when they kindled their fire, would conse-
quently take fire, and blow up all that was near
it: but as,inthefirstplaoe,l Ibouldbeun-
willing to waste so much powderupon them,
my store being now within the quantity don.
barrel,>> neitheroonldI bemofitsgoing
d'atanyoertaintime,whenitmight '
than; and, atbeat,tlmtitwoulddolinlemma
than jut blow the he abem their ears, I'
night them,hutnotm$eieottotulte them
funketheplaeezaolleiditeeideIudthen
proposedthetiwooldphoemyeeit'inamhtah
ineomeoonvenieot withmythreegune
elldouhie-loeded,and,inthemiddleoftheir
hloodyoeremony,letflyatthem,whenl
ehouldhemtohillorwotmd iwoor
threeat every-hotgendthent'alling inupon
them with my three pietoh,endmy "0rd,!
medeno douhthutthet it'there weve twenty
lehouldkill them ell. This fincy planed
mythwghuihreomeweehtandl wan-o
fidlot'it,thetlofiendreamedot'it,endeome-
time: that Iwujnet going tolet flyetthem
inmy aleep. lwentloi'arwith itinmy
magnum that I employed myself more!

ye to outproperpleoeetoptttmyeelf
in amhuncade,aal eeid,towatehlhr them;
and I went ii'equentlyto the piece itself, which
was now grownmorefamilier tome but
while my mind wa's thI- tilled with thought:
of revenge, and a bloody putting twenty or
thirty ofthetntolhe aword,a:lmeycallit,
thehorrorlhndettheplweflndetlheeigmle
of the harbomuewretchee devouring one eno-
ther, abetted my mnliee. Well, et length, I
founde piece in the eide ofthe hill, where I
was misfiedlmight lecurely waittill I new
eny oftheir hoata.coming: and might then,
evenbefore theywouid heready to comeon
shore, convey myselflmaeemintneome thick-
eta ol'treea,inonoefwhiehtherewuehollow
large enough to eonoeel me entirely; and
theielrnight citandoheerve all their bloody
doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were an doee together In that it
wouldbenento' ihlethatlehouldmis
myshogorthatlcouldfeilwmmdingthveeor
thur ofthem atthe first shot. inthie plane,
then,lreeolvedtofixmy'dceign; and,aooonl-
ingly, l prep-red two mualteu and my ordi-
urylhwlingpieoe. Thetwomnhetelloeded
with ehmceot'elngl each, andfourortive
smaller bullets, about the line ol'pistol-hullett;
end the fowlingpieco I loaded with near a
hendfidofswan-ehotoi'thelargesteiudeleo
landed mypiatobwithahontfiurhofletaeach;
end in this poetwe, well ed with em-
mitionlbreloeundlflthildcbargo,1pn~
peredmyee lt'formyexpedition.

Alter] hadthusleidtheechemeofmydeo

Iign,and,inmyimagimtion, putitiopno-
tice,leontinuallymndemytwreverymom-
ingnptothetopot'thehill,whichweafiom
my eeetle,ulceliedit,ehwtthteemiles,
orme,tooeeifleoiddoheerve anyhoata
won the neg-coming nee: the 'ulend,or

nudhtgovertowudaitzlmlhegantotire

 

 

79

ofthia hardduty,efierlhad,fortwoorthree
month, constantly keptmy wetch,hutceme
elweye heck without eoy dileovery; there
havingnot,inelltlnttime,heenlheleut
appearance,uotonlyonorneerthethore,but
onthewholeoceen,eofereemyeyceor
gla-eecouldreeehmrywey
Aelongulkept mydnilytourtothehill
tolookout,oolongalaolltepttpthevigonr
ofmydeeign,andmy spiriteoeemedtohe
ellthewhileinantitahlelhrmfileowtra-
geoul anelecutionee theltilling twentyor
thirty naked eevegea, for an fienee which I
hednotetalleoterodintoedimuionerin
my thoughts, any firther then my ypaeeiooa
wereatflretfiedyhythehonotlmivedet
theunneturnlcmtemut'the peopkofthet
country ,who, itaeeme,hedbeenwfi'eredby
Ptovidenee. in his wine disposition of Ihe
world,tohnve nootherguidethanthatof
their own abominable end vitiatedpeu
end, comequently,were left. endperhap had
heeiteoforaome ,toeetluch horrid
thingsmnd receive euchdreedful unname-
nothing hut nature, entirely ehandoned hy
Heaven, and mutated hysotnehe'l'uh dege-
nereey, couldhnvevun them into. But now,
when,asl'heve nid,lhegentobeweory of
the Guides excunion which Ihedmatleeo
long andtofereverymorning innin,eomy
opinion of the action itself began to alter;
andlbegen, withcoolerendcelmerthwghta,
Inconeider what! was going Ingto engage in;
wheteuthorityorealllhedtopretendtoho
judge and executioner upon theee men an
crummb, whom Haven hail thought fit, the
Iomeny egos, to suffer, unpunuhed logo on,
endto he,aeit were, the executioner: ofhis
judgmenteone upon another. Howfnrthese
people were ofl'enderr against me, and what
rightlhedtoengegeinthequarrelot'thet
blood which they died upon
one another, I debated this very otten "ilh
myself, thus: How dolhnowwhatGod him-
eelt'judgeeinthia partieularcue'! Itisoer-
tein theae people do not commit this no a
crime; ,itienotM lightheirmmeiem
roving, or I
gydonothnewittoheanofl'ence3endtheti
commit it in drfianceot'divine justice, uwe
doinalmortalltherineweeomnit. They
thingitnomoreaaimetokilleeaptive
tekeoinwu,thanwedotokillenox;norto
eatlnnnenfleah,thanwedotoeatmntton.
When loomidered thiealittlofitbllowed
neoeenrily Ihatlwucerteinlyinthewrong
init; thattheo'epeoplewerenotmmdereuin
themethatihadhefaeeandeamodthem74

in my thoughts, any more than those Chris-
tians were murderers who often put to death
the prisoners taken in battle; or more fre-
quently, upon many occasions, put whole
troops of men to the sword, without giving
quarter, though they threw down their arms
and submitted. In the next place, it occurred
to me, that although the usage they gave one
another was thus hrutish and inhuman, yet it
was really nothing to me; these people had
done me no injury: that if they attempted me,
or I saw it necessary, for my immediate pre-
servation, to fall them, something might
be said for it; but that I was yet out of their
power, and they really had no knowledge of
me, and consequently no design upon me;
and therebre it could not be just fur me to fall
upon them: that this would justify the conduct
of the Spaniards in all their barbarities pm
tised in America, where they destroyed mil-
lions of these lo: who, however they were
idolatera and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs,
and: as milking human bodiu to their idols,
were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent peo-
ple; and that the mating them outof the country
' an of with the utmost abhorrence and
detestation byeven the Spaniards themselvesat
this time, and by all other Christian nations in
Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either
to God or man; and for which the very name
of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and
terrible to all people of humanity, or of Chris-
tian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the produce of
a race of men who were without principles of
tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to
the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark
of generate temper in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a
pause,andtoaltindofafull stop; until>>-
gan, by little and little, to be off my design,
and to conclude I had taken wrong measures
in my resolution to attack the savages: and
that it was not my bushes to meddle with
them, unless they first attacked me; and this
i was my busime, if possible, to prevent;

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

but that if I were discovered and attached by
them, I knew my duty. 0n the other hand, I
argued with myself, that this really was the
way not to deliver If, but entirely to ruin
and dedroy myself; for unless I was sure to
ltill every one that not only should be on shore
at that limc,'but that should ever come on
shore afterwards, if but one of them moped
to tell their wintry-people what had happened,
they would come over again by thousands to
revenge the death of their fellows, and I should
only bring upon myself a certain destruction,
which, at present, I had no manner of occasion
for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither
in principle nor in policy, I ought, one way or
other, to concern myself in this afl'air: that my
business was, by all possible means, to curb
ceal myself from them. and not to leave the
least signal to them to guess by that there were
any living creatures upon the island, I mean of
human shape. Religion joined in with this
prudential resolution; and I was convinced
now, many ways, that l was perfectly out of
my duty when I was laying all my bloody
schemes for the destruction of innocent crea-
tures, I mean innocent as to me. As to the
crimes they were guilty of towanls one ano-
ther, I had nothing to do with them; they
were national, and I ought to leave them to
the justice of God, who is the governor of
nations, and known how, by national punish
moms, to make a just retribution for national
offences, and to bring public judgments upon
those who otfend in a public manner, by such
waysasbeet please him. Tbisappearedsoclear
to me now, that nothing was a greater satis-
faction to me than that I had not been suffered
to do a thing which I now saw so much reason
to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it;
and I gave most humble thanks on my knees
to God, that had thus delivered me from
bloodguiltiness; bcaeeching him to grant me
the protection of his providence, that I might
not Fall into the hands of the barbarians, or
that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless I hada more clear call fi'omfieavea
todoit,indefenceofmyown life.
75

SECTION XIX.

ROBINSOH DISCOVIRS A CAVE, WHICH SERVIS all A! A "rant AGAINST TH-
SAVAGES.

Is this disposition I continued for near a.
year after this; and so far was I fiomrlesiring
an occasion for filing upon these wretches,
that in all that time I never once went up the
hill to see whether there were any of them in
sight, or to know whether any of them had
been on shore there or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew my of my eontrivances against
them, or be provoked, by any advantage which
might present itself, to fell upon them: only
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which
I had on the other side of the island, and ear>>
ricd it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little core, which
I found under some high rocks, and where I
know, by reason of the currents, the savages
durst not, at least would not, come with their
boats, upon any account whatever. With my
boat I carried away every thing that I had
left there belonging to her, though not neces-
sary for the bare going thither, viz. a mast and
sail which I had made for her, Ind a thing like
an anchor, but which, indeed, could not be
called either anchor or grapnel; however, it
was the best I could make of its kind: all these
I removed, that there might not be the least
shadow of any discovery, or any appearance
of any boat, or of any human habitation. upon
the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I
said, more retired than ever, and seldom went
from my cell, other than upon my oonstant
employment, via. to milk my shegoats, and
manage my little flock in the wood, which. as
it was quite on the other part of the island,
was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that
these savage people, who sometimes haunted
this island, never earns with any thoughts of
finding any thing here, utdeonsequently never
wandered ofl' from the coast; and I doubt not
but they might have been several times on
shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before. Indeed,
I looked back with some horror upon the

ts of what my condition would have
beenifIhadpoppedtrpenthem and been
discovered before that, when, naked and un-
armed, exeept with one gun, and that loaded
<<(ten uly with small diet, I walked every

where, peeping and peering about the island
to see what I could get; what a iee
should I have been in, if, when I discovered
the print ofa man's bet, I had, insteadofthat,
seen filleen or twenty savages, and found them
pursuing me, and by the awiflnees of their run-
ning, no possibility of my escaping them?
The thoughts of this sometimes quirk my very
soul within me, and distressed my mind so
much, that I could not soon recover it, to
think what I should have done, and how I
should not only have been unable to resist
them,but even should not have had presence
of mind enough to do what I might hnve done;
much less what now, after so much considera-
tion and preparation, I might be able to do.
Indeed, alter serious thinking of these thing,
I would he very melancholy, and sometimes
it would last a great while; but I resolved it
all, at loot, into thankfulnaas to that Previp
dance which had delivered me from so many
unseen dangera, and had kept from me those
mischiefi which I could have no way been the
agent in delivering myself from, because I had
not the least notion of my such thing depend-
ing, or the least supposition of its being poa-
sihle. This renewed a contemplation which
often had come to my thoughts in former time,
when first I began to see the merciful disposi-
tions of Heaven, in the dangers we run t
in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered
when we know nothing of it ; how, when we are
in (a quandary, as we call it) a doubt or hesi-
tation, whether to go this way, or that way,
a secret hint shall direct us this way, when
we intended to go that way: nay, when sense,
our own inclination, and perhaps business, has
called to go the other way, yet a strange in-
pression upon the mind, fi'otn we know not
what springs, and by we know not what
power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it
shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that
way which we ahouId have gone, and even to
ourirn ' ionoughttohavegone,we IhouH
have been ruined and Ion. Upon these, and
many like reflections, I aflerwarda made its
certainrule with tire, that wheneverlfoud
thosesecrethintsorpreasingaofnin'l,>>76

doing or not doing any thing that presented, or
going this way or that way, I never failed to
obey theaecret dictatenhoughlknewnoother
reasonror itthanthatsuehapmesured ,orsuch
ahint, h uponmy mind. Icoul give many
examplesungf the succeu of this conduct in the
course of my life, but more especially in the
latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy
island; hide: many occasions which it is
very likely I might have taken notice of, if I
had seen with the same eyes then that I see
with now. But it is never too late to be wise;
and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraor-
dinary incidents as mine, or even though not
so extraordinary, not to slight such secret inti-
mations of Providence, let them come from
what invisible intelligence they will. That I
shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account
for; but certainly they are a proof ofthe con-
verse of spirits, and a sea-ct communication
between those embodied and those unembo-
died, and such a proof as can never be with-
stood; of which I shall have occasion to give
some very remarkable instances in the re-
minder of my solitary residence in this din
mal place.

I believe the reader of this will not think
it strange if I confess that these anxieties,
these constant dangers I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all
invention, and to all the contrivances that I
had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety
more now upon my hands than that ofmy food.
I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood new, for fear the noise I might make
should be heard; much less would I fire a gm,
for the same reason: and, above all, I was
intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in
the day, should betray me. For this reason I
removed that part of my business which required
fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, &c.
into my new apartment in the woods; where,
afterl hadbeenaome time, .lfinmd, tomy
unspeakable consdation, a mere natural cave
in the earth, which went in a vast way, and
where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at
themouthof it, wouldbesohardyastoven-
ture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but
one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as
a safe retreat.

The with of this hollow was at the bottom
ofa great rock,where bymere accident, (I
would say, in did not see abundant reason to
ascribe all such things now to Providence,) I
was cutting down some thick branches of trees

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOI.

tomake charcoal; and,beforelgom,Imut
oheervetbereasonofmymaking thiacbarcoal,
whichwasthus: Iwasafraidofmakinga
smoke about my habitation, as I said before;
and yetlcould not live there withoutbaking
mybread, cooking mytneat, kc; sol con-
trived tohurn some wood here, as Ihadeeea
done in England, under turf, till it became
chark, crdrycoal: and then putting thefire
ont,l preserved the coal to carryhome, and
perform the other services for which fire was
wanting, without danger of make. But this
is by the by :--While I wascuttingdown some
wood here, I perceived that behind a verythick
branch oflorw bruahwood, or tmderwood, there
wasakindofhollewplaee: Iwascurious to
look in it, andgetting with dilficulty into the
mouth ofit, I found itwas pretty large: lhatis
to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it,
and perhaps another with me: but I must con-
fesatoyouthatlmade morebute outthanI
did in, when, looking Ember into the place,
and which was perfectly dart, I saw two
broad shining eyes of some creative, whether
devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like
two stars; the dim light from the cave'a mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered my-
self, and began to call myself a thousand fools,
and to think, that he that was afraid to see the
devil was not fit (olive twenty years in an island
all alone; and that I might well think there
was nothing in this cave that was more fright-
t'ul than myself. Upon this, plucking up my
courago,ltookupafirebrand,andinintshed
again, with the stick flaming in my hand; I
had not gone three steps in, but I was almost
as much frightened as I was before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in
some pain, and it was followed by a broken
noise,asofwon'lshalfe ,andtht-na
deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was in-
deed struck with such a surprise, that it put
meintoacoldsweat; andifIhadhadahst
on mybead, Iwill not answerl'or it,thatrrry
lair mightnotbave lined itoti'. Entstill
plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and .
encouraging myself a little with considering
thatthepowerandpresenceofGodwasevery
where, and was able to me, upon this
I stepped forward again, and by the light of
the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head, Inwlyiag onthegrounda mestmen-
strous, frightful, old Ire-pat, just making his
will, as we say, and gasping fa life; and
dying, indeed,ofrnereold age. Istirredhiar
alittletolee if! couldget himout,andho
essayedtogetup,bnt wasnotahlstora'.
himselfaendl twilhrnyeelfhenught
evenliethere;fori'hehedPSrightenedme,eo
he wwldeerteflyfrightenyd'thenngee,"
enyofthenehouldhelohudyutoeonein
awrewhilehehaduylifeinhim.

lwesnowreooveredfrommynnpriee,md
begutoioekremdme,whenlfiund-thean
wubutverymn, thatietonyfitmightbe
ebomtwelvefeetaver,hlninnomnerof
shape, neither round nor quire, on hand:
having ever been employed in making it but
those ofmere Nature. I observed elsothat
therewuepleceuthefirtbersideditthu
went in further-,butwulolow the! it required
motocreepupoumyhendsendkneestugo
into it, and whither it went I knew not: so
havingnoeendle, Ipve it over for that time;
but resolvedtoeomeegeinthenenday,pro-
rided with oendlelend e tinder-box, which I
had made of the lock of one of the markets,
withsome wildfireinthe pan.

Accordingly. the next day I come provided
with six large candlesol' myown mking.(fur
[made verygoodcendleenowofgoets' tellow,
hutwuhudeet for madle-wick,tning some-
times rege or rope-yum, end sometimes the
dried rind of tweed like nettlen) and going
into thislowpleceflmabligedtocnepupon
all fours, es I here aid, almost ten yards;
which, bythe my, I thought we! 3 venture
bold enough, considering thltlhewnot how
faritmight go,norwhetwesbeyoudit. When
Ihedguthroughthemiulfixmdtheroof
rose higher up,Ibelim new twenty feet; but
neverwee nicheglmiooe eighteeeninthe
islend,Id|reeey,uitwes,toleohotndthe
aides and roofoi'thiswultoreeve; thewell
reflectedehmdredtlmndlightetemefrom
mytwooendlee. Whetitwuindle rock,
whetherdiemoede, or my otherprecieue mu,
or gold, which Inther it to he, I
knewnoc. The pheelwuinwuemee:
delightful eerityergrwoof it: kind, on oodd
be expected, w perfoellydark; thefloor
we: dryuul level." had I m Jamel!
buogrevdmmwdnttherewnem
muwmtobeeeenmeither
m thereenydemporwetoutheeidelot
reol'nheonlydifioultyinitwutheenu-enee;
which,howerer,eeitwuepleeeofeeeufity,
endeadieretreeteelmtedfldzwghtthu
m e convenience; eo thetlwureeflyre-
joieedetthedieeevery, endmdvedwiflloot
anydeley,oohrhgmed'thaethinpwhieh
Immunio-iehmtothiephcenerh
tienhrlyflrenlvedtobringhitherny-geme

 

77

Meta,fizrofthethedeightbdl:loI
keptumyeutle oulyfive, whiehuood ready
mtedflikepieoeeot'mmemnmywtrmet
feoeennd were mdyeboeeuheomupoe
enyexpeditioo. Uponthieeeeuioeefreem.
ing my emition, I to open the
berrelofpowderwhidlltookupmuoflhe
m,mdwhidlhedbeeewet;endlfotndthn
theweterhed ebotnihreeerfmr
all. is: the powdm ovum-y side, which,
in; 570 ' , preserved the
imidelikeekernll'inthelhell; eothetIh-d
nweinypomdm'ygoodpowderinthe
oentreoftheeukuhiewueveryegreeeble
dieeeverytorneetthettime; eoleerriedell
eweythithermeverheepingebovetwoonhee
potmdsol'pewderwithmeinmyuetle,finr
feuofemrpriseoi'enykind: Illeoeerried
thitherelltheleed Ihedlellforbullets.
Il'enciedrnyeelfnawlikeooeoftheueieru
giente, which were said to live in are! end
holeeintheroche,wherenoneomiucomeat
them; for I persuaded myeeli', while I we-
here, that it'fire hundred tongue weretohunt
me, theyoould neverfind newt; or, ifthey
did, they wouldnotventuretoetmkmehere.
The oldgoet,whom Ifiiund expiring. died in
themthoftheeevethenutdeyefierlmde
lhiediecmryzendlfinmditmncheuiertodi'
egreetholethm,endthmhimineuleover
himwitheenh,thentodnghimoot;eolh--
terredhimthere," tod'enoetonyeoee.
Imminthetwenty-thirdyeuot'my
reeideneeinthieielendnndwueemtuelieed
tothephoe,mdthelnemerofliving,thu
earldlhevebuteujoyedtheeerteietytheteo
nugeewwldeemetothephoetodiltubne,
Ieould herebeen mttoheve upituleted
farqhedingthemtdnytiuntbmemto
thelenmoment,tilllhadhidrnedowuud
died,liketheoldgoetintheeue. [build-o
arrived>> none link diversions Ind ell-e-
mu.whichmdethetimepe-egleetdeel78

first, tolteeplhunfromdflotlnngmelndal"
had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some
lime continually driving them from me, and
letting them have no provision with me, they
all ran WllLl into the woods, except two or three
favourites, which I kept lame, and whose
young, when they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides
these, I always kept two or three household
ltids about me, whom I taught to feed out of
my hand; and I hid two more parrots, which
talked pretty well, and would all call Robin
Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed did
I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame sen-
fuwls, whose name: I knew not, that I caught
upon the there, and cut their wings; and the
little stakes which I had planted before my
castle wallbeingnowgrownnptoagoodthick

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

grove, then fowl: all lived among there lnvr
trees, and bred there, which was very agree-
ableto me; so that, aaI said abore, I began
to be very well contented with the life I led, if
I could have been secured from the dread of
the savages. But it was otherwise directed;
and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just obser-
I'alion from it, viz. How frequently, in the
course of our lives, the evil which in itself we
leek must. to shun, and which, when we are
fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is often-
times the very means or door of our deliver-
ance, by which alone we can be raised again
from the affliction we are fallen into. I could
give numv examples of this in the course of
my unaccountable life, but in nothing was it
more particularly remarkable than In the cir-
cunmancre of my last years of solitary resi-
dence in this island.

SECTION XX.

ANOTHER VISIT OF THE SAVAGES.--ROBINSON SEES THEM DANCING---PII-
CEIVES TEE WEECK OF A VESSEL.

Irwaa now the month ofDecember, u I
said above, in my twenty-third year; and this,
being the southern solstice, (for winter I cannot
call it,) was the time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in
the fields: when going out pretty early in the
morning, even before It was thorough dyaylight,
I was aurprised with aeeinga light ofsome
fireupon the shore," ldistancelbfiun meoi'
about two toilet, towards the end of the island
when I had observed aotne savages had been,
as before; and moths otheraide,bul,tomy
great afflictiondtwasonmy aide of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight,
and stopped abort within my ygrore, not daring
to go out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I
nad no more peace within, from the apprehen-
sions I had that if these savages, in rambling
overtheialand, oheuldfindmy cornetanding
orcut,tvanyofmy work-and! unenta,
they would immediately conclude that there
were people' In the place, andweuld than never
givaovertillthey badfound meant. In tbia
my, I went back directly to my castle,
pulledup thehdiaaflumqandymadeallthinga
withmtlooltao wild and natural uloould.

Then I prepared myaelt'within, putting my -
aelfinapoature ofdefence: I loadedall my

cannon, as I called them, that Is to lay, my
muskets, which were mounted upon my new
fonifimtion, and all my pistols, and resolved to
defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to yxecommend myself to the divine pro-
tection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
meoutoftbebandaoftbebarbariane. Icon~
tinned in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mighty impatient. for intelligence
abroad, forlbadno epieetoaendout. After
sitting awhile longer, and musing what I should
do in this, I was not able to bear aitting in
ignoranceany yl r.aoaettingup my ladder
tothe aideoft'ii'bghill, wheretberewuailat
place, ulobeerved befire,andthenpulling
the lndderup afier me, Iaetitupaxainand
motmtedtothetopofthehill;andpull'
out my permective glans, Wbidl I had taken on
purpoae, Ilaid rnedown flaten mybellyon
theground, andbegantolookfartbeplace. I
presently found than were no lean than nine

nakednvagea, sitting round a amall fire they
had made, not to warm them, fir they had no
needet'that,theweatherbeing extremely hot,
but,asI ,todreaaaomedtbeirbub
baromdietot'lummnflcab,whichtbey Ind
brutghtwithMWbethualiveordeIdl
could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which
they had hauled up upon the shore , and as it
was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood to go away
again. It is not easy to imaginc'what cun~
fusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so
near me too; bttt when I considered their
coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I began, afterwards to he more st-tlate
in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the tide of
flood, if they were not on shore before; and
having made this observation, I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more com-
posure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as
the tide made to the west" artl, I saw them all
take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it)
away. I should have observed, that for an
hour or more before they went off. they went
a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glass. I could
not perceive, by my nicest observation, but
that'lhcy were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but \vltt'lher they
were men or women, I cottld not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone,
I took two guns upon my shoulders, and two
pistols in my girdle, and my great sword by
my side, without a scabbard, and with all the
speed I was able to make, went away to the
hill where I had discovered the first appear-
ance of all ; and as soon as I got thither, which
was not in less than two hours (fbr I could not
go space, being so loadcn with arms as I MS)
I perceived there had been three canoes more
of savages at that place; and looking out

 

farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
melting over for the main. This was a dread-
ful sight to me, especially as, going down to the
shore, [could see the marks of horror, which
the dismal work they had been about had left
behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part
of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and de-
voured by those wretches with meniment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the
sight, that I now began to premeditate the
dustruction of the next that! saw there, let
thetn be whotn or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me that the visits which they made
thus to this island were not very frequent, for
it was above fifteen months before any more
of them came on shore there again; that is to
say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or
signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the
rainy seasons. then they are sure not to come
abroad at least not so far: yet all this while
I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the con-
stant apprehensions of their coming upon me
by surprise: from whence I observe, that the
expectation of evil is more bitter than the suf-
fering, especially if there is no room to shake
off that exportation, or those apprehensions.
During all this time I was in the murdering
humour, and took up most of my hours, which
should have been better employed, in contriving
how to circumvent and fall upon them, the very
next time! should see them; especially if they
should be divided, as they were the last time,
into two parties: nor did I consider at all, that
if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I
was still the next day, or week, or month, to
kill another, and so another, even ad infimtum,
till I should he at length nn Ian a murderer
thsn they were in being man-caters, and per-80

hep-much more so. Ispent my days now in
perplesity and anxiety of mind. aspect-
that I should, one day or other, fall into
the hands of these merciless creatures; and if
I did at any time venture abroad, it we not
without looking round me with the greatest
careandcautioni ble. Andnowlfnund,
to II ygreateotnfort, howhappy itwas that I
provided foratamefiockorherdofgoats; for
I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun,
especially nearthat side of the island where they
usually came, last I should alarm the savages;
and ifthey had fled fiomme now, I wassure
to have them come again, with perhapa two
orthree hundred canoes with them, ina few
days, and then I knew what to expect. How-
ever, I wore out a year andthree months more
before I ever saw any more of the savages,
and thenI found them again, as I shall soon
observe. It is true, they might have been
there once or twice, but either they made
no stay, or at least I did not see them: but in
the month ofMay, as near as I could calculate,
and in my fwand-twentieth year, I had a.
very strange encounter with them; of which
in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this
fifteen or sixteen months' interval, was very
great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and oflen started out of my sleep
in the night: in the day, great troubles overt-
whelmed my mind; and in the night, I dreamed
often of killing the savages, and of the reasons
why I might justify the doing of it. But, to
wave all this for a while.--It was in the mid-
dle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon,
forImarkedalluponthe poststill; I say, it
was on the sixteenth ofMay that it blew a
very great storm of wind ell day, with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul
night it was atter it. I knew not what was
the particular oemsion of it. but as I was
reading in the Bible, and taken up with very
serious thoughts about my present condition,
sts attrprisedwiththe noise ofagun,ssI
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure,

quite of a difl'erent nature Gem any

I had met with before; for the notion this put
into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste innginable,
and,in a trice, clapped myladder to the mid-
pulled it alter me;
andmmfingitdnucmdtinmgatothe
hill very moment that a Belt of

fiehid me listenfiraseeondgmwhichao-
covdingly,inahouthalfamimae. I heard;
and, by the salad, haw tint it was ii'om that

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

partnfthe seawhere I vrasdrivendovrn the
current in my boat. I immediately considered
that this must be some ship in distress, and
that they had some comrade, or some other
ship in company, and fired these gum for sig-
nals ofdistress, and to obtain help. I had the
presence of mind, at that minute, to think,
that though I could not help them, it might be
they might help me: so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and making
a good handsome pile, Iset iton fire upon the
hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely;
and though the wild blew very hard, yet it burnt
fairly out; so that I was certain, if there was
any such thing as a ship, they must needs see
it; and nodouhttheydid; for as soonas ever
myfire blamed up I heard auothergun,end
nfler that several others, all fran the same
quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till day-
break;andwhenitwasbroad day,andtheair
cleared up, I saw something at a great dis-
tance at sea, full cast of the island, whether a
sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not
with my : the distance was so great, and
the weather still something hazy also; at least,

it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and
soon perceived that it did not move; so I pre-
sently concluded that' it was a ship at anchor ,
and being eager, you may be sure, to be satis-
fied, Itookmy ygun in rnyhand, and lento-
wards the south side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with
the current; and getting up there, the weather
by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to my greatsotrow, the wreck ofa
ship, out away in the night these con-
cealed rocks which I fitund when I was out in
my boat; and which rocks, as they checked
the violence of the stream, and made akind of
counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of
my recovering fine: the most desperate, hopr
lees condition that ever I had been in, all my
life. Thus, what is one man's safety is W
ther man's destruction; for it seemsthese men,
whoeverthe'y were, beingoutoftbeir know-
ledge, snd the rods being wholly underwater,
had beendrivea uponthem intbe night, the
wind blowing hard at E. N. E. Had they
seen the island, as I must. necessarily suppose
theydid not,they mint, asIthought, have
endeavored tohaveaaved themselveeen shore

helpd' their boat, hit their firingofl'
gtmsiirhelp,upecial|ywhenthey saw, all
,myfie, filedme with nunytbonghtx

first, I imgined that upon sae'mg my light,
put thuselves hotheibeat,
""fimmfiwmm
at! m
0&1;qu Whaling-In": light",

mytinelobligeeluntomumruein
pimlbeirbaynnimtomit
werboudwiflltbeirmbnth: <<herb-I
imnginodtbeybedmeotberdiipordzipein
compeny, wbo,uptntbe eigneled'dintrur
they hadnde,hdtnkutbentlp endeuried
mar. nthertimeelfudedtbeymefl
gooaofl'mmhtheibuhflbein'btmied
nweybylbeuneutbulhlbeenfimperly
immwfiedoutintnthgreetoeeemwhne
therewu '
nrldtbngporhpr, theynigbtbythistiuebe
Inning, "dinncuditimtodiinkd'uting
oneenother.

Aeelltheeewerebu "but,
no,inthoeunditimlwuin, Ieoulddono
thokmnpmtbeu'nery ofthepoor
men,nndpitytheu;whidlhedstiflthiegood
ofl'eaonmyrida,thtitguememorennd
mumwgintbanbtoaod,whobndeo
happily admirably providedfirmein
mydeedueeondition; and thatol'two lbipa'
comppnieewhowmnowmnwnymthil

nuaryudperiehing; but

 

81

pnrtd'tbewwld, "0005'.th
but-ho. llennedbenegun web-ave,
MixinrynndmthepwidenceofGod
mahmuyennlhiend'fihnbw,"
luminary-0min!" any-come-
thingorolbertobetbnnkfillfor,endueym
otben'lworlemdlmwrown.

pc- fiilityindeed,fixluwnotthe
mawdenymfithing. !
cannot muphin, by my puriblo energy of
words, Wenonah-ginger hankering)!
desire-Iteltinnyrmlupouminightfinako
in; out something thu--O the! there had
been memmy,orbmoneeoul,
nvedotnolthielhip,loheveeeapedtoue,
thltlmighthlthenbdmwmp-nbn,"
fellow antureto hue to m,nndto
beveeonvenedwith! Inelitbotimeofmy
eolitnryIifa,Ineverfoltroeuneet,lortrcngn
duitenflortbelocietyofmyfeflowm,
ouodnepnregretntthewutot'it.

 

SECTION XXI.

3' VISITS m "IO! m 031'th um "DIES "OH 11'..le rams 0' _
QUII'I'JNG 1n mum.--n.u A "In." BM.

Tnmeiemuaetnuinglprinpin
theefieaiam,whieh,wbentbeymmngohg
by-omeobjectmnew, or, not in
view,yetrcuderedpreeeu totbelnind by
thepowerot'nnlmtion, Mandate-fries
outthe ml,byiuWy,b-Iebvu>
lent,agereubneinpd'lheobjeC/.|wlbdeg
nbeenee <<lit in immutable. Sud: were
there ammunitoeemhd
been-red. Ibdienlnpenledthewuds,
Othnitbedbeenbnmietbeu-ndtinee;
Inf eydedruwuenmdbyiglhnwhen
Inphtbewnrde-ybendlwodidinebtnge-
thugs-dummy!-
"Muwiflbdhduyeofithingi
nthwfldbenadeditimd-uuily;
madman. .yh-dwnddniketep-
tber',edeetepn;'~meomtbet
firmt'neleneldnetplnth-qein. Let

6

i 5 - '
1"'43--k1L--i.' -.t 75:>> .

hop-blot only

(henna-lineapkintbeeedlinp ,nndthorn-
mendmmrrdtben:dl1annytotbeu
11,1060me meted, wind-mercurial>>
prininglome,wbenlPSmndit,ltboughlhnew
notfiouwbueeit :itwudoubt-
lentboefl'octot'udouwirheenndnfm'
idufixmedinnlynid,mlihgdzem
whicbthomtinnd'oneofmy filo.
Chinimwouldbnnbeentonaa--Bmit
muttobo; eitherlbetflmwnine,"
bathtub-dam intifltbelnnyrer d'my
behgnlhhidefilmhrwwbdnr
uywerenudultflbfldlqauln.ndbld
the-Minimnmednye mentor-eth-
ofndrownedbuyennemdnnntdu

dddioidnndwhidlwunmtbodipwnek.
Helldnodotbeeonbanm'lweit-
munid'opnrbeedlbeohmenl
nbheliunnhirtgbunothingtodireet-e-
muehasto whatnationhewasof: he
had nothing in his pockets but two [JIM
eight and a tobacco-pipe :--the last was to me
often times morevalue tl'nnthefirst.

Itwasnnwcalm,andIhadagrcatmindto
venture out in my boat to this wreck, not
doubting but I might find something on board
that might be useful to me: but that did not
altogether press me so much as the possibility
that there might be yet some living mature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by ysaving that life comfort my own to
the last degree; and this t elimg so to
my heart, that I could not be quiet nightor
day, but I must venture out in my boat on
board this wreck; and committing therestto
God's providence, I thought the impression
wnsso strong uponmy mindthatitcouldnot
be resisted, that it must come from some invi-
sible direction. and that I should be wanting
to my solfifI didnot go.

Under the power of this impression, I has-
tened back to my castle, prepared every thing
for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a
grentpo t of flesh water, a compass to steer by,
a bottle0 ofrurn, (for! had still a greatdeal of
that lcfi,) and a basket of raisins: and thus,
loading myself with every thing necessary, I
went down to my boat, got the water out of her,
put her afloat, loaded aley cargo in her,and
then went home again for more. My
cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to
set up over my head for a shade, another large
pot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my
small loaves, or harley-calres,rnorethan before,
with ahottleof goat's milk and acheeee: all
which, with great labour and sweat,I carried
to my boat; and prayingtnGod todirect my
voyage, I put out; and rowing, or paddling,
thecanoe along the shore,camsatlastto the
utmost point of the island on the northeast
side. Andnow I was to launchoiit intothe
ocean, and either to venture or not to venture.
Ilookcdontherapid mhwhldlflncolk
stantly onth sides ofthe island at a distance,
and which were very terrible to me,from the
remembranceot'the hawdlhad been inbo-
fore, and my heart tofiil me; for I fore-
saw thatiflwas driven into either ofthnse
currents,lshould be carried a wayout
tous.snd mapaoutof myreacli, oraight
ofthe island again; andthat then, asmyboat
wasbut small, ifany littlegaleofwindshould
rise, I should be inevitably lost.

Thesethoughtsso oppressedmymindfihat
I began togive over my eat ;and
having".n hauled myboat' into a little unit on
lheahore,I steppedout,andaatmodown

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

upon arising bitot'giotmd,verypensive and
ansious,betwesnfearanddesire,ahautmy
voyago;whan,aslwasmusing ,Icouldpet>>
eeive thatthetide was tumedfandtbeflood
coins on; upon which my going was imprac-
ticahletbrsomanyhoura. Uponthis,pro-
seutlyitoeeimdtome, that! ahouldgo pinup
the highest piece of I could find, and
obscrve,ifIcould, bowthe sotsofthetide, or
currents, laywhenthellood came in, thatI
might judge whether, if I was driven one way
out, I might not expect to be driven another
waylinme,withthesamerapidnessoftheuirb
rents. This t was no sooner in my
head than I cast my eye upon a little hill,
which sufficiently overlooked the sea botlt
ways, and horn whence I had a clear view of
the currents, ersets of the tide, and which way
Iwasto guidemyse lfinmyreturn. HereI
found, that as the current ofthe ebb aetout
close hythe south point oftheisland, sothe
current of the flood set in close by the shore of
the north side; and that I hadnotliing to do
buttoheepto the north sideofthe island in
my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved,
the next morning, to set out with the first of
the tide; and reposing myself for the night
in my canoe, under the great watcheoat I
mentioned, I launched out. I first made a
little out to sea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current, which set eastward,
and which carried me at a great rate; and yet
did notso hurry me as the current on thesouth
side had done before, so as to take from me
all governmentofthe boat; buthaving a strong
ateerage with my paddle, I went at a great
rate directly firthewreclr, and in less than two
hours I came up to it. It was a dismal sight
to look at: the ship, which, by its building, was
Spanish, stuck fast, jammed' in between two

ga

itlilisaravenous wolftltat bad'hoeu starving
aliasnight indie-now: Ithengavo thopoer
erosion some frediwater, withwhiclt, if!
wouldlmvelethim,hewouldhavebmnh'-mum-ans or nonmsoxt cannot.

at: Aherthisflmnhomlghttbh
sight I not with wu two nu drowned in
theeook-roomthot'tho fiipnlith
thairmfiunhmmuotthenmhded,
uisindeodpmbuhlufihuwhenthodzipwmk,
itboinginnmnhombmkonhighfind
noonfinullymrhenthuthomm
not ablotobeu it, and m unngledwith
themtnflflnfinfithemmumeh
uiftheyhndboenudetwuer. Beside-the
dog,menothingkflinthoIbipthubud
life;normygoodu,thmlewldoeo,bntwhat
were npoiled bytbewutn. Than Immune
casksot'liquor,whetberwinochnndylknow
not, which lty Iowa inthe hold, Ind which,
thewtter being chbdmlemfld "abut
they weretoo bigtomoddlowith. Inn-o-
vcml chem, which I believed tome
oftheluman;nndlguuwooftheuinto the
boat, without examining wlm m in than.
Hudthemmot'tholhipbecu fixad,lndlhe
impart broken ofilm mad I might
havemadoggoodvoyngozfir,bywhulfntmd
intlnsctwochousIbldnomtnmlho
shiphndtgreudalcfwoahhonboudzlnd,
iflmygueufinmthomilolmud,
she musthflobocn bundfiunBumolAym,
ortheRiodelaPhu, inthomhputd'
Aaergmrbeyomllhe Bail-"ohm"
in e ofMexieo,IndaopuhapotoSptin.
She hadmodoubtngrwmminhonbm
ofnom,|tthutime,tomyhody;lndwhu
becuneofhermJthuhownot.
ofllfm,beo';ui;tbmchm,aliuhmdfill
iquor,ol'a mmmx

intomybo-twithmebdificuhy. Timer:
several musket- in the <<bin, and: great you-
derhom,with|boutfimpomdsd'powd<<in
it; u fortha mutual but! new it
themnollefithemfiuttmkthc
Itouk.fi-eshuveludtongn,whiehlmtod
extremely; u duo two little in. hula, a
copper potlomhdloeohta," ugridimn:
Indwiflzthhwgwudthdogflumlny,
Ibo tidobogimin; ton-h hm Ignin; Ind
the movabgnhwtuhwwithin night,
Inacbedtheinhnd-phmqudfidped
totholnzdeguo. IMMuightintho
Wufldinlhominglmdmhom
whulhndgotinuyuwmgndmtany
ithome to myaaflo. Alla ' my-
nlfilgannnywon-Immdmw
mine the ' . Thoeukd'liqunr
IMwhuWJmhm-flu
Valid-1th Martin nudmotu
Iii-goodzhntwhenlanotoapndwdlm,
Immmiagdgmtnntomflr
WJMIItc-oshoa- d'bottlu,

'wm

.f;

88

N
Jusmdhrykindmndflkdwitheuu
dinimm,boudvuygnod;lhobomu
Wlbodthmpinundt,udmtipyd
with-flu. Iwmopouot'nrypodno-
magnum-await!>>
top,thuthenhmhndnothrtthn;lnd
"deg "m m ""'" Mama:

ilod. _I someway ' ,w'
3P0 vuyweleuutom;mdubouudma
miuhfl'd'whitolinuhlndhmhiofilnd
wieuradnockdnthuthyhaer-gnd-ovyy
welcomefioingomoodmgrghdmgtompo
myfieeinuhotdny. Bende- tin-"when!
mummhmmwmm

"M i which" than:
$3.17..." piminniltlndinono:
themwnppedupinupcparnixm
gold,nndmmll:n':';adpsogzo:PS
[mm m' t ' nous
Inthoothgozhenlgbmmduhu,bnd
linievdu;hn,bythocimm film
hlnbeiongodtothepmnet'u munhough
thanwunopuwdcrinit,' twponndu
offingiuod ,inmmm-na-gh,
kepgl suppose, forehargingthoirfowlmg-
pioeuonoeeuion. Upon the whole,lgot
verylitueby th'uvoylgathatwuduym
tome;for,utolhemey,Il-dnom
doom-hforitfitmlomeulhodifl
mdoruyfuetamdlwouidhvegimita
forthnoorfoupnirofEnglidIdzoaIud
mutiny, which wmthiup I mm,
butbadmonmyfcatfirmym I
Indhdoedgottwopnirofuhoelm,which
Itookofl'thdfaetd'thomdrwndm
whmluwinmmwlfotldmw
moiuonoofthochuu,whid1mnq
welcometnlnoflmtthoymmllikoow
English duct. eizbarl'onua <<winking
nthawhuwouflpmthumjw
inthia mm'uehennhomfifiypwegpof-
nightiadnhhatnogdd: I tin-bo-
longedtoupouwmthuthoothu,whuh
mnadtohehngtomofieor. Womb".
"an! thilmyhnutouyan,
Indhiditup,.ulhlddmtblthhowhii|

'Xhmugufiouwmfiip: Mini-upon

pity,ulnid,thutboothetpu1dthiu Ils'p
hadnotmetouylhgn;furlmlufid
Inigmhvelondodnymumdtim
mwithmy;lnd.thoughtl,iflmcr
upetnEnghndfltnightliobuo-bw
diilmycomminmdfmdk.

Envin'uow nlluylhinpondnn,
mammal, watt-dumbest,
andde he III-Mt.
heroidhubow,wbuo l ' hag--l
Mbhutot'nynytn-yoldm','r

I

84 ADVENTURES Oi' ROIINSON CRUSOE.

where I fotmd every thingaafe andquiet. I
began now to repose myeelf, lire afier my old
fiahion, and take care of my family afl'aira;
and, for a while, I lived my enough, only
thatl waamorevigilantthan luaedtobe,
looked out oflener, anddid not goahroadlo
much; andif at any time Idid otirwithany
fieodom, it Was always to theeaatpart ofthe
island, where I wu pretty well eatiafied the
aavages never come, and where I could go
without so many precautions, and arch a load
of arms and ammunition an I always carried
with me if I wentthe other way. I lived in
this condition near two yearn more; but my
unlucky head, that was alwaya to let me know
it was born to make my body miaerable, won
all these two year: filled with project- and de-
aigna, how, if it were possible, I might get
away from this island: for aometimeo I was
for making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me that there was
nothing let! there worth the hazard of my
voyage; aometimee for a ramble one way,
aometirnee another; and I believe verily, if I
hadhodthe boatthatlwentfi'nm Sallee in,
I should have ventured to sea, bound any
where, I knew not whither. I have been, in
all my circumstances, a uremia to those who
are touched with lhegeneralplague ofman--
kind, whence, liar augbt I know, one halfof
their miseries flow; Imeen thatofnot being
aatisfied with the nation wherein God and
nature hath placed them: for, not to look back
upon my primitive coalition, and the excellent
advice d' my father, the oppoaition to which
was, an I myall it, my originality rny lub-
aeqnentraietakee of the same kind had been
Ibellneanaofmyeoming into thia miserable
euditiarfizr had that Providence, which so
happilymtodmeatthe Bmzilaaa aplanter,
blemedmewith confined deairea, and I could
have been contented to have gone on gradually,
I might have been, by this time, I mean in the
timeofmybeinginthiaialand,meofthemoC/
considerable planters in the Brazila; nay, I
ampemded,thatbythe' nulhad
madeinthatlittle time! livedthere, and the
increaeehhouldprobablybavemadeil'Ibad
retained, 1 might have been worth a hundred
thousand moidorea: and what btnlneea had I
to leave 'a settled fortune, a well-necked plan-
hfim, improving and ' ' , to turn III-
pereargo to Guinea to fetch negroea, whn
patience and time wild have no inereaaed
our nook at home, that we could have bought
themat our own door iem than whoae buai-
nemitwaatofetnh mum;andtbonghithad
em! in numbing more, yet the difi'erenee d

thatprieewaabynomeanewcflhnvingatu
Mahmud? Butaathieiauauallytbe
fiteot'yotmgheade, no reflection upon the
fillyd'itiraaeomnxmlytheuereiuot'more
yearn, or oftbe dearbought experience of
time:aoitwaawithmenow; andyetlu
deephadtbemiataketakenmotinmytemper,
thatI could not mt'ufymyaelt' in myatation,
butwaacontinully peringuptmthemeana
and pouibility nt'myeacape fromthia place:
andthatI may, withthegreater plea-are to
lhereader,bringontheremainingpa_rtofmy
etory,it maynot be improper to give some
account ot'myfinteoneeptionaon the aubjeet
ofthiat'ooliaheebemefixmyeaeapenndhow.
anduponwhatfiumdationflacted.

Iam nowtobe retired intomy
castle,attermylatevoyagetothewredr,my
frigate laidupandeecuredmderwater,aa
usual, and myoonditionreatored to what it
was betbre;Ihadmoreweahh,indeed,than
Ihadbefore,butwaanotatalltheridier;for
Ihadnomoretmefilritthanthelndiamo!'
Peruhadbeforetbe Spaniardaeamethere.

Itwaaoneofthenightlintherainyeeaeon
inMarch,the (<<wand-twentieth yearof my
firstmingtbotinthiaialandot'eolitoderu
lyinginmy bed, orhammnck,awake;very
wellinhealdt,hadnopain,nodiaumper, no
uneasiness of body, nor any tmeaeioem of
mind, more than ordinary, but could by no
mean: dose myeyea,thatia,eoutoaleep;
no,notawir*allnightlong,otherwiaethanaa
foflowee--Itieimpo-ihletoeetdowndiein-
"""'deg""'deg m" M%.'EL"S
u: that t ',
thrashemory,SS'i'hismght" Itime:lranover
thewholehiatoryofmyiife inminiatm,or
byabfigmngulmyuflmtomycom-
iogtothiaialand, andalaoot'thatpartot'my
lifelinceleametothhialand. Inmyreflee-
tionsuponthenateet'mycaaeaineeleame
onahorecnthia idand,1.wa.teomparingthe
Welypod "thhidnhu
widodfiniumofnflintneh
mowboundnohissighund ol'
magnum! Whmhinthoniduof
nwythounddlmthuightofwhidl,
ifdineonrodtohin,woulddinmhilmind
undlinkhislpirib,heilkqnmmd
calm,byhnvingflumd'lhinC/nhidfiun
hi-oyuundknawingnotbiuorthodupu
whichcummdhin.

Merlin-e hhldformtimen-
(<<minedeambnflectniouslywou
\honddnngerlhdhouinfir-omyym
inlhis voryilland,lndbowlhadwdked
shoulindn "animwwith d1
possible mnquillity,degvonm no-
thingbuuhohmwofthifl,lgreum,ordw
ml Ipprmh of night, Ind been between
memdmewomkindofdewwiannitlhuof
fdlinginwlhchndsofamihoklndungu,
whowwld hvenbedonmwidl them
viewulwwldou;gwonumlo,andhnn

tiznomuoacrimotokifluddevw
me,lhmldid n pipenoreutlew. Iwould
unjustly Blunder IIIyWIF, if! May I was
not ainccrolythmkfiltomyp'u Pram-var,
wwhou linguluprouaionl minowldpd,
with gun humility, ill these damn doli-
vcnneec was due. nndwithunwhich I must
ineviubly hue fills: intolheir mils- buds.

When than thought: mw,myhud
mfonomotimouhnwinmidwingtho
mundmuomtchedmflmlho
nugos,mdhowitanotopuninlbewodd,
dmtbewiaaGomof-lllhingnhmldgin
upnnyofhincnam to such inhuman],
my,>>uomethingnnadzbobwmbmul~
ily iuelf'utodowur it. own kind: but u
thilendodinuona(uchufimo)fiuide-
Minions, i! oeumdlono to inquire vim
pmoflhomldthuemlivodinilhow
firofi'thoeouwufiouwhoneotheym?
whutheymundmnofirfimbomofw?
whukind ofboautboyhd'! andwhy [might
notordet mmKundmybuinou-ouhntl
might hulflowgoomdfilhetuthey
mtoeomowm.

Ineveraomufliumflodmysdhomi-
derwhuldumlddowithmynfl'wbonlwom
thither; whnwwldhoeomd'mo,'flfoll
inmxhohlndsd'thenngazorhowldmld
"point-miflboymldmlmzm,"
ummhuhowitwupudblnfwutomch

mmmublwwmum'

dim without uypodbflity of delivering
. -'wrxwmmmmhm,
m 1'" def! "Home! whither!

Malibu-day": moth-9M,

85

Iuy,nnnhuaneinmyny;bmuy
mhdw-whoflybonluponlhomdcnofny
pn-ingminnyboumlhonuinhnd. l
lookodupmmyprmcondiliuudwm'
mhrublcdmemfldpouihlybawhulm
noctuolothmwuyulfimolnythinbhn
death,C/hnwddhoullC/dm;undifl
nachodthotbmoflhemhlnightpomp
nourichmtid',orlnighzmdong,ul
didohdnAl'rie-nnhmunilllmmmo
inhnhiudownu-y,udwhaelmighlfind
mrglief;nd madlmahpml might
Minwilthhriuian-hipthumight
ukomoinnndinhomeummhowom,
IMMdie,whichwuddputmendmfl
due-emissiunonco. Pnynou,t.fl!hin
wudlcfiuitohdisunbodnind,nimpadm
unmanndodupuumuixwembylho
longeonlinunncoofnywflu,mdlhodio-
Ippohmulhldmtinlhowmklhnd
beenonbouddlndwbmlhldbaonn
nmobniningwhnlsonmeulyleogodfu,
viz. mbodytospuklonlidtoiumm
fmlbomoflhoplmwhonlwu,
tndoflho prohble mum ofmy deliverance.
l mngimadwhollybythuothwghmlfl
myulmd'mind,inmym' ' mei-
deuce, adv-hing the in>> oflho diam-i-
tionsoffluvmnoemdbbounpoudodnnd
lMui:m,mpo-orwmmy
lomylhingbuuolhopmjmdnvoyngew
the mingwhichcuno mowilhmdl

fueonmiwhm' ' "desire,"
hmnouobomiud.
When this had ugh-willy thoughts for

twohmuumore,wilh alchviolemothui:
Iumvaybhodinwnfomngmdny
pukebulu iflhudboeninlkm,mnly
wilhlheenrmdinryfmofmymindlbod
it, autumn iflhndheunfudguod and u-
lnulwd wilh the very disarm! no

~intonloundl|oop. VOno wouldlnvo

Imuhndmndikhlldidm,"
ofuylhingnluing'oilflnldnmodthu
quu goingwlinlheming, uulud,
fimnycuk,lnwuponlheabmlwo
mnnddnmumeomingtohmm
that. they brought with than mother Inge,
whom theywmgoinghkflLinudutom
himwheomnsmddemchenngomuboy
wmgoinglo kinjumpod unynndnnix
hhlifeiudlthoqht, in-ydup,lhuho
amnmhgimnymmickwobeho
myfonifinficn, (0 bids unfit-r! MI.
"intuit-alumna! "Whim-
<<ha-Whinmuuy,m-yflb
Manna-nailingwonhimmpdhh
mtbhnebddonwu,uuinuom
me to assist him; upon which I ahowed him
my ladder, made him go up, and carried him
into my cave, and he became my servant: and
thuas soon asI had got this man,Isaidto
myself, Now I may oertaintly venture to the
main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions, and whither not to go the
fear of being devoured; what places to ven-
ture into, and what to shun. I waited with this
thought; and was under such inexpreesible
impressions ofjoy at theprospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which
I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that
it was no more than a dream, were equally
extravagant the other way, and threw me into
a very great dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion;
that my only way to go about to attempt an
escape was, if possible, to get a savage into
my possession; and, if possible, it should be
one of their prisoriern whom they had con-
demned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill. But these thoughts still were attended
with this difficulty, that it was impossible to
efl'ect this without attacking a whole caravan
of them, and killing them all; and this was
not only a very desperate attempt, and might
miscarry, but,on the other band, I had greatly
scrupled the lawfulnm of it to myself; and
my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding
so much blood, though it was for my deliver-
ance. I need not repeat the arguments which
'oocurred to me against this, they being the
same mentioned before: but though I had
other reasons to ofl'er now, viz. that those men
were armies to my life, and would devour me
if they could; that it was selflpreservation, in
the highest degree, to deliver myself from this
death of a life, and was acting in my own
defence as much as if they were actually>>
multing me, and the like; Isay, though these
things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shod-
ding human blood for my deliverance were

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

veryterribletome,andntehulctaddbyne
Inserts reconcile myself to ibr a great while.
However, at last, after my secret disputes
with myself, and after great perplexities about
it. (for all these meats, one way and ano-
ther, nruggled' In my head a long time ,) the
eager iling desire of deliverance at
length mastered allthe rest; and Iresolved,
if possible, to get one of those savages into
my hands, cost what it would. My next thing
was tooanrive how to do it, and this indeed
wasverydiflicultto resolve on: but asI could
pitch upon no probable means for it. so I re-
solved to put myself upon the w,atch to see
them when they": came on shore, and leave
the rat to the event; taking such measures
as the opporttmity should present, lot what
would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I
set myself upon the scout as alien as possible,
and indeed so often, that I was heartily tired
of it; for itwasaboveayearand a half that
Iwaited; andfor great partof that time went
out to the west end, and to the southwest
corner, of the island, almost every day, to look
for canoes, but none appeared. This was

rydiscouraging, and began to trouble me
IIIuch; though I cannot say that It did in this
case (as it had done some time before) wear
ofl'the edge ofmy desire to the thing; but.
the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more
eager I was for it: in a word, I wasnotat
first so careful to shun the sight of these sa-
vages, and avoid being seen by them, as I
was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I
fancied myself able to tonnage one, nay, two
or three savages, if Ihad them, so alto make
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I
should direct them, and to prevent their being
able at any time todome any hurt. It wasa
great while that I pleased myself with this
afi'air; but nothing uill presented: all my fan-
cies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages camenearmefor agreat while.

SECTION XXII.

'OIIISOH BISCUIS on 0]" THEIR CAPTIVIS "0' THE "VIE", no! a!
In]! FRIDAY, "D m I]! SIBVLII'T.

Anomayearandanalfafterlentertained
these notions, (and by long muaingbad,a.a it
were, resolvadthem all Into nothing, for wan
d'anoceasionto put them intoueastian.)I

wunnpr'ned,onemoraingearly,withaeeing
noleaathaaiuanoeaallonahoretogomer

tinny-idem. island, andtbepeoplewbo
behgedtotha-

ilanded,and andoutot'Iny
fight. The ntlnbw of them broke all my
meastwee; for seeing-o many, and bowing
thatthey alwayscame hr orsis, orsome-
timeemore,in about, Icould nottellwbat to
think ofit, orhow to take my measures, toat-
tacit twenty or thirty men single-handed; so
lay still in my castle, perplexed and discom-
forted'. however, I put myselfinto all the lame
posturosforanattaekthallhad hrrnerlypro-
vidcd, andwasj net ready for action, ifany
thing had pruented. Having waited a good
while, listening tohear if they made any noise,
at length being very impatient, I set my ygum
at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to
the top ofthe hill, by my two Itagee,nsusual;
standing so, however, that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that they could not
perceive me by any means. Here Iohoerved,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they
were no lees than thirty in number; that they
had a fire kindled, and that theyhsd meet
dressed. How they hadcooked it I knew not,
or what it was; but they were all dancing, in
Iknow nothowmany borharousgesturesand
figures, their own way, round thefim.

"While I was thus looking on them. I perv
ceived, by my perspective, two miserable
wretchee dmgged from the boats, where, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I ived one
of them immediately fill, being knocked down,
Isuppose, with a club or wooden sword, for
that was their way and two orthree others
were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other vimm was
lell standing by himself, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment, this
poor wreIch seeing hinuelfa little at liberty,
and unbound, nature inspired him with'hopes
of life, and he started awayfi'om them, and
ran with incredible swifine- along the sands,
directlytowards me,Imeantowards thatpert
ofthe coast where my habitation was. I
was dreadfully fiightened, I "acknowledge,
when I ived him run my way, and es-
pecially when, as I t I saw hint pun-
sued bythawbolebody: andme expected
thatpartafmydreamwascuningtopass, and
thethewonld certaidytakedxelterin my
grove: httIcoddnot depend,byanymeans,
uponmy dreamt'ortherestofit, viz. thatthe
other savages wooldnot pulse him thither,
and find him'lhere. However, I kept my
station, andmyspirilshegae torecover, when

ound notahovo three men

r?
a

 

groundol'thetezsothet it'heeouldbut buthold
it tbrhal'an bow, I saw easily hewnnld
fairlygetawayfromthemoll.

There was between them andm ycastle
thecreek,whiehl Inetstilonedollnny inthe
filetpart ot'mystory,wherel landedmy car-
goes out ofthe ship; and this! saw plainly
he mart necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be takenthere: but when the
savage escaping camethither, he made no-
thing of It, though the tide was then up , but
plunging in,swem in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on
with exceeding strength and swil'lnesa.
When the three penons came to the creek,
"band that two of thomcould swim, but the
third could not, and that, etandingon the other
side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soul alter went aofily back again.
which,as it ,was very well liIr him
intheend. lobaorvedthatthetwowhoswsns
were yetmore thantwice aslong cog-winning
overthecreekaathe fellowwesthatdedfrom
them. Itcamenowvery warmly upon my
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me esorvant, and perhapa
a companionor assistant, andthat l was
called plainlyby Providence to save thisponr
cmture'slife. I immediately ran down the
ladders with all possible expedition, hatched
my two guns, for they were both atthe Bot
dthehdtlugulohsenedabove, andgetting
upagain,with thesame haste,tothetop of
thehill, Icroasedtoward thosee,andhavinge
a very short mar-dad down hill, p

Inylell'inthe way between the
thepursued, hallo'oing aloudto him
who, lookingback, was atfirlt,perhapsu as
muchfinghtenedatmeasatthem;botl
heckonedwithmyhandtohimtoeomehack;
end,in the mean time,I slowly advanced to-
wards thetwo thatl'ollowod; then rushing at
mceupmthethvemlkmekedhim down
with the stock ofmypioce. I wasloath to
fire,becauselwouldnot hevetherestheav;
though,atthatdistance,itwmldnothavebeen
easil heard,endbeingoutol'sight ofthe
theywnuldnothave easilyknown
what tomakeot'it. Havingknochedthis
fellowdown, the other who walled him
stopped,asifhehadboenfightened, and!
advanced epeeetowarb him: butasIcame
len and killed, as he thought, yet was so
frightened with thefire and noise of my piece,
that he stood stockstill, and neither came for-
ward nor went backward, he seemed
rather inclined still to fly, than to come on. I
hallooed again to hint, and madesigns to come
foruard, which he easily understood, and came
a little way; then stopped again, and then a
little farther, and stopped again: and I could
then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he
had been taken prisoner, and had just been to
be killed, as his two enemies were. I heck-
oned to him again to come to me, and gave
him all the signs of encouragement that I
could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps,
in token of acknowledgment for saving his
life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,
and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length he came close to me; and then he
knecled down again, kissed the ground, and
laid his head upon the ground, artd taking me
by the foot, set my foot upon his head; this,
it seems, was in token of swearing to be my
slave for ever. I took him up, and made much
of him, and encouraged him all I could. But
tltere was more work to do yet; for I perceived
the savage whom I knocked down was not
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: sol pointed to him, and
allowed him lhe savage, that he was not dead ;
upon this he spoke some words to me, and
though I could not understand them, yet I
thought they were pleasant to hear; for they
were the first sound of a man's voice that I
had heard, my.own excepted, for above twen-
ty-five years. But there was no time for such
reflections now; the savage who was knocked
down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon
the ground, and I perceived that my large
began to be afraid; but when I saw that. I
presented my other piece at the man, a- if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so
I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by
my side, which I did. He no sooner had it,
but he runs to his enemy, and. at one blow,
cut of his headso cleverly, no executioner in
Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I Ihought very strange for one who, I
had rcuon to believe, neversaw aeword in his
life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seem,as I learned allerwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so
heavy, and the wood isso hard, that they will
art of heads even with them, ay, and arms,
and theta: the blow too. Whenhe had done
this,he comealanghingto me, insignof tri-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CkUSOI.

mnph,andhrought methesword again, and
with abundance ofgenures, which I didnot
understand, laid it down, with the head d' the
savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most, was to
know how I killed the other Indian so far ofl':
so pointing to him, he made signs to me to
let him go tohim; soIbade him go,aawell
as I could. When he came to hirn, he stood
like one amazed, looking at him, turning him
first on one side, then on the other, looked
at thede the bullet had made, which, it
seems, was just in his breast, where it had
made a hole, andno great quantity of blood
had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for
he was quite dead. He took up his bow and
arrows, and came back; so I turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow mo, making
signs to him that more might come afler them.
Upon this, he made signs to me that he
should bury them with sand, that they might
not be seen by the rest, ifthey followed; and
so I made signs to him again to do so.
He fell to work; and, in an instant, he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in. and then dragged
him into it, and covered him; and did so by
the other also: I believe he had buried them
both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling
him away,l carried him, not to my castle, but
quite away to my cave, on the farther pm of
the island: so I didnot let my dreamcome
to pass in that part, viz. that he came into my
grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread and
a bunch of raisins to eat, anda draught of
water, which Il'ound he was indeed in great
distress for, by his running; and having re-
freshed him,I made signs for him to go and
lie down to sleep, showing him a place where
I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket up-
on it, which I used tosleepupon myselfsome-
times: so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.

He was a eotnelyhhandsome fellow, per-
fectly well made, with straight limbo,
not too large, tall,and well amped; and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six yearaof age. He had
a very good countenance, not a fierce and curly

, butseernedtohavesomething very
manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweet.
nose and eotlnesa ot'an European in his coun-
tenance too, especially when he smiled. His
hair wasltmgandblaek, note-tried like wool;
hisforeheadveryhighandlarge: andagveat
vivacity and sparkling shut-peas in his eyes.
'I'hecolettrol'hisminwas notquite black,"
very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nan-
seoua tawny, asthe Bruiliana an! Virgin'nu,
and othernativea'el' Amerieaare, but ol'a
bright kind of a dull olive-colour, that had in it
anrnething very agreeable,tlmgh not very eaay
todeecribe. Hisficewaerotmd and plump;
hie none small, not flat like the mm; a very
good mouth, thin lipe, and his h teeth well
act, and as white as ivovy -

Aflerhe had dumbered, rather than slept,
about hall'an hour, he awoke again, and came
out ofthe care to me, for [had been milking
my goats, which I had in the encloaure jtnrt
by: when he eepied me, he came running to
me. laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible aigne of an humble thank-
fnl disposition, making agreat many antic gee-
tum to show it. At last, he lays his head flat
upon the ground, clone tomythot, and loamy
other foot upon hie head, as he had done be-
fore: and alter this, made all the aigna to me
of subjection, aervitude, and submission ima<
gineble, to let me know how hewould eervetne
ao long as he lived. I understood him in many
things, nnd let him know I was very well
pleased with him. In a little time I hogan to
speak to him, and teadI him to speak to me:
and, first, I let him know his name should be
FRIDAY, which was the day I saved hie life:
I called him so for the memory of the time. I
hkcwise taught him to any, Master; and then
let him know that was to be my name: I like-
wise taught him to say Yes and No, and to
know the meaning of them. I gave him some
milk in anearthen pot,and let himaec medrinlt
it before him, and eop mybread in it; and
gave him aealte ofbreadtodo the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that
it was very good for him. I kept there with
him all that night; but an anon as it waaday,
I beckoned tohirn Income with Inn, and let
him knowlwould give him acme clothee; at
which he seemed very glad, for be was stark
naked. As wewent by the placewbae he
had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to
the place, and dwwetl me the maria that he
had madetofind tbetnagainmtahingaigm to
me thatwe aheulddig them upagain,andeat
them. At thia I appearwdvevy vevy,angry expreeeed
my abhorrenceol'It Inadeaail'lwouldvomit
uthethoughhofiyandbechnedwithmy
hand to himtoeorne away; which hedidirn-
mediately, with great mitten-m. I then led
himnptothetopnfthehill,toaeeifh'uene--
mien weregone :and pulling out my glaaa,I
looked,andeaw plainlythvplaeewherethey
had been, but no
canoes; an tint it waaplain they were gone,
and had let! their two emadea behindthem
without any aeueh aflet them.

89
mtwueotroutomwim thiadiseovavy.

v;

9*

but having nowtaorecourage, artdeo-aqnemly ,

more curiosity, I took my man Friday with
me, giving him Iheeword In h'III hand, with thati
bow and arrows at hie bank, which IliuInd ha
catatld nae very dexteronaly, making him entry
gIInl'nr amend I two firmyaelf' and away
we marched to the place where these momma
hadbeen; liar [had amind nowto got some
fuller intelligence 1" them. When I came
to the place. my very blood ran chill in my
veina, and my heart sunk within me, at the
horrnrof the apectaele; indeed, it waaa dreade
In! sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday
made nothing of it. The place waa covered
with human boner, the ground dyed with their
blood, and great piocea of flesh left here end
there, halliearen, mangled, and matched; and,
in short all the tokens of the triumphant l't-ast
they had been making there, alter a victory over
their enemies. I saw three skulls, live hands,
and the bone- ol'Ibree orfourlega and feet, and
abundance nl'other parta of the bodice; and
Friday, by his time, made me Imderntand that
they brought over flIur prisoners to roast upnn;
that three of them were eaten up, and that he,
pointing to himself. man the fourth; that there
had been a great battle between them and limit
next king, whoee aubjecta, it mine, he had
been one oi: and that they had tnlten a great
number of prim-Ion: all ,which were carried
to several places by thoee who had talten them
in the light, in order to rent them, u was
done herehytheae wretcheaupoe Ihoao they
I hither.

I earned Friday to gather all the almlla,
bonea, flesh, and whatever remained, and lay
them together' In a beep, and meta agrest fire

upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found
Friday had atilla hankering stomach al'ter aorne
ofthe flesh, and was etill a cannibal in bi-
nature; but I discovered eornunh abhor-rem
atthevery htaol'it,andattheleast ap-
pearance of it, that be dunt not discover it:
for] had, by acme mew, let him know, that
Iwouldkill him ifheoflirredit.

When he had done thia, weearna bachto
oureaetle; andthere Il'ell-toworlt fortnyman
Friday: and, firitot'all, I gave him a pair of
linen drawera, which I hadent ofthepoor gun-
ner'a cheat I mentioned, which I hind in the
wreck: and which, with a little alteration,
fittedhiltverywell: and thn I madehin a
jorltin ofgoat'a alrin, ae well any vhilwould
allow, (for! waanow 'rnwaa tolerable pod
tailor :) andI gavehirn aeap.wbieblraada
of hare'l akin, very convenient ad fishionabla
drought and little be waaelotbed "to pro-90

sent, telerahly well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himselt'elmost es well clothed
es his master. It is true, he went ewkwerdly
in these clothes st first; weering the drawers
we: very ewkwerd tohim, and the sleeve. of
the weisteostgelledhisehouldeta,end the in-
side ol'hisertns; hutefiere little eesIng them
sinmhe compleinedtheyhtnthim, entitling
himself to them, hetook to them etlength
very well.

Thencxtdny eltereamehometomy
hutch with him, I hegen to consider where I
should lodge him: andthet I mightdowell
for him, end yet he perfectly eesymyself, I
made a little tent for him in the recent plece
between my two fortifications, in the imide of
thelnet and inlhe outside ofthe first. As
there wne e door or entrance there into my
cave, Imede sformel frameddooreese,ende
doortoit ofhoerds,endaetitupinthepne-
Inge, a. little within the entrance; end musing
thedoor toopenintheineide. I barred itup
in the night, telting' In my ladders too; sothet
Fridaycouldnoweyeotneetrne In the-inside
of my innermost well, without so
much noise in getting over thet it must needs
wekenme; for my firstwellhednoweeom-
plete roof over it 1of long poles, co ell
my tent, end leeniug up to the side of the hill;
which wuegein laid ecrose with smeller sticks,
instead of leths, end then thatched over I greet
thickness with the rice etrew, which wes
ltmrtg, like reeds: end at the hole or pleee
whichwulefl logo inoroutbytheledder, 1
bed plecede kind of trapdoor, which, if it lied
heen ettempted on the outside, would not here
opened et ell, but would here t'ellen down, end

mekesgrestnotseutnwea,1took
them ell into my eide every night. But I
needed none ofsllthis ion; firmer

men hed s more feithliil, loving, sincere ser~
vent,t.hen Fridaym to me; without pes-
sions,sullennees, ordeeigns, perfectly obliged
end engeged; hie very efl'ectioneweretied to
me, like thoseol'echild toefithergsndI
den say, he would here naifleed his life for
the swing mine, upon eny ooeeeion whetso-
ever: themenytestimonieshegevemeofthis
putitoutol'douht, endseoneonvincedme
thetIneededtoueenopreeetttiens,estomy
sefflyonhisenootmt.
Thisfrequently gaveme occeeimtoohserve,
end thet with wonder, thet however it hed
pleesed God, in his ' , end inthe
gum ernmenttftheworitsofhishands, totehe
sogreetepertol'theworldofhiscree--
mthehestI-eetowhichtheirfecultiesend
tepoquot'theirsoulsuesdaptedgetthet

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030303.

hehssbestowedlmonthem'thelemepewers,
thesemereem,tltesemesfeetitn,theseme
sentiments of kindne- end obligation, the
ssmepessionsandresenunentsofwmgmhe
seme sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity
end ell thecepscitiesot'doinggood,end re-
ceiving good, thet he hugiven tonnend
thetwhenhe pies-es toofi'erthemoeensions
ofexertingthese, theyereesreedy, nay,more
seedy,tonpplytltantotherightuseslhrwhich
wereheetowed, thnnweere. Thisrnede

meverytnelencholy sometimes, in reflecting,
esthe severaloeessions ,howmeen
eusewemekeot'ellthese,even though we
have these powers enlightened by the greet
lempol' instruction,theSpiritot'God,endhy
theknowledge ot'hiewordeddedtoourun-
demanding; and why it hes pleesed God to
hide the like sewing knowledge from someny
millions of souls, who, if I might judge by
this poor sevege, would make e much better
meol'itthenwedid. Fremheneeflsome-
times wesled too far,to invede the sovereignty
ofProvidenoemndesitwereen-nign [hojll'
tice of so erbitrary edispositionol' Ihings,thet
should hide thet light from some, and revenl
ittoothera, end yet expect I like duty from
both: but I shut it up, end chedted my
thoughts with this conclusion: first, Thet we
did not ltnowhy whet light end law these
shouldheeondetnned; but thet es God wes
necessarily, end, by the name of his being,
infinitely holynddjuet,eoit oouldnotbe,hut
ifthesecreetureewereellsentencedtoeb-
sencefiomhimeelf, it wesonamotmtot'sin.
ning ageinstthet light, which, es the Scripture
seye, weselewtothemselves,endhy such
rulesu their mieneeswoldd acknowledge
tohejuet,thoughthel'oundstinnwes not di-
coveredtoue; end, secondly, Thetetill, sswe
ellerethecleyinthehendol'thepotter, no
venueloouldeeytohin,Whyhestthouferined
methus'l

Buttommrntomyneweempeniona--iwas
greedy delighted with him, end mede it my
busineu loteechhilneverythingthetwu
mortonukehimuefizlfiandy, andhelpfill:
hutespeciellytomke himspeek,endtmdes-
standmewhenlspoke:e'ndhewesthe.nptest
sehclertlteteverwes; endpert' wee
somerry,sooonstentlydiligent_,endso
whenheeuidhnmdemndmormskeme
understandhim,thstitwasverypleeeentto
metotelktohim. Nowmylifehegeetoha
seresy,thstlhegentoseytomyself,tllt
anIldIhnt'heveheeneefefiomnoresasegsn,
I cuednotiftwesmtomshnfia
nlsoowherellived.ennui-one or noemson GIUOOI. 9K

SECTION XXIII.

nomeox "81.00138 m CIVILIZB III! I"? nmu.---uvonvom '0 om
III AK Inn 0! CIUSTMNH'Y.

Amllhedbeenlwoorlhree depre-
turned to my eestle, lthoughuhn, in orderlo
bring Fridey 06' (ion: hie horrid my of feed-
ing, end from the reliiIofl connibel'e munch,
tough: tale: him motherfleeh; loI wok
him out with me one morning to the woods. I
went, indeed, blending to kill I kid out of my
owr;flook,endbrilngithomemddre~iu but
u we: going, new nobo- (li down
'in the elude, end two "Ingrid: ,eiifing by
her. I arched hold of Friday ;--Held, said I ;
stand mill: Ind made ligne In him nol. lo Ilir:
immedielely I ed my piece, Ihol, and
killed one of the kids. The poor crenlure. who
had, u l dielenee, indeed, eeen me kill lhe
tango, hie enemy, but did not know, nor could
imgine, how it we: done, wee sensibly eur~
prised, trembled end ehook, and looked so
amazed, the: I thought he would heve' Junk
down. He did not eee lhe kid I ehot It, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his
mislcoer, to feel whelher he vru not wwnded;
end, In I foudpreeemlyfimghz I wureeolv-
edwkillhim: fiir bee-mend kneeleddown
to me,undemhncing "beguiling":
many lhingeIdidnotundern-nd; bulIewld
easily see the mooning wan, to prey me not to
kill him.

I soon found 1 weyloeonvince him that!
woulddohimnohenn; uduk'mghimuphy
the hand, leaghed :1 him, and pointing to the
kidwhiehlhedkilled, beekeeedlohimloruu
Ind fetch il,whiehhe did: end while he won
wondering. and looking lo see how the ace-
ture was killed,Iloedd uygun Iglill. By
end by, I new I greetl'owl, like I I'm-k, lining
upon-bee, within": eo,loleli'rideyun-
denlendelinlewhnlwnukldo, I eelledhim

Iheremimbeeoreeweoderl'ulfiindefdeelh

enddeunmioninibellhieg,ehleiokill
m,beeet,bivd,eruy\hingneerorferod';
Indlheutoniduneu thieueuedinhimwu
mch,ueouldnotmoEURforelongtine;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he
wolddhevewonhippedneendmygnn. Al
forlhegunizeelfibewwldnoteonmdiu
Iouchilixeevenl day! thanllnhewould
openkloigendulktoil,uifilh|dmwered
bim,whenhe wuby himself; which,uI
eflerwerdeleernedofhin,wulodeeireilnoC/
to kill him. Well,eflerhieemi:hmcnlm
Ililllo over It lhie,[poinled Io himlonn
endfelchihebirdlhedelm,whichhedid,
butmyedmelimo:fiarthepum,nolhe-
ingquilo deed,hedfluuered eweyegzd'du-
uncefromlhepleeewhereehefell: ver,
hel'ound lm,lonkherup,end'bvough
muendulhedpemivedhilignonnoe
ebomuwegunhefore,llooklllieednnlegeto
chargelhegmeglinundmllolet him-0e
medoiglhulnighlbereedybrenyolher
marklhumightpreeeot; butnolhingmwe
ofl'eredulhudmeuolbrwghlhomedlehd,
unllheumeevenin'lunklheekinofl',"
cutilwluwelluleoukl;endhevin5npeC/
fithlhupurpoeeroilederuewedeomeet
the Bed, Ind node eons very good broth.
Aflerlhedbegutoeelmflg'eveeou'nln
myw,whoeeemdvery.ledoht,endlihed
itverywell:bmthuwhichwumnngeetlo
him,wuloeeemeeetullwiC/hil. flamed.
eeignlomelhnlheultwelnotpodlom;
endpmingelinleinlobuewn molt,he
eeemcdlonunemit,endwodd_npllud
epuneretit,wedlinghiemulhwnhfredi
wuernfiuiuoulheotherhendflleokm
mahomymhwiwnhuflpnund-
edwwhudmfarwmdeflyufis
ubeheddmelllhenh:bmitwouldnoC/de;
bewwldneverwefirnhwilhhienuxer
inhinbrolh;uleen,notfnrepeetwhile,
endlhenbmeverylinle.
Hevinglhne'fedhiu withhelledrlaeued
intend

therlo

E
E
a;
E
Ifire,topandoneet:roesonthe and,tyingthe

stringto the curse stick, letting the meat turn
:ontinuelly. This Friday admired very much;
but when he came to taste the fled, he took
somany waysto tell me how well he liked it,
thatIcouldnot but understand him: and at
lest hetold rne, eswell asheeould, he would
never eat man'sfleeh anymore, whiohIwas
very gladtoheer.

The next dey,leet himtoworktobeeting
some corn out,ands' it inthemennerI
usedtodo,asIobeerved before;end hesoon
understood how todo it eswell as I, especielly
after he had seen what the meaning (1' it was,
andthetit was to nukebresdot' it; forafier
thatIlethiInseemenIakeInybread,endhelre
it too; and in elittle time Friday was able to
donll theworkl'or me, aswellssl could do
itmyselfl

I began now to outsider, thatheving two
moutln to feed instead of one, Imust provide
more for my harvest,endplantelerger
quenlityol'eornthenIusedtodouoImarked
ornalergerpieceoflend.andhegen thefenee
inthe seine nrannerasbelhre, inwa Friday
worked not only very willingly and very hard,
but did it very dleerfully: andltold him what
itwasfor; thatitwasfiireorntomekemore
breed,bedeusehewasnowwithme,endthnt
I might have enough for him and myself too.
He appeared very sensibleofthat part,andlet
meknowthethethoughtIhedmuchmore
lshouruponmemhiaaneotmtflhsn lhedfor
myself; and thethewnuldworktheherder
brme,ifIwouldtellhimwhettodo.

This was the pleasentestyeer ot'ell the life
IledinthispleeezFI-idaybegentotelkpreuy
well,and understand thenames of almost every
thingI hndoeeasion tneallibr,endofevery
pleceIhsdtosendhimto,endtelkedegreat
deeltome; sothat, inahwglbegunnowto
have some use formy tongue again, which,
indeed, I erry verylittle oeeasim for before,
thet i'tn'iey about speech. Besides the
plessure sfielhing to him, I had e singular
satielhetion In the fillew himself: his simple
nnl'eigned honesty to me more and
moresverydsy, andIbegInreally tolovetbe
ereeutre; end, on his side, I believe he loved
menwrethan itwaspemihle forhimeverto
loveenything hefirre.

Ihadamindoneetotryifhehadenyhen--
hering inelimtien to his own eormtryege in;
end having teught him English so well tbet he
couldenswermo queetion,lamed
himwhetherthe netiontbethebelengedto
never inbettle'l ntwbidrhesmiled,

Id mid, Yes, yes, we always fight the better:

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBIISOE.

thetis,hemeent,alwnylgetthehettain
fight; and so we began the following dis-
course?

Meme. You always fighttlrebetter? how
ceme youtobeteken prIsoner then, Friday?

Fewer. My netionbeet much,t'orellthat.

MAI'I'EI- How beat? 11' your netion best
them,hovrcerneyou tebetehen?

Fewer. They more my than mynation
in the plseewhere me was: they take me,
two, three, and me; my nation overbeet them
intheyenderplsee, wheremenowas; there
my notion take one, two, great thousand.

Meme. But whydidnotyoureidereeorer
you from the hands ofyour enemies then?

Fewer. They run one, two, three, and
me,endmskegointhecanoe;mynatiarheve
noeanoe thattime.

Mes-res. Well, Friday, end what does
your nation do with the men they take? Do
theyearrythem ewayend eat them, Isthess
did?

Fewer. Yee,mynntinneatmanstoo;eet
ellup.

Means. Wheredothey earrythem'!

Fewer. Go to other plane, where they
think.

MAI'I'II. Dotheyeome hither?

Fewer. Yes, yes, they come hither; come
otherelse place.

Msmn. Have you been here with them?

Fewer. Yes. I have been here; (points to
theN. W. sideot'tbe island, which, it seems,
was their side.)

By this I understood that myman Friday
hedformerl yheenemongthesevageswhoused
toeomeonshoreonthefirtherpertofthe
island, on the same ' occasions he
was nowbroughttor; and, some time after,
whenltooktheeourngeto earryhim tothet
side, being the some! Formerly mentioned, he
presentlyhnewtheplaeeundloldmebewas
thereoncewhentheyestuptwenty men,two
women,endoneehild: heoouldnottelltwenty
in English, buthenrnnbesed andm'b'hm
somanystmesinerow,and pointingtomo
totenthernover.

I have told this pa-ege, became it intro-
duces whatt'ollowa; thatal'rer I had thisdis-
eoursewith him,Ified bimhowfaritns
fiem om' island tothe more, end whetherthe
eanoeswere notofienlo'. Hetnldmethere
wunodanger,noeanessevwlest; butthat,
afier alittleweyomteseaubere Fillet-h
rentendwind,elwaye oneway intbemorning,
theotherintbeafierneon. ThisIImderstesd
tobonomorethantbesstsofthetidem
outal' coming in, brItI efierwarth
nmwymmmmm
mfigfimw,buwmnhw
hm," tau-am"
Whynndmmishndwhichlpemeiv-
edlolhow.|ndN.W.wulhegmtithnd
Trinidad,onhnmhpoiud'tbomomhd
thorim. lubdFrirhy-thmndqna--
tinuubmhemu'yfihehhnbiunmtho
m,1hacout,mdwhumiouwmnw:
hendd'membohuv,wi1hlhomuguopw-
neu' ' . lukedhinthonumof
Ihouvadmfioud'hilmdpooflo,bm
cufldgunomhormlhnCuihl:fiom
whence! Wondfihulhuowm
floCuibbou,whidxourn-pC/phceanlho
pmol'Amariawhhhmcbufmmthomlh
ofzhorivummakowmmdonwuds
toSLMmhs. Hotddmethuupugn'u
nyhyofihmlhuwumayandlho
mingoflhom,whidlmbowmfiuu
theirwmtrynhwedwehwbiuboudodm,
likemo,lndpointedtqmygnuwhishn,
whichlnemiooadbefiro; Indthutheyhad
kifledmnchmu,daunlhilwud:byafl
which! honumtboSpuiuds,
wbuoauelfiuinAmrhMbemumad
overunwhokemuynndwmmemhued
byafllhenuhmfiooflhutom.
l'inquindifhoeddullnohowlmiglu
gofiomlthkillnndmnmglhuewhito
m: Intoldmo,Yu, yu,youmygoinC/wo
'anoe. lmflmwmhomm,
umflobinduaibotomwhthamm
bymom;tfll,uhn,whhmdificdly,
Ifiumdhemnntilputhoinuhrga u
bigutwbunou. ThipnnJFridIy'n-ib-
mbepntotdihwiihmmynflund
fionlhitlinolmin-dmhopum
mdmuotharflnighzfifluoppormnity
lemonywfiouthilpheguddm
Ihilpoornngenightblmtohelpm.
DuringdnhlgfimMFfidnyhdm
beenwinhmnnddmhebagutospedlo
nun-ad My, Im_notmnt-

fidfimwhwuhhfidtc:hC/lmdit

bynothahdh,uduhdlinwhomdo
Mmhpudnnhdayldlbehin:
advent!!! Bamflufnwumold
Man, that lived bayou! d];

E?

mwdummum
hm fiddflufloniflfllalho
"who mum-<<mom

ubodhinhl'thinoflmlud

and
flvaydiduulthhpwufiiphin

~00--

WM
. LhinpnyOmhh. I
uhdhi-iflhapoopbwhodioinb'umwy
wontunyuywhen'l Houid,Yn;thC/y
numgwmu: than lukedhin
wmmmmqmflmwf

thid,YoI.
bog-n umbil-
mu

Franck-ah?!
know the Goryhgldhi-

$111,110th.
Woo, who lived but :3qu nycfl,
nndyotowldnothurfiltbeywuunpbh
Mmi-whmhodmhbwh
him. lukedhimifmhoweflthiflnrb
Ipuhohim? Haufl,No;lhuyqufi
"mm";mmmm
mammuwmw>>;
Mil,ulmdohinuphililou,lbui
" ,wdagyundthnthoymm-y
0, whaMnyiqmm)mm
canehuknndmldthmwhtnonuetoo
It'll. Bydnillohaned,lhntbuliprie'p
aflmmgmenflm, '
mnmm;wbvdkyof
.md'm,hmbm
melanin-old>> mmw'h"
ndytobohndln hummus!"
WNW" . ill '"H)mm
human-Mum.
Induvaodtodwnpdlfihndwny
ml'rihyundhidhhuum
dbhddmgoingwbtbomiub
nyOmMgdanM;
whimuuo-'m-mu
nflmnfimwrhfl'fiqw'fi
anymmup-hwixhuymm,"
mkwifluuurilqi-it:udthalouad
MathwihhinMd-oduil,
hW'mhdfi-WM
himitywmlhomdihbmhl
mehbfimdb'uflbh
WW'MI'UN'"
bwmhndl-od'hdhb
mumm;hwhhdtm
"ammonium."

a}?94

and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so
astocause uneven to beam- own temptere,
andrun nponotndestruction by ourown choice.
Ifounditwasnotsoeasytoimp rintright
notions in his mind about the devil, as it was
about the being of a God: nature assisted all
my arguments to evidence to him even the ne-
cessity of a great First Cause, and overruling,
governing Power, a secret, directing Provi-
dence, and of the equity and justice of paying
tohim thumadeqandthelikc; hut
thereappearednothingofthiskind inthe no-
tion of an evil spirit; ofhis original, his being,
his nature,and, above all, of his inclinath to
doeril, and to drawusintodnsotoo: and
thepoorcreaturepunledmeonce insucha
manner, by a question merely natural and in-
nocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.
I had been talking agreat deal to him of the
power of God, his omnipotence, his aversion
to sin, his heingaconsumingfire tothe workers
ofiniquity; how, as he had made us all, he
coulddestroy usandalltheworldinamoment;
and he listened with great seriotlnesa to me
all the while. Afier this, I had been telling
him how the devil wasGod's enemy in the
hearts of men, and used all his maliceand skill
to defeat the good designs of Providence, and
to'ruin the kingdom ofChrist' In the world, and
the like. Well, says Friday, but you mnyGod
is so strong, so great; who not much strung,
much might as the devil 'l--Yea, yes, says I,
Friday, God' Is stronger than the devil: God' ll
above the devil, ddlmfilro wepra pray to God
to tread him doirn under our feet, and enable
us to resist his temptations, and his
fiery darts.--But, says he again, ifGod much
stronger, much might aslhe devil, why God
no kill the devil, so make him no more do
wicked? I was strangely surprised at this
question; and,aflerall,thmgh [was nowan
old man, yethashut ayotmgdoetor, andill
qualified for a casuist, orasolver ofdificulties;
and, atfirst, Icouldnottellwbattosay; so
I pretended notto hear him, and asltody him
what he said; but howas too earnestforan
answer, to forgethis question, so that be re
peateditinthevcrysamebrokenwordsas
above. By thietimeradrecovered myselfa
little,andIysaiIi,Godwillatlast pmishhirn
merely; he Is reserved for the and
is to be cast into the bottomlo- pit, to dwell
with "about; fire.- This did not satisfy
Frida returns opt-I Ins, mv
wordsyRuerwdhu: mOMWMh'm
whynotkillthe devilnow; notkill greatago?
--You nIayas wellat Inc, said I, why God
doesnotkillman'lme,thnwedowi&ed

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUBOE.

thingshere that ofi'ed him? We are pre-
served to repent and be pardoned. He mined
some hose on this: Well, well, says he, mighty
afi'ectionately, that well: so you, I, devil, all
wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.
HereIwasrtmdownagain byhim to lhelan
degree; anditwasatostimonytome,howthc
mere notions of nature,_thotrgh they will guide
reasonable creannes to the knowledge ofaGod,
and ofa worshiporhon-Iage due tolhesupvemc
heing of God, as the of our na-
ture, yet nothing but divine revelation can
firm the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of
redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of
thenew covenant,andofanlntercessoratthc
footstool of God's throne; I say ,nothing but
a revelation from Heaven can yl'orrII these In
the soul; and that,therefore, the Gospel ofour
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, Imean the
Word ofGod, and theSpirit ofGod, promised
fizrtheguideandsanctifierofhie people, are
theabsolutely murders of lhesouls
of men in the saving knowledge ofGod, and
the means ol'salvation.

I therefore diverted the t diwourse
between me and my man, rising up bastily,as
upon some sudden occasion ofgo going out; then
sending him for somethinga way od', I
seriously prayed to God that he would enable
more instruct savingly thispoor poorsavagsgas-
sisling, by his Spirit, the heart of thepoor

t creature to receive the light "P009 the
knowledge ofGodinChrist, reconciling him
tohinnelfiandwonldguidemeto speak so to
himfrom the wordofGod,ashis conscience
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his
soul saved. When hccame again tome,I
entered into a discourse with him upon
thesubjectofthe redemptionofman by the
Saviourofthe world, andd'thedoen'ineofthe
Gospel finmhuvuyvmofrepen tanco
towards God, and fiith in our blessed Lord
Jesus. I then explained to him, as well as I
could, whyour blamed Redeemer-took not tll
himthenamreofangels,buttheseedoEURAbrn-
ham; and bow, firthatroason, thefallen an-
gel-had noshare inthe ' ; that be
camewa to the lnstileepd'lhchoused'
Israel, andthelike.

Ihad,Godhnows,moresincerItytbanknow-
ledge in all themethods I out firth" poor
creature's instructitm, and nut acknowledge,
wbatI believe allthatadnponthesameprm-
ciplewillfind,thatinlsying thingsopento
him, [rally isfirsned and muted myselfin
manythinpthateidrerldidnflknnmorhd
notfiilly coneidaedbefaeflntwhidtoeunred
nannall'ytnmymmdnponlearchingintothera
iii-theinfornietiunol'ihispoovs'srnge; .sndlhed
noreed'eeliuiinrn inquiry nothings

thisoecnsionihsneyvorlfelthefire: "my"
wheiborthispoorwild wretchwssthehetter
formenrnoflhsdgreureesuitohethsnl-
fultlnteverheoenetoine; nygrid'sulighter
uponmepny hshiintionpewooni'ortshle to
no beyond mes-ire: end when I Mound,
lhslinthissolitnrylifewhiohlludbeeneon-
fined'to,[indnotonlyhoenniovodtobokop
to Heaven nyselfiuidto seek tothe huddle!
hedbroughtmehere,hutwunowtobemdo
In instrument, iniderPiuvidenoe,toseve the
lifo,end,foreughilhew,thesoul,nfspoor
huge, and bring him tofietme knowledge at
religion, end ofthe Christin doctrine, the:
he mightknowChrist Jesus,inwhoin islife
uponsllthese

I
was 'plsoe,whichlhedsooflen
thought theninszdresdful if nll Iflwlluisthn
couldpoesihlyhivehd'sllenine.

I continued in this thenkful frsniesllthe
Itineinderofiny time; end the oonvenstion
which employed 'the hours heCWeen Fridly end
inemmeh,unisdethethreeyeuswhich
we lived there together sndcouiplotly
happy, ii'nny such thing on complete Inppi-
neesosnhe inesuhliniery rule. This
ssvsgewssnowsgoodChristien,einiichhet-
ietlhnnlzlhwghlhnvemlobopo,"
hleuGodforit,ihetwewei-e equefly penitent,
Ind comforted, restored penitents. We hsd
herethewordd'Godlonnd,nndnofinher
ofi' fioin his Spirit. to instruct, then if we
hsdheeninEnglsnd. Islwnyssppliediiiy-
selfiinreed'ing theSaiptnres, tolethiinlrnoiv,
uwe"uleotfld,ihomilgofwhlllmd;

sndheegein,hyhisseriotlinquiriesend

ohsuvinghuesbqfioin'w
inlhisrefiredpnnd'nylifo,'is.luwinfims
end' on itislhnuheknowb
ledgeot'God, sndol'thedootrineolseivstion
hyChristJe-isfissophiniyhiddowniithe
wordot'God, soessytohereeeivedeiidui-
derstood,lhnl, IllhehsrereedinglheScrip-

memdenieeepehle apehledlsidorstsndingenoufi
d'niydntylowi'yniedirealyailothegrsst
whet-inane Got mysissnd

Isyingholdofs Senonrfirlifesndssiution,
lonslntedveforuistioninpreaiee,endohe-
dieooetoeflGod'seonin-nds,sndthiswith-
omeny WUWM,IMW;
mtenmephininstrnotimsufitudysened
totheenlighteningthisssnge unnamed
bringingh'untohosochsChrisiiss,eslhsve
howni'eweqneltohiinininylife.
Astoellthedisputs, Wingwfind
oontention,whiohhsveheppenedintheworld
shout religion, whether nineties indootrines,
oreohemesofohurohgovernnim, theym
ellperfealyi-elesstoos,~end,brsnghtlosn
yotsee,theyhsvoheensotothsvsC/oflhe
world. Wehsdlhesungnidetoheumni'
thewordofGod; sndwehsd,hleuedheGod,
conifortshiovimdflheSpiritofGodusch-
ingsndinstmctinguhy
into-numb, sndnnkiiig
obedientioiheiutruolionofhisword.
Ioeniiot see the leash-e diet the
knowledgeofthe disputedpoints ofreligiai,
whichhevemdesoehooifusionsinthewodd,
woddhsvebeentonefifwoeonldheveobi
tsinediL--Butlnsntgoonwiththehinnrieel
pmdminmendukeevayputinitsordc.

i

 

SECTION XXIV.

IOIIISON m FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE 1'0 CAREY mu 1'0 nmn'e com-r.
--n'nn some 213va I! Till AIIIVLL Ol' A PART! 0' "Full.

AnnFi-idey endlheosnieinoteinti-
noddintheeouldtlidersthnd

 

himofgnnpowdersndhiillfiendtemhthi-
howtoshoot. I pnhinehfiwhidihs
weswonderfully .delightedwifi; ssdI-de
hhnshlgwilhnfieghnghgbtnieh-h
meesrhsngersinpndinthefiog,
instesdot'elnngerJgsuhinehewhegwha
wouaalyesgood smiles-emu,
liotnndinueosefiiopesodierooeesioss._ wassodull.thatl neveronoetho

96

Idescrihedtohitntheconnt ofEu , -
ticularly England, which I cage Immptvre
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved
to one another, and how we traded in ships to all
parts ol'the world. Igare him an account of the
wreckwhichlhadheenonboudoflandshowed
him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she wasall beaten in pieces before,
and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat,
which we lost when we escaped, and which I
Could not stir with my whole strength then;
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing. I asked him what it
was he studied upon? At last, says he, Me
lee such boat like come to at my nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but,
at last, when I had examined farther into it, I
understood by him, thata boat, such as that
had been, cameon shore upon theeountry
where he lived; that is, as he explained it,
was driven thither by stressot' weather. I pre-
sently imaginedthat some European ship must
have been cast away upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore; but
ughtot' men
making theirescape fioma wreck thither, much
less whence might come: so I only in.
quired after a description of the boat.

Fridaydeseribed thehoattomewellenough;
but brought me better to understand him when
he added, with some warmth, We five the
white mans from drown. Then I presently
asked him, if there were any white mans, as
he called them, in the boat? Yes, he said;
theboatfnllot'whiternans. I ashedhim
how many? He told upon his seven-
teen. I asked him then whuhecameot'them'!
He told me, They live, they dwell at my na-
tion.
Thisputnew intomyhead;for[
presently imagined that these might be the
men belonging to the ship that was cast away
inthe sightot'myisland; asInowcalledit;
and who, after the ship was m on-the rock,
and they saw her inevitably loot, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon
that wild share among the savages. Upon
this, I inquired ot'himmoreeritieallywhat
was become of them; he assured me they
lived still there; that they had been there
'abont four years; that the savages letthem
alone, and gave them

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI.

lhatistosay, theynevereatanymenhnt
udtasonmetofightwiththem,andaretlkea
inhanle.

It was afler this some outsider-able time,
thatheinguponthetopofthehill,attheeast
sideoftheisland,fromwhenoe,aslhaveaaid.,
Ihad, inaclurday, discovered the main or
continent of America, Friday, the wealher be-
ingveryserenefiooksveryearneetlytowardsthe
mainland, and, in a kindofaurprise, fillsa
jumpinganddancing,andcolls outto me, for
Iwuatsomedistaneefromhim. Iasked him
whatwasthe matter?0joy!sayshe;0glad!
there see my country, there my nation! I
observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his t'ace, and his eyes sparkled,
and his countenance d'meovered a strange
eagernm,asil'hehadamindtobeinhisown
country again. This ohservationot' mine put
a great my thoughts into me,Which made
me atfirstnot so easyahout mynewman,
Ffiday,aslwubefore;and1madenodouht
butthatifFriday could gethadttohis own
nation again, he would not only forget all his
mligion, but all his obligationtome,andwnuld
he forward enoughtogive his eotmtrymenan
aoootmtofme,andoomehackperhapswitha
hundredortwoot'them,andmaheat'eastnpon
me,at whichhemightboasmen'yasbeused
to he with those of his enemies, when they
were taken inwar. But! thepoor
bonestereature verymuch,t'orwhieh Iwas
verysorryat'terwards. However, as my jea-
lousy inaeased, and held mesome weeka,_l
wasalittlemorecircumspeet,andnotsofamt-
liarandltindtohimasbefiwefinwhiehlwas
oertainlyinthewrongtoo;thehonest,grate-
ful creature, luving no about it, hot
whatoonsistedwiththebeatprineiples,hothas
a religious Christian, and as a gratefiilthend;
"appearedafierwartls,Inlnyfitllsattafatcutlt~
While my jealotnyof him lasted,yonmay
hem!waseverydayptmapinghun,tosee
it'hewouhi diseaveranyot'the newthonghts
which Inspected wereinhim:bntlPSumd
everythinghesaidwasaoboneatandsoimo-
cent,that Ieouldfindnothingtononridtmy

icion; and,inspiteot' all my neasinsss,
hemademeatlastentirelyhisownagahmor
did he, in the least, pereeivethdlwasnn-
easy,anddtetdaoleouldnotstlpecthnnot
deceit.
0nehy,walkhgttpthenmehil,hC/the
weatherheinghasy at sea, so that we could
notaeetheeontine'Jeatledtohn'aJndaatd.
Friday,donotymwishyoussl{myotrowl
eateryqonrmaatteat--Yqhuuthe
mothdtobeatmymmmm--What
wouldymdothere? aaidI: wouldyouturn
wild again, eat men'a Magma again, and he a
savage, aayonwerebel'ore? Hehokodt'ullof
concern, and ' his head, said, No, no;
Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray
God, tell them to eat corn-bread, eattle-fieah,
milk; no eat mnn again--Why then, said I to
him, they will kill you. He looked grave at
that, and that said, No, no; they no kill me,
they willing love learn. He meant by this,
they would be willing to learn. He added,
theylearrted much ofthebearded loans that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he
would go haekto them. He smiled at that, and
told me that hecouldnot swimsofar. [told
him. I would make a canoe for him. He told
me he would go, if I would go with him. I
go! says I; why,theywill eat me, if! come
them--No, no, aaya he; me make they no
eat you; me make they much love you. He
meant, he would tell them how I had killed
his enemies, and saved his life, and so he
would make them love me. Then he told me,
as well as he could, how kind they were to
seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
calledthem,who name on shore there indis-
trees.

Frornthiatirne,I oont'eea I had amind to
venture over, and eee if I could possibly join
withtltoaebearded men,wholmadenodoubt,
were Spaniards and Portuguese: not doubting
butil'loould, we might find aememothod to
esoape fromthence, being upon the continent,
and a good company together, better than I
could fi'om an island forty milee 08' the shore,
and alone, without help. So, after me days,
1 took Friday to work again, by way of dia-
coutse: andtoldhimlwould givehirnaboat
togobwk tohia own nation; and accordingly
[onrriedhim to tnyfrigate,whieh|ayonthe
other side ofthe island, and having cleared it
of water, (liar I always kept it limit in water,)
I brought itout,ahowed it him,and we both
rent into it. Ifound hewuamoetdexteroua

ellow at magingt, it, and would malteitgo
almoetaaawifl aaIeould. Sowhenhe
was tn,laudtohun, Well, now, Friday,shall
wegotoyonrnatiott'l Heloolted verydullat
myeayirtg no; which, it lean,"- became
he t the heat too amall togo so far: I
theutoldhimlhadabigger; Iotheneatday
Iwenttotheplaoewherethefiratboatlay
wbiehlhad made, hutwhiehleould notget
intothowater. Homidthatwaabigenough:

homemalhadtakennoeatedit, and it
Md lain two orthree-and-twentyyears there,
thenmlmdqlitanddried it,thatitwaaina
"Men. Friday told me melt a boat

'I.

 

97

would dovery well, and would carry 'tmeh
enonghvittlo,dritk,hread;'thatwaahinway
chalking.

Upontbewhnle, Iwaa hythistitnesofixed
npontnydeeignof ingoverwithhimtothe
mtinfitt, that I him wewouldgo and
make one as big as that, and he ahouldgo
homeinit. Heanewerednotoneword, but
lookedvery grave andaad. Iaakedhitnwhat
wastbematoerwithhim'! Heatedmeagain,
WhyyouangrymdwithI-'riday 3 Whatme
dooe'IIaakedhimwhatbemeant: ltoldhim
Iwaanot .withhimatall. Noangry!
says he, repeating the words several timer;
Why eendl-'ridayhomeaway to my nation?--
Why, sayaI,Friday, didnotyouaay,ynuwialh
ed you werethore1--Yea, yea, my: be, w'
beboththere; nowiahFriday there,notnuter
there. Inaword, helwouldnotthinhot'going
there without me. [go there, Friday! saya
1- what shall I do there? He roturnedvery
quick upon me at this: You do great deal
much good, says he; you teach wild mans be
good, sober, tame mane; you tell them know
God, pray God, and live new life--Alas!
Friday, says I, thou knowest not what thou
aayeat; [am but an ' manmyaelfi--
Yea, yes, any: he, you teaehee me good, you
teaohee themgood.--No, no, Friday, any: I,
you shallgowithout me; leave me heretoliva
bymyeelfiaaldid before. 'He lonkedeonfitsed
again at that word; and running tooneot'the
hatchetswhichheusedtowear,helakeeitup
hastily, and giveeittome. Whatmtltldo
with this? may: Itohim. You take kill Friday,
nay-he Whatmuatlkillyou firliaidl
again. He returner quick,Whatyouaend
Friday away or? Take kill Friday, no and
Friday away. This he spoke so earnestly,
thatlaawtearlrtandinhieeyea: inaword,
I eoplainly discovered themafi'eetion in
hitntome,andafitmreaolutioninhim,thatl
told himthen,andoflenalter,thtlwou|d
neveraend him awayfiomme,it'hewaswil-
lingtoetaywithme.

Uponthe whola,aal fotmd, byailhia die-
eourne, a needed afl'eotion to me, and that
nothing should part him fromme

oonntrywaalaidinhiaardentati'eaion

thepeople,andhiahopead'mydoingthon
good:athing,wbidt,asllndnonotionnl
myoelfiwlhadnottheleafiM-orimeo-
tien,ordeaireof ' it. Bin-till
fitttndaau'onginolinationtomyaming
eaeape,avabove, hmdedontbemppalitin
gatheredfrontthediaeourve,via.thatdwa
wereaavonteenhaardedmentheu: and,tbere-

8

I...

,.'.r"',., .1.
fore, without any more delay, I went to work
with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to
undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the ialand tohave built alittle fleet,
not of periaguaa,orcanoea, buteven ofgood
large vessels: but the main thinglloolredat
was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake I committed at first. At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree: for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood
was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day,
what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we call rustic, or
between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it
was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity
of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I
showed him how to cut it with tools; which,
after I had showed him how to use, he did
very handily: and in about a month's hard
labour we finished it, and made it very hand-
some; especially when, with our axes, which
I showed him howto handle, we cut and heaved
the outside into the true shape of a boat. Afier
this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's
time to get her along, as it were inch by inch,
upon great rollers into the water; but when she
was in, she would ve carried twenty men
with great ease.

What she was in the water, and though she
was so big, it amazed me to see with what
dexterity, and how swift my man Friday would
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along.
Soluked him it'he would,and it'we might,
venture over in her. Yes, he said; we ven-
ture over in her very well, though great blow
wind. However, I had a farther design, that
heknew nothingof, andthat wastomake a
mastandaaail,andto tit herwith ananchor
and cable. A: to amast, that was easy enough
to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar tree, which X thund near the place, and
which there were greatplenty ofin the island:
and I act Friday toworlt to cut it down, and
gave himdirectiona howtoshapeandorder it.
But as to the sail, that was my particular care.
I knew! hadold aaill orratherpiecespfold
aaiiaeuoughgbutulhadhad them nowaix-
menty years by me, and had not been very

to preserve them, not tmagtntng' ' ' that
Iahouldeverhavethilkindot'mefirtbem, I
didnotdoubtbuttbeywereallrotten,and,
indeed,moat ofthetn were so. However, I.
bunt] two pieces, which appeared pretty good,
andwtththeae Iwenttoworlr; andwitha
great deal of pain. and awkward stitching,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030508.

on maybeanro, t'orwantofneedler, I,a
ength, made a three cornered ugly thing, like
what we call in England a shoulder-damn
sail, togowith aboom at bottommnd a little
shortrpritattbetop,auehuuauallyottrrhipa'
longboats sailwith, and sttcharlbeetknew
howtomanage,asitwasanchaonel_ hadto
thehoatiawhieh Imadomyeacapefrom Bar-
bary,u related in the [impart ot'myetory.

I wu near two months performing this last
work, viz. rigging and fitting my mat and
soils; for I finished them very complete,
making a small stay, and a sail, or foreaail, to
it, to assist, if we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder
tothe stern ol'herto steerwith. lwaa but a
bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the use-
fulnees, and even necessity of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much mine to do it,
that at last! brought it to pass; though, con-
sidering the many dull contrivanceo i had for
it that Failed, I think it cost me almoatas much
labour as making the boat.

Aflcr all this was done, I had my man Fri-
day to teach as to what belonged to the navi-
gation of my boat; for, though he knew very
well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing
what belonged to a sail and a rudder; and was
the most amazed when he saw me work the
boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and
how the sail gibbed, and filled this way, or that
way, as the course we sailed changed: I say,
when he saw this, he stood like one astonished
and amazed. However, with a little use, I
made all these things familiar to him, and he
became an expert sailor, except that as to the
com , I could make him understand very
little ol'that. On the other hand, as there was
very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
anyl'ogsinthoaeparts,tberewaathelem
occasion fora compass, seeing the stars were
always to he aeenbynight, andthe shore by
day, except in the rainy seasons, and then no-
bodycared to stirabtoad,eitber by land or
sea.

I was nowenta-red on the seven-and-twen-
tieth year of my captivity inthis place , though
thethree last yearathatlhadthlaaeature
withmeoughtrathertobelet'toutofthe
account, my habitation being quite of another
kindthaninall thereatd'thetime. Ikept
the anniversary ofmylandinghaewiththe
same thankfulneaatoGodhrhiamieaaa at
first; and if I had such car-e of acknowledg-
memuhlhad nudimoreunow,hving
such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and thogreat hopes Mud
of being efl'ectually and speedily ddivared;

' 'FMW
in I had an invineilde impression upon my
dtengbtsthatmydeliversneewasathand,and
thatldtouldnotheanotheryearinthisplam.
lwenton,however, with my;husbandry dig-
ging,planting,andfencing, s_susuaL lgatbered

curedym grapes,usddid evaryneeemary
thmgas before.

The rainyseason was,in themeantime,
upontne,whenlheptmorewitbindoorsthan
atothertimes. Wehsdstowodournewvessel
sssecureasweeould,bringingherup into
the creek, where,as I said in the beginning,
I landed myrafls finmtheabip; and hauling
lteruptotheslwre,athigbwaternnrh,lmado
my man Friday dig a little dock, just big
enough to hold her, and just deep enough to
give her water e to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a. strongdam
across the end ofit, to keep the water out;
and so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the
semandtokeep therainofljwelaidagreat
many of trees, sothiek, that she was
as well thatched asa house; and thus we
waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I designed to make my
adventure.

When the settled season began to come in,
as the thought of my design returned withthe
fair weather, I was preparing daily for the
voyage: and the firstthing [did was to lay
by a certain quantity of provisions, being the
stores forourvoyage :and intended, in a week
or a t'ortnigttt'sy lime, to open the doelt,end
launchoutourboat. Iwasbusyone morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid bimgo to the seashore, and
see if he could find a turtle,or tortoise, a

tngwhich wegenerallygot once sweelt for
the sake ofthe eggsaswellas the flesh. Fri-
dayhad not been long gone, when he came
rtmning back, andflew over nay outer wall,or
fence, like one that felt not the , or the
steps hesethisfeeton; andbefitrelhadtime
tos to him, he criesouttorne,0master!
Omaster! Ones-row! Obadl-- 's the
matter, Friday? says I. 0 yonder, there,
says he, one, two, canoe; one, two,
three! By thiswayofspeahing, Iconduded
therewereais;but,oninquiry, Ithunditwas
butthree. Well, Frdsynays I, do not be
frightened! SoIbeartenedhimupaswellas
Icould: however, Isaw tbepoor fellow was
mostterriblyscared; fornothi ran inhis
headbutthat theywanenmeto forhim,
andwouldctah'tminpieeesnndeathimund
theooorfelbwtrsdedsonhtlaamknew
whattodowithhita. Icomfortedhimaswell
as I mid. and told him I was in as much

 

99

dangerashe, andtbattheywouldeatmess
well as him: But, says I, Friday, we must
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday 1
--Mo shoot, says be; but therecome many
great number.--No matter fix that, said I,
again; our will fright then: that we do
not kill. 80 I asked him whether, if I resolved
to defend him, he would defend me, and stand
by me, and dojust as I bid him. He said, Me
die, when you bid die, mar. So I went
andfetchedagooddramofrurn andjavehint.
for I had been sogood a husband m rut-n
thatIhadagreatdeallefi. VVhenhedranlt' ll,
I made him take the two foWlingpieces, which
we always carried, and loaded them with large
mm, as big as small pistol-bullets; then
I took four mnskets, and loaded them with two
slugs, and live small bullets each; and my two
pistols I loaded with a brace d' bulleLs each:
I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my
side; and gave Friday his hatchet. 'When I
had then prepared myself, I took my penpeotive
glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to
see what [could discover; and I found quickly,
by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages,three prisoners, and three canoes;
andthat theirwholebusinessseernedtobetho
triumphant banquet upon these three human
bodies , n barbarous East, indeed! but nothing
more than," Ihadobserved, wasusual with
them. I observed also, that they were landed,
not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek: where the
shore was low, and where a thick wood came
almost close down to the sea. This, with
the abhorrent>> of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, filled me with such in-
dignation, that I came down again to Friday,
and told him I was resolved to go down to
them, and kill them all; and asked him if he
would stand by me. He had now got over his
fright, and his spirits being a little raised with
the dram I had given him, he was very cheer-
ful. and told me, as before, he would die when
I bid die.

In this (it of fitry, I took and divided the
arms Which I had charged, as before, between
us: I gave Fridayooe pistol to stickin his
girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and
I toohonepistol,and the otherthreegtmsmy-
self; and inthispoeturewemarchedmt. I
wohsumubotdeofminmypodegand
gave Friday a large bag with more powder
and bullets; and,as loaders, Icharged him
tokeepclosebehindme, andnottostir,or
shoot, or deny thing, till I bid hint; and, in
themeantitne, notto qteahaword. Inthil
pestme, I fetched a etanpass to my ridtt hand
of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as
to get into the wood, so that I might come
within shot of them before I should be dis-
covered, which I had seen, by my glass, it was
easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolu-
tion: I do not mean that l entertained any
litar of their number; for, as they were naked,
unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior
to them; nay, though I had been alone. But
it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what
amnion, much less what necessity l was in,
to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack peo-
ple who had neither done or intended me any
wrong? Who, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous custom were their own dis-
aster; being, in them, a. token indeed of God's
having lefi them, with the other nations of that
part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such
inhuman-courses; but did not call me to take
Upon me to be ajudge of their actions, much
less an executioner of his justice; that, when-
ever he thought fit, he Would take the cause
into his own hands, and, by national vengeance,
punish them, as a people, for national crimes;
but that, in the mean time, it was none ofmy
business: that, it was true, Friday might jus-
tify it, bemuse he was a declared enemy, and
in a state of war with those very particular peo-
ple, and it was lawful for him to attack them:
but I could not say the same with respect to
myself. These things were so warmly pressed
upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that
I resolved I would only go and plate mtselt'
Dear them, that I might observe their barba-
Ious feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct ; but that, unless something offered
that was more a. call to me than yet I knew of,
I would not meddle with them.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

With this resolution I entered the wood;
and, with all possible weariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, I marched
till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side
which was next to them, only that one corner
of the wood lay between me and them. Here
I called soflly to Friday, and showing him a
great tree, which wasjust at the corner of the
wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me
word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing He did so; and came imme-
diately back to me, and told me they might be
plainly viewed there; that they were all about
their lire, eating the flesh of one of their pn-
soners, and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, which, he said, they
would kill nest, and which fired all the very
soul within me. He told me it was not one
of their nation, but one of the bearded men he
had told me of, that mine to their country in
the boat. I was tilled with horror at the very
naming the white bearded man; and, going to
the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things
like rushes, and that he was an European, and
had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket
beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than
the place where I ttas, which, bv going a little
way about, I saw I might come at undis-
covered, and that then I should be uithin half
a shot of them; so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree, and going back about twenty paces,
I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree: and then
came to a little rising ground, which gave me
a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.

 

SECTION XXV.

ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD.--FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER-""ACCOH-
MODATION PROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GUESTS--WHO ARE AFTERWARDS
SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER SPANIARDsu--ARRIVAL OF AN EKGLISH

VESSEL.

I HAD now not a moment to lose, for nine-
teen of the dreadful wretches not upon the
ground, all close huddled together, and had just
sent the other two to butcher the poor Chris-
tian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to
their tire; and they were atooping down to

untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday
--Now, Friday, said I, do as I bid thee. Fri-
day said he would. Then, Friday, says I, do
exactly as you see me do, fail in nothing. So
I set down one oftho musket: and the fowl.
ingpiecc upon the ground, and Friday did the
101

 

ho .w sis , arm Whn me other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the
like: then asking him if he was ready, he
said, "Yes." " Then fire at them," said I;
and the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I,
that on the side that he shot, he killed two of
them, and wounded three more; and on my
side,I killed one and wounded two. They
were, you may he sure, in a dreadful conster-
nation : and all of them who were not hurtjump-
ed upon their feet, but. did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look,
for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me,
that,asI had bid him,he might observe what I
did; so, soon as the first shot wasmade, I threw
down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece.
and Friday did the like: he saw the cock and
present; he did the same again. " Are you
ready, Friday 5'" said I.--" Yes," says he.
" Let fly. then," says I, "in the name of
God!" and with that, I fired again among the
amazed wretehcs, and so did Friday: and as
our picces,wero now loaden with what I called
swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found
only two drop, but so many were wounded,
that they ran about yelling and screaming like
mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them
miserably wounded, whereof three more fell
quickly after, though not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," says I, laying down the
discharged pieces, and taking up the musket
which was yet loaden, " follow me ;" which he

I with a great deal of courage; upon which I

rushed out of the wood, and showed myself,
and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so too; and running
as fast as I could, which, by the way, was not
very fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I
made directly towards the poor victim, who
was as I said lying upon the beach, or shore,
between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to
work with him, had left him at the surprise of
our first fire,and fled in a terrible fright to the
sea-side, and had jumped into n. canoe, and
three more ofthe rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards,
and fire at them : he understood me immedi-
ately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them. he shot at them, and I thought he
had killed them all, for [saw them all fall ofa
heap into the boat, though I saw two of'them
up again quickly: however, he killed two of
them, and wounded the third so, that he lay
down in the bottom of the boat as if he had
been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled
out my knife and cut the flags that bound the
poor victim t and loosing his hands and feet, I
lifted him up, and asked him. in the Portu-
guese tongue, what he was. He answered in
Latin, " Christianus :." but was so weak and
faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took
my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did,-
and I gave him apiece of bread, which he ate.
ThenI asked him what countryman he was:
end he eeid,Fepeg-niole; end being e little
recovered, let me know, by ell the eigne he
could poeeiblymeke, how much'hewee in my
debt for hie deliverance. Seignior, eeid I,
with en mudI Spenidt no I could mehe up, we
will telk eflerwerde, but we must fight now: if
you here eny left, take this pielol end
sword, end ley ehout you. He took them very
thankfully; end noeoonerhedhethe erme in
his hands, but, u if they bed put new vigour
into him, he flew upon hie murderere like e
fu ry,end heduIttwoot'theminpieceeinen
inetent; for thetruthie, enthewholeweee
lurpriee to them, no the poor mm were
eornuchl'rightenedwiththe noieeofour pieces,
thet they fell down formere etnezement end
fear,endhed no manpower toutempt their
own esmpe, then their fleeh bed to reeiet our
ehot: end thetwee tbeceeeofthoeefirethet
Frideyehot et inthe beet; foruthreeofthem
fell with the hurt they received, no the other
two fell with the flight.

I kept my piece in my hend still without
firing, being willing to keep my cherge ready,
hemuee I bed given the Spenierd my pistol
end eword: no I celled to Friday, end bade
himrtmup to thetreefrom whence we first
fired, end fetch the ernu which ley there that
hed been dieeherged, which he did withgr greet
ewiheu; end then giving ghim my musket,
I eetdowe Ieyeelt'toloed ellthereetegein,
end bede them cometome when they wanted.
While I wee landing theee pieces, there hep-
pened e fieree engegement between the Spa.-
nierd end one ot'the eeregee, who made et him
with one If their greet wooden eworde, the
eeIne-like weepon thet wee to here killed him
before, if I hed not prevented it. The Spe-
nierd, whoweeuheldend breveeeoould be
imegined, though we ,hedfought thie lndien
e good while, end cut him two greet
woundeoe hie heed; but the sewage being e
Itout, lusty fellow, cloning In with him, hed
thrown him down, being feint, endure-wring-
ingmyewordoutet'hie head; whentheSpe--
nierd, though Imdermuet, wisely quitting the
word, drew the piuol fiom hie girdle, ehot the
eerege through the body, end killed him upon
thquot, before I, who wee running to help
him. could come neer him.

Frideybeing now let! to hie liberty, pursued
theflyingwretdteemithno weepcninhiehend
but hie hetdtet; end with the: he ed
thuethree, who,eIIeeidbofiIro,werewotnIled
et firm, endfillen, end ell the not he could
cane qrwith: end the Spee'md oomhg to
Iefitregtethe vehimone ot'thefiivwlingh
piecemwith whichhepmtedtwooi'tbe rep

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
vegee, endwoundedthem both: but, uhewee -

notehletortmflheybmhgotfiomhimintolhe
wood, where Fridey purmted them,endkilled
oneol'them,hntthe otherweetoo nimble liar
him; end though he wee wounded, yet hed
punged himeelfintotheeeenndewem, with
ell hie might, od'tothoeetwowhowere lefiin
theoenoe, which threein the eenoe,withone
wounded, Ibet we knew not whether he died
wnqwenefltheteeeepedotnhendsofone-
end-twenty; the eocwntot'the whole is no
follow: threekilled etourfietehotfrom the
tree;twokilledetlhenextehot;twohillcdhy
Frideyin thehoet; two killed by Friday of
thoee et firetwounded; one killed by Fridey
in the wood; three killed by the Spenierd;
four killed, being found here end there,
of their wounds, or killed by Fridey in his
cheeoot'theln;fiureecepedinthebont,where-
of one wounded, if not deed.--Twenty-one
inell.

Those tlutwerein the cenoeworked herd
togetoutof gunshot, endthough Frideymede
twoorthreeehoteetthelnfldidnotfindthet
he hit my of them. Fridey would fein here
bed moteke oneot'theiroenoce,e_nd pursue
them; end indeed, I weevery enxioue ebout
theireeeepe, lea cerrying the newe home to
their people, they ehould come back perhaps
with twoorthree htmdred of the eenoee, end
devouruehymero multitude; eo Iconeented
topureuethem hyeee,end running to one of
their cenoee,I jumped in, end hede Fridey
followme; hutwhenlwu inthe moe,I
wee ' tofindenotherpoorereeturelio
tbere,hmtndhendendfoot,eethe$peniud
wee, for the elenghter,end elmoetdeed with
feer,not ' whetwuthemetter;l'orhe
hed nntheen ehle lo looknporertheeideot'
the boet,heweet1edeoherd neokendheele
endhedheentiedeoloug,tbethehedreelly
but little life In him.

I immedietely cutthetwieted Begeorruehee,
which they hedhound bimwith, end would
herehelpedhimup,huthecnuldnotetendor
lpeek, butgroened molt piteonely, believing,
iteeeeu,nill, thetheweeonlyuuboundin
ordertohekilled. WhenFr'niey cemetohim,
Ihedehimlpeektohim,endtellhimnfhie
delirerence; end,pnllingont my bottle,nnde
himgivethepoer wretdiedrem, which, with
the new: ot'hie beingdelivered, revived him,
endheeetnpinthehoet. Bmwben Fridey
nmetoheerhimqeekundlotiinhieioe,
itwonldhevemoredenyonetnteeretoheve
eeenhowFridey kuedhim,endireeedhi-.

WMMWMM
mam-q; thenaiedegelt wrtg
hlshendn,heethieewnfuentlheed;md
thwamgendjunpedeboulpinrlikeedb-
medaeelun. Itwuegoedwhllebefirel
couldmeke himepeektone',ortellnewhu
wall-ammonbutwhenhennenlinleto
himselfibetoldmelhetitwuhiefither.

Itinnoteuyformetoexpre-howituaved
mmmwheteeetecyendfilielefl'edfionhed
workedinthispoornngeuthelightd'his
Ether,endofhieheingdellvered fiomdeeth;
nor,indeed,eenldreerihe halftbe extrem-
gencieed'hkefl'ectionefierthia; fiarhewent
inlothehoetflndoutoftheboetmgronmny
times: whenhewentinlohim,hewmldeit
down by him, openhis hreut, endhold his
father's heedeloeetohietelom for mylnio
nuleslogether,tonuaishit;thenhetookhie
mnsarIdeanwhichweI-enumhedendnifl'
wilhthe bindingundebefedud rubbedlhem
wiIlI his hands; end I, perceiving wlmvhe
cuew,gevehimeemenmomefmyhotde
toruhthemwilh,whiehdidthemegreetdeel
ofgood.

This ufl'eir put an end toeurpureuit of the
cenoevvilhtheothernugee,whowmnaw
go: almoetoutoflightzendit weeheppy for
mlhetwedidnot,firithleweohudwithin
twohwuener,endheforetheycmfldbegote
quanaroftheir wey,endeominued blowing>>
hardeflnighgendthetfimtbenonhweet,
whichwuegeimtthemfihetlcould not eup-
posetheir bout could live, orthetlhey ever
reachedtheirowneoeet.

But,wramtoFI-idey;hewusobmy
ebout hhfuher,thetleouldnot&1dinmy
hemmukehimofi'formetime:hnnner
Ithaughtheeould'leeve himeliuleflulled
himto me, endheamejunpingandlagh-
ing ,endpleesedtohe' extreme; then
Igukedh'unifhelnrl givenhilfuhereny
breed. He rhooh hhhead, udnid,Nnne;
uglydogeetellnpeelf. 1m pvehime
cakeofbreed,eutd'llittlepeuch1eerried
onpmpoee;[eleepvehiuednmfirhim~
eelfihnhewmflmtmighmcurieditto
hisfuber. Ihadinmypoeettwoorthree
bmcbafiniiqn! pvehinlhlndfnlof
lheml'or his Ether. Behednoeoeuergiven
histnthertheeenieiu,hmlnwhimoone
oudthehmhndmewey,uifhehed
beenhewitehedmennumehemmforhe
wenhe ewifiutfellowouhiefeetthnever!
aw: [abhor-numehlenteztlnthewu
,outof' uit were,inenimtent; end
though! eefled,udlnllooedomtoe,efinr
hirn,itwueleue,enyhewea: endine
miner duheulnwhlmeeuehekegein,
Wunfilnbmuduhem

 

103

MAM his pee sleeker, heeeuehe
had ' inhilhend. Wheahecune
wlolln,[SSlldhhldbfluqfli:bmh
ueertheo' ,orpot,>> ' hi- thwme
fiedI wuerjf'endthuhemctwomeuhee
orloevesefhreeduhehreedhegeveneJIn
tlIewuerheeerI-iedtahiefilher;however,u
Iwuverythintytooflteokelinlempdit.
Thewetsrevivedhiefelhermethnellthe
mmerlpiritelhedgivenhinfixrhewujmt
hating withthirlt.
WhenhiefuherheddnflJcllledtohim
tokwwiftbmwu-nyweterleh: henid,
Yuglndlhedehimgiveittothepwr
Speniud,whominunmehwwofitu
hiefitherzendleeueneeflheeekee that

mud: rwelledwith the nadehen-legehehed
beentied with. Whalanumeri--
dey'eeomingtohinwiththeweter,helltup
enddnnk, Ind took the treat-ml beguto
eethent whimud. genhimelnndfulol'

fighgthetheewldnot'endupwenhi
feet;hetnedtodo1ttwoorlhreelm,hut
wurenlly notehle,hieenileewereeoewelled
undue peid'ultohlm; nib-defineitetill,
endeeueedFridey tontbhhefllmendblthe
themwithm,uhehlddonehiifilber'n.
Ioheewedtheyoor We cream,
every two m," orperhepe leer. all the
whilehewuheve,mhieheedebem, Ioeee
il'hisfitherminthennepheeudpmn
uhelefihimeinhuudetleetheinndhe
wunouo beeeen; at which he unadup,

eeivehinfeettotufldaeymd
Muhaheeemefleonlybdhehdhkl
himeldmbmehklhheeFridey <<no
bedtnnepreseuly;endthenlqteke,tothe
Spenierdtoleti'rihyhelphinmifheeedd,
nndlndhintolheheegenrltheehednuld
anyhintonurd ,whuelweddhb

cereafhim: hmFridey,eUyIrugf-Iow,
IoekduSpeni-rdquitewwonhimd
tamed him ewey to the heel, and net I'-
dmeofily upcuthuileor d'themoe
withhfietintheiuideet'itundtbeeliflp
h'hhqfimhheeethhdaehhiefinher

endpreeentlyeteppin'm'slIIh--iedch.
then I could well, though
prettyherdtoo:eo he themhothenfe
intoour creek, end luring theminthe hoot,
nneweytofelchtheotherennoe. Ashe

me, I spoke to him, end eslted him
whither he went. He told me, Go fetch more
boat: eoeweyhowent like the wind, foreure
nevermenor horeerenlike him; endhehnd
theothercenoein theereekelmoeteeeoonu
I got to it by land; so he wnfied me over, end
then went to help our newgu guest, out of the
boat, which he did; but they were neither of
them eble to welk, eo thet poor Fridey knew
notwhnt todo.

To remedy this, I went to work in my
thought, end celling to Fridny to bid them sit
down on the bank while he cute to me, I
noon medee kind of hendhnrrow to lay them
on, end Frideyend I eerried them both up
togetherupon it, between us. But when we
got themtothe outlideofourwnll, <<fortifi-
ention,wewere etn worse lone then before,
foritwuim togetthemover,endI
wureeolvednottobreekitdownzeo Ieetto
work egein; end Fridnyendl, inebout tWo
houn' time, made I very lent,
povered with old nib, end ehove that with
boughe of treee, being in the opene without
our outwerdt'enoe, end betweat thet nndthe
grove ofyoung wood which I hed pleated;
emlherewenudetltemtwohednot'nmh
things ulhod,viz.efgood rice ntrew, with
hlnnketeleidupon it,to lie on,nndenothertn
eoverthemmnenohhed.

Myillnnd wee nowpeopled, end! thought
myself very rich in subjects; end it wen u
merryretlection,whiehlfrequentlymde,how
liken king I looked. Fintot'nll,the whole
eonntrywumyownmere ploperty,eothetI
hedentmdoubtedrightot'dominion. Secondly,

ypeople were subjected; I wee
Innheohnely lord end lew giver; they all owed
theirlivee to me,endwerereedy toleydawn
their liver, ifthere had been owesion for it,
forme. Itwuremerhhle,too,lhedhut
threembjecu,nndtheywaeofthreedifi'erent
religions: mymnn Frideywel n Protmut,
hiefetherwunP-genendeeennihel,end
thoSpenfudwunPep epimghoweverJellowed
lihenyo oomcieneethronghntnm dmninoine:
--Bntthuieb ythewey. y

A: noon u 'I had eeeIIredmy two week
renundprieonennnd giventhemdnlternnd
npleoetoreetthemnpon. Ihegnntothitkof
mnhingeomeprwuionforthem; endthefin
thingIdid, IorderedFrideytotnhenyenrb
liggenghetwietnkidendegont, outnt'my
pnrtionhrbeh, to behillod; what I 61'

the windhlew

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI.

thehinderqnerternnddwppingitinto-I
pieeeo,IeetFI-ideytoworktohoilingend
ewing,end made them n very Md did>>!
mm y,on,offleehnndhroth heving vmgptlt nom-
berieyandrioe Ibo intothebroth:endelI
eookeditwithout doore,forImnde nofire
within my inner well, no I eerried it ell into
the new tent, end heving eete Iehle there for
them,Isntdown,endeotmydinner-leowith
them, end, on well no I could, cheered them,
and encouraged them. Friday we: my inter-
preter, especinlly to his father, end, indeed, lo
the Spenierd too; tbr the Spnninrd spoke the
in of the eevngen pretty well.

Alher weheddined, ornther mpped,Ior-
dared Fridey totnke one of the ennoee, end
go end fetch our musket: end other firearm,
which,forwentoftimo, we had left upon the
plane ofbettle: end, the next dny, I ordered
himtogo endburythedeed bodieeot'the en-
vngee,whiehley opento the sun, end would
presently he ofi'ennive. I nlno ordered him to
bury the horrid rennin: of their huhnrnm
fem, which I knew were pretty much, end
which I could not think of doing myself; nny,
[could notbeertoeee them,if1 wentthnt
weytellwhichhe ptmctuellyperformed, end
efi'eoed the very ofth the envegen
being there; no the: when! went egein, I
oouldooeroeknowwhere it wee, otherwise
thenhytheeornerot'thewoodpointing to the

Ithenhegentoenter intoe littleeonvemn-
tionwithmytwonewmbjects: end,firet,Ieet
Fridey loinqumnfhil fntherwhnthethought
oftheyraueped'theunguinthnamnnd
whetherwemightexpectemnd'them,
withnpowertoogmtt'ortmtorenet. Hie
firetopinionwu, tbetthe nugeeinthe
bontnevereonldliveouttheetormwhidihlew
thntnighttheywemomhutnlngofneeemity
he drowned, or driven eonth to those other
ehoree,wheretheywereulnetobedevnured
utheyweretohedrowned,ifthey
eweyzhm,utnwhettheywoolddo,ifthey
eenIeeefeonnhore,heeeidhehnewnot;hnt
itwnehie opinion,thettheywereeodred-
fidlyfrightenedwiththemumerol'theirheing
etteched,thenoiee,endtheflre,_hethet
lieveddIeywonldtellthepeopletheywere
killedhythtmderend lightning, not
hendot'men- endthntthetwewhieheppeued,
thrirhyendl,weretwohenvenlyQirim,
orfinieemunodowntodeetroythnnnndnot
menwith This,heeeid,hehew.
beamehehendth-eflayemn'mhi

mmenahwzfiritwuhb-
eihleforth-toeeneeivehtn--eod'lht

fie;'1
1

ADVENTURES 0'? ROBINSON CRUSOI.

he, and speak thmder, andkillat adiatance,
without lifting the hand, as was done now:
andthisoldea intheright; for,asl
understood since, by other hands, the savages
never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards, they wereeo terrified with the accounta
given by those four men, (for, it seems, they
did escape the sea,) that they believed who-
ever went to that evict-sated island would be
destroyed with fire from the gods. This, how-
ever. I knew not; and therefore was under
continual nppreheneions for a good while, and
hep! always upon my guard, with all my army:
for, as there were now four of us, I would have
ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the
open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes
appearing, the fear of their coming wore off;
andIbegnn to take myfq-merthoughta ofa
voyage to the main into consideration; being
likewise assured, by Friday'- father, that I
might depend upon good usage from their na-
tion,on hisawountfif! would go. y
thoughts were alittle suspended when! had
a serious dismuree with the Spaniard, and
when I understood that there were sixteen
more ofhis W and Portuguese, who,
having beeneast away, and made their <<cope
to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with
the savages, butwerevery sore pot to it for
necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him
all the particulars of their voyage, and found
they were n Spanidt ship, bond from the Rio
de la Platatotha Havana, heingdireeted to
leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hideeandrilver,andtobringbaek what En-
ropean gooda they could meetwith there; that
they had live P seamen on board,
when they took out of another wreck; that
fiveoftheirownmenweredrowned, when
lit-stthe ehipwas lost,andthat theeeeacaped,

infinite danm and hazards, and
the

washingof'the'aeahavhg

intiand' ,to Wueomel'ood.
lashedhinwhatbe wouldbeeome
dthemtherenndi hdhrmednode-

viaima ofaly h'md, theientmcils always
dadhteuauddeqair. Iaehedhimhow

lathenghtheywuddneaiveapmpomlit-

he; m:amfiPSm.mm;m_:,. .

'wonld

7

me, which might tend towards macaw;
and whether, il'tbey mallhere,tt
notbedone. Itddhimwhhfieedtmlfeared
mortiytheirtreadteryand illnsageol'me,if
Iputmylifeintheirhanda;SSlthat '
wasnoinherentvirtueinthenatnreot'man,
nordid men always square their dealings by
the obligations theyhadreeeived,somuchaa
they did bytheadvantagee they expound. I
toldhirnitwouldbeveryhardthatldtmldhe
the instrument of their doliverance,andtha'
they shouldaflerwardsmahemetheirpriaone:
in New Spain, where an Englishman wm
certaintobemede aeacrifiee, whatneceeeis
orwhat accident aoever.hrnttght him thither
andthat lhadratherbedelireredup to tie
aarngea,endhedevonred nlive,thanf:tll in
the mereilessclawe of the priests,andbecer
ried intothelnquirition. Iadded, that other.
wiselwnepersuaded, iflheywerealihem
we might, with>> manyhands, huilda but
largeenoughtowryuallaway,eithero
theBrazile, eoulhward, orto the islands, 0
Spunishcoast,northward; but thatit', in re
quital, they should, when I had pntweapam
into theirhands,earry me by ixoe among
theirownpeople, Imightbeillnsedformy
hindneu to them,and make my case worse
thanitwarbefirre.
Heanswered,withagreatdealofcandow
and ingenuousneea, tint their conditionwauo
miserable, andthey wereso aenribleofit, that,
he believed, they would abhorthe thought of
uinganymanunhindly thatahonldeontribute
totheirdeliverance; andthatil'lpleased, be

cotneewiththemabouzitandretranagam,
andbringmetheiransweruhathewonldtnahe
conditions withthemnpen theiraolem oath,
thattheyehonldbeaheolotely nodermy lead-
ing,astheiroommanderandcaptaii; andthat
they-baddewwrpontheboly-erameua
andgospeltohetruetome,andgotoaueh
Christianonunn'yastlmtlehoddagree to,
andnoother, andtobedireeted whollyand
absolutelybymyordera,tilltheywaelanded
aafelyinllchcotmtry
he_wouldhring

i
E
i
'5'
i
2.!
E
3'
i

tahemysidetnthelaninp if
mwwmmmamu
among ' cot-trymen. Ba
allnl'themvzgycivilfioaenmemmthey
weretatder Who-hag"
havhgne'lherweapnnaordnthrgamaayind.

. .q'. _

gotcthetnwithtbeoldmanddia-i-
butatthemercyanddiscrvtionofthesavages;
outofallhopee ofever returning totheir own
country: andthatbe wassme, if'lwouldm-
donate their relief, they would live and die
by me.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

seedasideforsowing; litritisnottobesnpa
poseditissixnonthsinthegroundintlm
country.

Havingnow society ,andournum-
berbeing suficientto putusoutofl'earofthe

Upon these assurances, I resolved tomtura":fsavages, if they had come, unless their mm:-

to relieve them, ifposlible, and to send theold
savagesndthisSpanisrdovertothemtoueet.
Butwhen wehadgotall things in readiness
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objec-
tion, which had-o much prudencein it,onone
hand, and so much sincerity,on the other hsnd,
that I couldnotbutbe verywell satisfied init;
and, by his advice, put ed" the deliverance ot'
hiscomrades foratlenn'hslfa year. The
essewasthus: He had beenwithus nowabout
a month, during which time I had let him see
in whet manner I had provided, with the as-
sistance of Providence, for my support; and
he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I
had laid up; which,though itwas more than
suflicient for myself, yet it was not suficient,
without good husbandry, for my family, now it
w increased to four; butmuchlees would it
be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as
he said, sixteen, still alive, should come over;
and, least ofali, would it besuficient tovictuel
our vessel, if we should build one, for e voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America;
sohetold mehethoughtitwouldbemoreed-
viseablem let him and the'other two dig and
cultivatesomemore land, as much as! could
spare seed to sow, and that we should nit
another harvest, that we might have s mpply
ol'corn for his countrymen, when they should
come; for wantmightbeatemptationtothem
to disagree, or not to think themselves deli-
vered, otherwise than out ot'one dificulty into
enother. You know, says he, the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at first lbr their
being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God bimelf, that delivered them, when
theywnetowantbreadinthewilderneu.
His caution wu so reasonable, and his ad-
viceso good tintIcouldnotbutbe verywell
pleasedwithhis ,aswellaslwusa-
tisfied with his fidelity: sowe fell to diging
allfourofns,aswell asthe woodentoolswe
werefurnisbed with permitted; and in about
a month's time,hythe end ofwhicb it was
seedtime, we had gou- much landwedand
n-immod up asweeowedtwosndtwenty
bushels ofbarleyon,and sixteen jarsofrice;
whichwas,inlhort,allthe seedwehadto
spare: nor,indeed,didwoleeveotnelves
harleymficient Br our own food, for the six
monthsthat we hul to expect our crop; that
istosay,rechmingfiom tbetimewe set on-

berhad been very great, we went helyall
overtheialand,whenever we thundoccasien;
andasberewehadourwcape ordelivernnce
upon our thoughts, it was impo-ible, at least
forme,tohavethemeansofit out ofmino.
Forthis purpose, Imarked out several trees
which! thought fit forour work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down;
endthenIceused the Spaniard, towhomI
imparted my thought on that afl'air, toovenxee
and direct their work. I showed them with
what indefitigabls pains I had hewed a. large
tree intosingleplsnks,and! caused them to
dothe like, till they had made about s dozen
largeplenhsd'good oak, neutwofeet brood,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to
four inches thick: what prodigious labour it
took up, anyone may imagine.

Atthe ninetirne, I oontrivedto increase
mylittlefloekot'tamegoetsummhaslcould;
and, forthis purpose, I made Frideyand the
Spaniardgooutone dsy,and myselfwith Fri-
day the nextday, (for we took our turns.) and
by this meens we got about twenty youngkide
to breed up with the rest; for whenever we
shot thedam, wenvedthe hide, and added
themtoourflock. But,aboveall,theeeason
forcuri'ngthegrepescomingon,leamedmch
a prodigiousqmntitytobehungupintheeul,
that,lbeliC/'ve,badwe been atAlicantmhero
the raisinsot'thestmarectned,weewldhave
filled sixty weighty barrels; and these, with
otn'bread,wsssgveatpartofomfood,and
wesverygoodlivingtoo,lasstneyou,fiirit
isexceedingnourishing.

Itwasnow harvest, andourcnop ingood
order: itwasnotmomnstplentifulinereaee I
had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enmghtoamwerotnend;forfiun twenty-two
bushelsofbarleywe in and thmhed
out above two hundredand tquty bushels,
andtbelike in psopation ofthe rice; which
wustore firetrfoodtotbenenhuh
vest,thonghatlthesixteen5paniudshadheen
onshorewithmo: orifwehadbeenreadyt'or
svnyage, itwouH very plentifiilly have vie-
tulledoursbiptnhavecsniednstosny part
oftheworld, that into-y, anypartofAme-
riea. Wbseweludthnsbonsadsndseaned
onrmagaaineofcumwehfltownrktonh
mm,viz.peath&ete,inwhich
we keptit; sndthsSpan'ardw-very handy
MdmuthkadofienHuned
nethetldidnotmkeeotnethingn harde-
feneeofthinkindd'work; butleewnoneed

dit.
Andnorwhuingefullenpply offeodl'or Ill

thogueetelexpeeted, Ignvethe Spaniard
lavetogooverto the Inun, to eeewhnt he
wild do withhtheee he had left behind him
there. I ve imnltrietehugenot to
my men with hilnwhowould autumn???
the preeenceofhimeelflndtheoldeenge, that
he would no my injure, fight with,oretlu:k the
he ehouldfind inthe island, who was
eokind ateeend firthetninorder tell-cit
deliverance; hutthlttheywouldmndhyhim,
end defend him ' all such "tempts, and
wherever they went, would be entirely under
end subjected tohieeommend; end that thin
shouldbepminwritingnndfignedfihtheir
hunch. How they were to hnve done this,
whenlknew theyhed neither peunor ink,"
nquestion whiehweneveruked. Undertheee
instructions, the S ' end the old sunge,
the father ofFridey, went ewey in one at" the
cmoes which they might be aid to come in,
ormherwerebrwglu in, when theyeemeu
prisonetetobodevonredbythen .l
geveeechol'themnmnket,withefireoC/on
it,nndnhotneightehnrgeenfpowderendball,
chugingthemteheverygood hushendsol
both,nnd notte ueitherof them but upon
urgent occasions
This we: echeerfulwork, heingthofiet
meme used by me, in View of my deliver-
ence, fix- newt year! and some
days. Igere thorn profieitneafbreed,endof
dried gnpee, euficientforthenuolmformeny
deys,and euficient Ewell the Speniude for
shout eight dnye' time; and wishing. them 3
good vo , I nwthem ing
them MFG"_ theydiouk'l hang out nt
their mm, by which I ehould know them
gain, wheuthey umeheek, undiltenee,
before they nun endure. Theywent nwny
witharairgalennthedeythetthemoonwu
etfull, bymyaeeoutinthe month 0(an-
ber;bntufirenenct retiuningof days,
Ifiarlhedoneelatitfleouldneverreeo-
veritegein;mrhedlkepteventhonunher
of you!>> y u to he enre I we-
preved,whenlefierwude
heeount, I fluid! hldkept n

Itwunoleeetlnneightdnyelhedwnited
forthem,whenn nulunixeeocueeci.
datintmned,d'whidlthelikehunetper~
hep- heenheenl din hi'nry. I we: fut
uhepiunyhudunemhgwhunynn

"C" '- iw

l0?

Fridnymemunhgintouo,utde\llednlmd
Muer,muter,theymenme,theymeome!
I junped up,u|d,regnrdleee ot'dugenlwent
outuwonuleouldgettnydotheeunnhrough
my little grove, which, by the Why, was by
thintimegmwntohetverythiekwoodfluy,
regudleu <<danger, Iwent without myuml,
whichitwunmmymetemtodo:bml wu
uprised,whenturningtnyeyutothem, I
presently nwnbontuehouteleegoeande
hnlfdietnnce, landing infarthenhoreflrith n
Ihotilderuoflmwn nihudzeyeauiynndthe
windhlewingprettyhirlobringlheminznbo
I observed preeently, that theydid not come
fmmthetsidewhiehtheehereley ombuti'reln
theeouthernmoetendd'theiehnd. Uponthie,
Icelled Fridey inundbnde him lie cloeeJnr
thmwerenotthe people weloded finlud
thetwe mightnotknow yet whetherthey were
fiendsorenemiee. Inthenextplm,lwent
inml'elchmyperlpeaiveglm,toeeewhul
couldtnnkeofthem; andhnvingukenthe
ledderoutflclimheduptothetopoftbehifl,
ulueedtodowhenlwu iveot'
anything,end totehemy view the plainer,
without beingdieeovered. Ihdecuceletmy
footuponthehill,when my eye plainly disco-
veredeehiplyingetnnnncher,etnbouttwo
leaguesandehelfdilunufiomme,s.s.E.
bunnoteboveeleegneudehnlffiomtheehnre.
Bymyoheenetion,' plainly tehe
In English ship, endtheboetlppeuedtehe

nE iehlonghoet.

I yew exp":- the entity-ion I wu in:
thoughthejoynfeeeingnlhip,lndoneflnt
Ihndreuontohelimwumnedhymyown
countrymennndeoneequentlyfriedsmum
ulcennotdeeaibe;b\uyetlhedmeueret
doubt- hnng nbout nae--l aunt tell Ere-n
wheneetheyeeme,hiddingnekeepuponrny
guerd. Inthefutplnefltoenn-redtonete
eon-iderwlnt brine. "English ehipeould
hnninthntpertoftheworldnineeitwunot
theweyteerfmmenyputat'thewoddwhere
theEngliehh-dnnytnficznndlknewthete
hldbeennomtodrivetlminthere,uin
dimes;undthniftheyweremllyEnglish,
itwumo-t thuheywebenupon
nogooddeeignzendthltllwlbdtereunim
ulwu,the.nfellntotnelnntleofthievuud

murdererl.
Immmdeqhodieemthiflelnd
noticesol' ,whiehmetimuueginn

himwhenhetney thinkthaeienopo-ibility
diuheingreel. Tinteuehhinunndneticee
mgivmnlhelievel'ewthethnemdeuy
oheerutiauot'lh'ltgnelndeny; thettbeym
eertnindieetmrieed'n m warned
e convene ofepirite, we eennot doubt; end
ifthetendency ofthern Ieemeto be to wern u:
ofdenger,whyehouldwe notmppoeetheyere
from some friendly egent, (whether supreme,
or inferior end subordinate, is not the quee-
tion,) endthattheyeregiven for ourgoed'l

The preeent question ehtmdnntly confirms
Ieintbe jultieeof thisreesoning; for Ind].
not been made eentiotnhythiseecretedmoni-
Iion,como itfinmwhence itwill, I hedbeen
undone inevitably, and in e fer worse condi-
tion then before, 0 you will see preeently.
I had not kept myeelflong in thiepoeture, but
I eewtheboetdrewneuthe ehore,eeifthey
mkedfor e ereektothruetinet,fortheeon-
mience of landing; however, us they did not
more quite fir enough, they did not eee the
.r'ttle inlet where I formerly landed my refit,
hnruntbeir bontonehoreuponthebeeeh,"
flout helfe milefi'om me, which we: very
myth- me; forotherwieetheywould heve
.Inded juetet mydoor,ee[mey eey, end
would soon have beeten me out (I my eutle,
end heve plundered me of ell I bed.
When they were on there, [wee fillly eerie-
fied they were Englishmen, at least most of
them; one or two I thought were Dmdt, but
itdidnot prove-o; there were in ell eleven
men, whereof three of them I fotmd were un-
ermed, end,ee I thought,bormd; end when
the first four urfive ofthem were jumped on
shore, rheytooktboee threeomoftheboet,
u prisoners: one of the three I could perceive
using the most pensionete gestures of entrenty,
ethiction, end despair, even to e kind of extre-
vegence: the other two, I could perceive,
lifted up their hand! eometimee, end eppeered
concerned, indeed, but not to such e degree
as the first. I we: perfectly wnfotrnded at
the eight, end knew not what the meening of
it should be. Fridey celled out to me in
English, e: well es he could, 0 master! you
lee English then: eat ' en well u
nvege mum--Why, Friday, any: I, do you
think they are going to eat them then'l--Yee,
eeye Fridey, they will eat them--No, no,
eeye 1, Friday; I em efreid they will murder
them, indeed, but youmeyhe lure theywill
not eet them.

All thin while I hed no thonghtd' whet the

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUBOE.

metter reelly wee, hut etood twirling with
the horror ofthe light, expecting every mo-
ment when the three primer: dtould he
killed; ney,onee I eewoneofthevilleinelifl
uphieermwithegreetcutleu,eetheeeemen
cellit,ereword,toetriheened'thepoormen,
endlexpeetedto eeehimfelleverymoment;
et whichell the blood in mybodyeeemedb
runehill in myveine. lwiehedheertilynow
formySpeninrd,endtheeevegethetwuger.
with him,orthetlhedeny mytohevoem
undiscovered within ehotofthemflbetlmidl
hevereeeuedthethreemen,fiirleewnoi:e-
ermetheyhedemengthern;hut itflau e
' y. Alter Ihedobexvn
ueegeofthethreemenby .19
ineolent eeemen, I observed Ihe fellows run
eeetteringehout the inlend,uifthey wented
toeeetheeountry. Iobeervedthetthethree
othermenhedlihertytogoelenwheremey
pleeeed;buttheyutdownell breeuponthe
ground, very peneive,endlooked like men in
deepeir. Thin put me in mind

time when I enme on ehore, end
look ehoutme;how Igeve myeelfov
lent: how wildly I looked round me; whet
dreedfirl epprehensiene I ; end how I
lodged in the tree ell night,forfeerof be
devouredby wild beeete. AeIlmew nothing,
thetnight, oftbe supply I wee to receive by
the providentiel drivingoftheehipneemthe
lendbytbe etormeendtide,hywhidilheve
eineebeen eo longnouriehed end eupported;
eotheee three poor delolete men knew nothing
how certain of deliverance end lupply they
were,howneeritweetothem,endhow
efi'ectuelly end reelly they were in e condi-
tionofeefety,etthe eemetirne thetthey
thought themalveelmendtheireele deepe-
rete. So little do we lee befire no in the
world,endeomuchreeeonhevewetodepend
cheerfullytmenthe greetMekerofthe world,
thet he doeenotleevehie creeutrel on elm)-
Iutely deetitute,hutthet, in theworetcireurn-
etencee, they here elweye eomething to he
thenkful for, end eometimee ere neerer their

E

deliverenoethenthey' ' ;my,ereeven
totheirdelivennee themeenehy
whiehtheyeeemtebe tothe'ldee-

traction.
, -:.x 'zvr awr-

109

SECTION XXVI.

BOIINSOK DISCOVER! mount to m ENGLISH Clnm.--ASSISTI III II
REDUCING BIS IMHO!" CflW,--WSS0 Mill]! 1'0 Ell.

I'rwnsjult nlhetopol'highweterwhen
theee pooplemme on ehore; end portly while
thcyrunhledehwtwleewhatkindol'eplwe
they were in, theyhed woleesly stayed till
the tide was spoon-ad the water we: ebbed
considonbly any, leaving their hoot
Thcyhod lefltwomeninthehou,who,ul
found eherwnrds, having drunk I little too much
brendy, fell asleep; however, one of them
wnkingolittleeoonerthnntheother,lndfind-
ing the boat toofastngroundfor him tostir it,
hullooed out for the rest, who were struggling
about: nponwhiehtheyolllooncemetothe
boetzbutitwupestellthoiretnugthrolaumh
her, the boot being very hnvy, end the shore
ondreteideheingeeofloozyeand,elmootlike
e quichend. In this condition, like true see-
men,whoueperhlpetheleut ofellnnnkind
given to forethought, they gave it over, and
away they strolled ohnot the country again;
endlheerdonoot'themnyelwdtoenother,
calling them 05' from the hoot, Why, let her
oleno, Jock, een't you? she'll Boot next tide:
bywhichlwul'ullyeonfinnedinthenminin-
quiry of what countrymen they were. All this
whilelkept myull'vory close, notoneedaring
toetiroutol' mymtle,eny firtherthan tomy
pheed'ohserntionmeerthe top ofthe hill;
endverygled lwutothinkhow well itwu
fortified. Iknewitwunoloeethentenhotm
before the boot could fleet again, ondhy um
time itwouldhednrk,end!mightheurnore
liberty to nee theirrnotionl, end to hear their
discourse, il'theyhadeny. lntherneontime,
Ifittedmylelfupforohettlo,uhefon,thmh
with moreonution,howingl hedtodowith
motherkindol'enenylhonlhdotfint. I
ordered Frideyeleo,whonlhndmde Inex-
cellentmerhmnwithhiegunnoloedhimsell'
with urns. l tort myeelf two fowlingpieeee,
Indigevohimthmnufleu. Myligure,in-
deed, wuveryfieree; I had myl'ormidable
gm'elrinooeton,withthe greeteeplhnve
mentioned,nmkedewoudhy rnyetde,two pu-
tdshmyhdgnndogmuponeeeh er.

Inn- my design, ulnid shove, not to
have mdeonyonernpttill itwuderkwut
ehoutrwo o'cloei, being theheet ofthe day,
lWMhMIheymeflgm-mg-

gling into the wood-,end, u I hid
down to Ileep. The three poor dime-ed
mmuximulhrtheireoediuontogetmy
Ileep, were, however, not down under the
shelterofegreettreo,ntnhomnt}tmrofl
mile from me,ond,ul thwghyout off
ol'nnyofthereez. Uponthielreoolved'g:
discover myselftothem,end loom eomething
oftheir condition; innuediuely I marched in
lbofigurelsnhuve,mymnFridlyltlgood
distance behind me,uforrnidehlebrhienrnu
ul,hutnotrnekingqniteeoeunng' "powe-
likeligureuldid. Icemeuneerthernun-
discoveredulcwld,oltdthen,belbre ouyof
then saw nte,Icellod llmdtothetninSpe-
nieh,Whotlreye,gentlemen? Theyltnrted
upatrhenoise;bmwerotentimmeeoo-
founded when they new me, and the mouth
figurethotlmde. Theymadenoonewer
at all, but I t I perceived them jun
goingwflyfromme,whenlepoketothemin
Eglish: Gentlemen, said I, do not be our>>
prisedatmegperhquoumthOIfriend
neu, when you did not iL--Henusthe
sent directly from Heaven then, void one of
themvery gravely to no, end pull' ofl'hil
hotetthenrne timotomefloroormo'onditien
is put the help of room--All help is from
Heaven, sinneidl: Brnmyou pntlltnn-
gerintlnnyhowtphelpyoo'! Wyouoenu
Ioheineomegreetdietreu. Inwyouwhen
youlendetl; end when youuemedtonnke
wpplieetiontothehrutee thetenmewithyou,
Inwoneofthelnlifinp'hieewerdtokillyon.
Thepoormn,withteeremnningdownhie
feesgndtreoflinglookingfikeeoemenidnd,
returned,Amlulking toGodor Inn? [sit
onelnunorenengel'l--Beinnofeorohm
thu,eir,eoidl; ifGodhed-entnnnngelto
relieve you, hewouldhevoeotne beuerelothed,
udermednlteronothermnnertlnnywlee
me: pnyhyuideym'l'eul; lmonnn,
no Englishmen, end dime-ed to Insist yon:
youmfleveoneeernntealnwehvem
mdutvnmition; tellufieely,eenweeern
you? WhetieyeweueWcue,uidhe,
ei,ietoohngtotellyoo,whileourn.denrl
oresoneoru:but.indiort,eir,lwueorn-
murder of flat-hip, In, men hover-aidedllO

_ against me; they have been hardly prevailed
on not to murder me; and at last have set me
on shore in this desolate place, with these two
men with me, one my mate, the other spas-
senger, where we expected to perish, believing
the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet
what to think of it.--Where are these brutee,
your enemies? said I: Do you know where
they are gone ?--There they lie, sir, said he,
pointing to a thicket of uses; my heart trem-
blea for fear they have seen us, and heard you
speak; if they have, they will certainly murder
us all.---Have they any firearms ? said I. He
answered they had only two pieces, one of
which they let! in the boat. Well then, said
I, leave the rest to me; I see they areall
asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them all: but
shall we rather take them prisoners? He told
me there were two desperate villains
them, that it was scarce safe to show any
mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed
all the rest would return to their duty. I asked
him which they were? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in any thing 1 would
direct. Well, says I, let us retreat out oftheir
view or hearing, lest they awake, and we-will
resolve further. So they willingly went back
with me, till the woods covered us fi'otn them.
Look you, sir, said I, if I venture upon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two con-
ditions with me? He anticipated my propo-
sals, by telling me, that both he and the ship,
if recovered, should be wholly directed and
commanded by me in every thing; and, if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what of the world soever I
would send him; and the two other men said
the same. Well, says I, my conditions are
but two: first, That while you stay in this
island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here; and if I put arms in your
hands, you will, upon all owesions, give them
upto me, and donoprejudiceto meormine
upon this island; and, in the meantime, be
governed by my orders: secondly, That if the
ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry
me and my man to England free.
Hegavemeallthe assumnoesthatlhein-
ventiou or faith of man could devise, that he
would comply with these most reasonable
demands: and, besides, would owe his life to
me, and acknowledge it all amnion, as
long as he lived. Well then, said I, here are
three muskets for you, with powder and ball:
tell menext whatyou thinkispropertobe
done. He showed all the testimonies if his
gntitudethat he was ahlo,butofl'ered to be

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

wholly guided by me. I told him I t it
was hard venturing any thing; but the heat
methodIcould thinkofwastoflreuponthem
atonce,ss theylay,and it'anywas notkilled
at the firstvolley, and ofl'ered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon
God's providence to direct the shot. He said
very modestly, that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it: but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they
escaped, we should be undone still -. for they
would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. Well then, says
I, necessity legitimate- my advice. for it is the
only way to save our lives. However, seeing
him still cautious ofshedding hlood, I told him
they should go themselves, and manage as they
found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some
of them awake, and soon afier we saw two of
themon their feet. I asked him if either of
them were the heads of the mutiny? He said
no. Well then, said I, you may let them
escape; and Providence seems to have awak-
ened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now, says I, ifthe rest escape you, it is your
fault. Animated with this, he took the musket
I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in
his belt, and his two comrades with him, with
eacha piecein his hand; the two men Who
were with him going first, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake
turned about, and seeing them coming, died
out to the rest; but it was too late then, hr the
moment he cried out they fired; I mean the
two men, the captain wisely reserving his own
piece. They had so well aimed their shot at
the men theyknew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded;
but not being dead, he started upon his feet,
and called eagerlyfitr help to the other; but
the uptain stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should call upon God to
forgive his villany; and with thatword knocked
him down with the stock ot'his musket, so that
he never spoke more: there were three more
inthecompany,andoneofthemwasalso
slightly wounded. By this time I was come;
and when they saw their danger. and that it
was in vain to resist, they begged Err mercy.
The captain told them he week! spare their
lives, if they would give him any assurance of
theirahherremeet'the neacherytheyhadbeen
guiltyof, and would swear to be faithful to him
inrecoveringthe Ihip,and aflerwardsincar-
rying her back toJannica, homwhencethey
came. Theyglvehimalltheproteatationsd
theirsincerity

that could be desired, and he
waswilling to believe them,and spore their
lives, which I m not ugnimt, only that I
ohligedltimtokeep thembound handendl'oot
while they were on the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with
the coproin's mate to the boot, with orders to
secure her, and bring sway the oer: and sails,
which they did: end byand by three straggling
men, the: were (happily lbr them) parted from
the reel, come back upon hearing the
tired, Ind Ieeing the cnptnin, who before was
their prisoner, now their wnqueror, they sul-
mitted to be hotmd Also; and so ourvictory

was complete.

It now remained thnt the captain and I
should inquire into one onother's circum-
stances: I began (rm, and told him my whole
history, which he heard With an attention even
to emazoment; end perticttlerly u the wonder-
ful manner of my being iltrnished with pro-
visions and ammunition; and, indeed, army
story is 1 whole collection of wonders, it
afi'ectcd him deeply. But when be reflected
from thence upon himself, end how I seemed
to have been preserved there on purpose to
ran his life, the tem no down his face, and
he could not speck oword more. After thi-
communicntion wu M In end, I carried him
and his two men into my npertrnent, leading
them injtutwherelcemeout, vizntthe top
(I the home, where I rofi'eshed them with such
provisions u I had, Ind showed them all the
coutrinncee I had mode, during my long, long
inhabiting the: place.

All I showed them, all 1 mid to them, was
perfectly amazing; but, above ell, the ceptnin
odmired my fortifiution, nnd how perfectly I
lied concealed my retreat with egrove oftreco,
which, bowing been now planred near twenty
yeers, end the tree: growing much faster than
inEngland, wanbecome a little wood,and so
thick, that it was in: lo inany port ot'it,
butntthatonetridowhorel hedreeerved my
little winding pea-ego into it. I told him this
was my castle and my residence, but the: I
had oeeatindteeotmtry,umoetprineeehnn,
whitherleould retreet upon oocsrion,and I
wouldshow him that too anothertime: bu ot
preocntourbusineswu to consider how to
recover the ship. He ogreed. with men to
that; brutold me,hewuperl'ectly etaloee
whumeasuree toteko,forthet therewereotill
lil-nnd-twenty hulk (II board, who having
entered into n ctnetl conspirncy, by which
they lied nll firt'eited their live: tothelaw,
wouldhe huduted init now by desperation,
andwould any it on, knowing thnt, if they

 

warp

, - ~~xrv~~pvqrv1Wv-~ :ww-rr-va-r

III

were nbduednheywouldhelrrougbttothe
gallows" moutheycnme toEogland, or
toeny oftheEngliebcoloniee; endthngthcre-
titre, there wouldbenonttnckingthomwitheo
mall I numberae we were.

Immedforeometimeuponwhathehed
aid, and fotull it we: avery minnol emolu-
eion, and that, therefore, smoothing wet to be
resolved on speedily, I; well to draw the men
on board into some snare hr their lurprilo, u
to prevent their landing upon us, and destroy-
ing us. Upon this, it presently occurred to
me, that in a little while the obip'e crew, won-
dering whet was become of their comredee,
and ofthe hoot, would certainlycomeonehore
in their other hoot, toloolt forthem; end the!
then, perhaps. they might come armed, and be
too strong form: thieheallowedtobe ntional.
Uponthin, ltoldhimthofietthingwelud to
do we: to stave the boot, which lny upon the
beech,wdmttheymightnotcerryherofi': and
taking every thing out ofher, leeve her no far
when an notto be fit to swim: emdingly
we went on board, took the nrlns which were
left on bond out of her, nnd whatever else we
band there, which was 3 bottle ot'hnndy, Ind
mother of rum, n few biscuit-cuties, a horn of
powder, and at great lump of sugar in e piece
ofcanvue, (the sugar wu five or six pounds;)
I" which was very welcome to run, especinlly
the brandy-ad ouger,ot'whir:hlharlnonelaefl
for many yous.

When we had carried all these things on
above, (the em, mast, rail and rudder oftlte
boot were curried nwsy before, or above,) we
knockedegreothole inber hottom,tbatifthoy
hadcome enough to master ue,yetthoy
could notcarry ofl'tlre boat. indeed, it won
not muel'r in my that we could be
able to recover the ahip; but my view won,
that ifthoy went nway without the boot, I did
not muchqtteetion to tnalte her or again to
carry into the Leeward blends, nod call upon
our friendstheSpanierdsin myway; firlhnd
them still in my thoughts.

While we run tltul preparing our designs,
and had first, by min etrength, honed the
bontuponthebeaehsohigh.thatthotide
wouldnotttouheroflet high "WM,"
besides, had broke a hole inhOr bottom toobig
to hequickly etoppei,nnd were-ct down mu.
uingwhntweehoulddo, wehenrdlnlhipire
amnndnwher mnkenwefiwttnheren-
signal nsignd firthehonttocnmeoeboerd:
butnohoatuined; ondtheyt'ndmenltimee,
mohingothoreignnlsfiwthehou. Atlant,
whenalltheir oignnls Ind firingprnvetl finit-
lmnfinitheyhmd the Inn'didnntltir,"

wr- rev!
saw them,by the help of my glasses, hoist
another boat out, and row towards the shore;
andwe lbtmd,asthey ed,thatthere
werenolessthantenmeninher,andthatthey
had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two from the
more, we hada. firllview of them asthey came,
and a plain sight even of their faces; because
the tide having set them a little to the east of
the other host, they rowed up under shore, to
come tothe same place where theother had
landed, and where the boat lay; byth'nmeans,
I say, we had afiill view ofthem, andthe
captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat, ofwhotn, he said, there
were three very honest fellows, who, he was
sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frightened; but thatas
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief
officer among them, and all the rest, they were
as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and
were no doubt made d to in their new
enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was
that they would be too powerful for us. I
smiled at him, and told him that men in our
circumstances were past the operation of fear;
that seeing almost every condition that could
be was better than that which we were sup-
posed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be
sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what
he thought of the circumstances of my life, and
whether a deliverance were not worth ventur-
ing for? And where, sir, said I, is your be-
lief of my being preserved here on purpose to
save yourlife, which elevated you a little while
ago; for my part, said I,there seems tome
but one thing amiss in all the of it.
What is that? says he. W'hy, said I, it is,
thntasyousay thereare three or four honest
fellows amongthem, which mould be spared,
hadthey beenalloftbewickedpartot'thecrew
I should have thought God's providence had
singled them out todeliver them into yourhands;
for depend upon it, every man that eomesashore
ore our own, and shall die or live as they be-
havetous. Aslapohethiswitharaised
voice and cheerful countenance, I fill-lid it

greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously
to our business.

We had,upon thefimt appearance ofthe
boat's coflg from the ship, considered of
separating otn prisoners; andwe had, indeed,
secured them efi'eetually. Two of them, of
whomthecaptain was temamrredthanordi-
viary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where were

remoteenough,andoutd'dangerot'being

ADVENTURES OF ROBINBON CRUSOE.

heardordiseoveved, oroffiiding their way
out of the woods if they could have delivered
themselves: here they let! them hound, but
gave them provisions; and promised them, if
they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in aday tr two; but that ifthey
attempted their escape, they should be put to
death without mercy. They promised faith-
fully to bear their confinement with patience,
and wereverythanltfulthattheyhadsuch
good usage as to have provisions and light
let). them; for Friday gave their: candles (such
a we made ourselves) thr their comfort: and
they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two
of them were kept pinioned, indeed, because
the captain was notfree to trust them; but
the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them andthethree honest men
we were seven men well armed; and I trade
no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, cone
sidering that the captain had said there were
three or four honest men among them also.
Assoonasthey gottotheplauwheretheir
other host lay, they ran their t into the
beach, and came all on shore, hauling the
boatup alter them, which Iwas glad to see;
for I was afraid they would rather have left
the boat atan anchor, some distance from
theshore,with somehandsin her,toguard
her,andsowe should notheabletoseize the
heat. Beingon shore, the first thing theydid,
theyran all to their other host; and it was
easy tosee they weretmder agreatsurprise
tofindherstripped, as above, ofalltbat was
in her, and a great holein her bottom. After
they had mused a while upon this, they set up
twoor three shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they cwld make their
companions hear: butal] was tonopurpose:
then theycameallelose ina ring, andfired a
volley of their unall arms, which, mdeed, we
heard, and the echoes nude thewoodsnng;
but itwasallone; thoseinthecavewewere
sureeould not hear, and thoseinourheeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst
give manewerto them. They wevesou-
ttmished attheln'priseoftbis,that,as they
told us afierwards, they resolved to go all on
boardagain,totheirahip, and lstthemknow
that themenwere all murdered," the.long-
boat stared; accordingly, they innnediately
launchedtheir host again, and got all of them
on board.
The captain Was terribly ensued, and
even confounded at this, believing they would

on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should
still lose the ship, which he was in hopeswe
should have recovered; but he was quickly
as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long putofi'withthebeat,
but we perceived them all coming on shore
again; but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted to-
gether upon, viz. to leave three men in the
boot, and the rest to n on shore, and go up
into the country to col: for their follows.
This was a great disappointment to us, tbr
now we were at a less what to do; as our
seizing those seven men on shore would he no
advantage to us, if we let the boat escape;
because they would then row away to the
ship. and then the rest of them would be sure
to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering
the ship would he lost. However, we had no
remedy but to wait and see what the issue of
things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the
boat put her 06' to a good distance from the
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them;
no that it was impossible for us to come at
them in the boat. Thwethat came on shore,
kept close together, matching towards the top
of the little hill under which my habitation
lay; and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us. We could have
been very glad they would have come nearer
to us, so that we might have fired at them,
or thattheycouldhave gonefarther ofl',thnt
we might have come abroad. But when they
were come to the brow ofthe hill, where they
could see a t way into the valleys and
Woods, which lay towards the northeast part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted
and ballooed till they were weary; and not
caring, it seems,teventurefarfiomlheahore,
norfarfrotn oneanothernheysat downtoge-
ther under a tree, to consider ofit. Had they
tllwght fit to have gone tosleep there, lathe
other partofthemhaddone, they haddone the
jobforus; buttheyweretooyfullot'appre-
hensions of danger to venune to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger
was they had to fearneither.

Thecaptainnudeaveryjustptopoealtoup
me upon'hthis constdlatio'lxr'of theirs, viz. that
Parliaps would all a volley again,to
endeavouroy Sim. their m bear, and that
we should sally spam , just at the June-
tlue when their piece-w and

tlteywonldcemiaiyyieh'lnndweshouldinve

beam.

"8

them without bloodshed. I liked this propo-
sal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they mold
load their pieces again. But this event did
not happen; and we lay still a long Iime,very
irreaolute what cotnse to take. At length I
told them there would be nothing done, in my
opinion, till night- and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a
way to get between them and the shore, and
so might use some atratagem with them in the
get them on shore. We Waited agree:
while, though very impatient fix their remov-
ing; and were very uneasy, when, afier long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and
march down towards the sea: it seems they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of
the danger of the place, that they resolved to
go on board the ship again, give their compa-
nions over for lost, and so go on with their in-
tended voyage with the ship

As soon as I perceived them to go towards
the shore, [imagined it to he, as. it reallywas,
that they hadg iven over their search, and were
for gaing back again; and the captain, usoon
as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink
at the apprehensions of it: but I presently
thought of: stratogem to fetch them back again,
and which answered my end to a tittle. I
ordered Friday and the captain' a mate to go
over the little creek westward, towards the
place where the savages tame on shore when
Friday was rescued. andassoon as theyeame
ton little rising ground, at about halfa mile
distance, 1 bade them halloo out, as loud as
they could, andwait till they found dissent-ion
heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it
again; and then keeping out of sight, talte a
round, always answering when the others hal-
looed, to draw them as far into their, and

the woods, as possible, and whee

WWW tome, by webmyaasldirected
them

They were just going into the boat when
Friday andthemate hallooed: andthey pre~
neatly ,heard them, and answering, run along
the shore wemward, towards the voice they
heard, when they were presently stopped by
tliecreelr, where thewater beingup, theycould
not get over, and called {hr the moons

and set them over; as, indeed,

When they had let themelvesover, Iohserved
thatthe hoathein'g goaea good wayinto the
creek, and,aait were,inaharhourwitllinthe
land,tbeytookodeofthethreemenontofher,
togoalongwiththem, andkfionlytwointhe

Mbvhgfiatnedhartothempola"4

little tree on the shore. This was what I
wished for; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the creek ottt
of theirsight, we surprised the two men before
they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The
feliuw on share was between sleeping and
Waking, and going to start up; the captain,
who was foremost, ran in upon him,and knocked
him down: and then called out to him in the
boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single
man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this
was, it seems, one of the three who were not
so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew,
and therefore was easily persuaded not only to
yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely
with us. In the man lime, Friday and the
captain's mute so well ed their business
with the rest, that they drew them, by halloo-
ing and answering, from one hill to another,
and from one wood toanother, till they not only
heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they could not reach backto the
boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were
heartily tired thermalves also, by the time they
came back to us.

W's had nothing new to do but to watch for
them in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as
to make sure work with them. It was several
llmlm after Friday came back to me before
they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they
came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along: and could also hear them answer and
Complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster; which was very
welcome new: to us. At length they came up
to the boat: but it is impossible to express their
confusion when they fotmdthehoatfast aground
in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two
men gone. "Fe could hear themcall to one ano-
ther in a most lamentable manner, telling one
another they were got intoanenchanted island;
that either there were inhabitants in it, and
they should all be murdered, or else there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all
carried away and devoured. They hallooed
again, and called their two comrades by their
names argreat many times; but no answei.
After some time, we could see them, by the
little light there was, nmabout, wringing their
hands likemen in despair; and that sometimes
they would go and sit dowain the boat,torest
themselves; then come ashore again, and wall:
about again, and so the same thing overagain.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CEDSOE.

Mymenwould fain have had me give them
leavoto {all upon them at once in tlteduk'
butl waswilling totakothematsome advan-
tags, so to spare them, and ltill as few ofthetn
as Icould; andespecially l wastmwilling to
hazard the killing any ofour men, knowing
the other: were very well armed. I resolved
to wait, to see if they did not separate; and,
therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and
the captainto creep upon their hands and feet,
enclose tothe groundastltey could, thatthey
might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they ofl'eredto tire.

They had not been long in that posture, when
the boatswain, who was the principal ring-
leader of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
selfthe most dejected and dispirited of all the
rest, came walking towards them, with two
more of the crew: the captain was so eager at
having this principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as lobe sure of him, lbr
they only heard his tongue before: but when
they came nearer, the captain and Friday,
starting up on their feet, lct fly atthem. The
boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and fell just by
him, thouUlt he did not die till an hour or two
aller', ad the third ran for it. At the noise
of the tire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, which was now eight men, viz.
myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-
general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted
with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in
the dark, so that they could not see our num-
ber; andImade theman theyhadleft in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by
name, to try ifl could bring them to a, parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms;
which fell out just as we desired: for, indeed
it was to think, as their condition than
was, they would he very willing to capitulate.
Sohe calls out, asloud ashe could, tomeof
them, Tom Smith! Tom Smith! Tom Smith
answered immediately, In that Robinson 1 For
it seems, he knew the voice. The other an-
swered, Ay, ay; liar God's sake, Tom Smith,
throwdown your arms and yield, oryou areall
dead men this momenL--Who must we yield
to? therearethey? says Smith-gain. Here
theyare,says he; here's ourcaptainandfifiy
men with him, have been hunting you theao
twoboors: thehoatwain is killed, Will Fry
iswounded, andlamaprisoner;andifyott
donotyield, youarnalllosL--Will they (in
us quarter then? says Tom Smith, and we

on
will yield.--I will go at if you. pruniee to
yield, uya Robinson : no bellied the captain;
and thee-puinhitneelfthen eallrout, You,

,t..V _ ,.,..,'.,,,w___,,

115

Smith, you know ntv voice; it'you laydown
your arm immediately, and aubrnit, you dull
have your lives, all but Will Alum.

 

SECTION XXVII.

ATKINS ext-runs I'll! CAPTAIN To SPARE HIS LIFER--THE LAN" IICOYIRS
HIS VESSEL [30! '1'!!! HUTIIEERS,--AND ROBINSOH LEAVES TH. temp.

Urox this Will Atkins cried out, ForGod's
sake, captain, give me quarter: what have I
done. '1 They have all been as bad as I: which,
by the way, was not true neither: for, it seems,
this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain, when they first mutinicd,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands,
and giving him injurious language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms
at discretion,and trust to the governor' s mercy:
by which he meant me, for they all called me
governor. In a word, they all laid down their
arms, and begged theirlives; and I sent the
man that had parleyed with them, and two
more, who hound them all; and then my great
army of fifty men, which, particularly with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat; only that I
kept myselfand one more out ofeight for rea-
sons of state.

Our next work waste
think of eeizing the ship: and asfor the cap-
tain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he 0 ulated with them upon the villany of
their practices With him. amt; length upon
the further wickednes oftbeh W and how
certainly it must bring thqnto misery and die-
tress in the end, end tothegallowa.
They all appeared very pennant, and begged
hard for their lives. A: for that, he told them
theywerenoneut'hin ' ,buttheoot'n-
mander'e of the island: that they thought they
had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island?" it had planned God no to direct
them, that it watt itinhitad, and that the go-
vernorwasanEu ' gthathernighthang
them all there, if hepleaeed: but u be had
given them all qua-who enppoeed he would
eendthetnto ,tobedealtwiththere
as justice required, except Atkins, whom he
no commandedby the govemortoadvicetoheud
impure for death, for that he wodd hehanged

Inthe

repair the boat, and

'l'houghallthiawnehutafietionofhieown,
yeti: had itadea'ledel'eet: Atkinefellupon

 

his knees, to beg the captain to intercede with
the governorlbrhie life ; and all the rest begged
of him, fix God's sake, thlt they might not be
sent to England.

lt mwoecuned to me, thatthetitne ofour
deliverance was come, and that it would be a
must easy thing to bring these follows in to he
hearty' In getting posse-aim of the lhip; sol
retired' In the dark from them that they might
not see what ltind ofa governor they had, an
called the captain to me: when I called, as at
ngood distanoe,oneof the men we! ordered
to speak again, and say to the upuimCaptain,
the commander call- for you; and pteeently the
captain replied, Tell his excelleney I am just
a coming. This more perfectlyamued them,
and they all believed that the commander was
just by with his filly men. Upon the captain's
coming to me, I told him my project for seizing
the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the neat morn-
ing. But, in order to execute it with more art,
and to be eecttreofeueeeae,l told hint-tennis:
divide the prisoners, and that he ehould go and
tnlte Atkins, and two more of the wont of
them, and send them pininnetl to the cave
where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on diore
with the captain. They conveyed them to the
cave,astoaprisen: anditwu,indeed, adu-
rnal plaoe, especially to non in their condition.
Theothenlorderndtotnybower, allealled
it, ofwhichl have given a fill deeoription;
and as itwufmadinnndtboyphioned, the
plane was eeeure enough, eo-idering thev

wereupon theirbehaviou
Totheaeinthe mingleanttheeaptain,
witbthetn; in

whowuteenterintoaparley
aword,tauvytheur,andte|luewbtherhe
thoughttlteytnightbetrmdornotogom

and napI-iee the-hip. Hetalhedto
themoftheinjtlydonehin.d'theeenditien
they were hroufittte, andthntw "I!
governorhadgiventhenquarterlhrtheirlim
<<automation-,yudmitheym
sent to England, they would all be hanged in
chains, to he sure; but that if they would join
in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he
would have the governor's eng-qgement for
their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such s prt>
posal would be accepted by men in their con-
dition; they fell down on their knees to the
captain, and promised, with the deepest impre-
cations, that they would be faithful to him to
the last drop, and that they should owe their
lives tohim, andwould gowith him all over the
world; that they would own him as I father
as long as they lived. Well, says the captain,
I must go and tell the governor what you say,
and see what I can do to bring him to consent
to it. So he brought me an aocountot'tho
temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful. However, that
we might be very secure, I told him he should
go back again andcboose out thou five, and
tell them, that they might see he did not want
men, that he would take out those five tobe his
assistants, and that the governor would keep
the other two, and the three that were sent
prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages
for the fidelity of those five: and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hos-
tsges should be hanged in chains alive on the
shore. This looked severe, and convinced
them that the governor was in earnest: how-
ever, they had no way left them but to accept
it: and it was now the business of the pri-
soners, as much as of the captain, to persuade
the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the
expedition: first, the captain, his mate and
passenger: second, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their character
from the captain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms: third, the other two
that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned,
but, on the captain's motion, bad now released:
fourth, these five released at last; so that they
were twelve in all, besides five we kept pri-
soners in the cave for hostages.

laskedthecaptainii'hewaswiliingtoven-
ture with those hands on board the ship: but
as for meandmymsnFriday, [did notth'mk
itwup formtostir,bavingsevenmen
lefibehindranditwasem enoughtbr
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with
victuals. As to the five in the cave, l reoolved
to keep them fast, but Fridny worn in twice
adaytothem,tompplytbemwith noes-arise;
andItnade theothertwocarryprovisioutoa
cenaindiunmgwherelt'rithywu toer it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

itwas with theuptain, whotold themeas
the person the governor had ordered to look
after them; and thet it was the governor's
pleasure they should not stir any where but by
my direction; that if they did, they would be
{etched into the castle, and be laid in irons: so
thntaswenever urfl'cred them toseemsasa
governor, I now ap as another person,
and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the
castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The cepteinnow bad noditficulty before him,
but to furnish his twoboats, stop the breach of
one, and man them. He made his passenger
captain of one, with four of the men; and him-
sell', his mate, and five more, went in the other,
and they contrived their business very well, fiat-
they came up to the ship about midnight. As
soon as they came within call ofthe ship, he
made Robimon hail them, and tell them they
had brought ofi'the men and the boat, but that
it was a long time bethre they had found them,
and the like, holding them in a chat till they
came to the ship's side,- when the captain and
the mate entering first, with their arms, imme-
diately knocked down the second mate and ur-
pcnter with the butt end of their muskets,
being very faithfufly seconded by their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the
main and quarter decks, and began to fasten
the hatches, to keep them down that were
below; when the other boat and their men
entering at tho fore-chains, secured the fore-
castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went
down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was
done, and all safe upon deck, the captain
ordered the mate, with three men, to break into
the roundhouso, where the now rebel captain
lay, who hub; taken the alarm, had got up,
andvvith two men andnboyhad gotfirearrru
in their hands; and when the mate, with a
crow, split open the door, the new captain and
his men tired boldlyamong them, and wounded
the mate with a musket ball, which broke his
arm, and woundodtwomore ot'tbemen, but
killed nobody. The mate calling Sor help
rushed, however, into the rottndbottse, unaided
as he was,and with bispistollhotthenew
captainthroughthoheod,thoblllletentering

.athismouth, and came ontogsinbehindone
ofbisears,sothsthe neverspokesword
more: uponwhich theMyielded,sndthe
ship was taken d'ectttally, withotn any more
lives lost.

Assoonas the shipwas doze-sand," "ht:
captain ordered seven gnu to , '
wutherigml agreed upon with me to give
the notice of his mos-,whicb you may be

:43. ,
m1wasverygladtohear,bavingsatwatclr
ing upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having thus heard the signal
plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a
day ol'greatfiitigue to me, I slept very sound,
till [was something ' with the noise
ofa gun; and presently starting up, I heard a
mane-llmebythonamoofGovernor,Gover~
nor, and presently I know the captain's voice;
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced
the in his arms. My dear (Hood and deli-
verer, says he, there's your ship, for she is all
your's, and so are we, and all that belong to
her. I cast my eyes to the ship, and there
she rode within little more than half a mile of
the shore: for they had weighed her anchor
as soon as they were masters of her. and the
weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchor just gainst the mouth of the little
creek ; and the tide being up, the captain had
brought the pinnacc in near the place where I
at first landed my rails, and so landed just at
my door. I was at first ready to sink down
with the surprise; for 1 saw my deliverance,
indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At first, for
some time, I was not able to answer him one
word: but as he had taken me in his mm,
1 held fast by him, or I should have fallen to
the ground. He perceived the surprise, and
immediately pulls a bottle out of his pocket,
and gave me a dramof cordial, which he had
hronghton purpose for me. Aller I had drank
it, [sat down upon the ground: and though
it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him.
All thistimothepoormanwuinas greatan
ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I
was: and he said a thousand kind and tender
things to me, to and bring me to my~
self: butsuch was the flood ofjoy in my breast,
that it put all my spirits into confusion; at last
it broke out into tears; andin a little while
after I recovered my speech. I then took my
turn and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deli~
ver me, and that the whole transaction seemed
tobe achaind' wonders; thatsuch thingsas
theseweretho testimonieswohadofasocret
hand of Providence governing the world, and
an evidence thatthe eye ofan infinite power
could search into the remote" comer of the
world, andsondbelp to the miserpli'i'lowheno
everhepleased. IWM'D' upmy
heart in tho-kidne- to Heaven; and what

N, 0

117

heart couldl'orbearto bless bitu,whohadaot
only ina miraculous manner provided for me
insuchawilderneas, and in suchadosolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be adrnowledged to proceed!

When we had talked a while, the captain
told me he had brought me sotno little refiesh-
meat, auchas theship afiirrded,andsta:has
tho wretchea that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called
aloud to the boat, andbade his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor;
and, indeed, it was a present as ifI had been
one that was not to be carried away with
them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the
island still. First, he had brought me a case
of bottles full of excellent cordial waters. six
large bottles of Madeira wine, (tho bottles
held twa quarts each,) two of excel-
lent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef. and six pieces of pork, witha bag
of peas, and ahouta hundred weight of biscuit:
he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of
flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of
lime-juice, and abundance of other things.
But, besides these, and what was a thousand
times more useful to me, he brought me six
new clean shirts, six very good necltcloths,
two pair of gloves, one puirof shoes, a hat,
and one pair of stockings, with a very good
suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little; in a word, he clothed me
firom head to foot, It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to
one in my circumstances; but never was any
thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant,
awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wee.
such clothes at first.

Afior these ceremonies were past, and after
all his good things were brought into my little
apartment, we began to consultwhat was to
be done with the prisoners we had: for it was
worth considering whether we might venture
to take them away with us or no especially two
ofthetn,whomheknewtobe' " and
refractory to the last degree: and the captain
said he know they were such rogues, that
there was no obliging them; and ifhe did
carry them nway, it moatbe in irons. as malo-
factors, to be delivered over to justice at the first
English colony he couldcome at; and I found
the captain himselt'wu very anxious-bout
it. Upon this I told him,that if he desired it,
Iwould undertake tobring the two men he
spoke ofto make ittheirownreqnestthathe
shouldleavethemupon theisland. Ishould
be veryglad ofthat, says the captain, withall
my heart--Well, says I, I will snditrthata
up,snd talkwiththemthryou. 80le
Friday and the two es, for theywerenow
discharged, their ceuades having performed
their promise; Isay,Icausedthemtngota
the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned
as they were,tothe bower, and keep them
there till! came; After some time Icame
thither dressed in my new habit; and new I
waecalledgovernoragain. Beingallmnt,
andthe captain withme, Iconsed the men to
be brought before me, and I told them I had
got a full account of their villlnous behaviour
to the captain, and how they had run away
with the ship, and were preparing to commit
farther robberies, but that Providence had on-
snared them in their own ways, and that they
were fallen into the pit which they had dug
for others. I let them know that by my di-
rection the ship had been seized ; that she lay
now in the road; and they might see, by and
by, that their new captain had received the
reward of his villeny, and that they would see
him hanging at the yard-arm : that as to them,
I wanted to know what they had to say why
I should not execute them as pirates, taken in
the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt but I had authority so to do.

One of them answered in the nameol'the
rest, that they had nothing to way but this, that
when they were taken, the captain promised
them their lives, and they humbly implored my
InerCy. But I told them I knew not what
mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had
rmlved to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go
for England; andas for the captain, he could
not carry them to England other than as pri-
soners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and
running away with the ship; the uenco
of which they must needs know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was heat.
for them, unleas they had a mind to take their
fate in the island; if they desired that, as I
had liberty to leave the island, I had some in-
clination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore. They
seemd very thankful for it,and said they
would much rather venture to stay there than
be carried to Englandtobe hanged: soI left
iton that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make
some diflicultyot'it, as ifhe durst notleave
them there. Upon this I seemed a little
angry with the captain,and told him that
they were my prisoners, not his; and that
seeing I had ofl'ered them so much favour, I
would beasgoodasmyword; andthot ifhe
didnotthink fittoconsentto it Iwould set.

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI.

themat liherty,aslfi_nmdthem: and ifhe
didnotflkeighemighttahethemsgainifho
couldcatchthem. Upon this theyappeared
verythankfirl,andlaocordingiy set them at
liberty,and hadethemretire intothe woods
to the place wheneetheycame,andlwwld
leave themsomefirwmsome ammunition
andeomedirectiomhowtbeyahouldlivevery
well.it'theythought tit. Uponthislprepareo
togoonboardtheship;huttoldthecaptainl
would staythatnightto prepare my things,
anddesiredhimtogoonboard,inthe mean
time,andkeepallrightintheship,andsend
the boattoshore nertdayfir me; ordering
him, at all events, team the new captain,
Whowasltilled,tobehatigedattheyard-arm,
that these men mightseehim.

When the captain was gone,I sent {or the
men uptometomy t,andentered
seriously into discotnse with them on their
circumstances. I'told them] thought they
hadmade aright choice;thntifthe captain
had carried them away, they would certainly
be . I showed them the new captain
bangingatthsyard-armofthe ship,andtold
them they had nothing lssstoespect.

When they had all declared their willing-
neestostay,l then told themeouldlet them
into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way ofmaking it easy to them:

accordingly, I gave them the whole history of

the place, and of my coming toil; showed
them my fortifications, the wayI made my
bread,plantedmycorn,curedmygrapes; and
in a word, all that was to nuke
them easy. I told them thestory also of the
seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected,
for whom Iletla letter,andmadsthem pro-
mieetotreat them in connnnnwith themselves.
Here itmay noted, that the captain had ink
on board, who was greatly surprised thatI
neverhitupona wayot'mshingink orchar-
conlandwater,orot'somethingolse,aslhad
done thingamnehmoredificult.

Ilefithem my firearmsn'iafivenmskets,
three fowlingpieees,andthreeawords. Ihad
aboves barreland ahalfol'powder left; for
at'terthefirstyearertwolnsedhntlirtle,and
wasted none. I gavethem adescriptionot'
thewayI the "and directions
tomilhandfatten them,andto make both
hotterandcbeesetina word, I gave them
everypand' myown story; andtaldtheml'
shouldprevail withthecaptaintoleavethem
twobarrnlsof more," some
gardennem,whichltoldthemlwwldhave
beenverygladol':sloolgavethemtheba(eEUR

peaswhidtthaeaptainl-dhwghtmetoeet

O
and bode them he sure to saw and increase
them.

Having done all this,I let! them the next
day, snd went on board the ship. We pre-

immediately to sail, but did not weigh
that night. The next morning early, two 01'
the live men come swimming to the ship's
side, end ' a s. most lamentsble complaint
efthe other three, begged to be token into the
ship, for God's sake, for they should be mur-
dered, and begged the captain to take them
on board, he hnnged them immedi-
stely. Upon this, the captain pretended to
have no power without me; but after some
ditficulty, and alter their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and
were some time alter soundly whipped and
pickled: tiller which they proved very honest
and'qltiet follows.

Some time nfier this, the boat was ordered
on shore, the tide being up, with the things
promisedto the men; to which the captain,
at my intercession, caused their chests and
clothes to be added. which they took, and

"9

were very thankful for. I also encore-aged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my
power to send any vessel to take them in, I
would not forget them.

When I took leave cfthis island, I mind
on hosrd, for reliqucs, the greet gent-skin cap
I had made, my umbrella, and one of my
panels; nlIoI forgotnotto ultethc money I
formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so
long useless, that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass (hr silver, till it
hadboenslittle rubbed andhandlod; es also
the money I found in the wreck of the Sps~
nish ship. And thus I let! the island,the19th
of December, as I found by the ship's account,
in the year 1686, after I hsd been upon it
eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nine-
teen days; being delivered from this second
captivity the saute dsy of the month that 1 first
made my escape in the longhoat, from
the Moore of Sallee. In this vessel, snot s
long voyage, I arrived in England the Ill)! of
June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.

 

SECTION XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOIS 1'0 LISBON, WHERE HE BIRDS THE PORTUGUESE CAPTAIH, WHO
RENDEBS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS PROPER?! IN THE BRAZILS.-5PSTS 0L"!
ON HIS RETURN 1'0 EEGLAHD 3" LAND.

WHEN I came to EOand, I was "perfect
o stranger to all the world ss if I had never
been known there. My benefactor and faith-
ful steward, whom I had left my money in trust
with, was alive, but hndhsd greet misfortunes
inthe world; we: hecomeswidowtheeecond
time, and very low in the world. I made
her very easy es towhet shoowed me, assur-
ing her I would give her no trouble; but, on
the contrary, in 'tude for her formercere
end faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my
little stock would afford; which, at that time,
would indeed allow me to do but little for her;
but I assured her I would never forget her for
mer kindness to me: nordid I ingot her when
l hed sufficient to help her, or shall be obserVed
in its proper piece. I went down afterwards
into Yorkshire; but my father and mother
Wm dead, and all the family extinct, except
that I formd two sisters, and two ofthe chil-
dmnofoneofwybrothers; andssIhadbeett
long agogiven over fordosd, there hsdbeen
Dprwisianmade forms: sothst,inawosd,

I found nothing to relieve or asisttne; and
that the little money I had would not do much
for me as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gruitude, indeed,
which I did not expect; and this was, that
the master of the ehtp whom I had so happily
delivered, and by the some meat! saved the
ship and corgo, having given s very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them, and some other
merchants concerned, and all together mode
me n very handsome compliment upon the
subject, and apresent of duct two hundred
pounds sterling.

But alter tasking several reflections upon
tlte circus-tomes of my life, and how little
waythiswould gowwsrds settlingmeiethe
world,IreeolvedtogotoLishon,andeee ifI
mightnoteomehysomeinfownetiondthe
sure ofmy plantation in the Brazils, and of
what wes become of mypemer,wbo,I_hld
reesen to suppose, had some years past given
me over for dead. With this view I took
shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April
following; my man Friday accompanying me
very honestly In all these ramblings, and prov-
ing a. most faithiitl servant upon all occasions.
'When I came to Lisbon, I fbund out, by tn-
quiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my
old friend the captain of the ship who first
took me up at sea 03' the shore of Africa. He
was now grown old, and had lell 0!? going to
sea, having put his son, who was far from a;
young man, into his ship, and who still used
the Brazil trade. The old man did not know
me; and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I
soon brought him to my remembrance, and as
soon brought myselfto his remembrance, when
I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the
old acquaintance between us, I inquired, you
may be sure, after my plantation and my part.
ner. The old man told me he had not been in
the Brazils for about nine years; but that ho
could asstre me, that when he came away
my partner was living: but the trustees, whom
I had joined with him to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of
the improvement of the plantation; for that
upon the general beliefof my being cut away
and drowned, my trustees had given in the
account of the produce of my gpart of the
plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim
it, onethird to the king, and twothirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended
for the benefit of ,the poor, and for the conver-
sion ofthe Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that in appeared, or any one for me, to claim
the inheritance, it would be restored; only
that the improvement, or annual prodtictiori,
being distributed to charitable uses, could not
be restored: but he assured me that the
steward of the king's revenue from lands, and
the proviedore, or steward of the monastery,
had taken great care all along that the incum-
bent, that is to say, my partner, gave every
year a faithful aocoum ofth eproduce, of
which they had duly received my moiety. I
asked himy if he knew towhat height of im-
provement he had brought the plantation, and
whether he thought it might be worth looking
afier . orwhether,onmy going thither, I should
meet with any abduction to my messing
my just right in the moiety. He told me he
oouldnottellenctly towhatdegree the plan-
tatinnwu improved, btrt thishe knew,that
my partner was grown exceeding richupon
dweojoyingbirpartofit; udthactothem best

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

ofhisremembrance,hehadheardthatlho
king's third of my part, which was, it seems,
granted away to some other monastery or reli-
gious housc,amwntcd to above two hmdred
moidoree a year: that as to my being restored
to a quiet possession of it, there was no ques-
tion to be made of that. my partner being alive
to witnees my title, and my name being also
enrolled in the register of the country: also he
told me, that the survivors of my two trustees
were very fair honest people, and" very wealthy ,
and he believed Iwould not only have their
assistance for putting me in possession, but
would find avery considerable sum of money
in their hands for my account, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held the
trust, and before it was given up as above;
which,ashe remembered, was for about twelve
years.

I showed myself a little concerned and
uneasy at this account, and inquired of the
old captain how it came to pm that the trus-
tees should thus dispose of my efi'ects, when
he knew that 1 had made my will, and had
made him, the Portuguese captain, my unb
versal heir, Ste.

He told me that was true; but that as there
was no proof of my being dead, he could not
act as executor, until some certain account
should come of my death; and, besides, he
was not willing to intermeddlc with a thing so
remote: that it was true lte ltad registered my
will, and put in his claim: and could he have
given any account of my being dead or alive,
he would have acted by procuration, and taken
possession of the tnge'to, (so they called the
sugar-house,) and ha given his son, who'
was now at the Brazils, orders to do it. But,
says the old man, I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps may not be so accepta-
ble to you as the mt; and that is, believing
you were lost, and all the world believing so
also, your partner and trustees did od'er to
account with me, in your name, for six or eight
of the first yeara' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursements
for increasing the works, building an ingenio,
and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so
much asafterwards it produced: however, eayl
the old man, I shall give you a true amount of
what I have received in all, and how I have
disposed of it.

After a few days farther conference witl
this ancientfi'iend, he broughtme anaccount
ofthe nix ' incuneofmy plantation,
signed by my partner and the merchant Imo-
tees, being always delivered tn goods, via. to-
haceoinrollnndsugarindteotsfiesideannn.
molasses.&e. whichisthecousequeuce ot'a
sugar-work; and I find, by this account,
that every year the income condderahly in~
ceased ; but, as above, the disbursements
being large,thentmatfirstwassmall: how
ever, the old manlettne seethathewas
debtor to me thus hundred and seventy moi~
doresol' gold, beside-sixty chests of sugar, and
Eileen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship; be having been shipwrecked
coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years
after my leaving the place. The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and
how he had been obligedtomalte useot'my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a
share in a new ship. However, my old friend,
says he, you shall not want asupply in your
necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall be fully satisfied. Upon this, he pulls
out an old pouch, and gives me one hundred
and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and giving
the writings of his title to the ship, which his
son was gone tolho Brazilsin,ofwhi&t he
was a quarter part owner, and his son another,
he puts them both into my hands, for security
of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and
kindnessot'thepoorman tobe ableto bear
this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how
generously he ltad used Inc on all occasions,
andpanicularlybowsincereafriend hewas
now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at
what he had said to me; therefore Iaslted him
if his circumstances admitted him to spare so
much matey at that time, and if it would not
straiten him? He told me he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but, however, it
wasmymoney,andlmightwantitmore
than he.

Every thing the man said was fill] of
afl'ection, and I could hardly refrain from tears
while he spoke; in short, I took one hundred
ol'the moidores, and called for a pen and-ink
togive himareceiptfiarthevn: thenlreutrned
him therest,andtoldhim ifeverI hadpoe-
session of the plantation, I would return the
other to hint also, (as, indeed, I afterwards
did:)andthatastoths billofsaleofhispart
in his son's ship, I would not take it by any
means; but that in wantedthe ntonsy,lfound
he washonestenougb to payme; and ifldid
not, but came to receive what he gave me
reasonto expccylwouldneverhavea penny
more from him.

When thiswaspsst, the old man salted me
ifbeshouldputme intoamethodtomalre my

danntonryplauatiu? toutmxmm

   

121

to goovertoit myself. He said I mightdo
so, iflpleased; butthat it'ldidnot, there
werewayse tosecuvemyright,and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my
use: and as there wercshiplin the river of
Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, be
made rne enter my name in a public register,
with his afidavit, dinning, upon oath, that I
wasalive,andthat1wasthesame who
tookupthe landfortheplantingthesaid plan-
tation at first. This being regularly attested
bya notary,andaprocmtionsfixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his
writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
the place; and then proposed my staying with
him till an account came ofthe return.

Never was any thing more honourable than
the proceedings upon this tion; for in
less than seven months I received a large packet
from the survivors of my trustees, the men-
chants, for whose account I went to sea, in
which were the following particular letters and
papers enclosed.

First, There was the accent-current of the
produce of my farm or plantation, from the
year when their fathers had balanced with my
old Portugal captain, being fitr six years; the
balance appeared to be one thousand one
hundred and seventy-four moidores in my
favour.

Secondly, There was the account of four
years more, while they kept the edicts in their
hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the etl'ects ol's person
not to be found, which they called civil death;
andthe balanceofthis, thevalue ofthe plan-
tation increasing, amounted to nineteen thou-
sand {bur hundred and forty-six erusadoes,
being about threethousand two hundred and
forty moidores.

Thirdly, There was the prior of Augustine's
account, who had received the profits for above
fourteen years; but notbeing toacccunt for
what was d' of by the hospital, very
honestly declared be had eight hundred and
seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he
acknowledged to myaccount; astotheking's
part, out relimded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's, congra-
tulating me very affectionately upon my being
alive, giving me an amount how the estate
was improved, and what it produced a year;
with apartieularofthe number ofsquaresor
acres that it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it, and making
two-and-twenty crossed for blessings, told me
hehadsaidsomanonaMan'nstothankthe
bleued Virgin that I was alivet inviting Inc
very passionately to come over and take pos-
session of my own: and, in the mean time, to
give him orders to whom he should deliver my
efi'ects, if [did not come myself; concluding
with n hearty tender of his friendship, and that
ofhis family; and sent me, as a present, seven
fine leopards' shim, which he had, it seems,
received from Afi-ica, by some other ship that
he had sent thither, and who, it. seems, had
made I. better vo than I. He sent me
also live chests d' excellent sweetmeats, and a.
hundred pieces of gold uneoined, notquite so
large as rnoidoves. By the same fleet, my two
merchant trustees shipped me one thousand
two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred
rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter
end of Job was better than the beginning. It
is impossible toespress the flutterings of my
very heart, when I found all my wealth about
me: for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets,
the same ships whidI brought my letters brought
my goods: and the efi'ects were safe in the
river before the letters came to my hand. In
aword,Iturnedpale, andgrewsick; andhad
not the old man run and fetched me acordial,
I believe the sudden surprise of joy had ever-
set nature, and I had died upon the wot: nay,
afier that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for,
and somethingof therealcauseofmy illness
being known, he ordered me to be let blood;
afler which I had relief, and grew well: but I
verily believe, if I had not been eased by s
vent given in that manner to the spirits, I
should have died.

I was now mastor,all on asudden, ofabeve
five thousand sterling in money, and
had an estate, as Imight wellcall it, in the
Brazils, of abovoathousand a year, as
sureasanestateoflandsinE :and,in
a word, [was in a condition whidI I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to c
myself for the enjoyment <<I it. The first
thing! did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my goodold captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to
me inmybeginning,and honestto meatthe
end. Ishowedhimall thatwassentto
me; Itoldhim,thatnexttotheprov idenoeot'
Heaven, which disposed all things, it was
owingto him; and that it nowlay onmeto
reward him, which I would do a hundred-
fold: so Ifirst returned to him the hundred
moidores I had received of him; then I sent
t'oranotary, andcsusedhimtodrawup
general release or discharge from the Ihnr hun-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

dredand moidores,whichhehadac-
Lnowledged he owed me, in the fullest an]
Ernest manner pomihte. Alter which I
caused a to be drawn, empowb
ering hirn tobe myreceiverofthe annual
profits'of my plantation, and appointing my
partnertoamonntwithhim,andmakethe
returmbytheusualfleetstohiminmyname;
andaclaI-eintheend,beingagrantofme
hImdred moidores a year to him during his
life, out ofthe ed'ects,and fifty moidores a
yearlohissonafierhim,fiarhislit'e:andthm
Inquitedmyoldman.

I wasnowtoconsider which way to user
my course nest, and what to do with the
estatethstProvidenee had thus put into my
hands;and,indeed,lhadmorecareuponmy
headnowthanIhadinnrysilentetatooflife
intheialand,whereIwantednothi.ngbutwhat
Ihad,and hadnothingbutwhathanted;
whereasIhadnowagreatchargeuponme,
andmybtninemmhowlosectneit. Iliad
nevefacave nowtohide my money in,ora
place where it might lie without locker key,
till it grew mouldyand tarnished before any
body wouldmeddle with itzenthe contrary,
Iknewmtwhenwpmigorwhomtotrust
withit. Myoldpatron,theuptain, indeed,
was honest,andthatwastheonlyrefugel
had. Inthenextplaoe, myinterestinthe
Bruilsseemedtosurnmoe methither;but
now I could not tellhowtothinkpfgoing
thithertillIhad settledrny afi'airs,andleti my
efl'ects in some safe hands behind me. At
first I thought ofmyold friendthe widow, who
Iknewwasheuest,and wouldbejusttome;
butthen shewaainyears,andbutponr,and,
lbraughtlknew,migbtbe indebt, sothat,
inawnrd,Ihadnowaybuttngobaekto
England myself, and take my efl'ects with
me.

Itwas sanemonths,bowever, before I re-
solveduponthis:andtherefore,asIhad re-
wardedthe oldcaptain fully,andto his satik
factiannvho had been myformerbenefactor,
soIbegan tothinkofmy poorwidow,wbose
huband gmhad been my first benefscwr, and
ahe,wbileit was in berpewer, my faithfirl
steward and instructor. Sothefirstthing I
did,IgotamercbsntinLthom'itetohis

eat in London, not only topay a
bill,butlogofindheront,andcarryherin
moneyahundred insane, and to
talkwithher, andeornfortherinberpoverty,
by telling hersheahmld, if I lived, haves
furthermpply: atthesarnetimelsemmy
atwovistenintbecotnsryahtmdredpm

each, theybeing, thonghnotinwant,yetnn'
in very good circumstances; one having been
married and left a widow; and the other
having a husband not so kind to her as he
should be. But among all my relations or
acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one
to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock,
that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave
things safe behind me: and this greatly per-
plexed me.

I had once a. mind to have gone to the
Brazils, and have settled myself there; for I
was, as it were, naturalized to the place ; but
Iliad some little scruple in my mind about
religion, which inscnsibly drew me back.
However, it was not religion that kept me
from going there for the present; and as I had
made no scruple of being openly of the re-
ligion of the country all the while I was among
them, so neither did I yet; only that, now
and then, having of late thought more of it
than formerly, when Ibegan to think of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my
having professed myself a papist, and thought
it might not be the best religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main
thing that kept me from going to the Brazils,
but that really I did not Know with whom to
cave my effects behind me; so I resolved, at
last, to go to England with it, where, if I ar-
rived,I concluded I should make some ao-
quaintance, or find some relations that would
befaithl'ul tome; and,aecordingly, I prepared
to go to England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going
home, I first, the Brazil fleet being just going
away, resolved to give answers suitable to the
just and faithful account of things [had from
thence; and, first, to the prior of St. Augus-
tine I wrote a letter full of thanks for their
just dealings, and the offer of the eight hun-
dred and seventy-two moidores which were
undisposed of, which I desired might be given,
five hundred to the monastery, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the
prior should direct; desiring the good padre's
prayers for me, and the like. I wrote next a
letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all
the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honesty called for; as for sending them any
present, they were for above having any oc-
casion lbr it. Lastly,I wrote to my partner,
acknowledging his industry in the improving
the plantation, and his integrity in increasing
the stock of the works; giving him instruc-
tions for his future government of my part,
according to the powersI had left with my
Old patron, to whom I desired him to send

123

whatever become due to me, till he should
hear from inc more particularly; assuring him
that it was my intention not only to come to
him, but to settle myselfthere for the remain-
der of my life. To this I added a very hand-
some present ofsome Italian silks for his wife
and two daughters, for such the captain's son
informed me he had; with two pieces of fine
English broadcloth, the best I could get in
Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some
Flanders lace of good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my
cargo, and turned all my effects into good bills
of exchange, my nextdifficulty was, which way
to go to England: I had been accustomed
enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and though [could give no reason for it, yet
the dilliculty increased upon me so much, that
though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that
not once, but two or three times.

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by
sea, and this might be some of the reasons;
but let no man slight the strong impulses of his
own thoughts in cases of such moment: two
of the ships which I had singled out to go in,
I mean more particularly singled out than any
other, having put my things on board one of
them, and in the other to have agreed with the
captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried,
viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and the
other was cast away on the Start, ncnr Tor-
bay, and all the people drowned, except three;
so that in either of those vesaels I had been
made miserable.

Having been thus Harassed in my thoughts,
my old pilot, to whom I communicated every
thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea,
but either to go by land to the Groyne, (Co-
runna,) and crossover the Bay of Biscay to
Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all
the way by land through France. In a Word,
I was so prepossessed against my going by sea
at all, except from Calais to Dover, that 1 r9
solved to travel all the way by land; which, as
Iwas not in haste, and did notvalue thecharge,
was by much the pleasanter way: and to make
it more so, my old captain brought an English
gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which
we picked up two more English merchants also,
and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last
going to Paris only; so that in all there were
six of us, and five servants; the two merchants
and the two Portuguese cementing themselves
with one servant between two, to save the
charge: and as for me, I got an English sailor
to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be
capable of supplying the place of a servant on
the road. '

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and
our company being very well mounted and
armed, we made a. little troop, whereof they
did me the honour to Call me captain, as well
because I was theoldest man, as because I had
two servants, and, indeed, was the original of
the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea
journals, so I shall trouble you now with none
of my land journal; but some adventures that
happened to us in this tedious and difficult
journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of
us strangers to Spain, were willing to stay
some time to see the court of Spain, and to see
what was Worth observing; but it being the
latter part of the summer, we hastened away,
and set out fi'om Madrid about the middle of
October; but when we came to the edge of
Navarre, we were alarmed, at several towns
on the way, with an account that so much snow
was fallen on the French side ol'the mountains,
that several travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampeluna, afler having attempted, at
an extreme hazard, to pass on.

"'hen we came toPampeluna itself, we found
it so, indeed ; and to me, that had been always
used to a hot climate, and to countries where I
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was
insufferable: nor, indeed, was it more painful
than surprising, to come but ten days before
out of Old Castilo, where the weather was not
only warm, but very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyronean mountains so
very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolera-
ble, and to endanger benumbing and perishing
of our fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he
saw the mountains all covered with snow, and
felt cold weather, which he had never seen or
ll-lt before in his life. To mend the matter,
when we came to Pampeluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence, and so long,
that the people said winter was come before
its time; and the roads, which were diflieult
before, were now quite impassable; for, in a
word, the snow lay in some places too thick
for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as
is the case in the northern countries, there was
no going without being in danger of being buried

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

alive every step. Westayed no less than twenty
days at Pampeluna; when seeing the winter
coming on, and no likelihood of its being better
for it was the severest winter all over Europe
that had been known in the memory of man,
I proposed that we should all go away to Fon-
tarabia, and there take shipping ibr Bour-
deaux, which was a very little voyage. But
while I was considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who having been
stopped on the French side of the pages, as
we were on the Spanish, had found out a
guide, who traversing the country near the
head of Languedoe, had brought them over the
mountains by such ways, that they were not
much incommotled with the snow; for where
they met with snow in any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to hear them and
their horses. We sent for this guide, who
told us he would undertake to carry us the
some way with no hazard from the snow, pro-
vided we were armed sufficiently to protect
ourselves from wild beasts; for, he said, upon
these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot. of the
mountains, being made ravenous for want of
food, the ground being covered with snow.
We told him we were well enough prepared
for such creatures as they were, if he would
insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which, we were told, we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the
mountains. He satisfied us that there was
no danger of that kind in the way that we were
to go: so we readily agreed to follow him, as
did also twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were ob-
liged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna,
with our guide, on the 151h of November; and,
indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he come directly back with us
on the same road that we came from Madrid,
about twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we '
found ourselves in a warm climate again,
where the country was pleasant, and no snow
to be seen; but on a sudden turning to his lell,
he approached the mountains another way:
and though it is true tho'hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding
ways, that we insensibly passed the height of
the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed
us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Langucdoc.r".

 

5

Encounter with Wolves.--p 12
indeed,uegreudistuce,endwehedsomo
rough le to pus still.

We were 1 little Imeuy, however, when
wefound itaiowedoue whole day endenight

125
endGueony,ellgreenendflouridiing,thongh, "listfihetweeouldnottnvel; buthehidrl-

hemy :weehouldsoonhe hell; we
fund, indeed, thetwehegen todeeeendevery
dey ,endtooomemorenorththenbefore; end

soydependingupcnourguide,wewenton.

 

SECTION XXIX.

FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH A BIAB.---IOBINSON AN D HIS PILLOW TRAVEL-
LERS ATTACKS!) BY A FLOCK 0F "Willi--HIS 183'le"? OF HIS nuns,
AND mane: Ann. HIS "TURF 1'0 "GLAND.

Ir wee about two home before night, when
our guide being something before in, and not
just in eight, out rushed three monstrous
wolves, and after them 1 beer, out of a hollow
way adjoining to u think wood; two of the
wolves mede at theguide, and bed he been
far before us, he would have been devoured
before we could hue helped him; one of them
fastened upon his horse, end the other sneaked
the man with the! violence, that hehed not
time, or preeenee of mind enough, to drew his
pistol, but hellooed end died out tons moot
luslily. My men Fridey being next me, I
badehim rideup,endseewhetwuthe
matter. As soon :- Friday nine in light of
the man, he hellooedoutulouduthe other,
0 master! 0 motor! but, like uboldfellow,
rode directly up to the poor mu, end with his
pistol ehotthe wolflhet unukedhim, in the
head.

It was hsppyforthe poor menthetit wu
mymmI-'ridey; fir he Inving been usedto
such creatures in his country,hehednofw
upon him, but went close up to him end lhot
him, es ehove; whereu,unyotherofm would
have fired at a further diet-nee, Ind have per-
heps either missed the wolf or endangered

ehootingthemen.

Butitwu bheveterrifiedlholder
milieu hand, indeed, itelermedell our
company, when, with the noise of Friday's
pistol,weheardonbothlidelth.emoC/dilmnl
howling of wolves; end the noiee,redwhled
by dwecboofthemounhmnppeuedtom
uflmmmemdigiousnumber of
them;endperhspstherewuuotmchef_ew

.Is the: we bed noun-e of hmiooe:
however, "Friday hdh'lled this wolf,the
otherlhethulfianuedqron thehalelefihim
immediately, added, withmtdoinghim eny

den-go, he hnppily Wm Ill!

heed,wholeh:!huesofthehridlehedm

inhieteeth. Butthemenmrnosthumfor
the aging ammhedhithimtwioemncein
theenn,endthe othertimenlittleehovehis
knee:endthoughhehedrudeeomedefenoe,
heirujurtuitweremnblingdownbythe
dieorderof his horse, when Fridhyeune up
Indlhotthewolf.

Itiseesyto poeethetetthenoieeof
Fridey's pistolwe all mended our peee, end
rode upnsfest lathe way,whieh wuvery
dificult, would giveue leave, toeeewlntwns
themetter. Aseoonuweeemeeleerofthe
trees, which blinded"- hefore, wenw cleerly
whethsdbeeumeeuenndhowI-'ridayhed
dieengeged the poor guide, thoughwe didnot
prescndydiscmwhetkindefmtureitwu
hehedltilled.

Butneeerwuefightl-negedeohudily,
end in Itch e Itrprising manner, he that
which followed, between Frideyendthebeur,
whichgeveusell, utfietwewereeurb
prised-ad efruidforhiot, the diver-
lion imiuble. Astheheerisnhesvy
clumy ereeutre,|nd doeenot uthe
wolfdoqwhohswiftendlighgsohehntwo
perticulsr qullitiee, which are the
ruleofhis lotions: fingutomee,wholre
noth'upmperprey(hedoel not ex-
tempt them, except they" minimu-
leeeheheeloeesive hmgrynvhiuh itu pn-
beblemightnowhetheme,thegrundbeing
covered wilh mow,)ifyou donotmeddlewith
him, hewillnotmeddlewith yzeu hutthen

youmusttakecuetohevery'civiltohin,
end 'vehimthe roed,forheieeveryuiee
gentlemeflewill not go- sltepoutofhis
weyforsprinee, my,ifyounrereellyefveid,
yourheetweyistolookenotherwey,"
heepgoingon; for sometimesifyou stop,
endmndetill,endlo&mdfutlyethim,he
tekesitforunefirvot;hrtifyoudwwwto-
enythingethim,udithitshim,thoqhh
. were but a bit of stick as big as your finger,
he thinks himself abused, and sets all other
business aside to pursue his revenge, and
will have satisfaction in point of honour ;--Ihis
is his first quality: the next is, if he be once
afli-onted, he will never leave you, night nor
day, till he has his revenge, but follows, at a
good round rate, till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide,
and when we came up to him, he was helping
him of from his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we
espied the bear come out of the wood, and a
vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far
that ever I saw. We were all a little sur-
prised when we saw him: but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage
in the fi-llow's countenance; 0, 0, 0! says
Friday, three times, pointing to him; 0 mas-
ter! you give me to leave, me shakee to hand
with him; ma makee you good laugh. i

I was surprised to see the fellow so well
pleased: You fool, says I, he will eat you up.
--_lPSateo me up! eatee me up! says Friday,
twteo over again; me catee him up; me
makee you good laugh; you all stay here, me
show you laugh. So down he sits, and
gets otl' his boots in a moment, and puts on a
pair of pumps, (as we call the flat shoes they
wear, and which he had in his pocket,) gives
my other servant his horse, and with his gun
away he flew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking soflly on, and offered
to meddle with nobody, till Friday coming
pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could
understand him, Hark ye, hark ye, says Fri-
day, me speakee with you. We followed at
a distance; for now being come down on the
Gascony side of the mountains, we were en-
tered a vast great forest, where the country
was plain and pretty open, though it had many
trees in it scattered here and there. Friday,
who had, 8 we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a
great stone and throws it at him, and hit him
just on the head, but did him no more harm
than if he had thrown it qainst a wall; but it
answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so
void of fear that he did it purely to make the
bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as
he called it. As soon as the bear felt the
blow, and saw him, he turns about, and comes
after him, taking devilish long strides, and
shuffling on at a strange rate, so as would
have put a horse to a middling gallop; away
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he run
towards us for help; so we all resolved to fire
at once upon the bear and deliver in>> mm

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

though [was angry at him heartily for bring-
ing the hear back upon us, when he was going
about his own business another way; and ea-
peeially I was angry that he had tumed the
bear upon us, and then run away; and I called
out, You dog, is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature. He heard me, and cried
out, No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you
get much laugh; and as the nimble creature
ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a
sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great
oak tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us
to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nim-
bly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about five or six yards from the
bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to
the tree, and we followed at a distance: the
first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt
to it, bttt let it lie, and up he scrambles into
the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strous heavy. I was amazed at the hilly. as I
thought it, of my man, and could not for my life
see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the
bear get up the tree, we all rode near to him.
\Vhen we came to the tree, there was Fri-
day got out to the small end of a large branch,
and the bear got about half way to him. As
soon as the bear got out to that part where
the limb of the tree was weaken--Ha! says
he to us, now you see me teachce the bear
dance: so he falls ajumping and shaking the
bough, at which the bear began to Iotter, but
atood still, and began to look behind him, to
see how he should get back; then, indeed,
we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not
done with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he calls out to him gain, as if
he had supposed the bear could speak English,
"That, you come no farther? pray you come
farther: so he left jumping and shaking the
tree; and the bear, just as if he understood
What he said, did come a little farther; then
he fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped
again. We thought now was a good time to
knock him on the head, and called to Friday
to stand still, and we would shoot the bear:
but he cried out eamestly,0 pray! O pray!
no shoot, me shoot by and then; he would
have aaid by and by. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the
bear atood ao tieklish, that we had laughing
enough, but still could not imagine what the
fellow would do: for first we thought he do-
pended upon shaking the bear ofi'; and we
found the bear was too cunningfor thattoo;
for he would not go out far enough to be
thrown down, but clings in with his great,.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

broad claws and feet, so the: we could not
imagine what would be the end of it, and
what the jest would be at last. But Friday
put us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the
bear cling fast to thebough, and that he would
not be persuaded to come any farther, iVell,
well, says Friday, you no come farther, me
go; younocome tome,meeometoyou: and
upon this, he goes out to the smaller end oftho
bough, where it would bond with his weight,
and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to
jump down on his feet, and away he rum to
his gun, takes it up, and stands still. Well,
said I to him, Friday, what will you do now ?
Why don't you shoot him '!--No shoot, says
Friday, no yet ; me no shoot now, me no ltill;
me stay, give you one more laugh: and, in-
deed, so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes
back from the bough where he stood, but did it
m'ghty cautiously, looking behind him every
step, and coming backward till he got into the
body of the tree; then with the same hinder-
end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping
itwith his claws, and moving one foot at slime,
very leisurely. At this juncture, and just
before he could set his hind-foot on the ground,
Friday stepped up close to him, clspped the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot
him dead. Then the rogue turned about, to
see ifwc did not laugh; andan he saw we
were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing
himself very loud. So we ltill bear in my
country, says Friday. So you kill them ?
says 1: why, you have no guns.--No, says
he, no gun, but shoot t much long arrow.
This was a good diversion to us; but we were
still in a wild place, and our guide very much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the
howling of wolves run much in my head; and,
indeed, except the noise I once heard on the
shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that
filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night,
filled tn 08', or else, as Friday would have
had us, we should certainly have taken the
skin of this monstrous creature of, which was
worth saving; btrtwehad nesrthree leagues
to go, and our guide hastened us; so we lell.
him, and went forward on our journey.

The ad was still covered with snow,
though not so deep and dangerous as on the
mountains; and the ravenous aeaturos, as
we heard afierwards, were come down into
theforest andplain country, pressed byhun-
ger,toseekfirfi)od,andhaddonoa great

I27

deal of mischief in the villages, where they
surprised the country people, killed it grea

many of their sheep and horses, and some
people too. We had one dangerous place to
pass, of which our guide told us, if there were
more wolves in the we should find
them there; and this was a smell plain, our>>
rounded with woods on every side, and a long
narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass
to get throtgh the wood,and then we should
come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we
entered the first wood, and a little after sunset
when we come into the plain: we met with
nothing in the first wood, except that, in alittle
plain within the wood, which was not above
two furlongs over, we saw live great wolves
cross the road, full speed, one after another, as
if they had been in chase of some prey, and
had it in view; they took no notice ofus, and
were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but
a fainthearted fellow, bid us keep inn ready
posture, for he believed there were more wolves
a coming. We kept our arrm ready, andour
eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till
we came th that wood, which was near
half a league, and entered the plain. As
soon as we came into the plain, we had oe-
easion enough to look about us: the first ob-
ject we met with was a dead horse, that is
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had
killed, and at least a dozen of them at work,
we could not say eating of him, but picking of
his bones rather: for they had eaten up all.
the flesh before. We did not think lit to dis-
turb them at their feast; neither did they
take much notice of us. Friday would have
let fly at them, but Iwould not sufl'er him by
any means ; for I fotmd we were like to have
more business upon our hands than we were
aware of. We were not gone half over the
plain, when we began to hear the wolves howl
in the wood on our lcll in a fi-ightfirl manner,
and presently aller we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an
army drawn up by experienced officers. I
scarce knew in what manner to receive them,
but fared, to draw ourselves in a close lino
was the onlyway: so weformed in a moment:
but that we might nothave too much interval,
I ordered that only every other man should
fire, sndthatthe others who had not fired
should stand ready to give them a second
volley immediately, ifthey cautioned to advance
upon us;andthenthatthoso whohadfirol
st firstshouldnotpreteodtoloadtheirfme
again, bttt stand ready every one with a pistol,
for we were all armed with a fmee and a
pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this
method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at
a time: however, at present we had no ne-
cesstty; for upon firing the first volley, the
enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well
with the no'ue as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in the head, dropped; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding ofi',
as we could see by the snow. I found they
stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told
that the fiercest creatures were terrified at
the voice of a man, 1 caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found
the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon
our shout, they began to retire, and turn about.
I then ordered a second volley to be fired in
their rear, which put them to the gallop, and
away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces again; and that
we. might lose no time, we kept going: but
we had but little more than loaded our fusces,
and put ourselves in readiness, when we heard
a terrible noise in the same wood, on our
left, only that it was farther onward, the some
way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light
began to be dusky, which made it worse on
our side; but the noise increasing, we could
easily perceive that it was the howling and
yelling, of those hellish creatures; and on a
sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one
in our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them: however, as they did not
fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast
as we could make our horses go, which, the
way being very rough, was only a good hard
trot. In this manner we came in view of the
entrance of a. wood, through which we were to
pass, at the farther side of tlte plain: but we
were greatly surprised, when coming nearer
the lane or pass, we saw a confused number
of wolves standing just at the entrance. On
a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noise of a gun, and looking that way,
out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle
on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or
seventeen wolves after him, full speed: indeed,
the horse had the heels of them, but as we
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him
at last; no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for
riding up to the entrance where the horse came
an, we found the carcasses of another horse

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

and of two men, devoured by the ravenous
creatures; and one of the men, was no dotbt
the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there
laya gun just by himfired 00'; but as to the
man, his head and the upper part of his body
were eaten up. This filled us with horror,
and we knew not what course to take; but
the creatures resolved us soon, for they ga-
thered about us presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred
of them. It happened very much to our ad-
vantage, thnt at the entrance into the wood,
but a little way from it, there lay some large
timber trees, which had been cut down the
summer before, and I suppose lay there for
carriage. I drew my little troop in among
those trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to
alight, and keeping that tree before us for a
breastwork, to stand ina triangle or tltree fronts,
enclosing our horses in the centre. \'Ve did
so, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made
upon us in this place. They came on with a
growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece
of timber, which, as I said, was our breast-
worlt, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our
horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire
as before, every other man; and they took
their aim so sure, that they killed several of
the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they
came on like devils, those behind pushingat
those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our
fusees, we thought they stopped a little, and
I hoped they would have gone ofi'; but it was
but a moment, for others came forward again;
so we tired two valleys of our pistols; and I
believe in these four firings we had killed
seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many, yet they came on again. I
was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for
he was better employed, for, with the great-
est dexterity imaginable, he had charged my
fusee and his own while we were engaged;
but, as I said, I called my other man, and
giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay
a train all along the piece of timber, and let
itbealarge train. Hedid so; and had but
just time to get away, when the wolves came
up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snap-
pinganuncharged pistolclosetothe powder,
setitonfire: those thatwereuponthetinsber
wmsoorchedWithit; andsixorssveaot
them Fell, or tether jumped in us, with
thefiueeendfightofthefi'e; we deepetched
these ineninetent,endthereuwerelo
frightened with the light, which the night, for
itwee now veryneer derk, made more terri-
ble, thet they drew beck e little; upon which
Iordered our lutpistolntobefirednd in one
volley, end efier the! we geve e ehout: upon
this the wolves turned tail, end we allied im-
mediately upon neer twenty lune ones, that
we found struggling on the ground, endfelle
cutting them with our words, which answered
our expectuion; for the crying end howling
they lnede wu hotter undentood by their
fellows; no thet they ell fled end left us.

We hed,firetend lest, killedehout three-
ecore of them; end hu'l it been deylight, we
had ltilled many more. The field of bettle
being thus cleared, we mede forwerd egein,
forwehadstillneereleegue to go. We
heard the revenone ereetttree howl end yell
in the wood: es we went, leverel times, end
sometime. we fancied we new Dome of them,
but the snow dealing our eyes, we were not
certain: in ehoutenhourinore weeeme to
the town where we were to lodge, which we
fixmd in eterrihlefiight,end ellinernfl; for,
it seems, the night before, the wolvee end
some heershed brokeintothevillege,endput
them in such terror, thet they were obliged to
keep guard night end tiny, but eepecielly in
the night, to preserve theircettle, end, indeed,
their people.

The nennwrningmrguide wee-aimed
his linthe ewelled so much with the renkling
ofhistwo wounde,thetheeould gono ferther;
no we were obliged toteke enew guide here,
end gnto'l'lwtdouee, wherewel'oundewenn
climete, efruitt'ul wet-try, end no
snow, nowolvee, nor my thinglike them: but
when we told our etery et Thoulouee, they
told us it weenothing botwhet wee unitary
in the forest It the foot ofthe mountains,

thet weyineucheeevereeouonzendloldt-
itwee surprising wewerenotelldevoured.
When we toldthernhowwepleeedotmelvee,
nndthehoneein thomiddle,theyhlemedu
exeeedingly,endtoldneitwelfl'lytoonebut
we hedheen ell decayed; fir it we: the
eight efthehoeneewhieh mdethewolveeeo
furioue,eeeing their prey; end thet,etother
timee,theyere reellyefieidol'egn;hut
being emive hungry, end regtng onthet
eeeomt. themgemteeune ettbehonu
hednedethemeemeleeeol'dlnzfltendtlm
9

129

il'wehednot, by the continued fire, end et
leetbytheetretegemoftlutreinot'powder,
neutered them, it hed been greet odds bu
thet we hell been torn to pieces: where",
hedweheenoontenttoheveeetetillonhoree-'
beek,endfiredeehouetnen,theywould not

have teken thehorees ennuich fortheir own,

whenmenwereontheirbeoh,eeotherwiee;

endwitheltheytoldue,thetetleet,ifwehed

etood eltogether, end lell. our horsee, they

Would have been-o eager toheve devoured

lhem,thetwe mighthereeaneofl'ufe,ee~

peciellyheving our firearms in our hende, end

heingeonunyinnumber. For my pen,l

wesnevereoeeneihleof inmylife;t'or

seeing ehovethreehtmdred devileeovnereee-

ingend thedto devourttl,endhev-

ingnothingtoshelteru,orretreetto,lgevo

myselfoverforlmiend,eeitwee, [believe

lehellnevereeretocmeethoeetnounteine

egein: Ithinhl wouldnuchrether gee

thousendleegueehyeee, thoughlwu euro

tomeetwitheetortnonceeweek.

l hnvelnothingtneom to teke notice of
in my penege through Frenee, nothing he
whetothertrevellerehevegiveneneeeomtof,
withmuchtntveedventegethenleen. I
travelled from Thetlouee to Peril,endwith--
out enyconeiderebleeteycenetoCeleia,end
lended eel'e et Dover, the lhhol'Jenuery,efler
hevinge eevere ooldeeuonco true! in.

Iwesnoweometotheeentnofuytrevels,
endhedinelittletimeellmynewdiecovered
estate eel'e mine; thebilh ot' mhenge
which lbrooght withnie heving been very
unentlypeid.

My principel guide end privy counselor
wesnty encientwidow;who,ingrui~
tudefnrthemoneylbedeenther,thoughtm
peine too much, noreere too great, loetnploy
forms;endltrmtedhereentirelywith
everything,thetl m yeuye- to
the security army elects: end, indeed, [wee
very heppyt'mtn the beginning,end now to
theend,inthelnepottedintogritydthilgood
gentlewomen.

lnowreeolvedto diepeeeel'nty plentetion
in the Brezile, ierould bdnteene. For
thiepnrpoee,!wvntetolnyoldfiiendet
Liebu;whohevingefl'eredittothetwomer-
dtente, the ltrvivore of my human, who
lived inthe Basile, theyeeeeptedthe otter,
endlemittedthirtyhthmtin-ndpiee-d
eighttoe t ofthetnuLisboe.to
peyl'orit. Bevingeignedtheilmumentot
eele,endeentittoniyoldfi-iend,heretnitted
niebilleol' forthirty-twothound
eighthtntdredpieeeeofeightitrthodeto.
reserving the payment of a hundred moidores
a year to himself during his life, and fifty
moidores afterwards to his son for life, which
I had promised them.

Though I had sold my estate in the Brazils,
yet I could not keep the country out of my
head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island. My true friend, the
widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so
far prevailed with me, that, for almost seven
years, she prevented my running abroad;
during which time I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my
care: the eldest having something of his own,
I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a set-
tlement of some addition to his estate, after
my deeease. The other I put out to a cap-
tain of a ship: and after five years, finding
him asensible, bold, enterprising young fellow,
I puthim into agood ship, and sent him to sea:
and this young fellow afterwards drew me in,
as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.

In the mean time, I in part settled myself
here; for, first of all, I married, and that not
either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one
daughter; but my wife dying, and my nephew
coming home with good success from avoyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and
his importunity prevailed, and engaged me to
go in his ship as a private trader to the East
Indies: this was in the year 1694.

But these things, with some very surprising
incidents in some new adventures of my own,
for ten years more, I shall give a farther ac-
count of.

That homely proverb used on so many oc-
casions in England, viz. " That what is bred
in the bone, will not go out of the flesh,"
was never more verified than in the story of
my life. Any one would think, that after
thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which few men, if any,
ever went through before, and after near seven
years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness

ADVENTURES OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it
might be allowed me to have had experience
of every slate of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make a man com-
pletely happy; I say, after all this, any one
would nave thought that the native propensity
to rambling, which I gave an account of in
my first setting out in the world to have been
so predominant in my thoughts, should be
worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated,
or at least condensed, and I might, at sixty-
one years ofage, have been a little inclined to
stay at home, and have done venturing life and
fortune any more.

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign
adventures was taken away in me; for I had
no fortune to make; I had nothing to seek:
if I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been
no richer; for I had already sufficient for me,
and for those I had to leave itto; and thatI had
was visibly increasing; for having no great
family, I could not spend the income of what
I had, unless I would set up for an expensive
way of living, such as a great family, servants,
equipage, gayety, and the like, which were
things I had no notion of, or inclination to; so
that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still,
and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it in.
crease daily upon my hands. Yet all these
things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to
go abroad again, which hung about me like a
chronical distemper. In particular, the desire
of seeing my new plantation in the island, and
the colony I left. there ran in my head con-
tinually. I dreamed of it all night, and my
imagination ran upon it all day; it was upper
most in all my thoughts; and my fancy worked
so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked
of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could re-
move it out of mind: it even broke so violently
into all my discourses, that it made my com
versation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing
else; all my discourse ran into it, even to
impertinence ; and I saw it in myself.
131

SECTION XXX.

HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND--LOSES HIS WIFE--IS
TEMPTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN.----TAKES OUT A CARGO FOR HIS COLONY.

I HAVE ofien heard persons of good judg-
ment say, that all the stir pcoph: make iii the
world about ghosts and apparitions, is owing
to the strength of imagination, and the power-
ful operation of fancy in their minds; that
there is no such thing as a spirit appearing,
or a ghost walking, and the like: that people's
poring affectionately upon the past conversa-
tion of their deceased friends, so realises it to
them, that they are capable of fancying, upon
some extraordinary circumstances, that they see
them, talk to them, and are answered by them,
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow
and vapour in the thing, and they really know
nothing of the matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whe-
ther there are any such things as real appari-
tions,' spectres, or walking of people after they
are dead; or whether there is any thing in the
stories they tell us of that kind, more than the
product of vapours, sick minds, and wandering
fancies: but this I know, that my imagina-
tion worked up to such a height, and brought
me into such excess of vapours, or what else
I may call it, that I actually supposed myself
often upon the spot, at my old castle, behind
the trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday's
father, and the reprobate sailors I leit upon
the island; nay, I fancied I talked with them,
and looked at them steadily, though I was
broad awake, as at persons just before me;
and this I did till I often frightened myself
with the images my fancy represented to me.
One time, in my sleep, I had the villany oftho
three pirate sailors so lively related to me by
he first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it

' was surprising; they told me how they barba-
rously attempted to murder all the Spaniards,
and that they set fire to the provisions they
had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve

' them; things thatI had never heard of, and
that indeed were never all of them true in
fact; but it was so warm in my imagination,
and so realised to me, that, to the hour I saw

' them, I could not be persuaded but that it

was,or would be, true; also how I resented it
when the Spaniard complained to me; and how

I brought them to justice, tried them before

me, and ordered them all three to be hanged.

What here was really in this. shall be seen in

its place: for however I came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse
of spirits injected it, yet. there was, I say, much
of it true. I own, mat this dream had nothing
in it literally and specifically true; but the
general part was so true, the base villanous
behaviour of these three hardened rogues was
such, and had been so much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much
similitude of the fact; and as I would aficr-
wards have punished them severely, so, if I
had hanged them all, I had been much in the
right, and even should have been justified
both by the laws of God and man. But to
return to my story: In this kind of temper I
lived some years; I had no enjoyment of my
life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diver-
sion, but what had something or other of this
in it; so that my wife,' who saw my mind
wholly bent upon it, told me very serlbus!y
one night, that she believed there was some
secret powerful impulse of Providence upon
me, which had determined me to go thither
again: and that she found nothing hindered
my going, but my being engaged to a wife attd
children. She told me, that it was true she
could not think of parting with me; but as
she was assured, that if she was dead it
would he~ the first thing I would do; so, as it
seemed to her that the thing was determined
above, she would notbe the only obstruction;
for, ifI thought fit, and resolved to go--
Here she found me very intent upon her words,
and that I looked very earnestly at her, so
that it a little disordered her, and she stopped.
I asked her, why she did not go on, and say
out what she was going to say? But I per-
ceived that her heart was too full, and some
tears stood in her eyes. .Speak out, my dear,
said I; are you willing I should go? No,
says she, very affectionately, I am far from
willing ; but if you are resolved to go, says
site, and rather than I would be the only hin-
deranee, I will go with you: for though I
think it a most preposterous thing for one of
your years, and in your condition, yet, if it
must be, said she, again weeping, I would
not leave you; for, if it be of Heaven, you
must do it; there is no resisting it: and if
Heaven make it your duty to go, he will also
make it mine to go with you, or otherwise
dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it.

This afi'ectionate behaviour of my wife's
brought Inc a little out of the vapours, and I
began to consider what I was doing; I cor-
rectod my wandering fancy, and began to
argue with myself sedately, what business I
had, after threescore.years, and after such a
life of tedious sufi'orings and disasters, and
closed in so happy and easy a manner; I say,
what business had I to rush into new hazards,
and put myselfupon adventures fit only for
youth and poverty to run into'!

With those thoughts I considered my new
engagement; that I had a wife, one child
born, and my wife then great with child of
another: that I had all the world could give
me, and had no need to seek hazard for gain;
that [was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what I had gained, than
of seeking to increase it; that as to what my
wife had said of its being an impulse from
Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go,
I had no notion of that: so, after many of these
cogitations, I struggled with the power of my
imgination, reasoned myself out of it, as I
believe people may always do in like cases
if they will: and, in a word, 1 conquered it;
composed myself with such arguments as oo-
cured to my thoughts, and which my present
condition furnished me plentifully with; and
particularly, as the most effectual method, I
resolved to divert myself withother things,
and to engage in some business that might
efl'ectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; forI tbund that thing re-
turn upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had
nothing to do, nor any thing of moment im-
mediately before me. To this purpose I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it; and the land
about it, I found, was capable of great im-
provement; and it. was many ways suited to
my inclination, which delighted in cultivating,
managing, planting, and improving of land;
and particularly, being an inland country, I
was removed from conversing among sailors,
and things relating to the remote parts of the
world.

In aword,I went down to my farm, settled
my family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart,
wagon, horses, cows, and sheep, and, setting
seriously to work, became, in one half-year,
a more country gentleman: my thoughts were
entirely taken up in managing my servants,
cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting,
&c.; and I lived, as I thought, the most

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

agreeablelifu that nature was capable of dimt-
ing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes
was capable of retreating to.

l farmed upon my own land ; I had no rent
to pay, was limited by no articles; I could
pull up or cut down as I pleased: what I
planted was for myself, and what I improved
was for my family; and having thus left off
the-thoughts of wandering, I had not the least
discomfort in any part of life as to this world.
Now I thought indeed thatI enjoyed the mid-
dle state of life which my father so earnestly re~
commended to me, and lived a kind of hea-
venly life, something like what is described by
the poet, upon the subject of a country life--

 

" Free from vices, free from care,
kge has no pain, and youth no snare."

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one
blow from unseen Providence unhinged me at
once; and not only made a breach upon mu
inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its
consequences, into a deep relapse of the wan-
dering disposition, which, as I may say, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold
of me, and, like the returns of a violent disp
temper, came on with an irresistible force
upon me, so that nothing could make any
more impression upon me. This blow was
the loss of my wife. It is not my business
here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a
character of her particular virtues, and make
my court to the sex by the flattery ofa funeral
sermon. She was, in afew words, the stay
of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterb
prises, the engine that, by her prudence, re-
duced me to that happy compass I was in
from the most extravagant and ruinous project
that fluttered in my head, as above, and did
more to guide my rambling genius than a mo-
ther's tears, a father's instructions, a. friend's
counsel, or all my own reasoning powers,
could do. I was happy in listening to her
tears, and in being moved by her entreaties;
and to the last degree desolate and dislocated
in the world by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awk-
wardly round me. I was as much a stranger
in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as
much alone, except as to the assistance of
servants, as I was in my island. I knew
neither what to think nor what to do. I saw
the world busy around me; one part labouring
for bread, another part squandering in vile
exceSses or empty pleasures, equally mise-
rable, because the end they proposed still fled
from them; for the men of pleasure every day
surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work
for sorrow and repentance: and the men of
labour spent their strength in daily struggling
for bread to maintain the vital strength they
laboured with: so living in a daily circulation
of sorrow, living but to work, and working but
to live, as ifdaily bread were the only end of
wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only
occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in
my kingdom, the island; where I suffered no
more com to grow, because I did not want it:
and bred no more goats, because I had no
tnore use for them; where the money lay in
the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce
the favour to be looked upon in twenty years.

All these things, had I improved them as I
ought to have done, and as reason and reli-
gion had dictated to me, would have taught
me to search farther than human enjoyments
for a full felicity; and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end
of life, superior to all these things, and which
was either to be possessed, or at least hoped
for, on this side the grave.

But my sage counsellor was gone; I was
like a ship without a pilot, that could only
run afore the wind: my thoughts ran all away
again into the old affair; my head was quite
turned with the whimsies of foreign adven-
tures; and all the pleasant, innocent amuse.
ments of my farm, my garden,my cattle, and
my family, which before entirely possessed me,
were nothing to me, had no relish, and were
like music toonc that has no ear, or food to
one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to
leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and re-
turn to London; and in afew months after, I
did so.

When I came to London, I was still as un-
easy as I was before; I had no relish for the
place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom
it may be said he is perfectly ,useless in God's
creation, and it is not one farthing's matter to
the rest of his kind whether he be dead or
alive. This also was the thing which, of all
circumstances of life, was the meet my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an
active life; and I would oilen say to myself,
A state of idleness is the very dregs of life:
and indeed I thought I was much more suit-
ably employed when I was twenty-six days
making me 'a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693,
when my nephew, whom, as I have observed
before, I had brought up to the sea, and had
made him commander of a ship, was come

133

home from a. short voyage to Bilboa, being tho
fitst he had made. He came to me, and told
me that some merchants of his acquaintance
had been proposing to him to go a voyage for
them to the East Indies and to China, as pri-
vate traders--And now, uncle, says he, if
you will go to sea with me, I will engage to
land you upon your old habitation in the island;
for we are to touch at the Brazils.

Nothing can he a greater demonstration of
a future state, and of the existence of an in-
visible world, than the concurrence of second
causes with the ideas of things which we form
in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not com-
municatd to any in the world.

IVIy nephew knew nothing how far my dis-
temper of wandering was returned upon Inc,
and [knew nothing of what. he had in his
thought to say, when that very morning, be-
fore he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
confusion of thought, and revolving every part
of my circumstances in my mind, come to
this resolution, viz. that I would go to Lisbon,
and consult with my old sea-captain ; and so,
if it was rational and practicable, I would
go and see the island again, and see what was
become of my people there. I had pleased
myself with the thoughts of peopling the place,
and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting
a patent for the possession, and I knew not
what; when, in the middle ofall this, in comes
my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither in his way to the East
Indies.

I paused awhile at his words, and, looking
steadily at him, \Vhat devil, said I, sent you
on this unlucky errand ? My nephew stared,
as if he had been frightened, at first: but
perceiving that I was not much displeased
with the proposal, he recovered himself. I
hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir,
says he; I dare say yott would be pleased to
see your new colony there, where you once
reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother-monarchs in the world. .

' In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with
my temper, that is to say, the prepossession
I was under, and of which I have said so
much, that. I told him, in a few words, if he
agreed with the merchants I would go with
him: but I told him I would not promise to
go any farther than my own island. Why,
sir, says he, you don't want to be left there
again, I hope? Why, said I, can you not
take me up again on your return? He told
me it would not be possible to do so; that the
merchants would never allow him to come
that way with a laden ship of such value, it
beings month'ssailmtofhiswaynndmght
bethreeori'otr. Besides, sir,ifIahould
miscarry,saidhe, andnotreturnatall, then
ywwouldbejustredueedtotheconditionyou
were in before.

Thiswaa very rational; bntwebotbi'ound
out s. remedy for it; which was, to carry a
framed sloop on board theship, which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the Illip,
might, hy the help of some carpenters, whom

weagreedto withus,hesetttpageinin
theisland,andfiniahed,filto gcto sea,ina
fewdeys.

I was not long resolving; for indeed the
importunities of my nephew joined no eti'ec-
tually with my inclination, that nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being
dead, I had nobody yconcerning themselves so
much for Inc as to persuade me to one way or
the other, except my ancient good fiiend the
widow, who earnestly struggled with me to
consider my years, my easy circumstances,
and the needless hoards ofa long voyage;
and, above all, my young children. But it
was all to nopurpose ---I had an irresistible
duire to the voyage ; end I told her I thought
there was something so uncomon in the Im-
pressions I had upon my mind for the voyage,
that' It would be a kind ofresisting Providence
if I should attempt to stay at home: afier
which she ceased her expostulations, end
joined with me, not only in making provision
for my voyage, but also in settling my family-
afl'airs for my absence, end providing for the
education of my children.

In order to this, I made my will, and settled
the estate! had insuchsrnannerformy
children, end placed In such hands, that I was
perfectly yeasy pand satisfied they would have
jttstice done them, whatever might befall me:
and for their education,l' lefl it whollyto the
widow, with a sufficient maintenance to her-
self for her care: all whiehshe richly deserved,
for no mother could have taken more care in
their education, or understood it better: and
ushe lived till I came home, I also lived to
thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to nil about the
beginning of January 1694-5 ; and I, with my
men Friday, went on board in the Downs the
8th: having, besides that sloop which I men-
tioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds ofneeeesarythingsfor my colony- , gowhidn
it'ldid not find in good condition,!resolvcd
toleave so.

First, I carried with me some servants,
whom I to place there as inhabitants,
inatleestto setenworktbere,uponmyac-

r

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CBUSOE.

i
i

eta-It, while I flayed, and eithnto

' that waspro-
per tomaksot'earth, orot'wood; ineword,
we called himouszekofell trades. With
thesel carried ateilor, who had nfl'ered hitrp
aelftogoa passengettothe Ealtlndies with
my nephew, but afierwards consented tostay
onournew plantation; andprovedamost
neoemry, handy fellow, as could be desired,
inmanyotherbusineasesbesides that ofhis
trade: tbr, as I observed formerly, necessity
armsusl'orallemployments.

Mycargo,ssnear as [can recollect,thrI
lave not kept account of the particulars, con-
sistedot'a suficient qusnity oflinen,endsome
English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards
thatI to findthere; and enough of
them, as, by my calculation, might comforts;-
bly supply them for seven years: if I remem-
ber right, the materials I carriedt'or clothing
them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockingv,end
all suchthings as theycould wantt'or wear.
ing, summed to sbovetwo hundred pounds,
including some beds, bddtng, and household
stufi', particularly kitchen utensils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, bras, 8w. andnear abundred
potmdsmoreinironwork,nails, toolsol'every
kind, staples, hooks, hinges, eadevery neces-
sary thing [could think of.

I carried also ahmrdredspare arms, muskets,
andfusees, besides some pistols, aconsidera-
ble quantity of shot of all sizes, three orfour
tonsot'lead, endtwopieces ct'brasscannon;
andbecause I knewnotwhattime andwhat
extremities I was ' ing for, I carried a
hundred barrels of powder, besides swords,
cutlasses, and the iron partot' some pikes and
halberdszaothat, inshort,wehadalarge
magazineofallsortsot'stores: andImaderny
nephew two mil quarterdsck guns
more than he wanted for his dip, to leave
behindiftherewas occasionthat, whenwe
came there,wemightbuildafort, and man it
against all sortsofenemies: and, indeed, I
atfirat thought there would he need enough
forelLandnuIehmere,it'wehopsdtomainIein
ourpo-e-ionot'theialatl'l; asshallbsseen
inthacomseot'thatstory.

I hadnct such bad Iurkinthisw as I
had best used to meet with; and therein.
shall have the le- oceaaim to interrupt the
reader,whopevhapamayheitlpatienttohear
hmvmaumweotwith mycolony:yatsotna
oddaccidentnmro- winia,a.tdhad weamer,
happenedoothi-firstaattingwt,whichm
the voyagelongerthanleapccteditatfim,
andI,whohadnevermde botone voyage,
viz. myfint voyage to Guinee, in which!
mighthonidtoootneback ' althavoy-
age wuatfiretdeeigned, began tothink the
luneillfiatoattendodmo:andtbotlwasborn
he never contented with being on shore,lnd
yettobonlwaye miforumatestaea.

 

135

Conhrywindlfiv'pntutotbe
andwewsreofligedtopnhum
Ireland, whm we by windhotnd mand-
twentydaynhutwehadthi-ntflaetionwith
Ihedimflhntllovilioumhcnexceed-
ingcheap,andinthennnoetplenty;sothat
while weleyhere,wenovertondaedtheship'e
note-,butratheraddedtothetn. Harman!
tooliinoeveral live hog-,andtwooows,with
theircnlvee;whidtlreeolved,iflhodagood
pamge,toputonelwreinmy'uland;hutwe
inmdoccoaiontodisposeotherwiuot'tbem.

 

SECTION XXXI.

ROBUSOK'S SKIP "LEVI! 'l'lfl'. CHI"? 0!" A FRENCH VESSEL m1 BAD CAUGHT
MRI.

"'1: set out on the 5th of February fmrn
Ireland, and had a very fair gnle of wind for
some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late,
when the mate, having the watch, came into
the roundhottse, and told us he saw a. flesh of
fire, and hearda gun fired; andwhile he was
telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all
run out upon the qunrterdech, where, for a while,
we heard nothing: but in a few minutes we
law avery great light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a diatance: im-
mediately we had mcourse to our reckonings,
in which we all greed, that there could be no
land that my in which the fin showed itself,
no, not lbr five hundred leagues, for it ap-
peared at "V. N. W. Upon this we con-
cluded it must be sane ship on fire at m;
and aa,hyourhcaring thsnoiseot'gunsjust
before, we concluded the! it could not be for
ofl', we stood directly towards it, and were
presently satisfied we should discover it, he-
fause, the farther we sailed, the gileater the
ight appeared; though, the vent or being
hazy, wecould ootperceiveanythingbut the
light for a while. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not
much of it, and the weather clearing up a
little, we could plninly discern the: it wua
great lhiponfiro,in themiddle oftheeeu.

lens moat m'blytouchedwith [bindin-

acquainted with the

.7
hlmhwhentakenupbythe Porttk

gum captain; and how much more deplore-
hle the circumstances of the mature-
belonging to that ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them. Upon
this, I immediately ordered that live guns
should he fired, one soon after another; that,
if poaaible, we might give notice to them that
there was help for them at hand, and the: they
might endeavour to save themaelvee in their
boat: fir though we could tea the flamesof
the ship, yet they, it being night, could see
nothing ot'ua.

We lay by some tinnenpoo this, only driving
as the'burning ship drove, waiting for day-
light; when, on a wddctt, to our greet terror,
thoughwehadreason toexpect it, the ship
blew up in the air; and immediately, that ia
to any, in s few minutee, oil the fire was out,
that is to any, the reetofthe chip sunk. This
was a terrible and indeed an oflicting light,
forthesakeofthepoor men; who,Icoo-
eluded, mint eitherbeall destroyed in the ship,
or heinthe utmostdialrusin theirboot,inlhe
middle of the ocean; which, at present, by
reasonit wasdark,[oouldnotsee. How-
ever, to direct a: well u I could. I
camdlights to be ungoutinallthe parts
ofthe ship where we could, and which we hnd
lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night
long; letting them know, by thia, thlt there
was a ahipnot far of.

About eight o'clock in the morning, we di-
covered the ship's heat: by the help of out
perlpective glance; fotmd then were two of
them. both t with people. anddeep in the
water. We perceived they rowed, the wind
being against them; that they saw our ship,
and did their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our evident, to let
them know we saw them, and hung a waft out,
asa signalfor them teeome on board; and
then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In a little more than halfan hour, wecams
upwilhthem; and in a word, took themall
in, being no less than sixty-four men, women,
and children; for there were a great my
passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French
merchant-ship of three hundred tons, home-
bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the
distres ol'his ship; how the lire began' to the
steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but on his crying out for help, was, as every
body thought, entirely put out; but. they soon
found that some sparks of the first fire had
gotten into some part of the ship so difficult. to
come at, that they could not effectually quench
it; and afterwards getting inbetween the tim-
hers, and within the ceiling ofthe ship, it
proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the
skill and all the application they were able to
exert.

They had no more to do then, but to get
into their boats, which to their great comibrt,
were pretty large; being their longboat, artd
a great shallop, besides a small skifl', which
was of no great service to them, other than to
get some fresh water and provisions into her,
after they had secured their lives from the
tire. They had, indeed, small hope of their
lives by getting into these boats, at that dis-
tance from any land; only, asthey said well,
that they were e from the tire, and a
possibility that some ship might happen to he
at sea, and might take them in. They had
sails, oars, and a compass; and were pre-
paring to make the best of their way back to
Newfoundland the wind blowing pretty fair,
for It blew an easy gals at S. E. by E. They
had as much provision and water, as, with
sparing it so as tobe next door to starving,
might support them about twelve days; in
which, if they had nobad weather, and no
contrary winds,the said he hoped he
might get to the Banks of Newfoundland, and
might perhaps take some fish, to sustain them
till they might goonsbore. Butthere wereso
many chancesagainst them in all these cases,
such as storms, to overset and founder them;
rains and cold, to benutnb and perish their
limbs; contrary winds, tokeep themout and
starve them: that it must have been next to
miraculous ii' they had escaped.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

Inthemidstol'thoirmternation, eray
one beinghopeless and ready to despair,the
captain, with tears in his eyes, told me they
were on asudden "prised with the joy of
hearing a gun firs,andafler that fourmore;
these were the five guns which leaused tobe
fired at first seeing the light. This revived their
hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as
above, I desired it' should, viz. that there was
a ship at hand for their help. It was upon
the hearing of these guns, that they took down
their mastvand sails: the sound comingfrotn
the windward, they resolved to lie-by till
morning. Some time after this, hearing no
more guns, they fired three muskets, one a
considerable while alter another: but these,
the wind being contrary, we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still
more agreeably surprised with seeingour lights,
and hearing the guns which, as I have said,
Icausedtobe firedallthe rat ofthenight;
this set them to work with their oars, to keep
their boats ahead, at least, that we might the
sooner come up with them; and, at last, to
their inexprossible joy, they fotmd we saw
them.

It is impossible for lie to exprem the several
gestures, the strange eutasies. the variety of
postures, which thwe poor delivered peopie
ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are
easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and a
very few motions of the bead and hands, make
upths sum of ts variety; but an escessof
joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand ens-ava-
gancss in it: there were some intears; some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had
been In the greatest agonies ol'sot'row; some
stark raving, anddownright lunatic; some ran
about the ship stamping with their l'eet, others
wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing, some laughing, more crying .
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word;
others sick and vomiting; several swooning,
and ready to faint; and al'ew were cussing
themselves, and giving God thinks.

I would not wrong them neither: there
might be my that were thankful afierwards,
but the passion was too for them at
first, andthey werenot ableto master it: they
were thrown into ecstasies, and a kind of
frenzy: and it wasbutavery few thatwere
com and serious in their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have mt.
addition to it from the particular eircuustanes
ot'thst nationthsybelonged to; I meanthe
French, whose temper is allowed to he more
volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly
nndtheirepirite more fluid,tlnn in otherne-
tieos. I emnotphilm'ophereooutho de-
terminethe muse; hutnothing ! hed ever
neenbei'oreoemeuptoit. Tbeeestuieepoor
Friday, my trusty range, we: in, when he
found his felherinthe boet,eemetheneerest
wit;endtheanprise ofthelnesterend his
two oompenione, Whom I delivered from the
villeins thet set themon Ihmintheislend,
come elittle weytowerdsit; hutnothing we:
to oompere to this, either thet I sew in Fri-
day, or en] where else in my life.

It is further observable thet these extrevr
gnnces did not show themselves, in thet dif-
ferent menner l heve mentioned, in difl'erent
person only ; but ell the veriety would eppeer,
ineshort smionofmomenu, in one end
theeerneperson. Amenthet weeew this
minute dumb, end In it were stupid end con~
founded, would the next minute he dencing
end hellooing like In entic; end the next mo-
ment be teering hie heir, or pulling his clothes
to pieces, end mmping them under his feet,
like emedrnnn; in efew moment! ellerthet,
we would heve him ell in teen, then sink,
swooning, end, hed not immediete help been
had, he would in e few moments have been
dead; end thus it wee, not wiflt one or two,
or ten or twenty, hm with the greatest pert of
them: end, if I remember right, our surgeon
wuohliged tolet Noodol'ehout thirty of
them.

There were two priests them, one
enold men,nndtheothereyoung men; and
that which wes wage-t was, the oldest rnen
westheworst. Aesoouuheset hisfoot
on how! our ship, end eew himself eefe, he
dropped down stone deed, to ell eppeerence;
nottheleeeteignoflife oouldbeperoeivedin
him: our surgeon immediately epplied proper
remedies to recover him, end we: the only
men intheehiptlnthelievedhewu not
dead. At length he opened e vein in his em,
having fintchefod end rubbed the pert,>> en
towerm ites much uponihle: upon this the
blood, which only droppedet firm, Bowing freo-
ly, inthm minuteeefier themenopeaed his
eyes; end equerter ol'en houreilerthet he
lpoke, grew better, end in I little time quite
well. Afierthehlood wesetopped,hewelked
about; told us he wen perfectlywell; tooke
dram ot'eordiel which the geve him,
end we whet we celled come to himself.
Abouteqnerterofenboureflerthisnhey
eemerunning intotheeebin to the surgeon,
whowesbleedinge French women thet hed
feinted, end told him the priest wee gone
Mined. Itseemsbehedbegutomolre

137

the of his circunietenees in his mind,
endegeinlhieputhimintoeneestuy ofjoy;
his spirit whirled ebout filter than the vee-
seleoouldconveydietnfiheblood grewhot end
feverieh,endthemen was es lit forBedlemu
enyueetuethet everwesinit: theeurgeon
would not bleed him egein in thetoondition,
but gave him something to done end put him
to Ileep, which, efterme time, opented upon
him, end he ewoke next morning perfectly
composed and well.

The younger priest boheved with greet
commend ofhis pe-ione, end we! reelly en
example of eserious, well mind: et
his first coming on boerd the chip, he threw
himself Bet on his Cece, prootreting himself in
thenkfulneee for his deliverenw, in which I.
unheppily end Wehly disturbed him,
really thinking he hedbeon in e. swoon; but
he spoke oelmly, thanked me, told me he was
giving God thanks fix his deliverenee; begged
me tole'eve him e few moments, end thet,
next to his Maker, he would give me thenke
elso. ,

I we: heartily the: I disturbed him,
end not only no him, but kept others from in-
terrupting him else. He continued in the!
posture ehout three minutes, or little more,
efierllenhimuheneemetome," he hed
seid he would, end, with e greet deel of eeri-
ousness end efl'eotion, but with teen in his
eyes, dunked me, that hed, under God. given
him, end so meny miserable metuee, their
lives. [told himlhed noroomtomove him
to thenk God for it, rather then me, for I hul
seen thetheheddonethetnlreedy; but,led-
ded,thet it was nothing but whet reason end
humenity diotetedtoell men, end thet we hed
es much reesonuhe togive thenks toGod,
who hed blessed Ito-0W," tomelro us the
instruments of his mercy to so many of his
oreetures.

Alter thin, the young priest epplied himself
to his country-folks; leboured to compose
them; pemteded, untreated, ergued, reasoned
with then), end did his utmmt tokeep them
within the exercised theirreeson; end with
some he hed success, other: were for
e timeout ofell governmtot' themselves.

I eennot help committing this to writing,
esperhepsitmeyhe useful tothoeeinto
whose hends it my fill, forth: guiding them-
selves in ell the extrevegenoee ol'their pes-
riom;l'orifenenee.ol'joyeen men
outtoeuche length beyond thenechol'their
reeson, whet will not the extrevngenoee of
enger, rege, end e provoked mind, oerrytl
to? And, indeed, here I new roe-on it
keeping an exceeding watch ovsrour passions
of every kind, as well those of joy and satis--
faction, as those of'sorrow and anger.

We were something disordered, by these
extravagancea among our new guests, for the
first day; but when they had been retired,
lodgings provided for them as well as our
ship would allow, and they had slept heartily
--as most of them did, being fatigued and
frightened--they were quite another sort of
people the next day.

Nothing of manners, or civil acknow-
ledgments for the kindness shown them, was
wanting; the French, it is known, are natu-
rally apt enough to exceed that way. The
captain and one of the priests came to me the
next doy,and desired to speak with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult
with us whatahould be done with them; and,
first, they told in that we had saved their lives,
aoall they hadwas little enough for a return
to us for that kindness received. The cap-
tain said they had saved some money, and
some thi of value, intheir boats, couched
hastily out of the flames, and if we would ac-
cept it, they were ordered to make an ofi'er
of it all to us; they only desired to be set on
shore somewhere in ourway, where, ifpoe-
sible, they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at
first word, and to consider what to do with
them afterwards; but lover-ruled him In that
part, for I knew what it was to be seton shore
in a strange country: and if the Portuguese
captain that took me up atsea had served me
so, and tookall I had for my deliverance, I
must have starved, or have been as much a
slave at the Bruits as I had been at Barbary,
the mere beingsold to a Mahometan excepted:
and perhaps aPorIugut-ee is not a muchbelter
master than a Turk, if not, in some cases,
much worse.

I therefore told the French captain that we
had taken them up in their distress, it was
true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow creatures; and we would desire to
be so delivered, if we were in the like, or any
other extremity; that we had done nothing
tbr them but what we believed they would
have done for us, if we hadbeen in their case,
andthey in ours; butthat we tookthem up
to save theta, not to plunder them; and it
would be a most barbarous thing to take that
little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set then: on shore endleave

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUBOE-

them;thatthia wouldbohattonve the.
lion: death, and then kill Ibetnotlselves; save
them from drowning,andabandon them>>
starvingzandtheretbrel wouldnntlet the
leaatthingbe takenfiotn them. Auto-suing
thetnon shore,I told tbatn,iudeed,thatwas
an exceeding difficulty to us, tbr that the ship
wasbotmd totheEastIndies; andtboughwo
were driven out ofour course to the westward
averygreat way, and perhaps were directed
by Heaven on pu for their deliverance,
yet it was impmsible for us wilfully to change
our voyage on their particular account ;. nor
could my nephew, the captain, ansWer It to
the freighters, with whom he was under
charteruparty to pursue his vo by the way
of Brazil: and all I knew we could do for
them, was to put ourselves in the way of
meeting with other ships human-std bound
from the West Indies, and get them a pas-
sage, ifpoasible, to England or France.

The firstpart ol'the propodwu so ge-
nerousnndkind, they could not butbe very
thankful thr it; hutthey were in a very great
consternation, especially the passengers, at
the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; they then entreated _me, that seeing
I was driven so fir to the westward before I
met with them, I would at least keep on the
came course to the Banks of Newfoumllami,
where it was probable I might meet with some
ship or sloop that they might hire to carry
them back to Canada, Gout whence they
came. ,

Ithought this was but a reasomble
on their part, and therefore I inclined to agree
to it: for, indeedJconsidt-red that tocarry
this whole company to the East Indies, would
not only be an intolerable severity upon the
poor people, but would be ruining our whole
voyage, by devouring all ourprovisions: so I
thought it no breach of charter-party, but
what an unforeseen accident made absolutella
may tous,and in which no one oou
say we were to blame; for the laws ot'God
and nature would have forbid that we should
refuseto take up tweboatafull ot'people insuch
a distressed condition; and the nature of the
thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor
people, obliged us to set them on shore some-
where or other for their deliverance: so I con-
sented that we would carry them to New
foundland, il' wind and weather would pernnt,
and il'not, that Iwould earrythetn them to
Martinico, in the West Indies.
'139

SECTION XXII.

BELIEVE! THE CREW OF A BRISTOL 5811', WHO "I STABVlflac--ABBIVES A'l'
HIS 13ml).

Tn: wind continued fresh easterly, but the
weather pretty good; end as the winds had
continued in the points between N. E. end
S. E. a long time. we mused several oppor-
tunitiee of sending them to France; for we
met several ships bound to Europe, whereof
two were French, from St. Chriswphers; but
they had been so long beating up against the
wind, that they durst take in no passengers,
for feer of wanting provisions for the voyage,
as well (or themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was
about a week after this that we made the
Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten
my story, we put ell our French people on
board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them onshore,snd et'terwards to carry
them to France, if they could get provisions
to victunl themselves with. When I say, all
the French went onshore, I should remember,
that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we
were bound to the East Indies, desired to go
the voyage with l5," beset onshore on the
coast of Corotnnndel; which I readily agreed
to, for! wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good mason, II will nppeer afterwards:
also four of the seamen entered themselves
on our ship, and proved very ueei'ul fellows.

From hence we directed our eoum for the
"'est Indies, steering nwny S. and S. by E.
for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or nowind It all; when we met with
another subject for our humanity to worlt upon,
almost as deplorable an that before.

It was in the latitude of twenty-men de--
greee five minutes north, on the 19th day of
March, 1694-5, when we spied s ail, our
course 8. E. endby 8.; wesoon perceived
itwnsn lnrge venel,endthntdieboreupto
us,buteouldnot etfiretknowwhnttomke
of her, till, ei'ter coming n little nearer, We
found the hndlostberntnin topmut,f0rEURm
end boweprit; andpreeently she fired 3 gun,
Isa signal of distress: the weether was
pretty good, wind ntN. N.W.a fieeh glle,
end wesoonqrne toepeeh witbber.

We {mind her ediip ofBristol, bound bone
from but bed been blown outol
theroad etBarbednee,sfewdny'ahofixe the

' i

was reedy w nil, by e terrible hurricane,
while the eeptnin end chief mate wereboth
goneon shore; sothnt,besides theterror of
the storm, they were in In .indifl'erent else
liar good artists to bring the ship home. They
hldbeennlnsdynine weehnt een,and had
met with mother terrible storm, after thehur-
rieene was over, which had blow them quite
out of their knowledge to the westwnrd. end
in which they lost their mute, as above.
They told us they expected to have seen the
Bahama islands, but were then driven nwny
again to the soothe-st, by a strong gale or
windat N. N. W. the some that blewnow:
and having no mile to work tbeship with but
a maincourse,andnkind ofequnre eailupon
e jury foremut, which they had set up, they
could not lie near the wind, but were endea-
vouring to stand ewey for the Camden.

But that which wu worstol' ell was, that
they were almost starved for want of provi-
sions, besides thefetigues they had undergone:
their bread end flesh were quite gone; they
bednotoneouneelet'tintherhip, sndbtd
none for eleven daye. The only relief they
hndwu, their wnterwas not nllepent, end
theth sbouthell'nbarrel offlour lelt; they
hedsuguenough; me encodes, orsweer-
meets, they had nt firet, but they were de-
voured; andtheyhedseveocnfisofrum.

There weresyouthandhis mother, end n
midservant, on board, who weregoing pu-
sengers, andthinhing theshipwnsready to
soil, unhoppily earns on bosrd the evening
bebre the hurricane begun; and hsving no
provisions of theirown leh, they were in s
more deplorable condition than the rest: fix
the seamen, being reduced to adult extreme
necessity themselves, had no canoes-ion, we
maybesureJorthepotl' pe-engers; end
they were, indeed, in n condition, that their
misery is very herd to describe.

I had not known this pert, il'tny
curiosity had not led me (the wentberbeing
fiir,andthe windshtsd)togo onboerdthe
ship. Theseeondnnte,wbouponthisoo-
onion, commode-'1 the drip, bed been <<I
boudourehip, endbe'toldtne, indeed, they
had three pea-eager: in the greet enbin, thnt
were in a deplorable cortdition: Nay, says
he,I believe they are dead, for I have heard
nothing of thorn for shove two days: and I
was afraid to inquire alter them, said he, for
I had nothing to relieve them with.

We immediately applied otnaelvee to give
them what relief we could spare; and, indeed,
I had so far overruled things with my nephew,
that I would have victualled them though we
had gone away to Virginia, or any other part
of the coast of America, to have'supplied our-
selves; but there was no neceaity for that.

But now they were in a new danger; for
they were afraid of eating too much, even of
that little we gave them. The mate or com-
mander taia men with him in his boat;
but these poor wretches loolted like skeletons,
and were so weak, that they could hardly sit
to their nars. The mate himself was very ill,
and half-starved; for he declared he had re-
served nothing from the men, and went share
and share alike with them in every hit they ate.

1 cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set
meal before him immediately; and he had not
eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stopped a while,
and our surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said would he to him
both food and physio; and after he had taken
it, he grew better. In the mean time, I forgot
not the men; I ordered victuals to be given
them ; and the poor creatures rather devoured
than ate it: they were so exceeding hungry,
that they were in a kind ravenous, and had no
command of themselves; and two of them ate
with so much greedine's, that they were in
danger of their lives the next morning.

The sight of these people's distress was
very moving to me, and brought to mind what
I had a terrible of at my first coming
on shore in my island, where I had never the
least mouthfirl of food, or any prospect of pro-
curing any; buides the hourly hensions
[had of heingtnade thefood ofother are>>
lures. But all the while the mate was thus
relating to me the miserable condition of the
ship's company, I could not put out of my
thought the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin, viz. the
mother. her son. and the maidservant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three days,
and whom, he seemed to confess, theyhad
wholly neglected, their own extremities being
so at: by which I understood, that theth
realy given them no food at all, and that
therefore they must be peridted, and be all
lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or ded of
the cabin.

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 03350:.

Asltheretore keptthetnate,wh4an we
then called captain, on board with his men, to
refresh them," I aboforgot notthe starving
crew that were let} on board; butortlered my
ownboattogoon board theahip, and,with
my mate and twelve men, to them a
sachefhread,andfourorfive piecesot' beef
to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to
cause the-meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room, to pre-
vent the metr taking it toeat raw, or takin
it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and
then to give every man but a very little at a
time: and by this caution he preserved the
men, who would otherwise have killed them-
selves with that very food that was given them
on purpose to save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go
into the great cabin, and see what condiuon
the poor-passengers were in; and ifthey were
alive, to comfort them, and give them what
refreshment was proper: and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth which he had given the mate
that was on board, and which he did not ques-
tion would restore them gradually.

I wasnotsatisficd with this; but, as! said
above, having a great mind to see the scene
of misery which I knew the ship itself would

nt me with, in a more lively manner
than I could have it by report, I took the cap-
tain of the ship, as we now called him, with
me, and went myself, a little after in their
boat.

Ifuund the poor men onhoard almostina
tumult, to get. the victuala out of the boiler
before it was ready; but my mate observed
his orders, and ltept a good guard at the cook-
room door ; and the man he placed there, afler
using all possible persuasion to have patience,
kept them od' by force: however, he caused
some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the pot,
and eofiened with the liquor of the meat,
which they called brew-is, and gave them
every one some, to stay their stmnachs, and
told them it was for their own safety the! he
was ohligedto give thembut littleatatime.
But itwasallinvain;and had Inotcorne
on board, andtheirowneotnmanderand ofi-
cers with me, and with good words, and some
threats also of giving them no more, I believe
they would have broken into the eoehoroom by
force. andtom the meat out ofthefinnaee;
forwards are indeed ofverysmallforcetoa
hungry belly: however, we pacifiedthem, and
fed themgratluallyand cuttimllythrtbefi-et,
andthenexttimegavethentnore,andatlaat
tilled theirhelliee, andthe mendid wetlctongh
But the misery of the poor passengers in

the cabin was ofanother nature, and tar be-
yond the rest; fora: theahip' s companyhad
so little for themselves, it was but too true
that they had atfirstkept lhemvery low,and
at last totally neglectedthern; so that for six
or seven days it might be said they had really
nofiIod stall, andforseveral days beforoVery
little. The poor mother, who, u the men
reported, waaawomanofsensoandgood
breeding, had spared all she could so afi'cc-
Iionately for her son, that at last she entirely
sunk under it; and when the mate of ourship
went in, she sat upon the flooror deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two
chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head
sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mste said all he
could to revive and e her, and with a
spoon put some broth into her mouth. She
opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but
could not speak; yet she undemood what he
said, andmade signs to him, intimating that
it "as too late for her, but pointed to her
child, as if she would have said they should
take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, en-
dcnvoured to get some of the broth into her
mouth, and, as he said, two or three
spoonfuls down; though I question whether
hocould be sureot'it ornot: but it was too
late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the pm>>
of his most afl'ectionate mother's life, was not
so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one
stretched out, with hardly any life lefl. in him.
Hehadapieceofanold glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it: however, being
young, and having more strength than his
mother, the mate got something down his
throat. and he began sensiblyto revive; though
by giving him, some time after, but two or
three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very
sidt. and brought' It up again.

But the next care was the maid: she
lay all slang upon the dad, hard by her mis-
tress, and just like one that badl'allon down
withsnapoplesy ,and struggledl'or life. Her
limhsweecdistorted; oned'herhandswu
clasnodrotmddtefi-ameofachair, andshe
gripeditsohard,thatwe could not easily
make her let it go: her other arm lay over
her head, and her he! lay both together, set
fut againd the flame of the cabin-table: in
Mshelay just likeonein the agooiesof
death, and yet Jsho was alive too.

The poor cream was not only starved
With hunger. and terrified with the thoughts

141

ofdeath,bot,asthementoldnsafierwards,
was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom
she saw dying hr twoor three days before,
and whom she loved most tenderly.

We knewnotwhat todo wIth this poor girl;
ixwhenoursurgeon, whownramsnot'rery
great knowledge and experience, had, with
great application, recovered her as to life, he
hadherupon h'n hands as Inheraenses; for
she was little_lcss than distracted fix a consi-
derable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandum
must be desired to consider, that visits at sea
are not like a journey into the country, where
sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at
a place: our husinesuvas, toreliove this dis-
tressed ship's crew, but not lie hyfor them;
and though they were willing to steer the
same course with us fix some days, yet we
could carryno sail, to keep pace with n ship
that had no mast: however, as their captain
heggedoftn to help him toaetupamaintop-
nIsst,and a kind oft topmast to hisjury thre-
mast, we did, as it were, lie by- him' for three
or four days -and then having given him five
barrelsof y'heef, oherrelol' pork, twohogs-
heads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas,
flour, and whatother thingawecouldspare;
and taking three cosh of sugar, some rum,
andsome pieceaof eight fromthem for satis-
faction, we let! them; taking on board with
us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years
ofagc;n prey,tt,wellbredmodest,andsensi-
ble youth, greatly dejected with the loss of Ms

mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father
but a few months berm, at Barbadoes: he
beggedofthesurgeon to speak tome to take
him wt of the ship: fhr he said the cruel fel-
lows had murdered h'u motherzand , andindced,
so they had, that Is to say. passively: for they
might "have n small "trance to the
poor helpless widow, that might have an-
ed her lifis, though it had been but just enough
to keep her alive: but hunger knows no friend,
no relation, no justice, no right; and therefore
is remorseless, and capable ofno compassion.

The surgeon told him howt'ar we were

going, and that it would carry him away from
allhisiiiends,andputhim inasbad
circumstances almost as those we bund him
in,thstistosay, starvinghztheworld. Ho
saiditmatterednotwh hewenyi'he
was but delivered from the terrible mwlhat
hewas ;thattheeaptain(bywhiehhe
meant me, for he could know nothing of'my_
nephew) had saved his life,andhewasus
would nothnn him; andasfor the maid, he
wusuro, it'sbeeametohsnelf,ahs would be
very thankful for it, lotus anythemwbese we
would. The surgeon represented the case so
ati'ectionately to me, that I yielded, and we
tookthelnbothon bosrd,with slltheir goods,
except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could
notbe removed orcome at; andasthe youth
had abillof lending forthetn, Imadehia oom-
mander sign a writing, obliging himself to go,
assoonas he carnetoBristol,tooneMr.
Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, and to deliver a letter
which I wrote to him, and all the goods he
had belonging to the deceased widow; which
I suppose was not done, for I could never
learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was,
as is mom probable, lost at sea; being inso
disabled a condition, and so far from any land,
thal I am ofopinion thefirststormshemet
with afterwards she might founder in the sea;
for she waslealtyand had damageinherhold,
when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of nineteen de-
grees thirty-two minutes, and had hithertoa
tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the wind: had been contrary. I shall trouble
nobody with the little incidents of wind, wea-
ther, currents, Ste. on the rest of our voyage;
but, to shorten my story, for the sake of what
is to follow, shall observe, that I came to my
old habitation, the island, on the mm of April,
1695. It was with no small difliculty that I
found the place; ibr as I came to it, and went
from it, before,ott thesouth and east side of the
island, as coming fiom the Brazils, so now, com-
ing in between the main and the island, and
having nochart for the coast, nor any land-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUBOE.

mark, Ididmhmwhwhenlmwh,"
know whetherI saw it or not.

We heat about a great while, and went
on shore onseveral islandsiathe mouth
ot'thegrestriver 0rnnooo,but nonefor my
purposegonlythisl learnedby my coasting.
the shore,tlutlwaatmderonegreatmistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought
I saw from the island! lived in, was really
no continent, but a long island, or rather a
ridge ofislands, reachingfrom one to the other
side of the extended mouth of that great river;
and that the savages who came to my island
were not properly those which we call Carib-
bees, but islanders, and other barbarians of
the same kind, who inhabited something
nearer to ourside than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands
tono purpoee;somel found were inhabited,
andsomewere not: on meoflhern I found
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived
there; but speaking with them, fiund they
hadaslooplayina smallcreek hard by,and
came thitherto make salt and to catch some
pearl musclee, ifthey could; but that they be-
longed to the Isle do Trinidad, which lay
farther north, in the latitude often and eleven
degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to mother,
sometimes with the ship, sometimes with the
Frenchman's shallop, which we had found a
convenient boat, and therefore kept her with
their very will, at length I came fair on
the south side of my island, and presently
knew the very countenance of the place: so I
brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside
with thelittle creek where my old habitation
was.

 

SECTION XXXIII.

ROBINSON AND IBIDAY co ASEOBE.--TKB LANE! MEETS \VI'I'H HIS FATHER-'-
ACCOUNT or WHAT PASSED OI! THE ISLAII'D AFTER BOBIISON'B le'll'a IT.

Assoonasl sawtheplace,I called for
Friday, and asked him if he knew where he
was; he looked about a little, and prmtly
clapping his hands, cried, 0 yes, 0 there, 0
yes, 0 there, pointing to our old habitation,
andfelldancingandcapering liheamsd
follow; and I hadmudi ado to keep him fi'om
Jumpingintothesea,toswimashae tothe

place.
Well. Friday, says I, do you think we

shall find any body here who? and do you
thinkweshall see your father? Thefellow
stood mute as a stock a good while, but when
Imedhis father, thepoorafl'ectionate crea-
ture looked dejected," Icould seethetears
run down his face very plentifully. What is
the matter, Friday? says! ; are you troubled
because you may see you father? No, no,
sayshe,shahing hisbead, noses him more:
no,nevermoreseehimagain. Why-nail",
   

<<aa.

Friday? how do you know that? 0 no, 0 no,
says Friday; he long ago die, long ago; he
much old man. Well, well, says I, Friday,
you don't know; but shall we see any one
else then? The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points to the hilljust above
my old house; and though welay half a league
off, he cries out, We see, we see, yes, yes,
we see much man there, and there, and there.
I looked, thtI saw nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass, which was, I supposc,be-
came I could not hit the place; for the fel-
.ow was right, as I found upon inquiry the
next day; and there were five or six men all
together who stood to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think ofus.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people,
I caused the English ancient to be spread,
and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of
an hour after, we perceived a smoke arise
from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me;
and hanging out awhite flag, or a. flag oftruce,
I went directly on shore, taking with me the
young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told
the story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular both of myself and
those I left there; and who was, on that ac-
count, extremely desirous to go with me. We
had besides about sixteen men well armed, if
we had found any new guests there which we
did not know of; but. we had no need of wea-
pens.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood,
near high water, we rowed directly into the
creek; and the first man I fixed my eye upon
was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and

gas. ' .,

mug-MN, ., 523$sz

143

    
   

w;

whom I knew by his face perfectly wel ' as to
his habit, I shall describe it afterwards 1 or-
dered nobody to goon shore at. first but my-
self; bttt there was no keeping Friday in the
boat, for the alfectionato creature had spied
his father at a distance, a good way otfthe
Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of
him ; and ifthey had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no
sooner on shore, but he flew away to his
father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the
firmest resolution, to have seen the first trans-
ports of this poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms,
set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any
one would look at a strange picture, for a quar--
ter of an hour together; then lay down on the
ground, antl stroked his legs, and kissed them,
and then got. up again, and stared at him; one
would have thought the fellow bewitched.
But it would have made a dog laugh the next
day to see how his passion ran out another
way; in the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as if
he had been a lady; and every now and then
he would come to the boat to fetch something
or other for him, either a lttmp of sugar, :1
dram, a biscuit-cake, or something or other
that was good. In the afternoon his frolics
ran another way; for then he would set the
old man down upon the ground and dance
about him, and make a thousand antic pos-
tures and gestures; and all the. while he did
this, he would be talking to him, and teiliw
him we story or other of his travels, and of
what had happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short,il' the same filial afl'eetion was
tabs fund in Christiansto their parents in
our panof the world,one would be tempted
to say, there would hardly have been any
need of the filth commandment.

But this is a digression: I return to my
landing. It would be needless to take notice
of all the ceremonies and civilitics that the
Spaniards received me with. The first Spa-
niard, who, as I said, I ltnew very well, was
he whose life I had saved; he came towards
the boat, attended by one more, carrying a
flagot'trucealso; andhenot only did not
knowmeat first, but he had no thoughts, no
notion of its being me that was come, till I
spoke to him. Senhor, said I, in Portuguese,
doyou not know me'! At which he spoke not
a word, but giving his musket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly
near, came forward and embraced me: telling
me he was inexcusable not to know that face
again, that he had once seen as if an angel
from heaven sent to save his life: he said
abundance of very handsome things, as a well
bred Spaniard always knows how; and then
beckoning to the person that attended him,
bade hinge and call out his comrades. He
(hcuaakedme ifIwouldwalk to my old ha-
bitation, where he would give me ion
ofmyowa house again, and where I should see
they had made but mean improvements: so I
walked alongwith him; but alas! Icouldno
morsfindtheplace again thaniflhad never
been there: for they had planted so many
trees, and placed them insuch aposture, so
thick and close to one another, and in ten
years' time they were grown so big, that, in
short, the was inaccessible, except by
such windings and blind ways as they them-
selves only, who made them, could find.

I asked them what put them upon all these
ibrtifications: he told meI would say there
was need enough of it, when they had given
meanaccotmthow theyhad passed their
time silica their arriving in the island, espe-
cially after they had the misfontme to find that
I was gone. He told me he could not but
have some satisfaction in my good fortune,
whenheheardthath-asgone iuagood
ship, and lomysatiafaction: and that hehad
nficntimes a strong persuasion that, one time
orcther,heshould see meagain: butnothing
that ever befell him inhis life, he said, was
so surprising and amieting to him at first, as
the disarrpuintmenthswastmder whabs

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

camehaektotheislandandfouodlwunot
there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called
them) that were lefl behind, and ofwhom. he
said, he had a long story to tell me, the Spa-
niardsall t themselves much better among
the savages, only that their number was so
small: and, says he, had they been strong
enmgh, we had been all long ago in purga-
tory ; and with that he crossed himself on the
breast. But, sir, says he, I hope you will not
be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced
by necessity, we were obliged, for our own
preservation, to disarm them, and make them
our subjects, who would not be content with
being moderately our masters, but would be
our murderers. I answered, I was heartin
afmid of it when I left them there, and no-
thingtrnubled me at my parting from the island
but that they were not come back, that I
might have put them in ' of every
thing first, and let! the others in a state of
subjection, as they deserved: but if they had
reduced them to it, I was very gtad, and
should be be very far from finding any fault
with it: for! know they were a parcel of re-
fractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for
any manner of mischief.

While I was thus saying this, the mancame
whom he had sent back, and with him eleven
menmore. In the drecsthey were in, itwas
impossible to guess what nation they were of;
but he made all clear, both to them and to me.
First he timed to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, sir, are some of the gentlemen
who owe their lives to you; and then turning
to them, and pointing to me, heletthem know
who I was; upon which theyall came up,one
by one, not as it'theyhad been sailorsandor-
dinary fellows, and the like, but really as if
they had been ambassadors of nobleman, and
I a monarch or great conqueror: their beha-
viour was tothe lastdegree obligingand
courteous, and yet raised with a manly, ma-
jestic gravity, which vary well became them;
and,inshort,theyhadsomuC/moremanoers
than I, that Iscarceknewhowtnrcceire their
civilities, much less how to rem them in
kind.

Thehistoryot'theircomingto, andcondnet
in,the island.atter my going away,issovery
remarkable, and has so many incidents, whim
theformerpartol'myrelatitmwillhelptomi-
dcmand,andwhieh will,in mtat'theparti--
culars.refer tpthsaccount Ihave
given,thallclllllthnmmil them,with
greatdelight, to themadingot'thmsthsteoms
after me.
Iehallnolatgertronblethertory withere-
lation in the first person, whieh will pnt me to
tbeexpemeofteothot-and enid Pa, android
he's, end hebldme'e, and Itoldln'm'e,and the
like; but I shall collect theficta historically,
es nearael een getherthem outofmyme-
story, from whattbeyrelated tome,endfrom
what. I met with in my cunning with them
and with the plane.

harder to do thissneeinctlynnd esintelli-
gibly as I can, I mtltgohachtothecircum-
stoneesinwhichlleittheialand,andinwhieh
theperaonswereofwhomlem tospeek.
And first, it is torepeet, that 1 bed
sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard
(the two whose lives [bad muted from the
savages) in a large canoe, tothe main," I
then thought it, to fold: over the Spaniard's
companions that he left behind him, in order to
save them from the like calamity that he had
beenin,andin ordertomoeotn-themforthe
present; and that, if possible, we might toge-
ther find some wny for our deliverance after-
wards.

When I sent them away, I had no visible
appearance of, orthe least room to hope for,
my own deliverance, any more than I had
twenty years before, mudt less had I any fore-
knowledge of what aflerwards happened, I
mean, of an English ship coming on shore
theretofetch me off; and it could nothutbe
a very ' to them, when they come
back, not only to find that! was gone, but to
find three strangers lot! on the spot, timed
of all that I had lefi behind me, which would
otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired
into, that I might begin where I left od', wes
oftheirownpert; end I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage hack to
his ootmtrymen with the boat, when I sent. him
to fetch them over. He told me there was
little variety in that part, tor nothing retltxtrlr~
able to them on the way, having had
veryeehnweatherandasmootheea. Ash-
his countrymen, it could not be doubled, he
said, but that they were overjoyed to see him,
(itseemihe wee theprincipallnanamong
them, the captain of the vessel they had been
shipwrecked in living been dead some time t)
theywere, hereid,themoreeurprieed toaee
him,hecetletheyhnewthethewaafellen
into the hands ofthe ea , who, they were
Iatiefied,woulddevourhim,eethey did allthe
reatoftheirprieoners; thatwhenhetoldthem
the-toryot'hiedeliverenee, endinwhatmen-
norhewufinnished for carrying them away,
i was lie a dream to them, and their astonish-

10

145

ment, he said, was somewhat like that of
Joseph's brethren, who he told them who he
was,and toldtherntheetory of his sanitation
in Pharaoh's court ; but when heabowed them
the arms, the powder, the bell, and provisions,
that he brought them for their jotrney or voy-
age, they were restored to thewlves, took a
just share of thejoy of their deliverance, end
immediately prepared to come away with him.

Their first hueirtes was to get canoes: and
in this they were obliged not to stick so much
uponthe honeetpart ot'it,buttotrespueupon
their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, orperieguee, on pretence ofgoing out
a fishing, or firr pleastre. In these they came
away the next morning. It seems they went-
ed no time to getthemselvesreedy; it they
had no baggage, neither.elothee nor isions,
nor any thing in the world but what they bed
on them, and a few rootsto eat, of which they
used to malts their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent; and
in that time, tmluehily for them, I had the oc--
eesion ofl'ered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to getofl'fmmthe island,
leaving three of the most impudent, hardened,
nogoverned, disagreeable villains behind me,
that any man could desire to meet wtth; to
the poor Spaniarde' greet griefand disappoint-
ment, you may be sure. .

The only just thing the rogues did was,
that when the Spaniards eerne ashore, they
gave my letter to them, and gave them prove-
sions, and other relief, as I hed ordered them
lode; also they gavethem the long paper of
directions which I had left with them, con-
taining the particular methods which I took
for ' every part of my life there ; the
way how Ihaltedmyhread, bredupteme
goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my
grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every
thing I did; all this being written down, they
gave to the Spaniards, (two of them under>>
stood English well enough :) nor did they re-
fuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any
thing else, for they agreed very well for some
time. They gave them an equal admission
into the house, or cave, and they began to live
very aociably; and the head Spaniard, who
hadeeenprettymuehofmy methods,end
Friday's Ether together, all their
affairs: but as lie- the Englishmen, thoydid
nothingbutratnbleehoottbeialand,ehoot

, end well tortoises; and when they
came home at night, the Spaniards provided
their slippers for them. _

The Spaniards would have been satisfied
with thir,had theothenr he let themalene;
Which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the man-
ger, they would not eat themselves, neither
would they tot the others eat. The differences,
nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such
as are not worth relating, but at last it broke
out into open war: and it began with all the
rudeness and insolence that can be imagined,
without reason, without provocation, contrary
to nature, and, indeed, to common sense: and
though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may
call the semtsers, yet when I came to exa-
mine tlte fellows, they could not deny a word
of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this
part, I must supply a defect in my former rela-
tion; and this was, I Mot. to set down,
among the rest, that just as we were weighing
the anchor to set sail, there happened a little
quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once
afraid would have turned to a second mutiny;
nor was it a till the captain, rousing
up his courage, and taking us all to his assist-
anne, them by force, and makingtwo
of the most refractory fellows prisoners, be
bid them in irons; and as theyhad been active
in the runner disorders, and let fall some ugly,
dangerous words, the second time he threat-
ened to carry them in ironstoEngland, and
have them there for mutiny, and run--
ning away with theship. This, it scents, though
the captain did not intend to do it, frightened
some other men in the ship; and some of
thomhad putit intotheheadsot'the rest that
the captain only gave them good words for the
present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into
gaol. and triedfitr their lives. The male got
intelligenceot'this, and acquainted us with it;
upon which it was desired that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go
down with the nate, and satisfy the men, and
tell them that they might be assured, if they
behaved well the restot' the voyage, all they
had done for the time put should be pardoned.
So I went, and after passing my honour's word
tothem,theyappeared aasy,and lhernoreso
when I caused the two menthat were in irons
to be released and forgt

Butthis mutiny hadm tostoanandtor
for that night; thewindalsofallingealm next
morning, we found that ourtwotnen who had
heenlaid in irenshsdstoleeachofthesna

Mandaduotherweapens, (whatpowder

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

orahot they had we knew not,) and had taken
the ship's pinnaoe, which was not yet baled
up, and run away with her to their companions
inrogueryon shore. As soon as wet'ound
th'u, I ordered the t on shore, with
twelve men and the mate, and away they went
to seek the rogues ; but they could neither find
them or any of the rest, for they all tied into
the woods when they saw the boat coming on
shore The male was onceresolved, m justice
to their roguery, to have destroyed their plan-
tations, humed all their hottscholdstufl' and
fumiture, and left them to shift without it; but
having no orders, he let it all alone, ten every
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace
away, came on board without them. These
two man made their number five; but the
other three villains were so touch more winked
than they, that an." they had been two or
tltreedays together, they turned the two new
comers out ol'doors to shill for themselves, and
would have nothing to do with them; nor could
they, for a good while, be persuaded to give
them any food: as for the Spaniards, they
were not yet come.

When the Spaniards came first on shore,
the business began to go lbnvard : the Spaniards
would have persuaded the three English brutes
to have taken in their two countrymen again,
that, as they said, they might be all one fa-
mily; but they would not hear of it: so the
two poor fellows lived by themselves , and
finding nothing but industry and application
would make them live comfortably, they pitch-
ed their tents on the north shore of the island.
but a little more to the west, to be out orderi-
ger of the savages, who alwaya landed on the
em parts ofthe island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge
in, and they other to lay up their magazines
and stores in; and the Spaniards having given
them some corn for seed, and especially some
of the peas which I had lefl them, they dug,
planted. and enclosed, aficr the pattern I had
set for them all and began to live pretty well-
Their first crop of corn wason the ground;
and though it was but a little bit of land which
they had dug up at first, having bad But a little
time, yet it was h to relieve them, and
find them with bread and other eatables; and
one of the fellows, being the oooh'amate of the
ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings,
and such other prepuatiom as the rice and th
milk, and such littlefleah as they Matr-
niahed him to do-
THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED.----QUARRELS BET'VEEN THE ENGLISHMEN.--A BAT-
TLE BET'VEEN '1'"'0 PARTIES OP SAVAGES \VHO VISIT THE ISI.AI\'D.---FI{ESH

MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.

THEY were going on in this little thriving
posture, when the three unnatural rogues,
their own countrymen too, in more humour,
and to insult them, came and bullied them,
and told them the island was theirs; that the
governor, meaning me, had given them the
possession of it, and nobody else had any
right to it; and that they should build no
houses upon their ground, unless they would
pay rent. for them.

The two men, thinking they were jesting
at first, asked them to come in and sit down,
and see what fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent they do-
manded; and one of them merrily said, if they
were the ground landlords, he hoped, if they
built tenements upon their land, and made
improvements, they would, according to the
custom of landlords, grant a long lease: and
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the three, cursing and re-
ging, told them they should see they were not
in jest; and going to a little place at a dis-
tance, where the honest men had made a fire
to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand,
and claps itto the outside of theirhut, and very
fiairly set it on fire; and it would have been
Ill burned down in a few minutes, if one of

the two had not. run to the tollow, thrust him
away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and
that not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest
man's thrusting him away, that he returned
upon him, with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very
nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
days at once. His comrade, seeing the dot)-
ger they were both in, ran in alter him, and
immediately they came both out with their
muskets, and the man that was first struck at
with the pole, knocked the fellow down that
had begun the quarrel with the stock of his
musket, and that before the other two could
come to help him; and then seeing the rest
come at them, they stood together, and pre-
senting the other ends of their pieces to them,
bade them stand off.

The others had firearms with them too;
but one of the two honest men, bolder than
his comrade, and made desperate by his dan-
ger, told them, if they ofl'ered to move hand or
foot they were dead men, and boldly com-
manded them to lay down their arms. They
did not, indeed, lay down their anns, but
seeing him so resolute. it brought them to a
parley, and they consented to take their
wounded Inanwith them and be ; and,
indeed, it learns the fellow was wounded suf-
ficiently with the blow. However, they were
much in the wrong eineo they had the-d-
vantnge, that they did not disarm them effec-
tually, an they might have done, and have
gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given
them an account how the rogue- had treated
tlreuu for the three villains studied nothing
but revenge, and every day gave them some
intimation that they did so.

But not to crowd this part with an account
oftheleeaer part ofthe rogueriee, enchae
treading down their corn; shooting three
young kids and a the-goat. which the men
hadgottobreed uptatne firtheiratore: and,
in a word, plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to euch a
desperation, that they reeolved to fight them
all three, the first time they had a fair oppovh
(unity. In order tothis, they reeolved to go
to the castle. as they called it, (that was, my
old dwelling,) where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, in-
tending to have a fair battle, and the Spa-
niards should Rand by, to lee fair play: so they
gotup in themerningheixedaynndeame to
the plane, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered that
they wanted to lpealt with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the
Spaniards having been in the woods, had aeen
one of the two Englishmen, whom, for die-
tinction,I calledtheboneet rnen.andhehad
made a aad complaint to the Spaniards of the
barbarous usage theyhad met with from their
three countrymen, and how thede mined
their plantation, and deatroyed their corn that
they had laboured eo hard to bring forward,
and killed the m' t and their three kids,
which was all they had provided for their atta-
tenanee,and thatifheandhiafriende,
meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them
again, theylhonld be starved. When the
Spaniards came home at night, and they were
all ateupper, oneot'therntoolrthefreedom
to repreve the three quilhnen, though in
very gentle and remedy term, and asked
them howtbey eouldbe aownel, theybeiag
harden inod'enaive fellowe; that they were
puttingtbe-eelvee'm awaytombeiatby
their labour,andtbatit hadeoatthentagreat
deal of pain to bring thing- to Inch perfection
a they were then in.

One ofthe Englishmen returned verv brink-
ly, Wht had they do there? that they came
on due without leave; and that they dimld
not plant or build opt-i the ie'iandt it was

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

noneot'their grand." Why, lay! the Spa.-
niard, very ealndy, Senhor Ingleea, they more
not atarva. The Engluhmnn' replifid, likea
rough-hm tnrpanl' , They mig t alone
and be d--d; tbemy'abould not plant not
build in that'place. But what rnuat they do
then. aenhor? aid the Spaniard. Another
of the brute: returned, Do? d--n them,
they drould he eernnta, and work for them.
But howean you expeetthatof them? say:
the Spaniard; they are not bought with your
money: you have noright tomalte them aer~
vanta. The Englishmen answered, the island
waathein; dwgovernorhad givenittothetn,
and nomanhadanythingtodotherebm
thernaelvea; and with that Iwore by his Map
her that theywould goand turn all their new
huta; they ahould build none upon their land.
Why, aenhor, eaye the Spaniard, by the ante
rule we must be your aervanla too.---Ay, say-I
the bold dog. and-oyou ehalltoo, before we
have done with you; (mixing two orthree
G--d d--n me'a in the proper intervnle ofhia
meeeh.) The Spaniard only availed at that,
and made him no answer. However, thie
littlediaoourae had heated them; and, atarting
up, one eaye to the other,l think it was be
they called Will Atkins, Come,Jaek, let's go,
and have t'other brush with 'em; we'll dC/~
molixh their cattle, I'll warrant you; they
ahall plant no colony in our dominion.

Upon this they went all trooping away,
with every man a gun, a pittol, and a aword,
and muttered some inadent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the
Spaniarda too, when oppormuity ofl'ered; but
the Spaniards, it w, did not "perfectly
understand theme! to know all the particular-a,
only that, in general, they threatened them
hard for taking the two Engliuen'a part.

Whither they went or how they bestowed
their time that evenitg, the Spaniards aaid
theydidnot know; butit aeenta theywen-
dered ahouttheewnn'ypartofthenight, and
thenlyingdown inthe place which lured
to all my bower, theywere weary,andover-
slept thentadvea. The care was this; they
had neolvedto mydflmidnighgandeo to
hltethetwopoernenwhentheywere pelaep,
and, an theyanhaowledgedafierwardlmnend-
ed to not fire to their hot- whilethey were
in themandeither bunthuntheremrtnw-
der the-Ian tbeyeatna out; as ntalieeaaldetn
Iber- my lot-Id. it "I '0'! W M
devoid not hve be.) keptawahe.

Em an the two an Ind aho a denig-
npon dun, an I have laid, though a and!
fairerone thantbatd'btnning and Ind-ring
ithappened, andey luckilyforthemall,
diattheywerenpnndgmealsuadbeforothe
bloody-minded ans to their huts.
When theyeamethere,andfoundthe men
gone, Atkins, who, it menu, was the fix-
wnrdest man, called out to his comrade, Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, hutd--n them, the birds
are flown. They mused awhile, to think
what should be the occasion of their being
gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently
that the Spaniards had given them notice of
it: and with that they shook hands, and
swore to one another that they wouldbe re-
venged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had
made this bloody bargain, they fell to work
with the poor men's habitation ; they did not
set fire indeed, to any thing, but they pulled
down both their houses, and pulled them so
limb from limb, that they lefl not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground Where they stood: they tore all their
little collected householdstufi' in pieces, and
threw every thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men alterwards found some of
their things amileofi' their habitation. When
they had done this, they pulled up all the
young trees which the poor men had planted;
pulled up an enclosure they had made to se-
cure their cattle and their corn; and, in a
word, sacked and plundered every thing as
mpletely as a horde of Tartan would have

' The tire men were, at this juncture, gone
toflndthemout, andhndresolvedtofight
them wherever they had been, thmgh they
were but two tothree; sothat, had they met,
there certainly would have been bloodshed
among thorn; fir theywere allvery stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep
them asunder than they themselves could do
tomeet;for,asiftheybad onoano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the
two were here; and afierwards, when the
two went back to find them, the three were
meta the oldbabitation again: weshallsee
their difl'erent conduct presently. When the
three camebadr like fitrious creatures, flushed
with the rage which the work they had been
about had put them into, they came up to the
Spaninrds, andtold them what they had done,
bywayofacofl'and hravsdo; and one of
them sleppingupto we oftheSpaniards,as
iftheyhadbeenaooupleot'bgyuat play,
takesholdofhisbatu it wasupouhishead,
Indgi'ingitatWirlahout,fleeringinhisface,
says to him, And you, Senhor Jack Spa-
niard,shallbavethesamesance,ifyoudonot

 

149

mend your manners. The Spaniard, who,
thwgh squint civinnn, wasas bravealnsn
as could be, and withal a strong, well-trade
nun,loolsed athimfor agoodwhile,and than
having no in his hand, stepped grave-
lyupto him,and withone blow of his fist
knocked him down, as an on is felled with a
pole-axe; at which oneofthe rogues, as in.
solent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spa-
niard immediately: he missed his body, indeed,
lbr the bullets went through his hair, but one
ofthem touched'the tip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really was,
and that put him into some heat, 1hr before he
acted all in a perfect calm; but now resolving
to gothrough with his Work, he stooped, and
took the fellow'a musket whomhe had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man
who had fired at him, when the rest of the
Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and
calling to him not to shoot, tiny stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their aru-
fiom them.

\Vhen they were thus dissrmed, and found
they had made all the Spaniards their enemies,
as well as their own countrymen, they began
to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better
words, would have their arms again ; but the
Spaniards, considering the feud that was be-
tween them and the other two Englishmen,
and that it would be the best method they
could take to keep them fromkilling one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm,
and if they would live peaceably, they would
be very willing to assist and associate with
them us they did belbre; but that they could
not think of giving them their arms again,
while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen. and
had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.

The eswerenownemorecapable to
hear reason than to act with reason; but
being refused their arms, they went raving
away, and raging like madmen, threatening
what they would do, though they had no fire-
arms. But the Spaniara, despising their
threatening. told them they should take care
how they od'ered any injury to their plantation
or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot
them as they would ravenous beasts, wher-
ever they thud them; and if they fell into
their hands alive they should certainly be
hanged. ' However, this was fir from cooling
them, butaway they wengngiogandswear-
in; likefiniesd'ben. Asaoouas lhsywers
gone,tbe twomrneatne backfmpa-inati
rage enough also, though of mother kind: for
having been at their plantation, and finding it
all demolished and destroyed, as above, it
will easily be supposed they had provocation
enough. They could scarce have room to
tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to
tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to
find that three men should thus bully nineteen,
and receive no punishment at all.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them,
and especially, having thus disarmed them,
made light of their threatuings; but the two
Englishmen resolved to have their remedy
against them, what pains mover it cm! to
find them out. But the Spaniards interposed
here too, and told them, that as they had dis-
arnted them, they could not consent that they
(the two) should pursue them with firearms,
and perhaps kill them. But, said the grave
Spaniard, wlto was their governor, we will en-
deavour to make them do you justice, ifyou will
leave it to us: for there is no doubt but they
will come to us again, when their passion is
over, being not able to subsist without our as-
sistance: we promise you to make no peace
with them, without having a fttll satisfaction
fitr you; attd upon this condition we hope you
will promise to use no violence with them,
other than in your own defence. The two
Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards
protested, that they did it only to keep them
from bloodshed, and to make all easy at Int.
For, said they, we are not so many of us;
here is room enough for us a'l, and it is a
great pity we should not be all goocl friends.
At length they did consent. and waited for
the issue of the thingI living 5r some days
with the Spaniards; for their own habitation
was destroyed.

In about five days' time the three vagrants,
tired with wandering, and almost starved with
hunger, having chiefly lived on turtle's eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; and
finding my Spaniard, who, as Ihave said, was
thc' governor, and two more with him walking
by the side of the creek, they came up in a
very submissive humble manner,and begged
to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards used them civilly, but told them
they had acted so unnaturslly by their coun-
u-ymen, and so very grossly by them, (the
Spaniards.) that they could not come to any
conclusion without consulting the two Eng-
liShmen and the rest; but, however, they
would go to them. and discourse about it, and
they should know in half an hour. It may be
guessed that they were very hard put toit:

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030803.

for, it seem, uthey were to wait this half
hour for an amwer, they begged they would
sendthernout oomobroad inthornean time,
which they did; sending, at the same time,
a large piece of goat'- flesh, and a boiled
parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they
were hungry enough.

Alter half an bour'aconsttltation, they were
called in. and a long debate ensued; their
two countrymen charging them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder
them; all which they owned before, and
therefore could not deny now. Upon the
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderator
between them; and as they had obliged the
two Englishmen not to hurt the three
while they were naked and unarmed, so they
now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and
the other of larger dimensions, than they were
before; to fence their ground again where
they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in
the room of those pttlled up, dig up the land
again lbr planting corn where they had spoiled
it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in
the same state as they lbund it| as near as
they could; for entirely it could not be, the
season for the com, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being possible to be re-
covered.

Well, they submitted to all this; and u
they had plenty of provisions given them all
the while, they grew very orderly, and the
whole society began to live pleasantly and
agreeably together again; only, that these
three fellows could never be persuaded to
work, I mean for themselves, except now and
then a little, just as they pleased: however,
the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study the of the whole plantation,
they would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and be as idle as they
pleased: and thus having lived pretty well
together for a month or two, the Spaniards
gave them arms gain, and gave them liberty
to go abroad with them as before.

It was not above a week after they had
these arms, and went abroad, but the un-
grateful creatures began to be as insolent
and troublesome as before: but, however. an
accident happened presently upon this, which
endangered the safetyof them all; and they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments,
and look to the preservation of their lives.

It happened one night, that the Spanish
governor, as I call him, that is to say, the
Spaniard whose life I had saved, who wu7mm'~"

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030803-

nowthccaptain, or leader, or gorernorot'the
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night,
andcouldby nomeansget any-loop: he was
perfectly well inbody, as he told me the Itory,
only found his thought: urrnultuom- his mind
ran upon men fighting and killing ot'one ano-
ther, but he was broad awake, and could not
by any means got any deep; In short, he lay
agreat while; but growing more and more
and more uneasy, he relolved to rise. As
they lay, being so many ofthem, upon goat's
skins laid thick upon such couches and pads
as they made for then-elves and not in halo-
mocks and ship beds, as I did, who was but
one, so they had little to do, when they were
milling to rise, but to get up upon their feet,
and perhaps put on acoat, such as it was,a_nd
their pumps, and they were ready forgo going
any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus got up, he looked out; but, being
dark, he could see little or nothing; and, be-
sides, the trees which I had planted, as in my
former account is described, and which were
now grown toll, intercepted his right, so that
he could only look up, and see that it was a
clear starlight night, and hearing no noise,
he returned and laid him down again: but it
was all one; he could not sleep, nor could he
compose himself to any thing like rest; but
his thoughts were to the last. degree uneasy,
and he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and
walking about, going out and coming in, ano-
ther of them waited, and calling, asked who
it war that was up. The governor told him
how it had been with him. Say you so? says
the other Spaniard ; such things are not to be
slighted, I more you: there is certainly some
mischief working near us: and presently he
asked him, Where are the Englishmen?--
They are all in their huta, says he, safe enough.
It seems the Spaniards had kept poneosian
of the min t, and had made a place
for the three Englishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were alwayn quartered by them-

selves, nod could not come at the rest. Well,
says the Spaniard, there Is atxnething' In it, I
urn persuaded, fromnty own experience. I
ammtiofiedour spiritsemhodird havea con-
verse with, and receive 'nttolligenco from, the

spirits uneinbodied, and inhabiting the invi-
:pible world; and this friendly notice is given
forotlr advantage, if weknew how to make
naeot'it. Come, lIyI he, letusgo and look
abroad: andifwefindnothing atall initto
justify'thow trouble, I'll tell ynnantoryltolhe
pupae," tell convince you ofthe justice

"vomit

'- '7i7r'wav""m4 vwi'w-s

Ina word,they wentoot,togonp
topot'thehill, when lotodto go;bot
beingluong,andagoodcompany,notalue,
aslwaa,tnodnoneot'mymntioor,togoup
bydwhddunndpullingit upaflertbeqlo

goupamcondutago tothetop,butwere
goingrotmd thronghthegrovewnooncerned
and unwary, when they woremrprinod with
soeingalightuoffiro,averylitdewoyofl'
fromthcm, and thavoicesot'men,not
ofonoortwo,butofa outer.

Inallthedioooverieal hadmadeot'tho
oavageolandiogontheialandfitwumycon-
Ilaotmrolo preventtherntnakingthe least
discovery of there being any inhabitantupon
the place; and when by any occalion they
come to know it, they Eolt'iuo ed'ocwally,
lhatthcythat getaway wmsoamoable to
giveaoyaccoumnfit; forwodisappoaredu
noonaspomible; nordid ever anythathad
seenmemcapetotell anyone else, except it
wuthothree garages in our lanteooounter,
whojumped intotheboat;ofwhotn,1men-
tioned,Iwaaafraid theywouldgohomo and
bring more help. Whether it war the con-
sequence oftheescapeol'thonemen thatao
greatanumbercameoow together,orwhe-
ther they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
theirusual bloodyerraod,the5paniardscwld
not. it undontand; but, whatever it
was, it had been their business either to
have concealed themselves, or not to have
can dlematall,muchlemtohavelct them-
vageehave aeen that there were any inhabi-
tanlsintheplace;ortohavofallenuponthem
noefl'eetually,asthatnotamanofthem
should have camped, which could only have
been by getting in between them and their
boots: but this ol'IIIindwasw-anting
tothern, whichwu theruinoi'theirtran-
quility for a great while.

We oeedootdottt,butfltatthogovernw
andthemanwithhimmlrprisedwiththialight,
ran back immediately, and railodthoir fellows,
giving Ingthemanacootmtofthoimminetadnn-
gerlhey wereallin,andtheyagahaareadily
tookthoalann; bruit mimpomihlotoperh
Iuadethemtontaycloaewithin,wberethey
wore,buttheynlntallrnnoutmmehow
thingsatood.

Whiloitwandark, indeed,thoywmewell
enough,andtheyhad oppormityWEIr
nomehomn,tnviewthembythlightd'tfiee
fielthoyhod-deatadiotamehmomlw
ther;whatthoyweredoitgthoyhowoot,and
what todothonleiven thoyhew not. Fm,
fist, theeoemyweretoo-ny.ud,moody,
theydidnotkoepbgethor.hntwendividad
into several parties, and where on shore in
several places.

The Spaniards were in no small comer-
nation at this sight; and as they fwnd that
the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, e of
them would chop in upon their habitatton,or
upon some other place where they would see
the token of inhabitants: and they were in
great perplexity also for fear of their flock of
goats, which would have been little leg than
starving them, if they should have been de-
stroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon
was, to despatch three men away belbre it was
light, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to
drive all the goats away to the great valley
where the cave urns, and, if need went, to drive
them into the very cave itself: Could they
have seen the savages all together in one-body,
and at a distance from their canoes, they re-
solved, if there had been ahundred of them,
to have attacked them; but that could not be
obtained; for they were some of them two
miles ofl'from the other; and, as it appeared
afterwards, were of two different nations.

After having mused a great while on the
course they should take, and heating their
brains in considering their present circum-
stances, they resolved, at Int, while it was
still darlt, to send the old savage, Friday's
father, out as a spy, to learn, ifpossiblo, some-
thing concerning them ; as what they came for,
what they intended to do, and the like. The
old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went. After he had been gone
an hour or two, he brings word that he had
been among them undiscovered; that he found
they were two parties, and of two several na-
tions, who had war with one another, and had
a great battle in their own country: and that
both sides having had several prisoners taken
in the fight, they were, by more chance, landed
all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merry, but their coming
so by chance to the some place had spoiled all
their mirth ; that they were in a great rage at
one another, and were so near, that he be-
lieved they would fight again as soon as day-
light began to appear: but he did not perceive
that they had any notion of any body being on
the island but themselves. He had hardly
tnade an end of telling his story, when they
could perceive, by the unusual noise they made,
that the two little armies were engaged in a
bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the ants he
eould to persuade our people to lie close and

ADVENTURES Ol' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

not be seen; he told them their safetyetlr-
listed init,and that theybad nothing to do
but lie still, and the savages would kill one
another to their binds, and then the res
would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially
upon the Englishmen: their curiosity was so
importunato upon their prudentials, that they
must run out and see thebattlo: however, they
used some caution too, viz. they did not go
openly just by theirovm dwelling, btrt went far-
ther into the woods, and placed themselves to
advantage, where they might securely see them
manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did
see them, as we shall find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might
believe the Englishmen, one of them said he
could perceive that some of them were men
of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of
great policy in guiding the fight. The battle,
they said, held two hours before they could
gum which party would be beaten; but then,
that party which was nearest our people's ha-
bitation began to appear weakest, and, after
some time more, scared them began to fly;
and this put our men again into a great cone
stemation, lest any one of those that fled should
run into the grove before their dwelling for
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the
place; and that, by consequence, the pur-
suers would do the like in search of them.
Upon this they resolved that they would stand
armed within the wall, and whoever cunt! into
the grove, they resolved to sally out over the
wall and ltill them: so that, if possible, not
one should return to give an account of it:
they ordered also that it should be done with
their swords, or by knocking them down with
the stocks of their mttsltets, but not by shoot-
ing them, lbrfear of raising an alarm by the
mute.

As they expected, it fell out: three of the
routed army tied for life, and crossing the
creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running
as into athiclt wood for shelter. The scout
they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great
satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors had not
pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone; upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man
of humantty, would not sufi'er them to kill the
three fugitives, but sending three men out by
the top of the hill. ordered them to go round,
come inhehind them, and surprise and take
them prisoners, which was done. The residue
of the conquered people tied to theiroanoea,Twp. ..- .wr -

ADVENTURES 05' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

sndget ofl'to sea; the victors retired, made
nopnrsuit, or very little, but drawing them-
selves into a body together. gave two great
screaming shouts, which they supposed was
by way of triumph, and so the fight ended:
and the same day, ahwt three o'clock in the
afternoon, they also marched to their (arms.
And thus the Spaniards had their island again
free to themselves, their fright was over, and
they saw no savages in several years afler.

Alter they were all gone, the Spaniards
came out of their den, and viewing the field of
battle, they found about thnd-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were killed with great
long arrows, some of which were lirund stick-
ing in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen (I which they found in the field of
battle, and as many hours, with n great many
arrows. These swords were strange, great,
unwieldy things, and they must be verystmng
men thatttsedthem: most of those men that
were killed with them had their heads mashed
to pieces, news may say, or, us we call it
in English, their brains knocked out, and se-
veral their arms and legs broken: so that it is
evident they fight with inexpreasible rage and
fury. We lbundnotonemanthat waanot
stone-dead, for either they stay by their
enemy till they have quite killed him, or they
carry all the wounded men that are not quite
dead away with him.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen
fur a great while; the sight had filled them
with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon
supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of those creams, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but ltill
them for find, as we kill wreatlle; and they
professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or m, though it was sup-
posed it wunot tobetilltheywere dead,had
Iornethingin it so horrible, that it nauseatod
their very non-obs, made them sick when they
thought ol'it, andlilled their minds with such
umzual terror,that they were not themselves for
some weeks aler. This,as Isaid, tamed even
the three English brntes I have been speaking
of. and, fora great while afier, they were tract-
able, and wentshota the'erumun busiom or
the whole society well enough; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalised
to the country. But some time after this,
they fell into such simple mesmres again, as
brought them into agreat deal oftrnublo.

Thcyhadtaken three prisoners, as 1 ob-
served; andtheeethree beinglusty. stout

'VVRIIW$":\ I

mm Irw-

VFW
.. _ .

153

young fellows,they made them servants, and
taught them to worhfixthem; and, avalam.
they did well enmtgb; but they did not take
their measures with them as [did by my man
Friday, viz. to begin with them upon the
principle of having saved their lites, and then
instruct them in the rational principles ol'life;
much lea of religion, civilizing, and reducing
them by kind usageand afl'ectionate arguings;
but as they gave them their food every day, so
llloy gave them their work too, and kept them
fully employed in drudgery enough; but they
failed in this by it, that they neverhad them
to assist them, and fight for them, as I had my
man Friday, who was as true to me as the
very flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family part. Being all
now good friends, for common danger, as I
said above, had effectually reconciled them,
they began to consider their general circum~
stances; and the first thing that came under
their consideration was, whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the
island, and that there were more remote and
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage,
they should not rather move their habitation,
and plant in some men place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their
cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was con-
cluded that they would not remove their ha--
bitation; because that, sometime or other,
they thought they might hear from their go-
vernor again, meaning me; and if I should
send anyoneto st-elr them,l ahottldbe sure
to direct them to that side , where, if they
should find the place demolished, they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we
weregone; and so oursupply would go too.
But as to their core and cattle, they agreed
to remove them into the valley where my cave
was, where thelandwas as pruperfurboth,
and where, indeed, there was land enough:
however, upon second thoughts, they altered
the part of their resolution too, and resolved
only to ran-love part of their cattle thither, and
plantpartol'thsireomthereundsoit'one part
was destroyed, the other might be send.
And one part of they used, which it
was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had
prisoners, with knowing any thing oftha plan-
tation they had made in that valley. or d' any
canlethey hadthere, muehleas of the care
there, which they kept. in case of necessity
as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also
thembarr'els ofpowderwhicb I hadseu
than at my coming away. But, however they
resolved not to change their habitation: yet
they agreed, that as I had carefully covered
it first with a wall or fortification, and then
with a grove oftrees, so seeing their safety
comisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they act
to work to cover and conceal the place yet
more effectually than before. For this pur--
pose, as I planted trees, or rather thrust in
stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees,
for some good distance before the entrance into
my apartments, they went on in the same man-
ner, and filled up the rest of that whole space
of ground, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the creek, where, as! said,I
landed my floats, and even into the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving
any place to land, or any sign that there had
been any landing thereabout; these stakes
also being ofa wood very forward to grow, as
I have noted formerly, they took care to have
them generally much larger and taller than
those which! had planted; and as they grew
apace, so they planted them so very thickand
close together, that when they had been three
or four years grown, there was no piercing
with the eye any considerable way into the
plantation: and, as for that part which I had
planted, the trees were grown as thick as a.
man's thigh, and among them they placed so
many other short ones, and so thick, that, in a
word, it stood like a pallisado a quarter of a
mile thick, and it was next to impossible to
penetrate it, but with a little army to cut it all
down; for a little dog could hardly get between
the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for they did the some
by all the ground to the right hand and to the
left, and round even to the top of the hill,
leaving no way, not so much as for themselves
to come out, but by the ladder placed up to
the side ofthe hill, and then lifted up, and
placed again from the first stage up to the top;
and when the ladder was taken down, nothing
but what hurl wings, or witchcraft to assist it,
could come at them. This was excellently
well contrived; nor was it less than what they
afterwards found oemsion for: which served
to convince me, that as human pnrdence has
the authority of Providence to justify it, so it
has doubtless the direction ofProvidence to set
it to work; and if we listened carefully to the
voice of it, I am persuaded we might prevent
many of the disasters which our lives are now,
by our own negligence, subjected to: but this
by the way.

I return to the story--They lived two years

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

after this in perfect retirement, and hadno more
visits from the ravages. They had indeed an
alarm given them one morning, which put
them intoa great consternation; (income of
the Spaniards being out early one morning on
the west aide, or rather end, of the island,
(which was that end where I never went, for
fear of being discovered,) they were unprised
with seeing above twenty canoe. of Indians
just comingon shore. They made thobest.
oftheir way home, in hurry enough: and
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept
close all that day and the next, going out
only at night to make their observation: but
they had the good luck to be mistaken: for
wherever the ravages wont, they did not land
that time on the island, but pursued some
other design.

And now they had another broil with the
three Englishmen; one of whom a most turbuo
lent fellow, being in stage at one of the three
slaves, which! mentioned they had taken,
because the fellow had not done something
right which he blLl him do, and seemed a little
untractnble in his show?" him, drew a hatch-
et out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his
side, and fell upon the poor eavage, not to
correct him, but to kill him. One ofthe Spa-
niards, who was by, seeing him give the fol-
low a barbarous out with the hatchet, which
be aimed at his head, but struck into his shoul-
ders, an that he thought he had cut the poor
creature's arm 03', ran to him, and entreating
him not. to murder the poor man, placed him-
aelfbetween himand the savage, to prevent
the mischief. The fellow being enraged the
more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his
hatchet, and more he would serve him as he
intended to serve the savage; which the Spa-
niard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with
ashovel which he had in his hand, (for they
were all working in the field about their com-
land,) knocked the brute down. Another of
the Englishmen running at the same time to
help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ;
and then two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishmen fell in upon
them.' They had none of them any firearms,
or any other weapons but hatchets and other
tools, except this third Englishmen: he had
one of my nrsty ortlasaea, with which he
made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded
them both. This fray net the whole family in
an uproar, and more help coming in, they
took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what ahouldbe done with
them? They had been so otlen luminous,
and were so very furious, no deeperate, and ao_- lawn-<<W r

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

idle withai, they knew not what comes to
take with them, for they were mischievous
to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; sothat, in short, it
was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them,
in so many words, that ifthey had been nt'his
own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve
society, and than who were dangerous to the
society ought to be expelled out of it; but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the
generous kindness of an Englishman that they
all owed their preservation and deliverance,
he would use them with all possible lenily,
and Would leave them to the judgment of the
other two Englishmen, who were their coun-
trymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up,
and said they desired it might notbo left to
them; For, says he, I am sure we ought to
sentence them to the gallows: and with that
he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of
the three, had proposed to have all the live
Englishmen join together, and murder all the
Spaniards when they Were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governo' heard this, he
calls to l'Vill Atkins, How, Senhor Atkins,
would you murder us all? What have you to
say to that? The hardened villain was so far
from denying it, that he said it was true : and,
G--d d--n him, they would do it still, before
they had done with them. Well, but Senhor
Atkins, lays the Spaniard, what have we done
to you, that you will kill us? And what
would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent your killing us ? Must we
kill you, or you kill us? \Vhy will you put us
to the necessity of this, Senhor Atkins? says
the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Sam
hor Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest of it, that, had he not been held
by three men, and withal had no weapon near
him, it was thought he would have attempted
to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all
the company. This hairbrain carriage obliged
them to consider seriously what was to be
done: the two Englishmen, and the Spaniard
who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion
that they should hang one of three, for an ex-
lmplt: to the rest; and that particularly it
should be he that had twice attempted to corn-
mit murder- with his hatchet; and, indeed,
there was some reason to believe he had done
it, for the poor savage was in such a misera-
hle condition with the wound he had received;
that it was thought he could notlive. But
thegovernorSpeniardetilleaiduo; itwasan

155

Englishman that had saved all their lives, and
he would never consent to put an Englishman
to death, though he had murdered half of them;
nay. he said, if he had been killed hinuell' by
an Englishman, and had time left to speak, it
should be that they should pardon him.

This was so positively twisted on by the
governor Spaniard, that there was no glinsay-
ing it; and as merciful counsels are most apt
to prevail, where theyare eo earnestly pressed,
so they all came into it; but then it was lobe
considered what should be done to keep them
from doing the mischief they designed; for all
agreed, governor and all, that means were to
be used for preserving the society from danger.
After a long debate, it was ageeed, first, that
they should be disarmed, and not permitted to
have either gun, powder, shot, sword, or any
weapon; and slnuld be turned out of the so-
ciety, endlelt to live where they would, and
how they Would, by themselves: but that none
of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should
converse with them. speak with them, or have
anything to do with them: that they should
he forhid to come within a certain distance of
the place where the rest dwelt; and if they
ofl'ered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil,
hum. kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the
society, they should die without mercy, and
they would shoot them wherever they could
find them. '

The governor, a men of great humanity,
musing upon the sentence, considered a little
upon it; and turning to the two honest Eng-
lishmen, said, Hold; you must reflect that it
will be long ere they can raise corn and cattle
of their own, and they must not starve; we
must therefore allow them provisions: so he
catwed to be added, that they should have a
proportion of corn given them to last them eight
months, andfor seed to sow, by which time
they might be supposed to raise some of their
own; that they should have six milch goats,
four he goats, and six kids given them, as well
for present subsistence as for a store; and that
they should have tools given then: for their
work in the fields, such as six hatchets, an Idle,
5 saw, and the like; but they should have
none of these look or provisions, unless they
would swear solemnly that they would not
hurt or injure any oftho Spaniards with them,
or of their fellow Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed theta the society, and
turned them out to shill for themselves. They
went away sullen and refractory, as neither
content to go away nor to stay; but, as there
was no remedy, they went, pretending to 5

. '. "1,an - v".
and choose a place where they would settle
themselves: and some provisions were given
them, but no weapons.

About four or five days after, they came
again for some victuals, and gave the governor
an account where they had pitched their tents,
and marked themselves out a habitation and
plantation; and it was a very convenient place,
indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N.
E. much about. the place where I providentially
landed in my first voyage, when I was driven
out to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, in
my foolish attempt to sail round the island.

Here they built themselves two handsome
huts, and contrived them in a manner like my
first habitation, being close under the side of a
hill, having some trees growing already on
three sides of it, so that by planting others, it
would be very easily covered from the sight,
unless narrowly searched for. They desired
some dried goats'-skins, for beds and covering,
which were given them ; and upon giving their
words that they would not disturb the rest, or
injure any of their plantations, they gave them
hatchets, and what other toolsthey could spare;
some peas, barley, and rice, for sewing; and,
in a word, any thing they wanted, except arms
and ammunition.

They lived in this separate condition about
six months, and had got in their first harvest,
though the quantity was but small, the parcel
of land they had planted being but little; for,
indeed, having all their plantation to form,
they had a greatdeal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards and pots,
and such things, they were quite out oi their
element, and could make nothing of it: and
when the rainy season came on, for want of a
cave in the earth, they could not keep their
grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoil-
ing; and this humbled them much: so they
came and begged the Spaniards to help them,
which they very readily did; and in four day!
worked a great hole in the side of the hill for
them, big enoughto secure their com and other

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

things from the rain; but it was butapoor place
at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly
enlarged it, and made several new apartments
in it.

About three quarters ofa year after this so-
pnration, a new frolic took these rogues, which,
together with the former villany they had com-
mitted, brought mischief enough upon them,
and had very near been the ruin of the whole
colony. The three new associates began, it
seems, to be weary of the laborious hl'e thav
led, and that without hope of bettering their
circumstances; and 3. "him took them, that
they would made a voyage to the continent,
from whence the savages came, and would try
if they could seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there. and bring them home, solo
make them do the laborious part of their work
for them.

The project was not so preposterous, if they '
had gone no farther: but they did nothing, and '

proposed nothing, but had either mischief in
the design, or mischief in the event: and, if
I may give my opinion, they seemed to be
under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not
allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes,
how shall we reconcile the events of things
with the divine justice? It was certainly":
apparent vengeanc'e on their crime of mutiny
and piracy that brought them to the state they
were in; and they showed not the least remorse
for the crime, but added new villanies to it, such
as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a
poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he directed,
and to wound him in such a manner as made
him a cripple all his life, and in a. place when
no surgeon or medicine could he had for his
cure; and what was still worse, the murderoul
intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the inten-
tional murder, for such to be sure it was, at

was afterwards the formed design they all Iail, '

to murder the Spaniards in cold blood. and ttt '

their sleep.
157

SECTION XXXV.

I'Kl maroon "GLISEHEN ARI DISMISSED PRO! TB! ISLAND--RETURN WITH
SEVERAL CAPTIVI BAYAGIHAKI Till FEMALES AS WIVM.--ARRIVAL 0'

SAVAGIS-

Btu- 1 leave observing, and return to the
nory:---Tho three fellows name down to the
Spaniard: one morning, and in very humble
terms desired to he admitted to speak with
them: the Spaniards very readily heard what
they had to say, which was this :---That they
were tired of living in the manner they did;
and that they were not handy enough to make
the necessaries they wanted, and that having
no help, they thund they should be starved;
but if the Spaniards would give them leave to
take one of the canoe- whioh they came over
in, and give them arms and ammunition pro-
portioned to their defence, they would go over
to the main and seek their fortunee, and so
deliver them from the trouble of supplying
them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid
of them, but very honestly represented to them
the certain destruction they wererunning into;
told them they had sufi'ered Inch hardahips
upon that very spot, that they could, without
any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be
nor-red, or murdered, and bade then consider
oi'it.

The men replied Indaciouely, they should
he starved if they stayed here,for they could
not work, and would not work, and they could
but be atarvedahroad; and if they were mur-
dered,there waean end ofthent; theyhadno
wives ordtildren to cry alter them: and, in
rhort, insisted importtmately upon their de-
mand; declaring they would go, whether they
would give them any amuorno.

The Spaniard: told them, with great kind-
ness, that if they were resolved to go, they
should notgo likenaked men,'andhe in no
condition to defend themselves} and that

and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
canoe fiar a voyage over the era, where it waa
at lean forty milea broad.

Theboat,indeed,wasa largeone,and
would very well have carried fifteen or twen-
ty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them tomanage; hutaatheyhada fair
breeze, and flood tide with them, they did well
enough. They had made a mat of a long
pole, and a rail of four large gnata' thine dried,
which they had aewed or laced together; and
away they went merrily enough: the Spa-
ninrda culled afier them, Bondage; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards were oilen aaying to one
another, and to the two honest Englishmen
who remained behind, how quietly and com-
fortably they lived, now theae three turbulent
fellows were gone; as for their coming again,
that was the remoteat thing fiomtheir thought:
that could be imagined; when, behold, after
two-and-twenty daya' absence, one of the
Engliahmen, being abroad upon his planting
work, aeoe three atrange men coming toward-
him at a diatanca, with gtma upon their
shoulders.

Away run: the Englishman, as il'he waa
bewitehed, cornea frightened and amazed to
the governor Spaniard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were era
landed upon the inland, hutoouldnottell who.
The Spaninrd, parsing a while, aaya to him,
How do you moon, youeanoottell who? They
aretheravageetobe m--No, tam-aye the
Engliahman; they are men in clothes, with
arme.--Nay then, any: the Spaniard, why
are you concerned? lt'theyarenotravagea,
theymtrat he fiends; Earthen irnoChrie-
tian nation upon earth but will do us good

,3. ,'W' y m
It was not long before they brought the men
in, and inquiring where they had been, and
what they had been doing, they gave them a
hill account of their voyage in a few words,
viz. That they reached the Win two days,
or something less; but finding the people
alarmed at their coming, and preparing with
bows and arrows tolight them, they durst not
go on shore, but soiled on to the northward six
or seven hours, till they came to a great Open-
ing, by which they perceived that the land
they saw from our island was not the main,
but an island; upon entering that opening of
the sea, they saw another island on the right
hand, north, and several more west; and being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the islands which lay west, and went
boldly on shore: that they found the people
very courteous and friendly to them; and that
they gave them several roots and some dried
fish, and appeared very sociable ; and tho wo-
men as well as the men were very forward to
supply them with any thing they could get for
them to eat, and brought it to them a great
way upon their heads.

They continued here t'otrr days; and in-
quired, as well as they could ofthem, by signs,
what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible
people that lived almost every way, who, as
they made known by signs to them, used to
eat men; but as for themlves, they said,
they never eat men or women, except only
such as they took in the wars; and then, they
owned, they made a great feast, and ate their
prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had had
a feast of that kind ; and they told them about
two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and to
two fingers; and that their great king had two
hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in
his war, and they were feeding them to make
than fat for the next feast. The Englishmen
seemed mighty desirous of seeing those pri-
soners ; but the others mistaking them, thought
they were desirous to have some of them to
carry away for their on eating: to they
beckoned tothem, pointing to the settingd'tho
sun,and then totheriaing; which was tonig-
nify, that the next morning at aunt-icing they
would bring some for them; and, accordingly,
the next morning, they brought down five
women and eleven men, and gave them to
the Englishmen,tocarrywith them on their
voyage, justaswewonldbringson-nycows
and oxen down to a seaport town to vietnal a

fightnfishasdbarhamuasthesefeflowa

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

were at home, their stomachs turned at th'u
eight, and they. did not know what to do. To
refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest afi'ront to the savsge gentry that could
be ofl'ered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, aflcr some debate,
they resolved toacccpt of them; and, in rm
turn, they gave the savages that brought them
one of their butchers, an old key, a knife, and
air or sewn of their bullets; which, though
they did not understand their use, they seem--
ed particularly pleased with: and then tying
the poor creatures' hands behind them, they
dragged the prisonen into the boat liar our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come
awayas soon asthey hadthem, or else they
that gave them this noble nt would act>>
tainly have expected that they should have
gone to work with them, have killed two or
three of them the next morning, and perhaps
have invited the donors todinnor. But hav-
ing taken their leave, with all the reaped and
thanks that could well pass between male,
where, at either side, they
one word they could say, they put 06 with
their boat, and came back towards the H
island: where. when they arrived, they set
eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being
too many of them for their occasion.

In their voyage, they endeavoured tolnva
some communication with their prisoners;
but it was impossible to make them under-
stand any thing: nothing tbeycould say to
them, or give them, or do for them, but was
looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of allunbound them; hutthe poor creep
tures married at that, especially the women,
as if they had just feltthe knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they
were unboundon purpose to be killed. If
they gave them any thing to eat, it was the
same thing; they then concluded, it was liar
fear theyshould sinkin desh,andsonotbe
(in enough to kill. If they looked at one of
them more particularly, the party prmently
concluded, it was to see whetherheorshe was
fattest,and fittest tokill first: nay, after they
had brought them quite over, and began to use
them kindly, and treat them well,stillthey
expected every day to make adinner or supper
for their new masters.

When the three wanderer- bad- give:

' journal of their
them
Bog some viemals for them, they (the Spa-
niards) and the other two Englishmen, that
in to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all
down to the place and see them; and did so,
and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they
not all bound; for when they had brought
them on shore, they bound their hands, that
they might not take the boat and make their
escape: there. I say, they eat, all or them
stark naked. First, there were three men,
lusty. comely fellows, well shaped, straight
and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years
of age; and five women, whereof two might
be from thirty tol'orty; two more not above
four or fivo-and-twenty; and the fifth, a tall
comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well favoured, agreeable
persons, both in and features, only
tawny; and two of them, had they been per-
feet while, would have passed for very hand--
some women, even in London itself, having
pleasant agreeable oountenances, and of a very
molest behaviour: especially when they came
alien-Wards to be clothed and dressed, as they
called it, though that dress was very indifl'e-
rent. it must he confessed; of which hero-
liter.

The sight, you may be sure, was something
uncouth to our Spaniards, who were, to give
them a just character, men of the host beha-
viour. ol' the most calm, sedate tempers, and
perfect good humour, that ever I met with;
and. in particular, of the moat modesty, as
will presently appear: I say, the night was
very uncouth, to see three naked men and five
naked women, all together botmd, and in the
most miserable circumstances that human
nature could be to be, viz. to be ex-
pecting every moment to be dragged out, and
have their brains knocked out, and then to be
eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did wastoeausethe
old Indian, Friday's father, to go in, and see,
first, if he knew anyot' them, and then ifho
understood any oftheirspeeclt. Assoonas
the old man came in,he looked seriously at
them, but knew naneot'thetn: neither oould
anyot'them understand awordhe said,ora
sign he could make, except one ofthe wotnen.
However, this wasenoughto answertheend,
whiehwas toutid'y thornthat themeninto
whosehandsdieywerefillenweroChristians;
that they abhorrodeating men or wanton; and
that they might be sure they would not be
killed. Assent-as theywereuetredot'thie,
theydiseoveredmehajoynndhyueh awk-
ward glues, eavlal ways, as is hard to da-

159

scribe; for, it seems, they were of several
nations.

The woman who wastheir interpreter was
bid, in the next place, to ask them it' they
were willing to he servants, and to work for
the men who had t. them away, to save
their lives; at which they all fell adancing;
and presently one fell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carry
on their shoulders, to intimate that they were
willing to work.

The governor, who fotmd that the having
women among them would presently be at-
tended with some inconvenience, and might
occasion some atril'e,and perhaps blood, asked
the three men what they intended to do with
these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants or as women'.l One
of the Englishmen answered very boldly and
readily, that they would use them as both; to
which the governor said, I am not going to
restrain you from it; you aroyourownmas-
tetsasto that; but this! thinkisbutjusl, for
avoiding disorders and quarrehl among you,
and ldesire ii ofyou for that reason only, viz.
that you will all engage, that ii' any of you aka
any oflheee women, as a woman or wife, that
he shall take but one: and that having taken
one.noneelsa shall touchher; tiirthoughwe
cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but
reasonable that while you stay here, the we-
man any of you takes shouldbo maintained by
themanthnt takesher, andahouldbehis
wife; I mean, says he, while he oontinuee
here, and that none else shall have any thing
to do withber. All thisappeared eojust,that
every one to it without any dilficulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniard!
ifthey designed to take any ofthetn? But
everyoneoi'them answered no: sotneofthem
said they had wives in Spain, and theothen
did not like women that were not Christians:
and all togetherdoelarod that thoywould not
touehoneol'them: whichwasaninstanoeof
Inch virtue as [have notniet with in allmy
travels. Ontheother hand, tobenhorgthe
five Englighmen took them every one a wife,
thatistony,a wife;andaothey
setupanewfitrtn et'living; thrtheSpaniarde
and Friday's father lived in my old habitation,
which they had enlarged exceedingly within.
The three aervantswhich weretakeoin the
latobattleol'theaaragealivedwithtltetn: ltd
theseoarriedon the aninpartd'the colony,
Implied all the teat withfirod, and aimed
thorn in anything as Iheyeodd,oralthq
feud neeasity rewind.

But the weed. of this any wu, how in
such refractory, ill matched fellows. should agree
about these women, and that two of them
should not. pitch upon the same woman, espe-
cially seeing two or three of them were, with-
out comparison, more agreeable than the other:
but they look a good way enough to prevent
quarrelling among themselves; for they set
the five women by themselves in one of their
huts, and they went all into the other hut, and
drew lols among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first went away by
himself to the but where the poor naked aes-
tures were, and fetched out her he chose; and
it was worth observing, that he that chose first
took her that was reckoned the hotneliest and
oldest of the five, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards
laughed at it: but the fellow considered better
than any of them, that it was application and
business they were to expect assistance in, as
much as in any thing else; and she proved the
best wife of all the parcel.

\thn the poor women saw themselves set
in a row thus, and fetched out one by one, the
terrors of their condition retumed upon them
again, and they firmly believed they were now
going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the
English sailor came in and fetched out one of
them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
anvl hung about her, and took their leave of her
with such agonies and affection, as would have
grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy
them that they were not to be immediately
murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's
father, who immediately let them know that
the five men, who had fetched them out one by
one, had chosen them for their wives.

\'Vhen they had done, and the fright the wo-
men were in was a little over, the men went to
work, and the Spaniards came and helped
them; and in a few hours they had built them
every one a new but or tent for their lodging
apart; for those they had already were crowd-
ed with their tools, household-slug} and provi--
sions. The three wicked ones had pitched
farthest of, and the two honest ones nearer,
but both on the north shore of the island, so
that they continued separated as before; and
thus my island was peopled in three places;
and, as 1 might say, three towns were begun
to be built.

And here it is very well worth observing,
that, as it otlen happens in the world, (what the
wise ends of God's providence are in such a
disposition of things, I cannot say,) them
honest fellows had the two worst wives; and
the three reprohates, that were scarce worth

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither
seemed born to do themselves good, nor any
one else, had three clover, diligent, careful,
and ingenious wives; not that the first two
were bad wives, as to their temper or humour,
feral] the five were most willing, quiet, pan-
sive, and subjected creatures, rather like
slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they
were not alike capable, ingenious, or indus-
trious, or alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the
honour of a diligent application, on one hand,
and to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle
temper, on the other, that when I came to the
place, and viewed the several improvements,
plantings, and management of the several little
colonies, the two men had so far outgone the
three, that there was no comparison. They
had, indeed, both of them as much ground laid
out for corn as they wanted, and the reason
was, because, according to my role, nature
dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more
com than they wanted; but the diflierence of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences,
and, indeed, of every thing else, was easy to
be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees
planted about their huts, so that when you
came to the place, nothing was to be seen but
a wood: and though they had twice had their
plantation demolished, once by their own coun-
trymen, and once by the enemy,as shall be
shown in its place, yet they had restoredall
again, and every thing was thriving and flou-
rishing about them: they had gap>> planted
in order, and managed like a vineyard, though
they had themselves never seen any thing of
that kind; and by their good ordering their
vines, their grapes were as good again as any
of the others. They had alsofound themelver
out a retreat in the thickest of the woods
where, though there was not a natural cave, as
I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the
mischief which followed happened, they secured
their wives and children, so as they could
never be found; they having, by sticking Innu-
merable stakes and ypoles of the wood which,
as I said, grew so readily, made the grove um
passable, encept in some places where they
climbed up to get over the outside part, and
then went on by ways of their own lea'

Astothe three reprohstas, as I justlycsll
them, though they were much civilized by
their settlement to what they were
before, sndwere not so qtnrrelsoms, tnviog
notthesameopporttmity; yet one d'tbecat-

taincompsnionsofaprofligslemiadmkfl
them. and that was their idleness. It is true,
they planted corn,andntadefeneee; butSolo-
men's were never better verified than in
them, " I went by the vineyard of the slothful,
and it was all n with thunsg" (hr
when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds,
the hedge had several gape.in it, where the
wild goals had got in and eaten up the corn;
perhaps here and there a dead bush was
crammed in, to stop them out for the present,
but it was only shutting the stable-door after
the steed was stolen: whereas, when they
looked on the colony of the other two, there
was the very face of industry and success upon
all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in
all their corn. or a gap in any of their hedges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's
words in another place, " that the diligent
hand maltelh rich ,-" for every thing grew and
thrived, and they had plenty within and with-
out; they had more tame cattle than the others,
more utensils and necessaries within doors,
and yet more pleasure and diversion too.

It is true, the wives of the three were very
handy and cleanly within doors, and having
learned the English ways of dressing and
cooking from one of the other Englishmen,
who, as I said, wu a cook's umteon board
the ship, they dressed their husbands' victunls
very nicely and well; whereas the others
could not be brought to understand it ; but then
the husband, who, as I esy, had been cook's
mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands
of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched
turtles' eggs, and canghtfish and birds; in a
word, any thing but labour, and they fired w
cordingly. The diligent lived welland oom-
fortably; and the slothful lived hard and beg-
gerly ; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it
is all over the world.

Butlnoweorne toasoenedifi'erentfiotn all
that had happened before, either to them or to
me;and the original ofthe storywasthis:
Earlyone morning,thereeame onehaefivo or
eisennoesoflndiansorsavages,eallthem
which you , and. there is no room to

'douhtthey came upondseolderrandoffeeding
upontheirslavesgbntthatpartwunoweo
familiartotheSpaniards, andtootnmen too,
tint they did not concern themselves about it,
asldid: but having been made sensible,by
their experience, that their onlyrbusineee was
to lie oonoeded,andthnt iftheywere not
eeenbyanyet' theeavageenhey would go ofl'
again quietly, when their buineee'was done,
having,asyet,nottheleastnotionofthere
beinganyinhabitamintbeisland; Isay,

l l

161

having been made sensible of this, they had
nothing to do but give notice to all the three
plantations to keep within doors, and not show
themselves, only placing a seem in a proper
piece, to give notice when the boatswent to
sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; hot n
disaster spoiled all these measures, and made
it known among the savages that there were
inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the
desolation of almost the whole oolmy. After
the canoes with the "ages were gone 08',
thoSpeninrds peepedahroadagain; andsome
of them had the curiosity to go to the place
where they had been, to see what they had
been doing. Here, to their great ise,
they found three savages left behind, and lying
fast asleep upon the ground. It was supposed
they had either been so gorgod with their in-
human feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen
asleep, and' would not stir when the others
went, or theyhad wandered intothe woods,
Inddidnot come hankintiutetobetakenin.

The Spaniards were greatly Iurpr'led at
this sight, and perfectly at a loss what to do.
The Spanish governor, as it happened, wu
with them, and his advice was asked, but he
professed hehnew not what to do. Asfor
slaves, they had enough already; and as to
killing them, they were none of them inclined
to that: the Spanish governortold me, the
could not tltinkot'sheddinginnoeent blood:
flares tothem, the poorcreatureshaddone
themnowrortgflnvadednooeoftheirproperty,
and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And
here I must, injustice to these Spaniards, ob-
serve,thatlettheaoootmta ofSpanishanelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I
never met with seventeen men of any nation
whatsoever, in any foreign cotmtry. who were
so universally modest, temperate, viz-woos, so
ve good humoured,andsocourteotl,al
Spaniards; and as to cruelty,they had
nothingof it in their very nature: no inhu-
manity, nobarharity, no magenta passions;
andyet allofthemtnenofgreateourage
spirit. Their temper and m. Map-

in their

E
discoverthatthere were inhabitants in it; and
so they should be undone that way. Upon this
they went back again, and there lay the fel-
lows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to
waken them, and take them prisoners; and
they did so. The poor fellows were strangely
frightened when they were seized upon and
bound; and afraid, like the women, that they
should be murdered and eaten: lbr it seems
those people think all the world does as they
do, eating men's flesh; but they were soon
made easy as to that, and away they carried
them.

It was very happy for them that they did
not c them home to their castle, I mean
to my palace under the hill: but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief
of their country work, such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &c.; and after-
wards they carried them to tho habitation of
the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not
much they had for them to do; and whether
it was by negligence in ing them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend
themselves, I know not, but one of them ran
away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear ofhim any more.

They had good reason to believe he got
home again soon after, in some other boats or
canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks allerwards; and who, carrying on
their revels as usual, went of in two days
time. This thought terrified them exceed-
ingly; for they concluded, and that not with-
out good cause indeed, that if this fellow came
home safe among his comrades, he would cer-
tainly give them an account that there were
people in the island, and also how few and
weak they were; for this savage, as 1 ob-
served before, had never been told, and it was
very happy he had not, how many there were,
or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or
heard the fire of any of their guns, much less
had they shown him any of their other retired
places . such as the cave in the valley, or the
new retreat which the two En-lishrnen had

made, and the like.

The first testimony they had that this fat-
low had given intelligence of them was, that
about two months after this, six canoes of
savages. with about seven, eight, or ten rnen
in a canoe, canto rowing along the north side
of the island, where they never used to come
before, and landed, aboutan hour after nmrise,
at a convenient place, about a mile from the
habitation of the two Englishmen, where this

escaped manhadbeen kept. AstbeSpa-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSDE.

nisrd governorsaid, had they been all there, the
damage would not have been so much, for not
a man of them would have escaped. but the
use differed now very much, for two men to
filly was too much odds. The two men had the
happiness todisoover them about: league 03', so
that it was above an hour before they landed ;
and 3 they landeda mile from their huts, it
was some time before they could come at
them. Now, having great reason to believe
that they were betrayed, the first thing they
did was to bind the two slaves which were
left, and cause two of the three men whom they
brought with the women (who, it seems,
proved very faithful to them) to lead them,
with their two wives, and whatever they could
carry away with them, to their retired places
in the woods, which I have spoken of above,
and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot,
till they heard farther.

In the next place, seeing the savages were
all come on shore, and that they had bent their
course directly that way, they opened the
fences where the milch goats were kept, and
drove them all out; leaving their goals to strag-
gle in the woods, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred
wild; but the rogue who came with them was
too cunning for that, and gave them an ac-
count of it all, for they went directly to the
place.

\Vhen the two poor frightened men had
secured their wives and goods, they sent the
other slave they had of the three who came
with the women, and who was at their place
by accident, away to the Spaniards with all
speed, to give them the alarm, and desire
speedy help; and, in the mean time they
took their arms, and what ammunition they
had, and retreated towards the place In the
wood where their wives were sent; keeping
at a distance, yet so that they might see, if
possible, which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that from a
rising ground they could see the little army of
their enemies come on direaly to their habi-
tatioo, and, in a moment more, could see all
their huts and household stufi' flaming up to-
gether, to their great grief and reunification
for they hada very great loss,to them irre-
trievable, at least forsome time. They kept
their station for a while, till they found the sa-
rages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all
over the place, rummaging every way and
every place they could think of, in search of
We]; lndinpanicularfirlhe people,ofwhom.
now, it plainly appeared they had inrelligence.

The two Englidunen seeing this, thinking
themselves not aecun where they stood, be-
cause it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they mightcome too
many together, thought it proper to make ano-

163

ther retreat about a half a mile farther: be-
lieving, as it afterwards happened, that the
farther they strolled the Fewer would be to
gether.

 

SECTION XXXVI.

SEVERAi. SAVAGE! KILLED; THE 3231AIKDEB LEAVE THE ISLAND.--A FL"?
0!" TH!" AHIBWAIDS ARRIVE--A GENERAL BATTLE--41'" PAVAGIS All
OVEBCOME, All) TWQUILLI'I'Y HISTORID.

Tnnra next halt was at the entrance into
a very thid grown part of the woods, and
where an old trunk of a tree stood, which
was hollow and vastly large; and in this tree
they both took their standing, resolving to see
there what might ofi'er. They had not stood
there long, before two of the savages appeared
running directly that way, as if they already
had notice where they stood, and were
coming up to attack them; and a little way
farther they espied three more coming after
them, and five more beyond them, all coming
the same way : besides which, they saw seven
or eight more ata distance, running another
way; for, in a word, they ran every way,
like sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity
whether they should stand and lteep their poe-
turc, or fly; but, alter a very short debate with
themselves, they considered, that if the sa-
vages ranged the country than before help
mme, they might find out their retreat
in the woods, and then all would be lost: so
they resolved to stand them there; and if they
were too many to deal with, then they would
get up to the top of the tree, from whence
they doubted not to defend themselves, fire
excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted,
though all the savages that were landed, which
was near fifly, were (named: them.

Having resolved upon this, they nest con-
sidered whether they should fire at the first
two, or wait forthe three, and sotahe the
middle party,by which the two and the fire
that followed would he repented; ulcngth
they resolved to let their! two pass by, unless
they-hould spy theminthe tree,andeorne to
attack theta. The first two savages confirmed
them also in this regulation, by turning a
little flora them towards another part of the
wood; but the three, and the five afierthem,
came forward direetIyto the tree, uit'thoy
Ind known the Enfiidim were there. See-

ing them come so straight toward them, they.
resolved to take them in alineas they came;
and as they resolved to fire but one at a time,
perhaps the first shot might hit them all three:
for which purpose, the man who was tofire put
three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loophole, as it were, from a
broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim,
without being seen, waiting till they were
\\ ithioabout thirty yards ofthe tree, so that he
could not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the an.
rages came on, they plainly saw that one of
the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him
distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both
fire; so the other stood ready with his piece,
that if he did not drop at the first shot, he
shouldbe sure to have asecond. But the
firstwas toogood amarksmantomishis
aim;forasthesa keptnearoneano-
ther, a little behind, in a line, he fired, and hit
two of them directly: the foremost was killed
outright, being shot in the head; the second,
which was the runaway Indian, was shot
through the body, and fell, but was not quite
dead; and the third hada littleaaatehintbe
shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went
through the bodyot'the second: and being
dreadfully fightened, though notso much hurt,
sat down upon the ground, screaming and
yelling in a hideous manner.

The live that were behind, more frightened
with the noise than sensible of the danger,
standstill atfirst; hr the woods inadethe
sound a thousand times bigger than it really
was,theechoes rattlingfromoneside ton>>
ther, and the fowla, rising from all parts,
screaming, and every sort making a difl'ereu
noiso,aocording wthairkiadtluflss itwaa
when I fired the first gun that perhaps was
ever that ofi'in the island.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE-

 

However, all being silent again, and they
not knowing what the matter was, came on
unconcerned, till they canto to the place where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here the poor ignorant creatures,
not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over
the wounded man, talking, and, as may be
supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt ;"an,d who, it is very rational to believe,
told them, that a flash of fire first, and imme-
diately after that'thunder from their gods, had
killed those two and wounded him; this, I say,
is rational; for nothing is more certain than
that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor
so much as heard of a gun ; neither knew they
any thing ofkilling and wounding at a distance
with fire and bullets: if they had, one might
rcasonub!y believe they would not have stood
so unconcerned in viewing the fate of their
fellows, without some apprehensions of their
own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to
me, it grieved them to be obliged to kill so
many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having
them all thus in their power, and the first hav-
ing loaded his piece again, resolved to let lly
both together among them; and singling out,
by agreement, which to aim at,they shot to-
gether, and killed, or very much wounded, four
of them; the fifth, frightened even to death,

though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our
men seeing them all fall together, thought they
had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed
made our two men come boldly out from the
tree before they had charged their guns, which
was a wrong step; and they were under some
surprise when they came to the place, and
found no less than four of them alive, and of
them two very little hurt, and one not at all:
this obliged them to fall upon them with the
stocks of their muskets; and first they made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the
cause of all the mischief, and of another that
was hurt in the knee, and put them out oftheir
pain: then the man that was hurt not at all
came and lmecled down to them, with his two '
hands held up, and made piteous means to
them, by gestures and signs, for his life, but
could not say one word to them that they could
understand. 'However, they made signs to
him to sit down at the feet of a tree hard by;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of
rope twined, which he had by great chance
in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed
they could made after the other two, which
were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered
place in the woods, where their wives, and
the few goods they had left, lay. They came
once in sight of the two men, but it was at l
great distance; however, they had the satis-Savages.--p. 164.

ight with the

F
faction to see them cross over a valley towards
the sea, quite. the contrary way from that
which led to their retreat, which they were
afraid of; and being satisfied with that, they
went back to the tree where theylelt their
prisoner, who, as they supposed, was deli-
vered by his comrades, for he was gone, an
the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they
had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as
before, not knowing what course to take, or
how near the enemy might be, or in what
numbers; so they resolved to go away to the
placevwhere their wires were, to see if all was
well there, and to make them easy, who were
in fright enough to be sure; for though the
savages Were their own countryfolk, yet they
were most terribly afraid of them, and per-
haps the more for the knowledge they had of
them.

When they came there, they found the
savages had been in the wood, and very near
that place, but had not found it: for it was
indeed inaccessible. hy the trees standing so
thick, as before, unless the persons seeking
it had been directed by those that knew it,
which these did not: they found, therefore,
every thing very safe, only the women in a
terrible fright. While they were here, they
had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards
come to their assistance: the other ten, with
their servants, and old Friday, I mean Fri-
day's father. were gone in a body to defend
their bower, and the corn and cattle that was
kept there, in cttse the savages should have
roved over to that side of the country: but
they did not spread so far. With the seven
Spaniards came one of the three savages who,
asI said, were their prisoners formerly: and
with them also came the savage whom the
Englishmen had left bound hand and feet at
'the tree; for it seems, they came that way,
saw the slaughter of the seven men, and un-
bound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to
bind him again, as they had the two others
who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to he a burden to
them; and they were so afraid of their cs-
caping, that they were once resolving to kill
them all, believing they were under an abso-
lute necessity to do so, for their own preser-
vation. However, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it; but ordered, for the
present, that they should be sent out of the
way, to my old cave in the valley, and be
kept there, with two Spaniards to guard
them; and give them food for their subsis-

165

tenee, which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Eng-
lishmen were so encouraged, that they could
not satisfy themselves to stay any longer
there: but taking five of the Spaniards and
themselves, with four muskets and a pistol
among them, and two stout quarterstaves,
away they went in quest of the savages. And
first they came to the tree where the men lay
that had been killed; but it was easy to see
that some more of the savages had been there,
for they had attempted to carry their dead
men away, and had dragged two of them a
good way, but had given it over. From
thence they advanced to the first rising
ground, where they had stood and seen their
camp destroyed, and where they had the mor-
tification still to see some of the smoke: but
neither could they here see any of the savages.
They then resolved, though with all possible
caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came
thither, coming in sight of the seashore, they
saw plainly the savages all embarked again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They
seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way
to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the'whole, they were very well sa-
tisfied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being new twice
mined, and all their improvements destroyed,
the rest all agreed to come and help them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful sup-
plies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to
do any good, yetas soon as they heard of it,
(for they ,living remote eastward, knew no-
thing of the matter till all was even) came
and offered their help and assistance, and did,
very friendly, work for several days, to re-
store their habitation, and make necessaries
for them. And thus, in a little time, they
they were set upon their legs again.

About two days other this, they had the
farther satisfaction of seeing three of the sa-
vages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men:
by which they had reason to believe that they
had met with a storm at sea, which had over-
set some of them; for it had blown very hard
the night after they went off.

However, as some might miscarry, so, on
the other hand, enough of them escaped to in-
form the rest, as well of what they had done
as of what had happened to them, and to whet
them on to another enterprise of the same
nature: which they, it scems,resolved to at-
tempt, with auflicient force to carry all before
them: for except wlnt the first man had told
them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw
one man', and the fellow being killed that
had olfirmod it, they had no other witness to
confirm it to them.

It was five or six months after this before
they heard any more of the savages, in which
time our men were in ho they had either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over
hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were
invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less
than oight-and-twenty canoes, full of savages,
armed with bows and arrows, great clubs,
wooden swords, and suchlike engines of war;
and they brought such numbers with them,
that, in short, it put all our people into the
utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and
at the eastermost side of the island, our men
had that night toconsult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their
being entirely concealed was their only safety
before, and would be much more so now,
while the number of their enemies was so
great, they therefore resolved, first of all, to
take down the huts which were built for the
two Englishmen, and drive away their goats
to the old cave; because they supposed the
savages would go directly thither, as soon as
it was day, to play the old game over again,
though they did not new land within two
leagues of it. In the next place, they drove
away all the flocks of goats they had at the
old bower, as I called it, which belonged to
tltc Spaniards; and, in short, left as little ap-
pearance of inhabitants any where, as was
poslible: and the next morning early they
posted themselves, with all their force, at the
plantation of the two men, to wait for their
coming. As they guessed, so it happened:
these new invaders leaving their canoes at
the east end of the island,came ranging along
the shore, directly towards the place, to the
number of two hundred and fifty, as near as
our men could judge. Our army was but
small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arrnsfor all their number neither.
The whole account, it seems, stood thus: first,
as to men, seventeen Spaniards, live Ens;
lishmen, old Friday, or Friday": father. the
three slaves taken with the women, who proved
very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. To arm these,
they had eleven l'l'llhllwll, five pistols, three
fowlingpieces, five muskets or fowlingpiecea
which were taken by me from the mntinme

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

seamen whom I reduced, two awards, and
three old halbenla.

To their slaves they did not give either
musket or fume, but they had every one a hal-
berd, or a long stafl', like a quarterlufi', with
a great spike of iron fastened into each and of
it, and byhis aidoa hatchet; also every one
ofour men had a hatchet. Two oftho wo-
men could not be prevailed but they
would come into the fight, and they had bows
and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken
from the savages when the first action hap-
pened, which I have spoken of, where the
Indiana fought with one another; and the
women had hatchet-I too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described
so often, commanded the whole; and "'ill
Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellowfor wick-
ednne,was a most daring, bold fellow, corn-
manded under him. The savages came lbr-
ward like lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their
Situation; only that Will Atkins. who now
proved a most useful fellow, with six men. was
planted just behind a small thicket of bushes,
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the
first of them pass by, and then fire into the
middle of them, and assoon as he had fired, to
make his retreat as nimble as he could round
a part of the wood, and so come in behind the
Spaniards, where they stood, having a thidtel
of trees before them.

When the savages came on, they ran strag-
gling about every way in heaps, out of all
manner of order, and "fill Atkins let about
fifty of them pass by him; then seeing the
rest come in a very thick throng, ho orders
three of his men to fire, having loaded their
musket: with six or seven bullets a piece,
about u big as large pistol-bullets. How
many they killed or wounded they knew not,
but the consternation and surprise was in-
exprosaible among the savages; they were
frightened to the last degree to hear aocha
dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and
others hurt, but see nobody that did it ; when,
in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and
his other three let fly again among the thick-
est of them; and in less than a minute the
first three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley.

Had W'ill Atkins and his men retired imme-
diately, as noon as they had fired. as they
were ordered to do, or had the rest ofthe body
been at hand, to have poured in their shot
continually, the savages had been effectually
routed;fi)r theterrorthat mamongthem
came principally from this, viz. that they were
Ind eould lee nobody thnt hurt them; but
Will Atkins, flyingtelesdegnin, discovered
thedchentnonte efthesnvngeowhowere
n innnee spying them, come
behind; Indthough Mine-ndhuupzen
uthetnnleo,tweerthreetimee,nndkill
nbove twenty, retiring uh: no they could,
yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed
one of his fellow Englidtnlen with their-flown,
asthey did efierwutb oneSpeniuti,sndone
ofthelndinn 3an- whoennae withthewo-
men. This due was A no: gnllent fellow,
and fought mt desperately, killing five of
them with his own hand, hnvingno weapon but
oneofthelrtnedmvesnndshntehet.
Ourmenbeingthnshnrdlnidnt,Alkinn
woundednndtwo othernten killed,relreeled
toarisinggrotmdinthe wood; and theSpn-
wards, liter firing three volleys upon them,
ntrented lleogfortheirnnmberwueogntt,
end they were eodespente, thntthougluhove
fifty ofthetnwerekilled,endntorethnnu
many wounded, yettheyenmeon in the teeth
ofour men,fenrle-ofdnnger, Indehottheir
urowslikelcloud; Ind it we: uheervedthnt
this; wounded men,who werenotqnite die-
,werennde theirwounde,
mdrutgm like MW" '
Wheuourtnen retreated,lheylafitb05pn-
ninrd end the Englishman that were killed,
behind them; and the ssngee, when they
enmeupto them,killed them over egeinine
wretched manner, ' their "a", 1deg89:
Indheeds, with theirelubllndwooden swords,
like true stages; but finding our men were
gone, they did not seen topunue them, but
drew themselves up in n ring, which in, it
seems, their custom, end touted twice, in
token <<their victory; that which,they hid
themortifiationtoeeemerdet'tbeirwomd-
edtnenfiill,dyingwiththetnerelosofhlood.
l' t'll'he Spnmud' governor luring dram
It e body np thernpon erising y
Atkins, "Swuwounded,would hue
hndthetnmnrehlnd Muslin-"we'll!"
nt once: but the Spain}! replied, Senhor
Atkins,youseehowtheirwoullodinenfight:
letthemelenetillmninuellthe wounded
menwillbenid'endsorewiththeirwotmde,
Indt'aint with the lit-offload; wt to we
nhelihnvethet'ewerto . Thieedviee
was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily,
Thntistme, eenhorflndeodiell I too: M
thuiadiereuonlwwldgoonwhilelm
mm--Well,8mhorAlkins. nynbe Spu-
ninrd, you have behaved gnllently, Ind done
mpart;wowillfightfiryou,d'yooeennot

8.

167

cotneon; butlthinkitheettomylilltnun-
ingzsotheywnited.

But I: it wu n cleer moonlizht night, Ind
theyfumdthenngeeingreudinodornhou
meirdeedendwomdedtnennndngrestnoiee
nndhwrynntnngthetnwherethey lny,they
nflerwudireeolvedtofnllupentheminthe
night; eepeeisllyiftheyeenld corneto give
theuhutonevweyheforetheyweredieeevm
ed, which they hnd nfnir opporulnitytn do;
formeoI'IheEngliehmenfinwhoeequ-rterit
was where the fight beg-n, led them rotmd
hetweendiewnodenndtheleuideweetwnrd,
mdthenunningshnrtlouthfiheyameeoneu
where the thicken of then: hydhnt,' before
theywereseenorheud,eightofthemflredin
emongdietn,enddid dreedful execution upon
them; in half e minute more, eight other:
firednfter them,pouringinlheiretnnllshotin
such n quantity, thet ehundnnoe were killed
Ind wounded; end all this while they were
notehle meeewhohurtthetnmrwhichwny
tofly.

The Speniude charged egein withthe ut-
tnoetexpeditioo, nndthendivided Wives
in lhreebodiee,nnd resolved tofnllinemong
themnlltogether. Theyhndineenhhodyeight
persons, tint is to my, twenty-two end the
two women, who, by the way, fought despe-
mely. They divided thefireem equally in
euhperty,endeothehnlherdsendstuee.
Theywouldhve had thewolnen kept heck,
but they-aid theywerereeolved to diewith
their husbands. Bering lhlll firmed their
little mynheymuched ontfrom unmgthe
trees,nndeuneup totheteethoftheenemy,
shouting endhellooing as loud:- theyeould;
the senses mod utogether, but were inthe
mnneteonfitsion,henringthenoileofourmen
shouting fine: three gutters together: they
wotfldhnvefwghtiftheyhadleenutihru
Ioonuweatneneu toheeeen,lotne
snows were shot, and poor old Fridey wu
wounded, though not dangerously; but our
mengarethemnotinemnnmningup to
them,6red entangthetn three wnye,endthen
fell in with the Woods oftheirnnfletl, their
words, erlnedllnves, end hatchet, and hid
to rate them, they got all together to the
seaside where they landed, and where their
canoes lay. But their dinner was not at an
end yet; fix it blewaterribleatorm of wind
that eveningt'rom thesea, eo thalitwuinr
poeaible for them to go 00'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their
canoe! were most of them driven by the surge
of the see so high upon the share, that it
required infinite toil to get them of; and some
of them were even dashed to pieces egainat the
bench, or agaimt one another.

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet
got little rest that night; but having relieahed
themselves as well as they could, they resolved
to march to that
savages were tied, and see what posture they
were in. This neceaaarily led them over the
place where the fight had been, and where
they found several of the poor creatures not
quite dead, and yet past recovering life; n
eight disagreeable enough to generous minds;
for a truly great man, though obliged by the
law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. However, there was no
ncod to give any orders in this case; for their
own savngea, who were thhir aervanta, demntch-
ed these poor creatures with their hatcltets.

At length, theycarne in view of the place
where the more miserable remains of the sa-
vages' army lay, where there appeared about a
hundred still: their posture was generally sit-
ting upon the , with their ltneen up
towards their mouth, and the head put between
the two hands, leaning down upon the lmoee.

When our men came within two musket-
shots of them, the Spaniard governor ordered
two awaken to he fired, without ball, to alarm
them: thia he did, that by their countenance
he might know what to expect, viz. whether
they were still in heart to fight, or were so
heartily beaten as to be dispirited end discou-
raged, and no he might manage accordingly.
This atratagem took; for as noon a: the en-
rage! heard the first gun and new the flash of
the second, they started up upon their foot in
the greatest consternation imaginable: and as
our men advanced swiftly towards them, they
all ran screaming and yelling nwey, with a
kind of howling noise, which our men did not
understand, and had never helrd bol'oro ; and
thus they ran up the hills into the country.

At first our men had much rnther the wea-
therbad been calm, and they had all gone
any to see; but they did not then consider
th'at this might probably haveheen the occa-
sion of their coming again in such multitudes
unot to be resisted, or, utleast, to come so

part of the island where the-

'somuchasoneol'them got

"w,-- -.. etu:

anvaxronns or nontNSON cttusot.

my, and so alien, a- would quite desolate
theidand,andntarve them. WillAtkim,
therefore, who, notwithtending his wound,
kept always with them, proved the bent coun-
sellorinthisease: h'nadeieewu, tetekethe
advantage mum-Molar: inbotween
tbemand their boats, and lode-prise themot'
tbeeapaeityol'ever reuniting snymore to

'Phey consulted long about this; andsome
were against it, for fearol'makiag the wretchea
fly to the wooda and live there deepente, and
so they ehould have them to hunt like wild
beasts,be afraid to air outsbout theirbusi-
less, Ind hue their plantation continually
rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and,
in short, he reduced to a lifeof continual
dirtrees.

Will Amity told them they had better have
to do with a hundred men than with a hundred
nations : that or they out destroy their belts,
no they must destroy the men, or be all of
them destroyed thermolvee. In a. word, he
showed them the necessity of it so plainly,
that they nll came into it; no they went to
work immediately with the boats, and getting
some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried toset aotneot'themonfire, but they were
an wet that they would not burn; however,
thefireao burned theupperpart, that it soon
made them unlit for awinnning in the sea an
boats. When the Indiana new what they were
abottt,sotneoi'them came runningnutol' the
woods, and coming as near an theyeould wour
men, kneeled down and cried, " 0a, 0a, Wa-
rarnokoa," and some other words oftheir lan-
guage, which none of the other: understood
any thing of; but as they made pitifitl gesture:
and strange noises, it was easy to understand
they begged to have their boats spared, and
that they would be gone, and never oome
there again. But our men were now satisfied
that they had no way to rve themselves,
or to save their colony, but effectually to pre-
vent any of these people fight ehvaer rgoing
homeagun' :de ndi tt ia,t tieven
pe ng M book into their
oountrytoteu the story, the colony war un-
done; so that, letting them know thnt they
should not have any mercy, they fell to work
with their canoee, and destroyed them every one
that the storm had not destroyed before} at
the sightot' which the savages raised a htde-
oue cry in the woods, which our people heard
plain , after which they ran ebwt the
ielattdliltediatnotedrnen; sothat, in aword,
ottr men did not really know at first whatto
dowiththem. Not-did the Spaniards, witArm-0595119" :1-gwu-yv. W . ~-

 

ADVENTUBEQ. OF ROBINSON 030803.

, that while they
thus deqierate, they ought
epta good gmd at the same time
upon their o"plantatiorrthr "though, it in true,
had drivena tr_,eanle and the

notfindn rmain retreat, I
atthe hilil, nor the cave in
tthey W out my plantation at
the bower, and pol Itallto piecel, and all
the fences and it; trod all the
cornunderfooytere upthevineaand grapes,
beingjustthen almost ripe,and did our men
an ineetimable damage, though to themselves
not one firthing'a worth ofeervice.

Though our men were able to fight them
upon all occasions, yet they were in no con-
dition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for
our men, when they found them single, so our
men durst not go abroad aingteglor fear of
being aurrotmded with their numbers. The
best was,theyhad noweapona; forthough they
had hows. they had noarrows left, norany
materials to make any; nor had they any edge-
tool or weapon them.

The extremity and distress they were re-
duced to was great and indeed deplorable ; but,
atthesame time, ourmen were aleobrought
toveryhadcircumatances bythem; forthough
their retreat! were ed, yet their provi-
sion was demvyed, and their harvest spoiled;
andwhat to do, or which way toturn them-
selves, they knew not. The only refuge they
hadnow waa,thestoek ofeattletheyhad inthe
valley hythe cave, and acute little corn which
grew titan, and theplantntion ofthe three
Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades,
who were nowreducedte two; oneot'them
being killed by an arrow, which struck him on
the side ot'his bead,just under the temples, Io
lhathe neverapoltemore: anditwureryre-
marknhlo, that this wu the same barbarous
fellow that cut the pooraavage slave with his
hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have
murdered the Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have beenwprse
at this time than mine was at any time. alier
I firvt discovered the grainsof barley and rice,
andgot intothemanner ofplantingand rais-
ing mycorn, and myume cattle; for now they
had, as [may say, a hundred wolves upon the
island, which would devour every thing they
couldcorneat.yetcouldbe hardlycotnent
themselves.

When they law what their ciranmtanoea
were, thofirst thing they concluded was, that
they would, ifposs ihle, drive them up to the Etr-
therpartofthe mislandnctuthwest, that ifeny

 

169
warm; $71.?"qu

hunt andharamthetn,and killarmany at
them as theycmddcomeaytill theyhad're-
'dueed their umber; and If the could at lac
tamethemand bringthemtoanything, they
gIvethem corn,andteachthem howto
plant, andlivetmontbeirdaily labour. '

Inadertotbia,theylofollowedthem,
andsoterrified them withtheir guns, that In
afewdaya, it'any ol'themfireda atan
lndian,ifhedidnothitbim,y ethe would tall
down for fear; and so dreadfully fightened
they were, that they kept out of sight farther
and farther; till, at last, our men following

'hem, and almost every day kill' .Ing or wound-
ing some ot'thern, they keptup in the woods
or hollow places so much, thatup it reduced them
to the utmost misery for want of food; and
many were alterwards found dead in the
woods, without any hint, aheoltnely starved to
death.

When our men fotmd this, it made their
hearts relent, and pity moved them, especially
the Spaniard governor, who was the most gen.
deman-lilte, generous-minded man, that I ever
metwithinmylil'e; andhe ,ifpne-
aible, to take one of them alive, and bring
him to understand what they meant, so far as
to be able to act an interpreter, and go among
them, and see ifthey might be brought to some
conditions that might be depended upon, to
save their lives and do us no harm.

ltwasaomewhilebet'ore anyofthemoould
be taken; but being weak and half-starved,
oned'themwasatlaetr ' andmade
apriaoner. Hewuatllen atfirat,and would
neither eat nor drink; but finding himself
kindly used, and victuak given him, and no
violence offered him, be at lam grew tractable,
andcame to himself. Theybrought oldFI-i-
day to him, who talked oflen with him, and
told him how kind the others would be to
them all, that they would not only are their
lives, butwould e them partol'the island to
live in, provided ey would give latisfiction
tltatthey wouldkeepintheir ownbounds and
not 'come beyond it to injure or prejudice
others; and that they ahouldhavecorngiven
then-Ito plant and make it grow for their bread,
and some bread given them for their present
nthaistence: and old Friday bade the fellow
go and talk with the teat ofhia countrymen,
andaee whatthey aaidto it; anuringthem,
that if they didnot agree immediately, they
should be all destroyed.

The poor watches, thoroughly humbled,

and reducedinnmnbertoabou: dirty-seven.
closed .with the at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them: upon
which, tit-[elves minds and two Englishmen,
well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched tothe place where they were.
The three Indian slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes
and dried in the sun, and three live goats;
and they were ordered to go to Ills side of a
hill, where they sat down, ato their provisions
very thankfully, and were the most faithful
fellows to their words that could be thought
of ; for. except when they came to beg victuals
and directions, they never came out of their
bounds: and there they lived when I came to
the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn,
make bread, breed tame goats, and milk them:
they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon
Would have been a nation. They were con-
fined to a. neck of land, surrounded with high
rocks behind them, and lying plain towards
the sen before them, on the southeast corner
of the island. They had land enough, and it
was very good and fruitful; about a mile and
a half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden
spades, such'as I made for myself, and gave
among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives ; and there they lived, the most subjected
innocent creatures that ever were heard of.

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect
tranquillity with respect to the savages till I
came to revisit them, which was about two
years alter; not but that, now and then, some
canoes of savages came on shore for their
triumphnl, unnatural feasts; but as they were
of several nations, and perhaps had never
heard of those that came before, or the reason
of It they did not make any search or inquiry
after their countrymen; and if they had, it
would have been very hard to have foitnd
them out.

Thur, I think, I have given at'ull account of
all that happened to them tIll my return, at
least, that was worth notice. The Indians or
savages were wonderfully civilized by them,
and they frequently went among them; but
forbid, on pain ofdcath, any one of the Indians
coming to thorn, because they would not have
their settlement betray ed again. One thing
was very remarkable, viz. thnt they taught the
savages to make wicker-work, or baskets, but
they soon otttdid their masters; for they made
abundance of must ingenious things in wicker-
work, particularly all sorts of baskets. sieves,
b-irdcages, cupboards, &C., as also chairs to
sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance ol

 

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

other things: being very ingenious at web
work, whcnthey wereonoeputin Ibeway
ofir.

My coming was a particular reliefto these
people,heeause we furnished them with knives,
scissors, spades, shovels, pickam, and all
things of that kind which they could want.
With the help of those tools they were so very
handy, that they came at last to build up
their huts, or houses, very handsomely, rad-
dling or working it up like basket-work all the
way round; which was a very extraordinary
piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but
was an exceeding good fence, as well against
heat as against all sortsot' vermin; and our
men were so taken with it, that they got the
wild savages to come and dothe like for them;
so that when I came loses the two English-
mcn'tt colonies, they looked, at a distance, as
if they all lived like bees in a hive. As for
Will Atkins, who was now become a very
industrious, useful, and sober fellow, he had
made himself such a tent of basket-work, as, I
believe, was never seen; it was one hundred
and twenty paces round on the outside, as I
measured by my steps; thewalls weroas close
worked as abasltet, In panels or squares of
thirty-two' tn number and very strong. stand-
ing about seven feet high: in rytho middle was
another not above twenty-two paces round,
but built stronger, being octagon in its form,
and in the eight corners stood eight very
strong posts; round the top of which he laid
strong pieces, pinned together with wooden
pins, from which he raised a pyramid fora
roof of eight rollers, very handsome, I assure
you, and joined together very well, though he
had no nails, and only a few iron spikes,
which he made himself too, out of the old iron
that! had left there, and, indeed, this fellow
showed abundance of ingenuity in several
things which he had no knowledge of: he
made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the fire; he leads himself
charcoal for his work; and he formed out of
the iron crows a middling good anvil to ham-
mer upon: in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples and
spikes. bolts and hinges--But, to return to
the house: Alter he had pitched the roof of
his innermost tent, he worked it up between
the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and
thatched that over again so ingeniously with
rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
which covered the top, that his home was as
dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed,
he owned that the savages had made the
basket-work tia- him. The utter circuit was
covered as a lean-to, all round this inner
apartment, and long rafters lay from the thirty-
two anglosto the top posts of the inner house,
being about twenty feet distant: so that thero
was a. space like a walk within the outer
wicker wall and without the inner, near
twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitioned 03' with the
same wicker-Work, but much fairer, and di-
vided into six apartments, so that he had six
rooms on a. floor, and out of every one of these
there was a door; first into the entry, or com-
ing into the main tent, another door into the
main tent, and another door into the Space or
walk that was round it; so that walk was also
divided into sit equal parts, which served not
only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries
which the family had occasion for. These six
spaces not taking up the whole circumference,
what other apartments the outer circle had were
thus ordered :--As soon as you were in at the
door of the outer circle, you had ashort passage
straight before you to the door of the inner
house ; but on either side was a wicker partition,
and a door in it, by which you went first into a.
large room, or storehouse, twenty feet wide,
and about thirty feet long, and through that

' into another, not quite so long; so that in the
outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six

I , of which were only to be come at through the

apartments of the inner tent, and served as
' closets or retiring rooms to the respective
chambers of the inner circle; and four large
warehouses, or barns, or what you please to
call them, which went through one another,
two on either hand of the passage, that led
through the outer door to the inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was
never seen in the world, nor a. house or tent
so neatly contrived, much less so built. In
this great bee-hive lived the three families,
that is to say, Will Atkins and his compa-
nion; the third was killed, but his wife re-
mained, with three children, for she was, it
seems, big with child when he died: and the

171

other two were not at all backward to give
the widow her full share of every thing, I mean
as to their corn, milk, grapes, Ste. and when
they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the
shore; so that they all lived well enough;
though, it was true, they were not so indu5o
trious as the other two, as has been observed
already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz.
that as for religion, I do not know that there
was any thing of that kind among them: they
often, indeed, put one another in mind that
there was a God, by the very common method
of seamen, viz. swearing by his name: nor
were their poor ignorant savage wives much
better for having been married to Christians,
as we must call them; for as they know very
little of God themselves, so they were utterly
incapable of entering into any discourse with
their wives about a. God, or to talk any thing
to them concerning religion.

The utmost of all the improvement which I
can say the wives had made from them was,
that they had taught. them to speak English
pretty well ; and most of their children, which
were near twenty in all, were taught to speak
English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at first spoke it in a very broken
manner, like their mothers. There was none
of these children abovesix years old when I
came thither, tbr it was not much above seven
years that they had fetched these five savage
ladies over; but they had all been pretty
fruitful, for they had all children, more or less;
I think the cook's mate's wife was big ot'her
sixth child; and the mothers were all a good
sort of well governed, quiet, laborious women,
modest and decent, helpful to one another,
mighty observant and subject to their masters,
(I cannot call them husbands,) and wanted
nothing but to be well instructed in the Chris-
tian religion, and to be legally married; both
which were happily brought about atterwards
by 'my means, or, at least, in conseqat -.-.' u
my coming among them.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

SECTION XXXVII.

ROBINSON LEARKS FRO! THE SPAKIAIDS m mmcuutzs "I! HAD 1'0 "-
COUK'I'ER.--IIE FURNISHIS III! PM)?" \VI'I'H TOOLS, BIG--I'll! PIERCE

BCCLESUSTIC-

Hume thus given an account of the co-
lony in general, and pretty much of my run-
agate English, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the
family, and in whose story there are some in-
cidunls also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them
about their circumstances when they were
among the savages. They told me readily
that they had no instanws to give of their ap-
plication or ingenuity in that country; that
they were a poor, miserable, dejected hand-
ful ofpeople; that if means had been put into
their hands, yet they had so abandoned them-
selves to despair, and so sunk under the
weight of their misfortune, that they thmtght
of nothing but starving. One of them, a
grave and sensible man, told me he was con-
vineed they were inthe wrong; that it was
not the part of wise men to give themselves
up to their misery, but always to take hold
of the helps which reason offered, as well for
present support a. for future deliverance: he
told me that grief m the most senseless in-
significant passion in the world, for that it
regarded only things post, which were ge-
nerally impossible to be recalled, or to be
remedied, but had no views of things tocome,
and had no share in any thing that looked
like deliverance, but rather added to the af-
fliction than proposed a remedy; and upon
this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which
though I cannot repeat in just the same words
that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it
into an English proverb ofmy own, thus:

In trouble to be troubled
Is to hove your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the
little improvements I had made in my solitude;
my unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition which in its citb
cumstances wnsatfirst much worse than theirs,
a thousand times more happy than theirs was,
even now when they were all togethq'. He
told me it was remarkable that Englishmen
had a greater presence ofmind, in their dis-

treu, than any people that ever he met with:
that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese
were the worst men in the world to struggle
with misforttmes; for that their first step in
dangers, after the common efl'orts were over,
was to despair, lie down under it, and die,
without rousing their thoughts up to proper
remedies for escape.

I told him their case and mine difl'ered eso
ceedingly: that they were cast upon the shore
without necessaries, without supply of food, or
present sustenance, till they could provide;
that, it was true, I had this disadvantage and
discomfort, that I was alone; but then the sup-
plies ! had providentth thrown into my
hands, by the unespected driving of the ship
on shore, was such a help as would havens-
eouragedanycreatureintheworld tohave
applied hirnselfas I haddone. Senhor,aayl the
Spaniard, had We poor Spaniards been in your
case, weahould neverhave gothalfthosethings
out of the ship, as you did: nay, says he, we
should never havefound means Iohnve gota
nfitocanythem, or tohsve got the ration
shore withoutboator sail: and how much le-
shouldwe have doneifanynfusbsd been
alone! Well, I desired him to abate his com-
pliment, and goon with the history of their
comingmahore,wheretheylanded. He told
me they mthappily landed at a place where
there were people wi provision; whereas,
had theyhad the common sensetohave put
ofl'toseaagain.and gonetoanother islands
little farther, they had found provisions,
though without people; there being an island
that way,as they had been told, where there
were ' ions, no people; that is to
say,tbat the Spaniards of Trinidad had fre-
quentlyheen there, and had filled the island
with goatsand hogs atscveral times, where
theyhsdbred in nichmrddmdeannd where
tattle and seabwls were in arch plenty, that
they.eould have been in no want offledt,
thoughtheybadfinmdnobread; whereashere,
theywere onlysnstainedwithafewrootsand
herbs, which they understood not and which
had no substance in than, and which the inha
bitants gave them sparingly enough; and who
could treat them no better, unless they would
turn cannibals, and eat men' s flesh, which was
the great dainty oftheir country.

They gave me an account how many ways
they strove to civilize the savages they were
with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and
how they rezoned it upon them. as unjust that
thcv, who come there for assistancu and sup~
port, should attempt to set up fiir tttstrttcters of
those that gave thPm foocl' . intimating, it
seems, that none should set up for the instruc~
ters ofothcis but those who could live without
them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extre-
mities they were driven to; how sometimes
they were many days without any food at all,
the island they were upon being inhabited by
a sort of savages that lived more indolent, and
for that reason were less supp lied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to
believe others were in the same part of the
world: and yet they foam! that those savages
were less ravenous and voracious than those
who had better supplies of food. Also they
added, they could not but see with what do-
monstrations of wisdom and goodness the
governing providence of God directs the events
of things in the world; which, they said,
appeared in their circumstances; forif, messed
by the hardships they were uhder, and the
barrenncss of the country where they were,
they had searched after a better to live in,
they had then been out of the way of the relief
that happened to them by my means.

They then gave me an account how the
savages whom they lived among expected them
to go out with them' Into their wars; and, It was
true, that as they had firearms with them, had
they not had the' disaster to lose their ammu-
nition, they should have been serviceable not
only to their frientb, but have made themselves
terrible both tofriends and enemies; but being
without powderand shot, and yet in a condition
that theyeould notin reason denytogo out
with dieirlandlords totheir wars," when they
came into the field of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves ;
for they had neither bows nor arrows," could
theyosetbosethesavagcsgavethem; sothey
coulddonothinghnmndstillandbewotmded
withaI-rows,till theyeameup to thoteethot'
their enemy; and then, indeed, the thm hal-
berds Iheyhad werenfusetothem; andtbey
would ofien drive a whole little army before
them with those halberds, and sticks
Put into the nude- of their wants: but

173

that, for all this, they were sometimes Iur
rounded with mtdtitudes,and in greatdanger
from their arrows, till at last they found the
way to nuke themselves large targets of wood,
which they covered with skirts of wild beasts,
whose names they knew not, and these covered
them from the arrows of the savages: yet,
notwithstanding these, they were sometimes
in great danger; and five of them were once
knocked down together with the Clubs of the
sat-ages, which was the time when one of
them was taken prisoner, that isto say, the
Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at first
they thought he had been killed: but when
they afterwards heard he was taken prisoner,
they were tinder the test grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their
lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so
knocked down, the rest of their company
rescued them, and stood over than fighting
till they were come to themselves, all but him
who they thong ht had been dead; and then
they made their may with their halberds and
pieces, standing close together in a line
through a. bodyofabove a thousand savages
beating down all that. came in their way, got
the victory over their enemies, but to their
great sorrow, because it was with the loss of
their friend, whom the other party, finding
him alive, carried otf, with some others, as I
gave an account before.

They described most afl'eotionately now
they were surprised with joy at the return of
their friend and companion in misery, who,
they thought, had been devoured by wild
beasts of the worst kind viz. by wildy men-
and yet how more and more they were sur>>

prised with the account he gave them of his
errand. and that there was a Christian in any
place near. much more one that was able, and
had humanity enough, to contribute to their
deliverance. .

They described how they were astonished
at the sightot' the relief I sent them, and at
the appearance of loaves of bread, things they
had not seen since their coming to that miser-
ableplaee; bowoflcntheycrwsedandblesscd
it as bread sent Gem Heaven; and what a
reviving cordial it was to their spirit: to taste
it, asalsotheotherthingstbadsuttfortheir
supply; and, alter all, they would have told
me somethingot' the joy they were in at the
sight of a boat and pilots, to tarry them away
tothepemn and plaeefiom wheneealltheee
new comforts came, but it was impossible to
eapresst tby words, lbr their elective joy

usually drivin'thomtotnbaeoningemva-
ganees, they had no way to deeaibe them,
but by telling me they bordered upon lunacy,
having no way to give vsntto their ions
suitable to the sense that was upon them; that
in some it worked one way, and in some anoo
thenandthatsome ofthem,through a link
prise of joy, would burst into tears, othersbe
stark mad, and others immediately faint.
This discourse extremely ett'eued me, and
called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when
he met his father, and the poor people's ecstasy
when I took them up atsea alter their ship
was onfire: thejoyofthe mateofthe ship
when he found himself delivered in the place
where he expected to perish; and my own joy,
when, other twenty-eight years' captivity, I
found a good ship readyto carry me to my
own country. All these thin-gs made me more
sensible of the relation of these poor men, and
more affected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state 01'
things as I found them, I must relate the heads
of what I did for these people, and the outdi~
tion in which I left them. It wastheir opinion,
and mine too, that they would be troubled no
more with the savages, or, if they were, they
would be able to cut them 05', if they were
twice as many as before; so they had no con-
cern about that. Then I entered into a seri-
ous discount! with the Spaniard, Who]. I can
governor, about their stay in the island; for
as l was noteorne to carryanyofthemotl',
soitwould not be justtocarryofl' somoand
leave othen, who, perhaps, would be unwil-
ling to stay if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them I earns to
establish them there, not to remove them: and
then I let them know that I had brought with
me relief of sundry kinds (or theta; that I had
been at a great charge to supply them with all
things necessary, as well tbr their convenience
as their defencegand that I had such and
such particular persons with me, as well to in-
crease and recruit their number, as by the par-
ticular employment: which they were
bred to, being srtifieets, to assist them in
those things in which at present they were in
want.

They were all together wbenI talked thus
to them; and before I delivered to them the
stores I had brought, [ asked them, one by one,
if they had entirely ingot and buried the first
animosiliee that had been among them, and
would Ihakehands withoneanother,anderr
gage in a strictfriendship and union of in-
tereat,thatso there mightbe nomoremisun-
demanding- and jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance disable-

ADVENTUREB 0F ROBINSON CBUSOE.

and good humour, said, they had met with
afliction to matte them all sober, and
enemies en tomalte them all friends; that,
thr his part, he would live and die with then"
andwassofart'rom designing anythingagainst
the Spaniards,that he owned they had done
nothingtnhimbutwbathisown mad hum
made necessary, and wlnt he would have done,
andperhape worse, intbeirease; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the
foolish and brutish things he had done to them,
and was very willing and desirous of living in
terms of entire friendship and union with
them, and would do any thing that lay in his
power to convince them of it: and u tbr going
to England,hecuednot it' he didnotgothi-
ther these twenty yenrs.

The Spaniarfl said they had, indeed, at
first disarmed and excluded Will Atkins and
his two countrymen for their ill oouduct, as
they had let me know, and they appealed to
me for the necessity they were under to do so;
but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so
bravely in the great light they had with the
savages, and on several ooeasioos since, and
had showed himself so faithful to, and eon-
cemed for, the general interest of them oil,
that they had forgotten all that was past, nnd
thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with neceusries, as any
of them ; and they had teaitied their satisfac-
tion in him, by committing the command to
him, next to the governor himlf; and as they
had entire confidence in him, and all his
count en, so the aeknowl they had
meritz'vdm that confidinee by We methods
that honest men could merit tobe mined and
trusted; and they most heartily embraced the
occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate
from one another.

Upon these flank and open declarations of
friendship, we appointed the next day to dine
all together; and, indeed, we made a splendid
feast. Ieaueed theship's oookand hismate
to come onshore and dressourdinnernnd
theoldooolt'smatewshadon dtoreassisted.
We brought on diore six pieces ofgood beef,
and four pieces ofpork, outoftbe ship's pro-
and materials to
np,dnse on board the ship tothe seamen, that
they might feaston fled)", meatl'rom onshore,
as we did with theirsalt meatfiom on board.

Alter thisfeast,at whidr we werevery in-
nocently merry, I. brought out my cargo of

,whereimthtthers might beno dis-
puteahoutdividing, I Med themthat there
was a suifieieney for them all, desiring that
they might all takean eqbal quantity of the
goods thatwere for wearing; that' Is to say,
equal when made up. As, first,l distributed
linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards" request,
alierwards made them up six; were
exceedingly eornfixtsble to them, having been
what, as I may say, they had long since {or-
got the useol',orwhat itwastowearthem.
I allotted the thin English stufis, which I
mentioned before, to make every one a light
cont like a frock, which I judged fittest for the
heat ofthe senson,oool and loose; andor-
dered that wheneverthey decayed they should
make more," they thought fit; the like for
pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, Ste.

I cannot expres what pleasure, what satis-
faction, sat upon the oountenances of all these
poor men, when they saw the care Ihad taken
of them, and how well I had furnished them.
They told me I was afither to them; and
thathavingsueha entaslwasin
so renmte alpartoi'theworlddtwould make
them forget that they were le'll in a desolate
place; and they all voluntarily engaged to
me not to leave the place without my consent.

Then I presented to them the people I had
hrou', Oht with me, particularly the tailor, the
smith, and the two carpenters, all 0:" them
most neoemry s; but, above my
general attilieerffih whom they could not
name any thing that was more usefiilto them:
and the tailor,toahow his concern forthem,
went to work immediately, and, with my leave,
made them every one a shirt, the first thing he
did; and, whiehwasstillmore,hetaught
the women not ally how to sew and stitch,
and usethe needle, but made them assistto
make theshirtsi'ortheir hIIsbands, andi'nr
all the rest.

As to the earpatters, Isearee need mention
howusel'ul they were; fortheytook topieou

steeds,
thingtheywantedd'tbathind. Buttolet
themseehownatmentadeartifieersati'rst,
learned theearpsusrstoseeWIllAthins's
heist-,house asIaledit:and vboth
ownedtheymsawaniI-tanesd'sndt

I75

natural ingenuity hefixe, nor any thing so
regular and so handily built, at least of its
kind; and one of them, when he saw it, after
musingagoodwhile,mingahmttome,lun
sure,sayshe,thatmanhasnoneedo(us;you
needdo nothing butgive him tools.

Then I them outall my store of
tools, and gave every man a digging-spade,
a shovel,andarahe,l'or wehad no harrows
orploughs; and toeveryseparate places
picture, a crow, a bread are, and a saw;
always appointing, thatas ofien as any were
hadron or worn outthey should be supplied,
wtthoutgrudgmg, out of thegeneral storesthat
I left behind. Nails. staples, hinge, hanr
m, ehisels, knives, reissue, and all sorts
ofiron-werk, they hadwithouttale, as they
requiredtfornomanwouldtakemoretbanhe
wanted, and he must be a fool that would
wasteorspoilthetnon any account whatever;
and, forthetnreol'theamittheft twotonsd'
unwrought ironforasupply.

Mymagazineofpowderandarms whichI
brought than was such, even to prol'miou,
that they could not but rejoice at them; for
new theycould mandiaslused todo,with
amusltetupon eachshoulder,iftherewasoe-
easion; andwereable toliglltathotnandsa-
vages, ifthey had butsome little advantages
ol'situation,whiobalsotheyeouldnotmi-, il'
theyhadoceasion.

Iearried on shorewith me theyoungman
whoaemotherwasstarved todeatb,and the
maid also. shewaaasober, well educated,
religion young woman, and behaved so iIr
ofi'ensively y, thateveryonega ve her a good
word; she had,indeed, anunhappy life with
us,therebeingnowomanintheahipbuthee-
self, but she bore it with patience. Afters
while, seeing things so well ordered, and in
sofineawayefthrivingqionmyisland, and
consideringthattheyhadneitber businessner
aoqusintanceintheEsllndiesmrm-onfor
taking so long avoyage; I say, considering
,alllhis, hothol'them demote ms, andde-
siredeould give themleave toremain on
the island, andglbe enteredamong my Emily,
as they ealledit..Iagrosdtothis readily,
andtheyhadalittleplotot'greudallottedto
them, wherethey had three tents orhouses
island was divided into three colonies, and no
more, viz. the Spaniards, with old Friday, and
the first servants, at my old habitation under
the hill, which was, in a word. the capital
city; and whore they had so enlarged and ex-
tended their works, as well under as on the
outside of the hill, that they lived, though
perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never
was there such a little city in a wood, and so
hid, in any part of the world ; for I verily believe
a thousand men might have ranged the island
a month, and, if they had not known there
was such a thing, and looks! on purpose for
it, they would not have found it; for the trees
stood so thick and so close, and grew so fast-
woven one into another, that nothing but cut-
ting them dotm first could discover the place,
except the only two narrow entrances where
they went in and out could be found, which
was not very easy; one of them was close
down at the water's edge, on the side of the
creek, and it was afterwards above two hundred
yards to the place; and the other was up a
ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it; and they had also alarge wood
thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing
above an acre, which grow a , and concealed
the place from all discovery there, with only one
narrow place between two trees, not easily to
be discovered, to enter on that side.

The other colony was that of Will Atkins,
where there were four families of Englishman,
I mean those I had left there, with their wives
and children; three savages that were slaves;
the widow and the children of the Englishman
that was killed; the young man and the maid;
and, by tltc way, we made a wife of her be-
fore we went away. There was also the two
carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought
with me tbr them; also the smith, who was
a very neccfiary man to them, especially as a
gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my
other man, whom! called Jack of all trades,
who was in himself as good almost as twenty
men; for he was not only a very ingenious
fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before
I went away we untried him to the honest
maid that came with the youth in the ship I
mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me
naturally to say something of the French ec-
clesiastiethatlhad htottght withme out of
the ship's crewwhomltooknp ataea. his
true, this man wasa Romn,andperhapait
maygiveoffcnce toaomchaeafler. iflleave
anythingextraordinaryuponrecordof atnsn
whom, beforelhogianmIt (tosethhnout
in just colours) represent in turns very mud:

ADVENTURES 0'? ROBINSON CRUSOE.

to his disadvantage, in the accoum of PM
testants: as, first, that he was a Pepin;
secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a
French Popish priest. But justice demands
ofme to give him a duecharacter; and I must
say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and most
religious person; exact in his life, extensive
in his charity, and exemplary in almost every
thing he did. What then can any one say
against being very sensible of the yalueofsueh
a man, notwithstanding his profession '!

it may be my opinion, rhapa, as well as the
opinion of other: who all read this, that he
was mistaken.

The first hour that I began to converse with
him after he had agreed to go with me to the
East Indies, I found reason to delight exceed-
ineg in his conversation; and he first began
with me about religion in the most ohliging
manner imaginable. Sir, says he, you have
not only under God (and at that he crossed
his breast) saved my life, but you have ad-
mitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and
by your ohliging civility have taken me into
your family, giving me an opportunity of free
conversation. Now, sir, you see by my habit
what my profession is, and I guess by your
nation what yours is; I may think it is my
duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost
endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
soulsIcsn tntheknowledge ofthc oath,
and to embrace the catholic doctrine; but as
I am here under your permission, and in yotn'
family, I am bound, in justice to your kind-
ness, as well as in decency and good manners,
to be under your ; and therefore
I shall not, without your leave, enter into
any debate on the points of religion in which
we may not agree, farther than you shall give
me leave.

ltoldhimhiscan-isgewassomodest, that
I could not but acknowledge it; that it was
true, we were such people as they called he-
rstiu, but thathe mootthe fintcatholic I
had convened with, without falling into in-
conveniences, or carrying the quemions to any
height in debate; thathe shouldnotfindhim-
self theworsetned for being of a difi'erent
opinioufi'om us; and ifwe did not convene
without any dislike on either side, it should
be his fault, not on".

He replied, that be all our conver-
sation might be easily separated from dis-
putes; that it was not hisht-ineu to up
principles with evay nun be convened with;
and that be rather desired no to carver-e with
hints. apntlentantl-n u areligionil; and
thngiflwotdd givehhnleave atanytimeto
discourse upon religious subjects, he would
readily comply with it, and that he did not
doubt but I would allow him also to defend
his own opinions as well as he could; but
that, without my leave, he would not break
in upon me with any such thing. He told
me farther, that he would not cease to do
all that became him, in his ollicc as a priest
as well as a private Christian, to procure
the good of the ship, and the safety of all
that was in hot; and though, perhaps, we
would not join with him, and he could not
pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us,
which he would do upon all occasions. In
this manner we conversed: and, as he was of
the most obliging gentlemanlike behaviour,
so he was, if I may he allowed to say so,
a man of good sense. and, asI believe, of
great leamina.

He gave me a most diverting account of his
life, and of the many extraordinary events of
it: of many adventures which had befallen
him in the few years that he had been abroad
in the world; and particularly this was very
remarkable, viz. that in the voyage he was now
engaged in, he had the misfortune to he five
times shipped and unshipped, and never to go
to the place whither any of the ships he was
in were at first designed. That his first intent
was to have gone to Mnrtinico, and that he

'went on board a ship bound thither at St.
Male: but, being forced into Lisbon by bad
weather, the ship received some damage by
running aground in the mouth of the river
Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo

177

there; but finding a Portuguese ship there
bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and
supposing he should easily meet with a vessel
there bound to Martinico, he went on board,
in order to sail tothe Madeiras; but the mas-
ter of the Portuguese ship, being but an in<<
different mariner, had been out of his reck-
oning, and they drove to Fayal; where, how-
ever, he happened to find a very good market
[or his cargo, which was com, and therefore.
resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load
salt at the isle of May, and to go away to
Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this
exigence but to go with the ship, and had a
pretty good voyage as far as the Banks, (so
they call the place where they catch the fish ;)
where, meeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in the river of Cana-
da, and from thence to Mnrtinico, to carry
provisions, he thought he should have an op-
portunity to complete his first design; but
when he came to Quebec the master of the
ship died, and the vessel proceeded no farther:
so the next voyage he shipped himself for
France, in the ship that was burned when we
took them up at sea; and then shipped with
us for the East Indies, as I have already said.
Thus he had been disappointed in five voyages,
all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides
whatI shall have occasion to mention farther
of the some person.

ButI shall not make digression into other
men's stories, which have no relation to my
own: I return to what concerns our affairs in
the island.
    

1m>>-

LDVENTURES 0F ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

~45" --- -_':

SECTION XXXVIII.

ROBINSON'S DISCOURSE WITH THE ECCLESIASTIC AS TO INTRODUCING MAR-
RIAGES AMONG THE PEOPLE.--MARRIAGES PERFORMED.--ATKINS CONVEBTS

HIS WI FE.

I'IE came to me one morning, for he lodged
among us all the while we were upon the island,
and it happened to be just when I was going to
visit the Englishmen's colony, at the farthest
part of the ismnd; I say, he came to me, and
told me, with a very grave countenance, that he
had for two or three days desired an opportunity
of some discourse with me, which he hoped
would not be displeasing to me, because he
thought it might in some measure correspond
with my general design, which was, the prosper-
ity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it,
at least more than he yet thought it was, in the
way of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of
his discourse, and turning a little short, How,
sir, said I, can it be said that we are not in
the way of God's blessing, alter such visible
assistances and wonderful deliverances as we
have seen here, and of which I have given you
a large account ?--If you had pleased, sir, said
he, with a world of modesty, and yet with great
readiness to have heard me, you would have
found no room to be displeased, much less to
think so hard of me, that I should suggest that
you have not had wonderful assistances and
dcliverances; and I hope, on your behalf, that
you are in the way of God's blessing, as your
design is exceeding good, and will prosper:
but, sir, though it were moreso than is even
possible to you, yet there may be some among

you that are not equally right in their actions:
and you know, that in the story of the children
of Israel, one Achan in the camp removed God's
blessing from them, and turned his hand so
against them, that six and thirty of them, though
not concerned in the crime, were the objects
of divine vengeance, and bore the weightof
that punishment.

I was sensibly touched with his discourse,
and told him his inference was so just,and the
whole design seemed so sincere, and was really
so religious in its OWn nature, that I was very
sorry I had interrupted him, and begged him .
to go on: and, in the mean time, because it
seemed that what we had both to say might
take up some time, I told him I was going to
the Englishmen's plantations, and asked him
to go with me, and we might discourse ofitby
the way. He told me he would the more will-
ingly wait on me thither, because there partly
the thing was acted which he desired to speak,
to me about; so we walked on, and Ipressed
him to be free and plain with me in what he
had to say. '

Why' then, sir, says he, be pleased to give
me leave to lay down afew propositions, as the
foundation of what I have to say, that we may
not diti'er in the general principles, though we
may be of some differing opinions in the prac-
tice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ
in some of the doctrinal articles ofireligion, and
ltisveryunhappy itisao especiallyintho
casebel'ore u's,asIdIallshhwaRer-wards, yet
there are-urns gensralprrne Iplesin which we

bothagreu,viz. lhatthereisaGod' and that
thisGod havinggiv on us amnestated general
rules for our service and obedience, we ought
not willingly and y to ofi'end him,
either by neglecting to do what he has com~
manded, or by doing what he has expressly
forbidden; and let our difl'erent religious be
what they will, this general principle' I: readily
owned by us all, that the blessing of God does
not ordinarily follow ptuous sinning
against his command; and every good Chris~
tinn will be ofl'ectionately concerned to prevent
any that are under his care living in a total
neglect of God and his commands. lt' Is not
your men being Protestants, whatever my opi~
nion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned tor their male, and from em
deavouring, it' itliesbeforeme,thatthey should
live' In as little distance from enmity with their

Maker as pnsihle. especially if you give me
leave to meddle so far In your circuit.

1 could not yet imagine what he aimed at,
andtold him! granted allhe had said,and
thanked him that he would so farconceru him-
self for us; and begged he would explain the
particulars of what he ind observed, that, like
Joshua, to take his own parable, l mightptu.
away the accused thing fiom us.

Why then, sir, say! he, I Will taketbe liberty
you giveme; andtherearethreethinge,which,
it'lamright,muststala:l intlIowayot'God'a
blessing your endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice, for your sake, and
their own, to seeromoved: and, air, Ipromise
myself that you will fully with me it)
them all, assoon as I namojhem: especially
hecnuselsh'llconvince youthateveryone
otthern may, with great ease, and very much
to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, sir,
says be, you have here fiIur Englishmen, who
have fetched women Evan among the savages,
and have taken them as their wives, and have
hadmany childrenbytbemall, andyotarenot.
marriedtothemalteranystated, legalmamer,
as the laws of God and mu require; and
theretoreareyet, inthoserweot'hoth, unless
than Micaton, ifnot living in adultery. To
this,eir, llmow youvrillobject thattherewas
no clergy--nor prisetot' any kind, or of any
prel'essian,tc periIrrn the mummy , nor any
pen andink, orpaper,towritodowaa contract
d'marr'nge, and have it aignedbetween them:
and! know-ho, sir,wlnt the Spaniardp-
vernor has told you, I mean, If the agraatuent
thathe obliged dam to Inks when they took

thmwomemvhthsttheylhouidchooeethem
outbyconsont, and keep separatelyto them;
which, by the way, is noth'ng of a marriage,
no agreement with the women, as wives, but
only an out among themselves, to keep
them fi-om quot-rolling. But, sir, the essence
of the sacramentot' matrimony (so he called it,
being a Roman) comietsuotoulyin the mutual
consent of the parties to take one another as
man-and wife,butinthe formalandlegal obli-
gation that there is in the contract, to compel
the man and woman, stall limes,toown and
acknowledge each other; obliging the man to
abstain l'rotnallother women,toengage inno
other com-act while those subsist, and, on all
occasions, asability allows,toprovidehoneatly
forthemand their children; andtooblige the
womentothesamemrlike couditions,mtntis
m, on their side. Now, sir, says be,
these men may, when they please orwhen oo-
casiorrpresents, tboeewoureu,disown
their children, leave them to perish, and take
otherwomeu,andmarrythsm whiletheseare
living: andhere he added, withsomewarmth,
How, air, is God honoured in this unlawful
liberty? andhowshallableatngsucceed your
endeavours inthis place, however good in
themselves, andhowover sincere in your design,
whilethesemen,whoatpreaontarcyoureub-
jecta,rmderyourahaolutegov ernmentanddo-
minion, are allowed by you to live in open
adultery?

Icoufesslwaastruckwiththetbiug itself,
buttnuchmorowith thecouviucingargrments
besupporteditwith; flaritwascertainlytrue,
that though they had no clergyman months
spot,yetaitrmalooutnctonhothsides,msds
before witnesses, and confirmedbyany token
which thoybad all agreed to be bound by,
tbutghithadboenhutbreakingastickbetweeu
them, engagingthe men to own these women
for their wives upon alloccasious, and ueverto
abendouthomorthoirchildreu,andthewomqt
tothesamewitbtheir huhands,had been an
efl'ectuallawfitlmarriagein thesightot'God;
anditwassgreat neglectthatitwunotdone.
Bruithooghtmbavegotofi'myyonngprien
bytelliughimthatallthatpartwasdonewheu
lwaenothero; hd lived so many
years witblhsmnnw,that ifitwnadultay,
itwaepastremedy, thoyooulddeanthuglm
it now.

Shay-bonding you pads-hunt
freedom, you are right in "Mic

yornabesnegyou entitle-the

withthatpartdtbeerine; "lb-assay"
flatter not yorlael'that yuuareautth-d'la
under an obligatitm todoyota'utmnst-w.

179
put anendto it. Howcanyou thinkbut that,
let the time pest lie on whom it will, all the
guilt, for the future, will lie entirely upon you '!
because it is certainly in your power now to
putan end to it, and in nobody's power but
yours.

I was so dull still, that Idid not take him
right ; but I imagined that, byputting an end to
it, he meant that I should part them, and not
sull'er them to live together any longer: and I
said to him I could not do that, by any means,
for that it would put the whole island into con-
fmion. He seemed surprised that I should so
5: mistake him. No, sir, says he, I do not
mean that you should now separate them, but

legally and efi'ectually marry them now; and as,
sir,mywayofm thcrnmay uotbe
toreconcile them to, though it willy be efl'ectual,
even by your own laws, so your way may be as
well before God, and as valid among men ; I
mean, by a written contract signed by both man
and woman, and by all the witnesses present,
which all the laws of Europe would decree to
be valid.

I was amazed to see so much true piety,
and so much sincerity ofzcal, besides the unu-
sual impartiality in his discourse unto his own
party yer church, and suclt true warmth for pre-
acrvingthepeoplethathehad noknowled goof
or relation to; I say, for prese them from
transgreosing the laws of God, the like of which
I had indeed not met with any where: but,
recollecting what he had said of ing them
by a written contract, which I knew he would

'standto,I raturneditback uponhirn,andtold
him, I granted all that he had said to be just,
and on his part verykind; that [would dis-
coursewith the men upon the point now, when
I came to them; and I knew no reason why
they should sauple to let him marry them all,
which I knew well enough would be granted to
be asauthentic and valid in England as if they
were married by one of our own clergyman.

What was afierwards done in this matter, I
shall speak of by itselfl

I theupreesed himtotell mewhat was the
second complaint which he had to make, an-
knowl ' that! was very much his debtor
lbrthe first, and thanked him heartly for it.

He told me he would use the same freedom
andplainness in theaecond,and hopedeould
take it as well; and this m, that notwith-
standingtbeseEnglish ' d'mine,ashe
called them, had lived with those women for
almost nevus years,badtangbt them to speak

English, andeventnreadit, and that they

were as be perceived, women of tolerable un-

demanding, and capable of' m, yet

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CBUSOE.

theyhadnot, tothis hour, taught themanything
oftheChristian religion, no, not so much as to
know that there was aGod, or a worship, or in
what marmer God was tobeservedwr that
their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew
not whom, was false and absurd. This, he said,
was an unaccountable neglect, and what God
would certainly call them to account forand
perhaps, at last, take the work out of their hands
---he spoke this very afl'ectionately, and warmly.

I am persuaded, says he, hat. those men
lived in the savage country whence their wives
came, the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to be idolaters, and to
worship the devil, than any of these men, so
far as [can see, have taken with them to teach
them the knowledge of the true God. Now,
sir, said he, though I do not acknowledge your
religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to
see the Devil's servants, and the subjects of his
kingdom, taught to know the general principles
of the Christian religion; that they might, at
least, hear of God and aRedeemer, and of the
resurrection, and of a future state,--things
which we all believe; they had, at least, been
so much nearer coming into the bosom of the
true church than they are now, in the public
profession of idolatry onddevil-worship.

I could hold nolonger; Itook himinmy
arm, and embraced him with an excess ofpas-
sion. How far, said Itohim, have I been from
understanding the most essential part ot' a
Christian! viz. to love the interestoi' the Chris-
tian church, and the of other men's souls:
I scarce have known what belongs to the being
aChristian.--0,sir, do not say so, replied he ;
this thing is not your fattlL--No, said I; but
why did Inever lay it to heart as wellas you?
--It is not too late yet, said he; benot too forh
ward to condemn yourself.---But what can be
donenow'! saidl; youweIarfigoir-gaway.
--Will you give me leave to talk with these
poor men about it? --Yes, with all my heart,
mill; and will oblige them togive heed to
what you say tom--As to that, said be, we
mint leave them to the mercy of Christ; but
it is your bttsincas to assist them, encourage
them,and instruct them; and if you give me
leave, and God his blessing, I do not doubt but
thepoor ignorantsoulsshallbebrmghthometo
the great circle of Christianity, if not into the
particular faith we all cables, and that even
while you stay here. UptmthisIsnid, Ishall
not only give you leave,butgive you atbouaand
thankaforit. Whatfollowedonthissccotnt,
I shall mntion also again in its place.

I now him for the third artica in
which we were to bhme. Why, really, says. 3-: \\ @4erle

611,6 5'4""
'm&\\\\vSSvSS 4" x/

'F
No.

" I tool: him in my arms."--p. 180
be, it is of the same nature ; and I will proceed,
asking your leave, with the same plainncss as
before: it is about your poor savages, who
are, asI may say, your conquered subjects.

It is a maxim, air, that is, or ought to be,
received among all Christians, of what church
orpretended church soevcr, viz. The Christian
knowledge ought to be propagated by all possi-
blerneans,and on all possible occasions. It is on
this principle that our church sends mission-
aries into Persia, India, China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly on-
gage in the most hazardous voyages, andthe
most dangerous residence among murderers and
barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of
the true God, and to bring them over to embrace
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such
an opportunity here to have six or seven and
fltirty poor savages brough' over from idolatry
to the knowledge of God, their Maker and
Redeemer, that I wonder't N you can such
an occasion of doing gm! , which is really worth
the expense of a moat ahole life.

I was now struth mt), indeed, and had not
one word to say. I had here a. spirit of true
Christian zeal for God and religion before me,
let his particular principles be of what kind
aoever: as for me, I had not so much as enter-
tained a thought of this in my heart before, and
I~believe I should not have thought of it; for
I looked upon these savages as slaves, and
people whom, had we had any work for them
to do, we would have used as such, or would
have been glad to have transported them to any
other part of the world: for our business was to
get rid of them; and we would all have been
satisfied if they had been sent to any country,
so they had never seen their own. But to the
case ;--I say, I was confounded at his discourse,
and knew not what answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some disorder--Sir, says he, I shall be very
sorry if \thI have said gives you any of-
fence.--No, no, said I, I am offended with
nobody but myself; but I am perfectly con-
founded, not only to think that I should never
take any notice of this before, but with reflect-
ing what notice I am able to take of it now.
You know, sir, said I, what circumstances I
am in; I am bound to the East Indies in a
ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it
' would be an insufferable pieceof iniustice to
detain their ship here, the manlyint all this
while at victuals and wages on the owners'
account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed
twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must
pay three pounds sterlin-J perdiem dcmurragc;
nor can I stay upon dtrmrrage shove eight

181

days more, and I have been here thirteen al-
ready; so that I am perfectly unable to engage
in this work, unless I would suffer myself to be
left behind here again; in which case, if this
single ship should miscarry in any part of her
voyage, I should be just in the same condition
that I was left in here at first, and from which
I 'have been so wonderfully delivered. He
owned the case was very hard upon me, as to
my voyage; but laid it home upon my con-
science, whether the blessing of saving thirty-
seven souls was not worth venturing all I had
in the world for. I was not so sensible of that
as he was. I returned upon him thus : Why,
sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an in-
strument in God's hand to convert thirty-seven
heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as
you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to
the work, so that it seems so naturally to fall
into the way of your profession, how is it then
that you do not rather ofi'er yourself tounder-
take it, than press me to do it?

Upon this he faced about just before me, as
he walked along, and putting me to a full stop, '
made me a very low bow. I most heartily
thank God and you, sir, said he, for giving me
so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if
you think yourself discharged from it, and dc-
sire me to undertake it, I will most readily do
it, and think it a happy reward for all the ha-
zards and difficulties of such a broken, disap-
pointed voyagc 5131 have met with, that I am
dropped at least into so glorious a work.

I discovered a kind of rapture in his Face
while he spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled
like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came
and went, as if he had been falling into fits; in
a word, he was fired with the joy of being em-
barked in such a work. I paused a consider-
able while before I could tell what to say to
him; for I was really surprised to find a man
of such sincerity and zeal, and carried out in
his zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men, not
of his profession only, but even of any profes-
sion whatsoever. But after I had considered
it awhile,I asked him seriously if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture, on the sin-
gle consideration of an attempt on those poor
people, to be locked up in an unplanted island
for perhaps his life, and at last might not know
whether he should be able to do them good or
not?

He tttmed short upon me, and asked me what
I called a venture ? Pray, sir, said he, what do
you think I consented to go in your ship to the
East Indies for '!--Na_v, said I, that I ltnow
not, unless it was to preach to the Indians.--
Doubtless it was, said he; and do you think,
if I an convert these thirty-seven men to the
faithof Jesus Christ, is it notth my time,
though Ishould neverbofetchedofl'the island
again? nay, is itnot infinitely of more worth
tosave so many souls titan my life is, or the
life of twenty more of the same profession?
Yes, sir, says he, I would give Christ and the
blessed Virgin thanks all my days, in could be
made the least happy instrument of saving the
souls of those poor men, though I were never
to set my foot of this island, or see my native
country any more. But since you will honour
me with putting me into this work, for which
I will pray for you all the days of my life, I
have one humble petition to you besides.--
What is that? said I. Why, says he, it is,
that you will leave your man Friday with me,
to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me;
for without some help I cannot speak to them,
or they to me.

I was sensibly touched athis requesting Fri-
day, because I could not think of parting with
him, and that lhr many reasons: he had been
the ion of my travels; he was not only
fiithful to me, but sincerely afi'cctionate to the
last degree ;and I had resolved todo something
considerable for him if he outlived me, as it was
probable he would. Then I knew that as I
had bred Friday up tobe a Protestant, It would
quite confound him to bring him toembrace
another profession; and items would never, while
his eyes were open, believe that his old master
was a heretic, and would be damned; and this
might, in the end, ruin the poor fellow's prin-
ciples, andso turn him back again to his first
idolatry. However,a sudden thought relieved
the in this strait, and it was this: I told him I
could notsay that I was willing topart with Fri-
day on any ace-amt whatever, though a work that
tohim was oflnore value than his life, ought to
he to me of muchmorevalue than the keeping
or parting with a servant. But, on the other
hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by no
means agree to part with me; and I could not
force him to it without his consent, without
manifest injmtico; because I had promised I
would never put him away, and he had pro-
mised and engaged to me that he would never
leave me unless I put him away.

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he
had no rational access to these poor people,
seeing he did not understand one word of their
language, nor they one word of his. To re-
move this difliculty, I told him Friday's father
had learned Spanish, which I found he also
understood,and he should serve himas In in-
terpreter. So he was much better satisfied,
ulnothingcouldpemtade him but hewould

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030803.

stay andendeavourtoconvertthem; but Pro-
vidence gave another very happy turnto all this.

Icomebacknowtothe firstpart ofhisob-
jections. When we came to the Englishmen,
Isentfor them all together, and ultersome
acoountgiventhemot'whatlhaddone {or
them, viLwhat. necessarythingsl had provided
for them, and how they were distributed, which
they were very sensible o; and Very thankfitl
for,lhegantotalkto them ofthe scandalous
life they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the clergyman had taken of it; and
arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life it
was, I first asked them if they were married
Inert or bachelors ? They soon explained their
conditions to me, and showed that two of them
were widowers, and the other three were single
men, orhachelors. I asked them with what
conscience they could take those women, and
lie with them as theyhaddone, callthem their
wives, and have so many children by them, and
not be lawfully married to them ?

They all gave me the" answer I expected,
viz. thatthere wasnobodytomarrythem; that
they agreed before the governor to keep them
as their wives, and to maintain them and own
them as their wives; and they thought, as
things stood with them, they wee as legally
married as ifthey had been married by a pare
son, and with all the formalities inthe world.

I told them that no doubt they were married
inthesightof God, and were bound in con-
science to keep them as their wives; but that
the laws of men being otherwise, they might
desert. the poor women and children hereafter;
and that their wives being poor desolate women,
friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
help themselves: I therefore told them that,
unless I was assured of their honest intent, I
could do nothing for them, but would take care
that what Idid should be for the women and
children without them; and that, unless they
would give me some assurances that they
would the women, I could not think it
was convenient they should continue together
asmanand wife; forthatitwas both scandal-
ions to men and ofi'emive to God, who they
could not think would bless them if they went
on thus.

All this wanton as I expected: and they
told me, especially Will Atkins, who now
seemed to speak for the rest, that they loved
their wives as well as if theyhad been born in
their own native country, and would not leave
them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and
as modest, and did, to the utmost oftheir akilk
asmuchfirthemandfortheirchildren,asany.N_.. s

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUBOE.

womenewldposaiblydo; andtheywouldnot
part with themon any account: and Will At-
kins, liarhie own particular, added. that ii' any
man would take him away, andofi' a to

him home to England, and make him captain
ofthebettmanot'warin the navy, he would
not go with him, ifhe might not his wife
and children with him; and if there was a
clergyman in the ship, he would be married to
.her now with all his heart.

Thiswaejustas Itvould have it: the priest
wasnotwithrne atthatmoment, butwasnot
Enroll; so, totry himfarther,Iloldhithad
a clergyman with me, and, if he was swore,
I would have him married next morning, and
bade him consider at it, and talk with the rest.
He said, as for himself, he need not consider
of it stall, for he was very ready to do it, and
was glad I had a minister with me, and he be-
lieved they would be all willing also. I then
told him that my friend, the minister, was a
Frenchman, and could not speak English, but
I would act the clerk between them. He never
so much as asked me whether he was a Papist
ur Protestant, which was indeed what I was
afraid of; so we parted; I wenthack to my
clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk
with his companions. I desired the French
gentleman not to say any thing to them till
the business was thorough ripe; and [told him
what answer the men had given me.

BeforeI went from their quarter, they all
came to me, and told me they had been con-
sidering what I had said: that they were glad
to hear I had a clergyman in my company,
and they were very willing to give me the
satisfaction I desired, andto be formally mar-
ried as soon as Ipleased: fir they were titr
from desiring to part with their wives, and that
they meant nothing but what was very honest
when they chase them. So [appointed them
to meet me the next morning; and, in the mean
time, they should let their wives know the
III-Inning of the marriage law; and that it was
not only to prevent any scandal, but also to
ohliue them that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen.

' The wornenwere easy made sensible of the
meani ngol'thething, and werevery well satire
tied with it,as indeed they had reason to be : so
they failed not to attend all together at my apart-
ment next morning, where I brought out my
clergyman; and thoughhehad noton a minis-
, after the manner ofEngland, or the
habit oi'a priest, afier the manner of France, yet
having ablaek vest, something like a caasoek,
witha sash round it, he did not look very un-
like-minister; andast'orhis languageraa

[83

his in ter. But theeerion-w- ofhb
behaviour to them, and the he made
of marryingtbewomenbeeauetheywmnot
baptised and professed Christian, gave them
an exceeding reverence for his person , and
there was noneed, afler that, to inquire whether
bewa- adergymanornot. Indeed,lwu
afi-aid his scruplee would have been carried
"far," thathetvouldnothlrematried them
aull, nay, nothwithatanding all I was able
to sayto him, he minted me,

deatly, yet very steadily: and at lutrefused
abolmely tomarrythem, Imleuhohad first
talked with the men and the women too;aml
though at first! was alittle backward to it, yet
atlaat I agreed to It with a good will, perceiv-
ing the sincerity oi'his design.

When heoame tothem,holetthetnknaw
that I had acquainted him with their circum-
ataneea, and with the present design; that he
was very willing to perform that part oi'his flinc-
tion,andmarry them," I had deeired; but
that, befiirehecould do it, hemust take the li-
berty to talk with them. He told them, that
in the sight of all inditferent men, and in the
sense ofthe laws or' society, they had lived all
this while in open fornication; andthat itwan
true, that nothing but the consenting tomarry,
orefi'ectually separating them from one another,
cottldnowput an end toit, but therewua
difficulty in it too, with reaped to the laws of
Christan matrimony, which he was not fully
oatisfied about, viz. thatot'marryingone that u
a professed Christian to a savage, an idolater
and a heathen. one that it not baptized; and
yet that he did not see that there was time left
to endeavourtopemtade the women to be bap-
tized, or to profess the name ofChrist, whom
they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and
without which they could not be baptized.
He told them he doubted they were but indif-
ferent Christiansthemselvee; that they had hm
little knowledge of God or of his ways,and there-
fore he could not expect that they had said much
to their wiveson that headyet; but that, unless
they would promise him to use their endea-
vours with their wives to persuade them to be-
come Christians, and would, as wellasthey
could, instruct them in the knowledge and he-
lief of God that made them, and to worship
Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could
not marry them ; fix he would haveno hand
in joining Christians with savages ; nor was
it consistent with the principles oftheChristian
religion, and was indeed upreaaly Middenin
God's law.

They heard all this very attenti ,ad I
delivered it very faithfully to them If-
mouth, as'nearhis ewnwordsas I could;

to convince them how just
was ofhis mind : and I always very Bitfl'ully
distinguished between what I said Emmy-
rclf, and what. were the clergyman's words.
Theywldmeitwasvery true what the gen-
tleman said, that. they were very indifl'ennt
Christians themselves, and that they had never
talked to their wives about religion. Lord,

sir, says Will Atkins, how should we teach
them religion 7 why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, sir, said he, should we
talk to them ofGod and Jesus Christ, and
heaven and hell, it would make them laugh at
us, and oak us what we believe ourselves?"
if we should tell them that we believe all the
things we speak of to them, such as of good
people going to heaven, and wicked people to
the devii, they would ask In where we intend
to go ourselves, that believe all this, and are
such wided follows as we indeed are '1 Why,
sir, 'tis enoughto give them a surfeit of reli-
gion at first hearing: folksmua have some reli-
gion thetmelvea before they pnlend to teach
other people. --Will Atkins, said I to him,
though I am afraid that what you say has too
much truth in it, yet out you not tell your wife
she is in the wrong; thntthereisa God,and
a religion betterthanherown; thathergodsare
idols ; that theyun neither hear her speak;
that there is a great Beingthat made all things,
and thateandestroyall thathehasmade; that
horewardsthe goodand punishesthe bad;and
that we are tobejudged by him at last for all
we do here '! You are not so ignorant, but even
nature itselfwill teach you that all this is true;
and I am satisfied you know it all to be true,
and believe it yourself. --That is true, sir, said
Atkins; but with what face can I say any
thing to my wife ofall this, when she will tell
me immediately ll cannot be true "--Not true!
said I; what do you mean by that?--Why,
air, said he, she will tell me it, cannot be true
that this God I shall tell her ofcatt bejust, or
can punishor reward, since I unnot punished
and seutto the devil, that have been such a
wicked creature as she knows I have been,
even to her, and to every body else; andthat
I should be sufl'ered to live, that have been
alwaysantingeooontrary towhat! must tell
her is good, and to what I ought to have done.
--Why, truly, Atkitl,saidi, I unafraid thou
speakeatloo much truth; andwith thatl in-
formed the clergyman of what Atkins had said,
for he was impatient to know. 0, said the
priest, tell him there is one thing will make
him the best minister in the world to his wife,

. vr-rflfic'vww

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

andthat is, repeuanee; fornone teach repent
aneelilte truepenitents. He want- nothing
hutto repent,andthenhewillbesotnuch the
better qtllified to instruct his wifi: he will
thenbeshletotellber thstthere is netonlya
God,andtlntheisthe jut rewardernfgood
and evil,hutthnthe'u amerciful Being, and
with infinite goodness and lengsnfl'ering in>>
hearstopunishthosethat ofl'end; waiting to
begracious,andwillingnatbe deathofa
sinner, but rather that heabould retum and
live: that oftentimes he sufl'ess wicked men
logo a longtime,nndeven reservesdammtion
lathe general day of retribution: that it isa
clear evidenced God andol' a futureatate,
that righteous man receive not their reward,
or wicked men their punishment, till they
come into another world; and this will lead
him to teach his wife the doctrine of the resur-
rection and ofthe lastj Let him
but repent for himself, he will be an excellent
ofrepentance to his wife.

repeatedall thistoAtkins,who lookedvery
serious all the while, and who, we could easily
pucoivs, was more than ordinarily nfl'eeted
with It when being sager,and hard] ysnfl'ering
me to make an end--I Nacho. all this, mater,
sayshe, ands great dealnsore: but [have
notthe impudencetotdlt thus to my wife, when
God and my conscience know, and my wife
will be an undeniable evidence against me,
thatIhavelivedasifIhadnever heardot'a
God or fitture stato,nrany thing about it;
andtotslk ofmyrepe nting, alas! (andwith
thathe felehedadeeps sigh, andI oouldsee
that the tears stood In his eyes,) 'tis past all
that with me.--Paet it, Atkins '1 said I; what
dost thou mean by that'!--I know well enough
whatI mean, says he; [mean 'tis toolate,
and that istoo true.

[told the clergyman, word in word, what
hesaid: the poorwalous priest,---I mtnteall
him so. for, be his opinion what it will, he had
certainly a most singular affection for the good
of other men's souls, and it wouldbe hard to
think hehad not the like fix his own,--l say,
this afl'eetionate man could nottefi'ain from
tears; but, reeoveringhinnelf,saidtome,Aslt
him butoneqoestion: Iaheeasythatitistoo
late; orisbetroubled,andwishesit were not
so?!putthsqueation fairly toAtltim; and
he answered, wiihagreatdealofpassion, How
etaildanymanbeeasy inaeoeditienthatmust
certainly end in eternal deatruuion? that he
wasfsrfrom beingeasy; bnttbatmnthe eon-
trary,he believed it would, one time or other,
ruin him. What do you mean by that? said
1. Why, hemid, he believed he shouki one,-~g~<<-.K~.y,wv,w 'r . v. . _. .me -. .

ADVENTURES OI' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

tirneorotheratthis throat,>> putan endta
tbaterrorof i.

The shook his head. with great
cencernin hisl'aoe. whenltold him all this;
but turning quick to me upon it, saylt, If that
bohisease,we mayassurehim it is nottoo
late; Christwill give him repentance. nit,
pray, says he, explain this to him: that u no
man is saved but by Christ, and the meritot
his passion Inventing divine mercy fitr him,
how can it be too late for any nun to receive
mercy 1 Does he think he is able to sin beyond
the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray
tell him, there may be a time when provoked
mercy will nolongerstrive. and when God may
refuse to hear, but that it is never too late fiir
men to ask mercy; and we, that are Christ's
sen-ants. are commanded to pretmh mercy at
all times, in the nameof Jesus Christ, to all
those that sincerely repent; so that it is never
too late to repent.

ItoldAlkinsallthis,andheheard me with
great eamestness; but it seemed as ifhe turned
ofi'thedisoourseto the remihrhe saidtome,
he would go and have some talk with his wife;
so he wentout awhile, and we talked to the
rest. I perceived they were all stupidly igno-
rant as to mattersofreligion,as much asl was
when I went rambling away from my father;
and yet there were none of them backward to
hear whathad beensnid; and all ofthemse-
riously promised that they would talk with their
wives about it, and dotheirendeavours to per-
suade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I
reported what answer they gave, but said
nothing a good while; but at last shaking his
head, life that are Christ's servama, says he,
can gone farther than to eshort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof,
and promise what we ask, 'tis all we can do;
we are btnmdto accept their good words; but,
believe me, sir, said be, whatever you may
have knownof the life of that man you call
Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere
convert among them: I take that man to be a
true peniteat: I will not despot r of the rest:
but that man is tly struck with the
sense ofhis past life, and I doubt not, when he
comesto talk of religion tohisvrife, he will talk
himself efl'ectttally into it; for attempting to
teach others is sometimes the best way of
teaching ourselves. I knows man, who, hav-
ing nothing but a summary notion ofreligion
himelf, and being wicked and prolligate to
thelast dagroe' in his lifit, made a thorough re-
fitrtnation in himself by labouring to convert a
Jew. If that. poor Atkins begins but once to

185

talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife. my
life for it, he talks himself into a thorough coo.
vert, make! hitmolfa penitent, and whoknowa
what may follow?

Upon thisdisoourse,hewever, and their pro-
mising. as above, to endeavour to persuade
their wives to embrace Christianity, he mar-
ried the other two couple; but Will Atkins
and his wife were not yet come in. After this,
my clergyman waiting awhile, was curious to
lutow where. Atkins was gone; and turning to
me, said. I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of
your labyrinth here, and look; I dare say we
shall find this man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her
already sornelhingofrcligioti. I began tube of
the same mind; so we went outtog ether. and
I carried him a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so very thick
that it was not easy to see through the thicket
ofleaves, andfar harder toaaeinthan to see
out; whencominltothe edge ofthe wood,l
saw Atkins and his tawny wife sitting under
the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse:
Iswppedshort till my clergyman came up to
me, and then having showed him where they
were, we stood and looked very steadily at
thorns good while. We observed him very
earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and
to every quarter of the heavens,and then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to him-
self, then to her, to the woods, to the trea.
Now, says the clergyman, you see my words
are made good,the manpreachestohcr; mark
him now,he is telling her that our God bu
made him and her, and the heavens, the earth,
the sea, the woods, the trees, &c.--I believe
he is, said I. immediately we perceived "'ill
Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on his
knees, and lift up both his hands. We sup-
posed he said something, but we could not hear
him; itwastoo farfor that. He did not nor)-
tinue kneeling half a minute, but comes and
sits down again by his wife, and talks to her
again ; we perceived then the woman very
attentive, but, whether she said any thing to
him, we could not tell. While the poor fellow
was upon his knees, I could see the tears run
plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I
could hardly forbear myself; but it was a.
great affliction Iona both that we were not near
enough to hear any thing that passed between
them. "'ell, however, we could come no
nearer, for fear of disturbing them; so we re-
solved tnseean end of this piece ofstill eon-
versation, and it spoke loud enough to II
without the help of voice. Hesatdown again,
as I have said, close by her, and talked again
earnestlyto her, and two or threetit'nes we
could see him embrace her mat passionately;
another time we saw him take out his hand-
kerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a kind of very unusual;
and after several of these things, we saw h: .
on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his
hand to help her up, when immediately leading
her by the hand astep or two, they both kneoled
down together, and continued so about two
mtnutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries
out aloud, St. Paul! St. Paul! behold he
prayeth. I was afraid Atkins would hearhim,
therefore I entroated him to withhold himself
awhile, that we might see an end of the scene,
which to me, I must confess, was the most
affecting that ever I saw in my life. Well,he
strove with himself for a while, but was in such
raptures to think that the heathen woman
was become a Christian, that he was not able
to contain himself; he wept several times, then
throwing up his hands and crossing his breast,
said over several things ejaculatory, and by
way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a
testimony of the success of our endeavours;
some he spoke softly, and! could not well hear
others; some in Latin, some in French: then
twoorthreo times the tears would interrupt
him, that he could not speak at all; but I begged
that he would contain himself, and let us more
narrowly and fully observe what was helium us,
which he did for a time, the scene not being
near ended yet; for after the poor man and his
wife were risen again from their knees, we
observed he stood talking still eagerly to her,
and we observed her motion, that she was
greatly affected with what he said, by her fre-
quently lifting up her hands, laying her hand
to her breast, and such other postures asesprm
the greatest seriousness and attention: this
continued about half a quarter ofan hour, and
then they walked away; so we could see no
more of them in that situation. I took this
interval to talk with my clergyman; and first,
I was glad to see the particulars we had both
been William to, that, though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began
to think it was all very sincere here, both in
the man and his wife, however ignorant they
might both be, and I hoped such a beginning
would yet have a more happy end: And who
knows, said I, but those two may in time, by
instruction and eternple, work upon some of
the others ?--Some of them ? said he, turning
quick upon me: ay, upon all of them: depend
upon it, if those two savages, for he has been
but little better," you relate it, should embrace

ADVENTURES OF IOIINSON CBUBOE.

Jams Christ, they will never leave it tillthey
work uponall the rest; fortruereligionisnn-
only communicative, and he that is once
made a Christian will never leave a pagan
behind him, ifhe can help it. I owned it was
amost Christian principle to think so, and a
testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous
heart, in him. But, my kind, said I, will
you give me leave tostart one difficulty here?
Icannot tell how to object the least thing
against that afl'ectionate concern which you
show for the turning the poor people from their
pamism to the Christian religion: but how
does this comfiirt you, while these people are,
inyour acwtmt, outofthepale oftheeatholic
church, without which you believe there is no
salvation '! so that you esteem these but heretics,
andfor other ransom as efl'octually lost as the
thenuelves.

To this he answered, with abundance of
candour, thus; Sir, I am a catholic of the
Roman church, and a priest oftho order ofSt.
Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of
the Roman faith; but yet, if you will believe
me, and that I do not speak in compliment to
you, or in mpect to my circumstances and
your civilitiee; Ieay, nevertheless, I do not
look upon you, who call yourselves reformed,
without some charity: I dare not say (though
I know it is our opinion in general) that you
cannot be saved; I will by no means limit the
mercy of Christ so far as to think that he
cannot receive you into the bosom of his church,
in a manner to us unperceivable i and I hope
you have the same charity for us: I pray daily
for your being all restored to Christ's church,
by whatsoever method he, who is all-wise, is
pleased to direct. In the mean time, sure you
will allow it consists with me, as a Roman, to
distinguish far between a protestant and a pa-
gan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ,
though in a way which I do not think is accord-
ing to the true faith, and a savage or a barba-
rian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redee-
mer; and if you are not within the pale of the
catholic church, we hope you are nearer being
restored to it than those that know nothing of
God orof his church: and Irejoice, therefore,
whenIsoethispoortnan,who,yousay,hasbeon
aprofligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down
and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he
did, though not fully enlightened; believing that
God, from whom own such work proceeds,
will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to
the farther knowledge of that truth in his own
time: and ifGod shall influence thispoor nan
to convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his
wifeJcannevcrbelievo that he ahallhean
awayhitnself. Andhsrelnotreasonthettto
re pioothenoarerany Ire totheknow-
ledgeiChfiaMIghtheymymbebrought

quitehotneintothehosomoftheeathnlicchumh
Just attheumewhenl may deem It leaving
ittothegoodnedot'Chriottopo rfecthiswork
inhisowntime,andinhis ownway?Cerb
tainly, I wouidrejoice {ell thenngnin

 

 

ooutinuepagansnrheathern; t'l-mlyhel izving,
Whethathdhoutowodthofl'ylightto
themwmldfirtherilltaninatethomwithabesm
ofhisheavenly gnoenndhring themiutoths

mkofhbohnehwhenholhnuldseegood.

SECTION XXXIX.

QTKIKS RELATEI HIS CONVERSATIO WITH HIS writ--rat: LA'I'I'Il umun
BY THE PRIEST.--ACCOURT 0? TH! STARVING STATE 0' 1308' ON 30"!)
THE RESCUE!) VISSEL.---IOBIKSOII'S DIPABTUBI non THE ISLAND.

I one astonished at the sincerity and
temper of this pious papist, as much as I' was
oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and
it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if
such a temper woe unit-creel, we might be all
catholic Christians, whatever church or porti-
cular profession we joined in; that a spirit of
charity would soon work us all up into right
principles; end u be thought that the like
charity would make us all catholics, so I told
him I believed had all the membersoi'hischurch
the like modoration, they would soon all be
protestant--And then we left that port; for
we never disputed at all.

However, I talked to hint another way, and
taking him by the hand, My friend, aye I, I
wish all the clergy of the Romish church were
blast with such moderation, and had an equal
share of your charity. I antentircly of your
opinion: but I must tell you, that if you should
preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they
would put you into the Inquisition--It may he
Io,uidhe: Iltnownotwhatthey woulddoin
Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would
be the better Christians for that severity :l'or
Ianteurethere isnohemy innhoundingwith
charity.

A: Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our
business there water,>> we went back our
own way; andWhenwecntne hadt,wefound
them waiting to be called tn: observing this,
I asked my clergyman ifwe should discover to
him that we had seen him under the bush or
not: and it was his opinion we should not, but
thatwedmuldulhtohimfiauandhearwhnt
he would any to us; sowo called him In alone,
nobody heingin theplacobutourselves, and I
began with him this:

Will Atkins, said I, prithee what educntion
had you? What was yourl'ather?

W.A.,AbeltC/r man then ever I shallhe:
Sir, my father was a do

R. C. What education did he give you'l

W. A. He would have I me well, air:
but ised all eduostion, instruction, or
oorrectiou,likeaheastaslwu.

R. C.' II in Irue,Soloqun up, He that de-
spises reproof is hrutish. 7

W. A. Aye, Iir, I was hrut'nh indeed, it
I murdered my father: forGod's .kQ, sir,talk
nomoreahoutthat; sir, I undated my poor
father.

Pa. Ha! a murderer!

Here the priest started (for I interpreted
ovorywotd as bespoke) Ind looked pale: it
learns he believed tint Will Md really killed
his father.

R. C. No, no,eir,ldonot undemmd hint
no: Will Atkins, explain yourself; you did
not kill your Ether, did you, with your own
hands?

W.A. No,sir, Ididnotcut his throat; but
I cut the IhmId ofsll his comforts, and short-
ened hisdaye I broke hiahearthy the most
ungrateful, unnatural reurm, for the moat ten-
derand nfl'ectIoIIsta treatment that Esther-em
gave, or child could win.

R.C. Well,ldidnotaskyon shoutyonr
father, to extort this confusion: I pray God
give you repentance for it,nndiwgive that and
all your other sins; butl asked you because I
seethatthough you havenot much leaning, yet
youaronoteognorantassomearointhinp
that are good- , that you have known more 0'
religion, a great. deal, than you have practinod.

W. A. Though you, sir, didnot extort the
confession that I make about my father, con-
science does; and whenever we come to look
back upon our lives, the sins against our in-
dulgent parents are certainly the first that touch
us; the wounds they maltelie deepest, and the
weight thev leave will lie heaviest upon the
mind, ofall the sins we can commit.

R. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly
for mo, Atkim; I cannot bear it.

W A. You hear it,msster! Idaresay you
know nothing of It.

R. C. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill,
nay, I may say every tree in this island, is
witness to the anguish of my soul for my in-
gmtitude and bad usage of a good, tender
father; a father muchmg like yours, by your de-
scriptinn: andI murdered my father as well
as you, Will Atkins; butI think, for all that,
my repentance is short of yours too, by a great
deal.

I would have said more, it' I could have
restrained my passions; but I thought this
poor man' a repentance was so much sincerer
than mine, that I was going to leave ofi'the
discourse and retire; for I was surprised with
what he had said, and thought that instead of
my going about to teach and instruct h., the
man was made atcacher and instructor to me
in a most surprising and tmespectcd manner.

I laid all this before the young dergyman,
who was greatly affected with it, and said to
me, Did I notsay, sir, that when this man was
converted he would to us all? I tell
you, sir, ifthis one manbemade atrue peni-
tent, here willbe no need of me; he will make
Christians of all in the island--But having a
little composed myself, I renewed my discourse
with Will Atkins. But Will, said I, how
comes the sense of this matterto touch you
just new?

W.A. Sir,youhave setmeahout a work
that has struckadart throughmy verysoul; I
have been talking about God and religion to
my wife, in order, asyoudirected me,to make
a Christin of her, and she has preached such
a sermon to me as! shall never forget while I
live.

R. C. No,no,it isnotyourwil'ehas preach-
ed to you; but when you were moving religi-
ous arguments to her, conscience has that;
them back upon you.

W.A. Ayo,sir,withsuchforcess isnot
to be resisted.

R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what
passed between youandyour wife; forI know
something of It already 'hl

W.A.Sir,itisini'po-I etc you
Inflamuntofit; Ismtoofull mgmmand

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

yethavenotonguetoelpre- it; but tether

havesaidwhat she will, and though I cannot

give you an accouutof it, this! can tell you,

ltilt-atlhavereaolvedtoamend and rel'ormmy
B

R. C. BIIttell ussorne ofit: how did you
begin, Will? For this hasbeen an extraordi-
nary case, that is certain. She has preached
aserrnon,indeed,it'shehaswroughtthisupon

you.

W. A. Why, I fiIst told her the nature of
our laws about marriage, and what the reasons
were that men and women were obliged to
enter into such compacts, as it was neItlIer in
the power ofene nor other to break; that
otherwise, order and justice could not be
maintained, and men would run from their
wives, and abandon their children, mix confu-
eedly with one another, and neither families
he kept entire, nor inheritances besettled by
leguldescent.

R.C. You talk like aciviliau, WilL Could
you make her mdcrmnd what you meant by
inheritance and families ? They ltnow no
suchthingssmongthesavages, hut merrysny
how, without regard to relation, consangui-
nity, orl'arnily; brother and sister,nay, as I
have been told, even the father and the daugh-
ter, and the son and the mother.

W. A. I believe, sir, you are misinlis'med,
and my wife assures me of the contrary, and
that they abhor it; perhaps, for any farther
relations, they may not he so exact as we are;
but she tells me they never toudt one another
in the near relationship you speakoc

R. 0. Well, whatdidshesayto what you
told her?

W. A. she said she liked it very well, and
it wasth better than' III her county

Ric. But drdyou tell her what marriage
was

W. A. Ay, ay; there began our dialogue.
Iaiod heril'shewwldbetnarriedtomeour
way. Sheaskedmewhatway that was. I
told her marriage was appointed hyGod; and
hen wehadsstrengetalktogether, indeed,as
ever man and wifehad, I believe.

1V. .8. This dialogt'Ie between W'ill Atkins
and his wife Itoekdown in writing,jtlt allot
belted told ittne, which was ast'etlews:

Win. Appointed by yourGod! Why, have
you a God in your country 7

W.A.Yes, my dear,God lsinevuy
country.

WI". No your God in my country; my
country have the great-old Benn-whee God.

W. A. Child,Iam very unfittoehowyon
whoGodis; God is inheavalnnd mndeb
heaven end the eartlmhe m, and ell that
in them is.

Wm. No mlheo de earth: no you God
nakeetlleerth; no mkeetny country.

Will Alkiu lenghed n little :1 her eapreeeion
{God not making her oomlry.

Win. No laugh; why laugh Ine'I Thin
nothing to laugh.

He won justly "proved by his wife, for she
wns more serious than he at first.

W. A. Thet'e true, indeed; I will notlnugh
my more, my dear.

erI. Why, you any you God mnkee all 7

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole
world,andyouandlne,. and Ill things; for he
iltheoolytrueGod,nndthere isno Godhut
him; he lives for ever in heaven.

Wrrn. Why, you no tell me long ago?

W. A. Thu'o true, indeed; but I have
been I wicked wretch, and have not only for-
gotten to acquaint thee with any thing before,
but have lived without God in the world myself.

Wtrn. What, have you a great God in
your country, you no know him ? No ray 0 to
him? Node good thingl'or him? That no
posaible.

W.A. Itienuo;though,forn1l that, we
liven: iftherewu noGod inhuman," that
he had no power on euth.

WIFE. But why God let youdo no? Why
he no Innkee you good live?

W. A. Ilia allourown fiult.

\Vrrn. Butyou ny me he in great, much
great, have much great powen can makee kill
when he will, why he no Innkee kill when you
noserve him,noaay0whirn,nobegoodmans'!

W. A Thntietrue.he mightltrikemedeed;
IndIoughtto it,fothaveheene
wicked wretch,thntietrue; buthodisumb
cit'ul, Ind does not deal with II a wedeoerve.

WIFE. Bu: thendoyounot tellGod thankeo
for that too?

W. A. No, indeed, I here not dunked
God for his mercy, any more than! have fared
God for his power.

Wtrl. Thenyou Godno God; no no think
believe he be each one, much power,
strong: oomakee killyoty thoughyou make
him so much angry.

W. A. What, will-y wicked life hinder
yout'rombelievingin God? Whatndreedfiil
mane am and whet end truth is it, that
the horrid lie-I Christian- hinder the con-
version d'hentenn!

Wm. How he thifiyon have greet mud:
Godwthern,(ebepointa uptoheaven,) end
pt no do wel,no dopodthingi Cnnhetell?
Bun he no tel whet you do?

. 189

W.A.Yes,yee, heknowenndeeeeel
thing; hoheuausepeek, lees what we do,
know: what we think.thoughwedonotlpenk.

Wxn. Whu! henohearymcune,ewenr,
npeakde greetdnmn'!

W. A. Yen, yen, hehearn it all.

Wtrz. Wherehethenthemxdtgreetpower
strong?

W. A. He 'u miful, that in nll we can
eaytbrit; nudthin prove-himto be the true
God;heiaGod,nndnottnan, and therein.
wearenoteomtlnnd.

Here Will Atkins told no he was Itrnck
with horror, to Ihinkhewheoould tell his wife
eoclenrlythntGodeeee,Indhears,andltnown
the eecretlhoughteofmeheartundnllthntwe
do,nnd yetuiethehaddaredtodoellthevile
thingehehaddooo.

Win. Merciful! What youeall thnt?

W.A. He inocfitherlnd mker,ald he
pitieeandnpnreeus.

WIFE. So then he never Innkee kill, never
angrywheu you dowieked; the: he nogood
himselfmrno nhle.

W. A. Yes, yea, my d:nr,he is infinitely
good and infinitely M Ind nbleto ptmieh
too; and sometime, toshow his juice and
vengeance, he lets By his anger to destroy
tinnenendrnnkeenmplee;mnynrecutofl'
intlleirsins.

Win. Butnornnkee kill you yet; then he
tellyou, may he,thalhe no mkee you kill:
eoyou makeedeburgnin withhim,youdohnd

thlng,henoheengryetyouwhenhehenngry

W.A. No, indeed; my sine ore ell pre-
lutnptionl upon his ; and he would
heinfinitely jutifhe denroyed me, uhehal
doneotherrneo.

WH'I. "Fell, Ind yet no kill, no makee
youdead;whatyou nytohimfirrthnt? Yon
notellhimthankeefbrnlllhlttoo"

W.A.Inmuunthatdtful,mgnlefiildag,
thuintmo.

'rrn. Whyhenomlnueyoutnuehgood
better? you uyhenukeeyou.

W.A. Ho node the," he mode all the
world: itielhavedeimnedmyeelfnndahued
hhgoodnghndnwlemyoelhn '
wrewh. I .

Wu'n. [wiehyou nakeeGod know no
Inomnhehinnngranodohndwideo

mlfigaeWiliAtk'nI-id hhheutafl
withinhinfiohenrnpoormtuflum
duiretobeteoglltoknowGod,-ndheeoeh
nwiekedwrntehthethe eonldnotuyone
Mommmummm
ofhisowncarriagewouldmakemost irrational
toherto believe; nay, that already she had
told him that she could not believe in God,
because he, that was so wicked, was not
destroyed.

W. A. My dear, you mean,you wish 1
could teach you to know God, not God to know
you; for he knows you already, and every
thought in your heart.

WIFE. Why then he know what I say to
you now; he know trio wish toknovv him; how
shall me know who makes me ?

W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee,
I cannot teach thee; I will pray to him to
teach thee tolmow him, and forgive me, that.
am unworthy to teach then.

The poor fellow was insuch an agony at her
desiring him to make her know God. and her
wishing to know him, that he said he fell down
on his knees before her, and prayed to God
to enlighten her mind with the saving know-
ledge ostsus Christ, and to pardon his sins,
and aeceptof his being the unworthy instru-
ment of instructing her in the principles of re-
ligion: afler which he sat down by her again,
and their dialogue went on.--'l'his was the
time when we aawhim kneel down, and hold
up his hands.

Wire. What you put down the knee for?
Whatyouhold up the hand for? What you
say? W'hoyou speak to? Whatiaallthat'!

W. A. My dear, I how my knees in token
of my submission to him that made me; I
said Oh) him, as you call it; and as your old
men do to their idol Benarnuckee; that is, I
prayed to him.

WIPE. What you say 0 to him for?

W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes,
and your understanding, that you may know
him, and be accepted by him.

Wrrn. Can he do that too?

W. A. Yes, he can; hecan do allthings.

ern. But now he hear what you say?

W. A. Yes; he hasbidus pray tohim,and
promised to hear us.

Wtrl. Bid you pray? When be bid you?
How hebid you 7 What, you hear him speak 1'

W-A. No,wedo nothear him speak; but
he has revealed himselfmany ways to us.

Hersbewasata losstomakeher
understand thatGod has revealed hirmelfto us
bybia word,andwbathiswordwas ;butatlast
he told it her thus:

W.A.Godbasspokentosomegoodrnenin
firmer days, evenfrom heaven, by plain words:
andGodhas inspired good men by bisspirit;
andtheyhars written all h'ulawstbwnina
hook.

anvnN't-uans'or Roarnson causoe.

Win. Me no tmderatandthat; where is
book ?

W. A. Ales! my poorcrutnre, Ihavenet
thisboolt;butI hopeIshallonetimeor other
get it for you, and help you to read it.

Here he embraced her with great afi'sction;
gut with inexpreesible grief that he had not a

ible.

Win. But howyou makes me know that
God teacheelhem to write that book 7

W. A. By thesamerulethat we know him
lobe God.
hlllt;rl>>'a:. What rule? Whatway you know

m .

W. A. Because he teaches and commands
nothing but what is good, righteous, and holy,
endtentlstomnksus perfectly good," well'as
perfectly happy ; and became be forbids, and
commands us to avoid, all that is wicked, that is
evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.

Win. That me would understand, that me
fain see; if he teaches all good thing, he
mkeeallgoodthing,hegiveallthing, be
hear me when Isay Oto him, as you do just
now; he makes megood, if! wishtobegood;
he spare me, no makes kill me, when I no he
good:allthisyouaaybedo,yethobe great
God: me take, think, believe him to be great
God; me say Oto himwith you,rny dear.

Here the poor man could forbear no longer,
but raised her up, made her kneel by him, and
he prayed toGodaloudto instructher in the
knowledge of himself, by his Spirit; and that
by some good providence, if possible, she
might some time orother come to have a Bible,
that she might read the wordot'God,and be
taught by it to know him--This was the time
that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and
saw him kneel down by her, as above.

They had severalother discourses, it seem,
afierthis,toolong to be set down here; and
particularly she made him promise that since
he confessed his own life had been a wicked
abominable course of provocations against God,
that hewould reform it, and not make God
angry any more; lest he should make him
dead, as she called it, and then she would be
leftalone,and never be taught toknow this
Godbetter; andlest he should be miserable,
ashe hadtoldba'widedmonwould bs,afier
death.

This Ins astrange
ng to us both, but part'

'degmr,deg"""'"""$'"deg"'
i to eyotmg
clergyman; hewas indeed wonderfully earn
prisedwithinhrtunderthopeateataflictitm
imaginablethathecouldnottalktoher,tbasbe
conldnot English,tomakeberurdse-
mndhim;andasabeapokabntveryllnkst
English,heconld notnaderstandher; however,
he turned hinleli'totne, andtoldtnethsthe
believed lhatthorelnust homers to dowith
this woman than to her. I did not un-
(lei-stand himatiirst,hut at lengthheexplained
hirnaelfivizthatsheoughtto be baptized. I
agreed with himin that part readily, and was
forgoing about it presently. No, no; hold,
sir, said he; though I would have her he hep-
tized by all means, yet I must observe that
"fill Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought
her, In a wonderful manner, to be willing to em-
brace a religious life, end has given her yust
ideas ofthe being ofa God; of his power,jus-
tice, and mercy. ' yet I desire to know of him
ifhehos said any thing to her ofJesusChrist,
and ofthe salvation ofsinners , ofthe nature of
faith In him, and redemption by him; of the
Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment,
and a future state.

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him;
but the poor fellow fell immediately into tears,
andtoldushohsdsaidsomethingtoherol'all
those things, but that he was himelf so wick-
ed a creature, and his own conscienw so re-
pront'hed him with his horrid, ungodly life, that
ho trembled at the casinos that her
knowledge ofhim should lemon the attention
she should give to those things, and make her
rather contomn religion dun receive it; but
he was assured, he said, thather mindwas so
disposed to receive due innate-ions ofsll those
things, and that if I would butdiscoursewith
her, she would make it appear to my satisfie-
tiontltatmy lahourwwldnothelostupo n her

Accordingly, I called her In, and placing

myself as interpreter between my religious
nriest and the woman,I entreated him tobegin
withher; butsure such asennon wns never
nreached hy apopish priest in these latter ages
aftheworld;and,asl'toldhim, I thoughthe
and all the zeal,all the knowledge, all the sin-
cerity ofa Christian, without the error ofa
Roman catholic; and that Itook him to be
such a cl as the Roman bishops were,
before the church of Rome ammed spiritual
sovereignty over the consciences ofmen. Ina
word, he the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, andof redemption by
him, not with wonder and astonishment only,
asshedid the innit-Is of aGod, but with
Joyand fiith, withan afl'ection,and a sur-
prising degree of understanding, scarce to be
imagined, much less to he expressed; and, st

herown request, die wu haptissd.
preparingto baptise her, I
ntveatcdhitn tluthswonld perform that ofics
with mania, that there" mightnot pea>>

I91

ceive hewuct'theRornandiwchfifps-ible,
because of other ill uenees which might
attend a difl'erence us in that very relis
gicnwbichwe were instructing the other in.
Hetoldtnethatas hehadnoccnsecrated
chapel, nor proper things for the ethos, I should
see he woulddoitina mannerthatIshould
not knowhy it thsthe was shaman catholic
myself, if I had not known it before; and so
he did; for saying only some words over to
himselfin Latin, which [could not understand,
he a whole dishful of water upon the
womn's heed, pronouncing in French very
loud. "Mary," (which was the name her
hushend desired me to give her, for I was her
godfather,) "I baptize thee in the name of
the Father, and ofthe Son, and of the Holy
Ghost; " soIhat none could know any thing by
it whai religion he was of. Hogavc the bene-
diction al'terwsrds in Latin, but either Will
Atkins did nothnowhut it was French, orelse
did not take nation ofitatthat time.

As soon aathis was over. we married them;
and afierthe marriagewss over,heturned to
Will Atkins, and in avery affectionate manner
exhorted him, not only to persevere in that good
disposition he was in, but to support the con-
victions that were upon him by a resolution to
reform his life; told him it was in vain to say
he repented if he did not forsake his crimes:
represented to him how God had honoured him
with being the imuurI-Ientofhringing his wife
to the knowledge ofthe Christian religion, and
that heshould be careful hedidnotdishonour
the groceofGod; andthat ifhe did,hewould
see the heathen a hotter Christian than him.
self; the savage converted, and the instmrnent
cast away. He said a great many good things
to them both; and then recommending them
to God's goodness, gave themthe benediction
again, I repeating every thing tothem In Eng>>
lish; andthusended the ceremony. I think
itwasthe most pleawnsndagreeahlo day to
methat ever I passed in my whole life.

Butmyclergyrnsn hsdnot done yet;hia
thoughts hung continually upon the conversion
ot'the thirty-men savages,andfain he would
have stayed upon the island to have undes-
taken it, but I convinced him, lint, that
his nndertalringwas inpracticahle in itself,
and,secondly, that pevhapstouldputitintn
awayot'heingdcnein hisahsencetohissatis-
faction; of which by and by.

Having thus brought the ad'aivs of the island
to a narrow coupon, I was preparing to go
onboardtheship,whenthe ml
had takenoutofthe Suited itip'acompatly
camernme, andtoldmshsrmdarstovdlhad
aclergytnanwithnte, andthat I hadeaused
the Englishmento be marriedto thesavages;
that he had a match, too, which he desired
might be finished before I went, between two
Christians, which he hoped would not be dis-
agreeable to me.

I knew this mint be the yourtg woman who
was his mother's servant, for there was no
other Christian woman on the island: so I
began to persuade him not to do any thing of
that kind rsshly, or because he found himself
in this solitary circumstance. I re ted
to him that he had some considerable substance
in'the world, and good friends, as I understood
by himself, and the maid also; that the maid
was not only poor, and a servant, but was
unequal to him, she being six or seven and
twenty years old, and he not above seventeen
or eighteen; that he might veryp probably, with
my assistance, make a remove iiom this wilderh
ness, and come into his own country again; and
that then it would he a thousand tonne but he
Would repent his choice, and the dislike of that
circumstance mightbe disadvantageous to both.
I was going to say more, but be interrupted me,
smiling, and told me, with a great deal ofmo-
desty, that I mistook in my guesses, that he
had nothing of that kind in his thoughts; and
he was very glad to hear that I had an intent
of putting them in a way to see their own
country again; and nothing should have put
him upon staying there, but that the voyage I
was going was so exceeding long and hazard-
ous, and would carry him quite out of the
reach of all his friends; that he had nothing to
desire of me, but that I would settle him in
some littlepvoperty in the island where he was,
give him a servant or two, and come few neces-
saries, and he would settle himself here like a
planter, waiting the time when, if ever I
returned to England, I would redeem them;
andhoped Iwould notboutunintlfulol'him
when I came to England: that he would give
me some letters to his friends in London, to let
themltnowhowgoodl had been to hirn,and
in what part of the world, and what drum-
stnnce 'I had let! him in; and he promised me
that whenever I redeemed him, the plantation,
and all the improvements he had made upon it,
let the value be what it would, should he
wholly mine.

His discourse was very prottily delivered,
considering his youth,and was the more
able to me, because he told the positively the
matchwasnotforhimsell'. Igave himall
possible assurances that ifI lived tocome safe
to England, I would deliver his letters, and do
hisbtuine- etfecunlly; andthathemigbtde-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI'>>

pend I should never forget the chunnstaneea I
hadlet'thimin: binatillIwasimpatienttoknow
whowasthepersontohemarried , uponwhich
he toldmeitwumy'ack ofalltradesandh'l
maidStlan. [was most agreeably sis-prised
whenhenatnedthematch; thr'mdeedlthought
itvery suitable. The eharactsrol' thatman I
haugivenalready;andasforthernaid,shewaa
a very honest, modest, sober, and religiotl
youngwornan, badaverygood shareofsense,

wusgreeableenwghinherperaomepoke very
bandsomely,and tothe purposo,alway swithde-
cencyand good manners. and neither too hack-
ward to speak, when nquisitqnor importinently
forward,when it was not her business; very
handy and homewifely, and an excellent mana.
ger; fit, indeed, to have been governess to the
whole island, and she knew very well how to
behave in every respect.

The match being pr in thin manner,
we marriedthemthe sameday; and as I was
father at the altar, as I may say, and gave her
away, so I gave her a portion; fix I appointed
herandher husbands handsome large space
ot'grotmdtbr their plantation: and, indeed,
this match, and the proposal the young gentle-
man madeto give himaamallproperty in the
island, put me upon it out
then, that they might not quarrel afierwards
about their situation.

This ' outthelandtothcmllcflto
Will Atkins, who was now grown a sober,
grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed,
exceed yp pious and religion, and, as far as
I may be allowed to speak positively In such a
case, I verily believehe was a true penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to
every one's satisfaction, that they tmly desired
one writing under my 'hand for the
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, and
signed and sealed to then, setting out the
bounds and situation of every man's plantation,
and testif yingthat I gave than thereby seve-
rally a right to the whole possession and inhe-
ritance of the respective plantation or farnn,
with their ementa, to then and their
heirs,reservingalltherestofthe ulandasmy
own property, and a certain real for every
particular plantation after eleven years, if I,
oranyonetromme,orintayname,esme to
demnd it, producing an attested copy ofthe

As to the govunment and lawsamongtbetn,
Itold tth was notcapablotf giving than
better rules than they were able to give them
selves: onlyImadetbempru'lometo live
in love and good with one ano-
thee, and so I prepared to leave them.
One thing! mom notomit, and that is, that
being now settled in a kind of commonwealth
amongthemselves, and having much business
in hand, it was bin odd to have seven and thirb
ty Indians live in a nook of the island, indc~
pendent, and, indeed, unemployed; for, except-
ing the providing themselves food, which they
had ditiiculty enough to do sometimes, they had
no manner of business or properly to manage.
I proposed, therefore,to the governor Spaniard,
that he should go to them, with Friday's
father, and propose to them to remove, and
either plant for thennelves, or take them into
their several families as servants, to be main-
tained for their labour, but without being abso-
lute slaves; for I would not admit them to
make them slaves by force, by any means;
because they had their liberty given them by
mpitulation, as it were articles of surrender,
which they ought not to break.

They most willingly embraced the proposal,
and came all very cheerful along with him: so
we allotted them land, and plantations, which
three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose
to be employed as servants in the several
families we had settled; and thus my colony
was in a manner settled, as follows :--The Spa-
niards possessed my original habitation, which
was the capital city, and extended their plan-
tation! ell nlorg the aide of the brook, which
made the creek that I have so often described,
asfar as my bower; end as they increased
their culture, it went always eastward. The
English lived in the northeast part, where
\Vill Atkins and his comrades began, and
came on southward and southwest, towards
the back part of the Spaniards; and every
plantation had a great addition of land to
take in, if they (bend occasion, so that they
need not jostle one another for want of room.
All the east end of the island was left uninha-
bited, that ifany of the savages should come
on shore there only fiir their usual customary
barbaritiss, they might come and go; if they
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them:
andno doubt but they were often uhore, and
went away again, forIneverheardthatthe plan-
ters were ever stacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my that I Ind
hinted to my friend the clergymn that the
work of convertingthenvages migbtperhaps
be let on foot in hisahsenee to his satisfaction,
andtoldhim thatnowl tit wuput in
a fair way; for the so being thus divided
among the Christians, ifthey would but every
one of them do their part with those which
came under their bands,I hoped it might have

averygoodefi'eet. 13

193

He agreed presently in that, iftheydid their
. But how, says he, shall we obtain that
of them? I told him we would call them all
together, and leave it in charge with them, or
go to them, one by one, which he thought best:
so we divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards,
who were all papists, and I to the English,
who were all protestants ; and we recommended
it earnestly to them, and made the. promise
that they would never make any distinction of
papist or protestant in their exhorting the sa-
vlgel to turn Christians,but teach them the
general knowledge of the true God, and of their
Saviour Jesus Christ; and they likewise pro-
mised us that they would never have any dif-
ferences or disputes one with another about
religion.

When I came to Will Atkins's house, (I may
call it so, for such ahouse, orsneh a piece of
basket-work, I believe, was not standing in the
world again.) there I found the young woman
I have mentioned above, and Will Athins's
wife, were become intimates: and this prudent,
religious youngwoman, had perfected the work
Will Atkins had begun; and it it was
not above four days after what I have related,
yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian as I have seldom heard of
in all my observation or conversation in the
world.

It came next into my mind, in the morning
before I went to them, that among all the
needful things I had to leave with them, I had
not lett them a Bible, in which [showed myself
less considering for them than my good friend
the widow was for me, when she sent me the
cargo ot'a hundred pounds from Lisbon, where
she mod up three Bibles and a prayer-book.
However, the good woman's charity had a
greater extent than ever she imagined, for
they were reserved for the comfort and in-
struction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done.

Itookoneofthe Bibles in my pocket, and
when lcame to Will Atkins's tent, or house,
and tbund theyoungwoman and Atkim'sbnp-
tined wife had been disooursi of religion

r, for Will Atkins told It Inn with a
greatdeald'joy, lashed iftheywnetogether
now, and hesaid yesuo l wentintothebouae,
andhewith Ine,and we fotmdlhelntogedter
very earnest indiscourse. 0 air, says Will
Atkins, whenGodhas-innetsto reconcile to
himsommdienstobringhome,henever
wants amengaunywife hugotanew
instructor; lknewlwasasunworthyulwu
inespableofthntworh: that voungwon-n
has beenssnthithert'rombeaventabets
enough to convert a whole island of savages.
The young woman blushed, and rose up to go
away, but [desired her tosit still; I told her
she had a work upon her hands, and I
hoped God would bless her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not in
they had any book among them, though I did
not ask: but I put my hand into my pocket,
and pulled out my Bible; Here, says I to
Atkins, l have brought you an assistant that
perhaps you had not before. The man was so
confounded that he was not able to speak for
some time; but recovering himself; he takes it
with both his hands, and turning to his wife,
Herc, my dear, says he, did not I tell you our
God, though he lives above, could hear what
we said? Hero 3 the book I pray yed for when
you and I kneeled down under the hmh; now
God has heard us, and sent it. W' hen he had
said so, the man fell into such transports of
passionate Joy, that between the joy of having
it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran
down his face like a child that was crying.

The woman was surprised, and we like to
have run intoa mistake that none of us were
aware of, {hr she firmly believed God had sent
the book upon her husband's petition. It is
true, that providcutially it was so, and might
be taken so in nounsequent sense; but I be-
lieve it would have been no difficult matter, at
that time, to have persuaded the poor woman
to have believed that an express messenger
came from heaven on purpose to bring that
individual book; but it was too serious a
matter to suffer any delusion to take place; so
I turned to the young woman, and told her we
did not desire to impon upon the new convert,
in her first and more ignorant understanding
of things, and begged herto explain to her that
God may be very properly said to answer our
petitions, when, in the course of his provi-
dence, such things are in a particular manner
brought to pass as we petitionedfor; but we
did not expect returns from heaven in a mira-
culous and particular manner, and it is our
mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards
efi'ectually, so that there was,I asstne you, no
priestcaft used here ; and I should have thought
it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the
worldto have had it so. But the surprise of
:eyupoa \Vill Atkins, isrcally not to be ex-
pressed: and there,wemaybo sun, was no
delusion. Sure no man was ever more thank-
ful intho world for any lhingol'its kind than
bewas for the Bible; nor, I believe, never
anyman was glad ofaBiblo froma better
principle; andthough behadbeenamostpro-

 

f *c.' I'm-arm,"

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

fligate creature, headstrong, furious, and d>>
pentely wicked, yet this man is a standing rule
to us all lbr the well instructing children, viz.
that parents should never give over to teach
and instruct, nor ever despair of the success
of their endeavours, let the children be ever so
refractory, or, to appearance, insensible of in-
struCtion : for, if ever God, in his providence,
touches theconscience ofauch, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early in-
struction of parents is not lost, though it may
have been many years laid asleep, but, some
time or other, they may find the benefit of it.
Thus it was with this poor man, however Igno-
rant he was of religt on and Christian know-
ledge, he found he had some to do with now
more ignorant than himself, and that the least
part of the instruction of his good father that
now came to his mind was of use to him.

Among the rest it occurred to him, he said,
how his fatherused to insist so muchon the in-
expressihle value of the Bible, the privilege and
blessing of it. to nations, families, and persons ;
but he never entertained the least notion of the
worth of it till now, when being to talk to
heathens, sa , and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle for his assistance.
The young woman was glad of it also for the
present occasion, though she had one, and so
had the youth, on board our ship, among their
goods, which were not yet brought on shore.
And now having said so many things of this
young woman, I cannot omit telling one story
more of her and myself, which has something
in it very informing and remarkable.

I have related to what extremity the poor
young woman was reduced, how her mistress
was starved to death, and died 'on board that
unhappy ship we met at sea, and how the whole
ship's company was reduced to the last extre-
mity. The gentlewoman and her son, and this
maid, were first hardly used, as to provisions,
and at last totally neglected and starved ; that is
to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger.--
One day, being discoursing with her on the ex-
tremities they sufl'ered, I asked her if she could
describe, by what she had felt, what it was to

starve, and how it '! She told me she
believed she could, and die told her tale very
distinctly, than:

First, sir, said she, we had for some days
fared exceeding hard, and stirred very great
hunger: btrt at last we were wholly without
food ot'aoy hind,sxcept sugar,and alittle wine
and water. The first day, after I had received
nolbodatallflfoundmyaelfitowardaevening,
firstemptyandsiekatthestomadundneam

nightmbinclinedtoyawningandsleep. I
laid down a a couch in the great cabin to
aleep,and dept about three homa,and awahed
a little refieabed, havingtahen a glam ofwine
when [lay down: afierbeing aboatthree
boar: awake, it beiagaboat five o'clock in the
morning, I found myaelfamptyandmyato-
madiaitiiahflndlay down again, but ourld
notaleep atall, beingvery faintandill- and
thuloonttnuedalltheaecond day witha
strange variety, hut hangry, then rick again,
with reaching-to vomit. The aecmd night,
being ' logo to bed again without any
food, more than a draught of fresh water, and
being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadcn,
and that the market was mightily stocked with
proviaiona; that I taotnc for my mistreaa,
and went and dined very heartily. I thought
my stomach waaaafullafler thin as it would
have been afln a good dinner; but when I
smoked 1 was exceedingly unit in my spirit:
to find myselfinthe ememityel' famine. The
last glaual'wine wehndldranlt,nnd ptttrugar
in it, becattoeof its havingaomeapirit to supply
nourishment; but there being no substance in
the atomach for the digeating ofioe to. work
upon, I fund the only etfectol' the wine was
to raise disagreeable funrea from the atomach
into the head; and I lay, a: they told me, etu-
pid and aeneela-,aaonednmk.foraome time.
The third day, in the morning,afier a night of
strange, confirm! and' inconsistent dream, and
rather doling thanaleep eeping, lawalted ravenous
and furious with hang ger; and I question, had
not my understanding returned and conquered
it, whether, in had been a mother, and had
had a little child with me,ita life would have
been safe or not. This lasted about three hours;
during which time I was twice raging mad as
any creature in bedlatn, an my young master
toldme,andaahecannowinl'ormy ou.
In one of theae file of lunacy or ydistraction
I fell down, and atruck my face against the
eomerot' apallat bed, in which my mistrea-
lay, and, with the blow, the blood gushed out
ol'my nose; and the cabin-boy me a.
littley basioJ oat down and bled into it a great
deal; andaathe bloodcarnefmmme,[came
tomyeelfiandtbeviolenceot'theflameor
fever! was in abated, andeo did the ravenous
portot'thehtmger. Then I grewaiek,and
reachedtowrmit,bu couldnot,l'othad
army atomaoh to bring up. AfierI
hadbledaometime,I awmd, andthey all
believedlwaadead;but Icametomyaell',
noon afier, and then had amoot dreadfiil pain
in my non-dyndtobedacrihed," likelhe
colrti1 hm apawing, eager pain firrfirod; and
Howard-thaniduhwntofiwithakind of

195
earneat trialling or longing ferfood, aomething

like,u I nppoae, the of a Wotan
withehild. Itoohaaother Iaot'water,
withmgarinit;batmyC/otnacbloathedthe

:tgar,andbroaghtitalltmagain:then1took

dwaterwithotttaugar,andthat
:tayedwithtne; andIlaidmedownnponthe
bed, payingmouheartilythatitwwldpleaee
God retake me away, and eotnpoaing rny
mittdinbooeaol'it,laltmtbered awhile,and

then walung, thwght myablt'dying, being light
otomadt;

with vapour: fiom an

ctannrendedtny aoulthentoGod, andearnestly
widtedtlnt aomebody wouldthrow me into
theaea.

All thia whilemy mitoc- lay by unjust,
or! thought, expiring, butboroit with much
morepatiencethanl; gavethelaatbitof
bread-hehedleft toherchild, myyottngtnae-
ter, who would not have taken .I, but ahe
obligedhimtoeatit, and I believeit aared
hillife.

Towarda the morning I again, and
whealawolte, I fell imam: paaaionol'
crying, andalier that had arecondfit ol'vio-
lent er: Igotnpravenoue,andinamoot
dreadfulcondition: badmym'utreaabeen dead,
umuchaallovedher,lamcertainlahould
haveeatenapieceol'her flesh withaamuch
reliah,andaatmconeerned,_aa ever I did eat
thefleah ol'any creature appointed for food;
andonceortwieelwaagoingtobitemy own
arm;atlaatlaawthebuininwhiehwaathe
bloodlhadbledatmyneeethedaybeforetl
tantoit,andawalloweditwilhouohhalte,and
ouchagreedy appetite," if Iwondered no-
bodyhadtalten itbafirre,aadafiaid it abould
belatenliomrnenowmfieritwaadownflbough
thelhoughtaot'it filled in. with horror, yet it
checked the fit ot'bunger, and I took another
draughtof water,and waa oompoaed andro-
t'reabed lbreomebouraafter. Thiawuthe
fourthdayzandtht-Iheldittilltowardanight;
when, withintheeompaaaot'threoboara, I
hadall theeeveralcirctnnataneeaoveragain,
oneafleranother,viz. aiok,aleepy,eagerly
hungry, pain in the atomaoh,thea
apin,thenaick, then lunatic, then'ucrying,
theeravenoaaagain, andaoeveryquarterol' an

Allthianightlhad nodeap-htathohw
gerwunowmrnedintoadiaeaae; andlhad
aterribloeoliehalrd gr'm'mg,bywind, mead
offend, havingfiamdiuwayimotha bomb;
and tnthraoondmon Ila tilltaeraiag, when!
wautrpriaedwiththecriaaandlataataation
of my young master, who called out to me
that his mother was dead; I lifted myself up
a little, for I had not strength torisc, but found
she was not (lead, thoughshe we able to give
very little signs of life.

I had then such convulsions in my stomach,
f >>r want of some sustenance, that I cannot
describe; with such frequent throes and pangs
of appetite, that nothing but the tortures of
death can imitate : and in this condition I was
when I heard the seamen above cry out, A
sail! a sail! and hallooand jumpabout as if
they were distracted.

I' was not able to get of from the bed, and my
mistress much less; and my young matter was
so sick, that I thought he had been expiring;
so we could not open the cabin door, or got
any account what it was that occuioned such
confusion; nor had we any conversation with
the ship's company for two days, they having
told us that they had not a mouthful of any
thing to eat in the ship; and this they told us
afterwards, they thought we had been dead.
It was this dreadful condition we were in when
you were sent tosave our lives: and how you
found tn,sir, you know as wellas I, andbetter
too.
This was her own relation, and is such
a distinct account of starving to death, as I
confess, I never met with, and was cxceeding
entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to
believe it to be a true account, because the
youth gave me an account ofa good partol'it;
though, I must own, not so distinct and so
feeling as the maid ; and the rather, because it
seems his mother fed him at the price of her
ovm life ; but the poor maid, though her con-
stitution being stronger than that of her mis-
tress, whowas in years, and a weakly woman
too, she might struggle harder with it; I say,
the poor maid might be supposed to feel the
extremity something sooner than her mistress,
who might be allowed to keep the 'last bit
something longer than she parted with any to
relieve the maid. No questionI as the case is
here related, ifour ship, oraotne other,had not

aoprovidentiallymetthamp few days more
I

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 030803.

would have ended all their lives, unle- they
had prevented it by eating one another; and
that even, as their case stood, would have
served them but a little while, they being five
hundred leagues from any land, or any possi-
bility of relief, other than in the miramloul
mannerit happened: but this iaby the way;
1 return to my disposition ofthings uniting the
people.

And, first, it is to be oblcrvod here, that for
many reasons I did not think fit to let them
know any thing of the sloop I had framed, and
which I thought of setting upamong them; for
I found, at least at my first coming, such seeds
of divisions a them, that I saw plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and left it among them,
they would, upon every light disgtm, have
separated, and gone away from one another,
or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made
the island a den of thievea,ins'tead of a planta-
tion of sober and religious people, as I intended
it: nor did I leave the two pieces ofbrass can-
non that I had on board, or the two quarter-
deck guns that my nephew took extraordinary,
for the some reason: I thought itwas enough to
qualify them for a defensive war against any
that should invade them, but not to set them up
for an offensive war, or to go abroad wattack
others; which, in the end, would only brin
min and destruction upon them: I rcserv
the sloop, therefore, and the guns for their
service another way, as I shall observe in its
place.

Having now done with the island, I let!
them all in good circumstances and in a lion-
rishing condition, and women board my ship
again the 6thof May, havingbeen about twenty-
ftvo days among them ; andasthey were all re-
solved to stay upon the island tillIeante to
remove them,I promised to send them farther
relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly find
an opportunity: and, particularly, I promised
to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs,
and cows; as to the two cows and calves
which I brought from England, we had been
obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill

thematsea,forwantofhaytofeedthern.
 

SECTION XL.

IIICOUK'IIB WITH SAVAGIS AT SEA.

--FRIDAY 3 DEATH.--ROBIISON FINDS I!"

FORMER PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS.--S.HLS FOR THE EAST "DIES.

Tm: next day, giving them a salute of five
guns at parting, we set sail, and arrived at the
bay of All Saints, in tile Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable
in our passage but this: that about three days
after we had sailed, being becalrned, and the
current setting strong to the E.N. E. running,
as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land side,
we were driven Iomething out of our course,
and once or twice our men cried out, Land to
the eastward: bttt whether it was the continent
or islands we could not tell by any means.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea,
as it were, covered towards the land with some-
thing very black; not being able to discover
what it was, till after some time, our chief
mate going up the main-shrouds a little way,
and looking at them with a. perspective, cried
out it was an army. I could not imagine what
he meant by an army, and thwarted him a
little hastily. Nay, sir, says he, don't be angry,
for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for I believe
there are a thousend canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, for theyareoorning towards
us space.

I was a. little then, indeed, and so
was my nephew the captain; for he had heard
such terrible stories of them in the island, and
having never been in those seas before, that he
could not tell what to think of it, but said. two
or three Iimes,we should all be devoured. I
must confess, cot'tsidcring we were becalmed,
and the current set strong towards the shore, I
liked it the worse ; however, I bade them not
be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as
soonaswecamesoneartoknowthatwe must
engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came
on space towards us; so I gave order to come
toananchor, and furl all our sails: as for the
savages, I told them they had nothing to fear
but fire, and thereto" they should get their
beats out, and fasten them, one close by the
head, and the other by the stern, and than them
bethivell, and wait the issue in that posture:
this I did, that the men in the boats might be
ready with sheets and bucket: to put out any
fire these aat'ageawouldendeavourto fix to the
amide of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in.
little while they came up with us; but never
was such a horrid eight seen by Christians;
though my mate was much mistaken in his cal~
culation of their ntunber, yet when they came
up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty~
six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen
men in them, and some more, and the least six
or seven.

When they came nearer to tn, they seemed
to be struck with wonder and astonishment, as
at a sight which doubtless they had never seen
belirre; nor could they, atfirst, as we ailer- .
wards understood, know what to make of us;
they came boldly up, however, very near to us,
and seemed logo about to row round tn; but
we called to our men in the boats not to let them
come too near them. This very order brought
us to an engagement with them, without our
designing it; for five or six of the large canoes
came so near our lotghoot that our men beck>>
ed with their hands to keep them back, which
they understood very well, and went back, but
at their retreat about fifty arrows came on
board usfrom those boats,and oneofour men
in the longbont was very much wounded.
However,I called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal board:
into the boat, and the carpenter presently set
up a kind offence, like waste boards, to covtr
them from the arrows of the outages, it'they
ebould shoot again.

About half an hour alierwards they all came
up in a. body aster-n ofus, andao near, as that
we could easily discern what they were, though
we could not tell their design: and I easily
found they were some of my old friends, the
wnesortot'savsgos that I had bemused to
engage with; and' in a short time more they
rowed a little i'arther out to sea, till they came di-
rectly broadside with us, and then rowed down
straight upon us, till they came so near that
they could hear u: speak: upon this I ordered
all my men tokeep close, leltthey should about
any more arrows,and made all owguns ready;
but being so near an to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call
out aloud to them tnhtslan guage, to knowwhat
they meant; which accordingly he did. Who-
ther they understood him ornot, that I knew
not: but as soon as he had called to them, six
of them, who were in the foremost or nighest
boat to us, turned their canoes from us, and
sleeping down, showed us their naked back-
sides, just as if, in English, saving your pre-
sence, they had bid us his : whether
this was a defiance of challenge we knew not,
or whether it was done in mere contempt, oras
a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday
cried out they were going to shoot,and, un-
hapI Iilv for him, poor fellow, they let fly about
three hundredoftheir arrows, and, to my inex-
pressiblc grief, killed poor Friday, noothernnn
being in their sight. The fellow was
shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marksman they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty
sen'ant and companion, that I immediately
ordered live guns to be loaded with small shot,
and four with great, and gave them such a
broadside as they had never heard in their
lives before, to be sure. They werenotabove
half a cable length 06' when we tired; and our
gunners look their aim sowell that three or
four of their canoes were oversel, as we had
reason to believe, by one shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare
backsidcs to us gave us no great offence; nei-
ther did I know for certain whether that which
\\ ould pass for the greatest contempt among us
mightbcunderstoodsoby themor not therefore.
in return, I had only resolved to have fired four
or five guns at them with powder only, which
[knew would fi-ightcn them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury
they were capable of, and especially as they
had killed my poor Friday, when I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well
deserved it, I thought myself not only justifiable
before God and man, but would have been very
glad if I could have overset every canoe there,
and drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor
how many we wounded, at this broadside, but
sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude, there were thirteen or
fourteen oftheireanoes split_ and overset in all,
and the men all set a swimming: the rest,
frightened out of their wits, anotIred away as
furl as they could, taking but little care to save
those whose boats were split or spoiled with
our shot; so I suppose thnt many ofthem were
lost; and our men took up one fellow
swimming for his life, above an hour after they
were all gone.

The small shot from our cannon must needs
hillandwound a great many; but, in short,

 

'glnd to have

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

we never knewany thing how it went with
them, forthey fledaofaat, thatin three betas,
or thereahouts, we could not see shove three
or four straggling canoes, nor did we ever see
the restsny more; for abromofwmd

ing up the sameevenmg, we weighed, and set
sail for the Brazils.

We had a prisoner, indeed,but the cresture
was so sullen that he would neither eat nor
speak, and we all fancied he would starve him-
self todesth: hutItooka way to cure him;
for I made them take him uni turn him into
the longboat,and make him behave they would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him,
where they found him, if he would not speak:
norwould that do, but they really did throw him
into the sea, and came away from him; and
then he followed them, lbr he swam like a cork,
andealled to them, in his tongue, though they
knew not one word of whathe said: however,
at lsstthey tookhim insgain,and then he
began to be more tractable; nor did lever
design they should drown him.

"Is were now under sail again: but I was
the most disconsolate creature alive for want
of my man Friday, and would have been very
gone back to the island to have
taken one of the rest from thence for my ocea
sion; but it could not be; so we went on.
"him! one prisoner, as I have said, and it
was a long time before we could make him
understand any thing: but, in time, our men

ht him some English, and he began to be
a little tractable. Afterwards, we inquired
what country he came from, but could make
nothing ofwhst he said; for his speech was so
odd, all gutturals, and he spoke In the throat' In
such a hollow, odd manner, that we could
never form a word after him, and we were all
of opinion that they might speak that language
as well if they were gagged as otherwise, not
could we perceive that they had any occasion
either in- teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but
formed their words, just as a hunting horn
forms atune, with an open throat. He told
In, however, some time allsr, when we had
taught him to speak a little English, that they
were ing with their kings to fight a great
battle. When he said kings, we asked him
how many ltings'.l He said they were five Im-
tion (we could not make him understand tho
plurals) andthatthey all Joinsdtogoagainsx
two natIon. l'Ve asked him what made them
eomeuptous: Hssaid,"Tomakeetog-Ieat
wonderloolt." Here it is to boobserved, that
all those natives, as alsothose ofAfrica,when
they learn English, alnys add two 2': at the
and d'theworthlwhere wemone. andthay
place the accent upon them, as makee, tskee,
and the like ; and we could not break them of
it; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it
05, though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more,
I'must take my last leave of him: Poor honest
Friday ! We buried him with all the decency
and solemnity possible, by putting him into a
coflin, and throwing him into the sea; and I
cansed them to fire eleven guns for him : and
so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful,
honest, and most. affectionate servant that ever
man had.

We want now away with a fair wind for
Brazil; and in about twelve days' time we
made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the northeastermost land of
all that port of America. We kept on S. by
E. in sight of the shore four days, when
we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three
days came to an anchor 08' the bay of All

' . Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from

whence came both my good and evil fate.

Never ship came to this port that had less

business than I had, and yet it was with great

- difficulty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore; not my partner
himself who was alive, and made -a great figure
among them, not my two merchant trustees,
not the fame of my wonderful preservation in
the island. could obtainme that favour ; but my
partner remembering that Ihnd given five hun--
dred moidores to the prior of the monastery
of the Augustines, and two hundred and
seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery,
and obliged the prior that than was, to go to
the governor, and get leave for me personally,
with the captain and one more. besides eight
seamen, to come on shore, and no more ; and
this 'upon condition absolutely capitulated for,
that we should not ofi'er to land any goods out
of the ship, or tocarry any person away without
license. They were so strict with us as to
landing any goods, that it was with extreme
difficulty that I got on shore three bales of
English goods, such asfine broad-cloths,stufi's,
and some linen, which I had brought for a
present to my partner.

He was a, very generous, openhearted man;
though, like me, he came tiom little at first:
and though he knew not that I had the least
design of giving him any thing, he sent me on
board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and
sweetmeats, worth about thirty moidores, in-
cluding some tobacco, and three or four fine
models of gold: but I was even with him in my
present ,which, as Ihave said, consisted of fine
broad-cloth, English stufi's, lace, and fine hot-

199

lands; also I delivered him about the value of
one hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods,
for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloop, which I had'brought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony,
in order to send the refreshments I intended to
my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands and finished the
sloop in a very few days, for she was a.ready
framed ; and I gave the master of her such in-
structions asthat he could not miss the place;
nor did he miss them, as I had an account
from my partner afterwards. I got him soon
loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and
one ofour seamen, that had been on shore with
me there, offered togo with the sloop and settle
there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard
to allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a
plantation, and giving him some clothes and
tools for his planting work, which he said he un-
derstood, having been an old planter at Mary-
land, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I en-
couraged the fellow, by granting all he desired ;
and as an addition, I gave him the savage
whom we had taken prisoner of war to be his
slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to
give him his share of 'every thing he wanted
with therest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old
partner told me there was acertain very honest
fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance,
who had fallen into lhedispleasureof the church.
I know not what the matter is with him, says
ho, but on my conscience I think he is a he-
retic in his heart, and he has been obliged to
conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition ; that
he would be very glad of such an opportunity
to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters; and if I would let them go to my
island, and allot them a plantation, he would
give them a small stock to begin with; for the
officers of the Inquisition had seized all his
effects and estate, andhe had nothing lefl. but a
little household stufi', and two slaves : and, adds
he, though I hate his principles, yet I would not
have him fall into their hands, for he will be
assuredly burned alive if he does.

I granted this presently, and joined my Eng-
lishmen with them; and we concealed the
man, and his wife and daughters, on board our
ship, ti'tl the sloop put out to go to sea; and
then having put all their goods on heard some
time before, we put them on board the sloop
after she was got out of the bay.

Our seamen was mightily pleased with this
new partner; and their stocks, indeed, were
much alike rich in tools, in preparations, and
a farm; but nothing to begin with, except as
above : however, they carried over with them,
whichwasworth all the rest. some materials
for planting augarcanes with some plants of
canes, which he,I mean the Portugal man,
understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my
tenants in tile island, I sent them by the sloop
three milcb-eows andlive calves, about twenty-
two hogs among them, three sows big with
pig, two mares, and a stonehorso. For my
Spaniards, according to my promise, I engar
ed three Portugal women to go. and recom-
mended it to them to marry them, and use
them kindly. I could nave procured more
women, butt remembered that the poor prose-
cuted man had two daughters, and that there
were but five of the Spaniards that wanted;
the rest had wives of their own, though in
another country.

All this cargo arrived safe, and," you may
easily suppose, was very welcome to my old
inhabitants, who were now, with this addition,
between sixty and seventy peop.e,besidat little
children, of which there were a great many.
I found letters at London from them all, by
way of Lisbon, when I came back to England,
ofwhich I shall also take some notice imme-
diately.

I have now done with the island, and all
manner of discourse about it; artd whoever
reads the rest of my memoranduma would do
well to turn his droughts entirely from it, and
expect to read of the follies of an old man, not
warned by his own harms, much less by those
of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled
by almost forty years' miseries and disap-
pointments ', notsatisfied with prosperity beyond
expectation, nor made cautious by afilictions
Ind distress beyond imitation.

Ihadno more btntineee to go to the Em
Indies than aman at full liberty has to go to
the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to
luck him up among the prisoners there, and
starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from
England, and gone directly to the island; had
I loaded her, as Idid the other vessel, with all
the necessaries for the plantation, and for my
people; taken a patent from the government
here to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England; had I carried over
cannon and ammunition, servants, and people
to plant, and take possession of the place,
fortified and strengthened it in the name of
England, and increased it with people, as I
might easily have done; nad I then settled
myself there, and sent the shin back laden
with good rice, as I might also have done in
six months' time, and ordered my friends to

V

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUBOI.

bavefittedherotttagainferetr

"wink-n
'Idonethis,and stayed there myselfilhad at
leastaetedlike amsnofenmmonsense: but!

was massed withawanderingspirit,"
scorned all advantages: I pleased myself with
being the patron of the people I placed there,
anddoingt'orthemin a kind of haughty,"
jestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch,
providing itr them as if I had been Either of
the whole family, as well as of the plantation:
but I never so much as pretendedto plant in
thonameof any government or nation, or to
aclmovvledge any prince, or to call my people
subjects to any one nation more than another:
my, I never so much asgsve thcplace a name,
but tell it, as I found it, belonging tonobody,
and the people under no discipline or govern-
ment but my own; who, though I had influence
over them as a. father and benefactor, had no
authority or power to act or command one way
or other, farther than voluntary consent moved
them to comply: yet even this, had I stayed
there, would have done well enough; but as I
rambled from them, and came there no more,
the last letters I had from any of them were by
my partner's means, who alter-wards sent ano-
ther sloop to the place, and who sent me word,
though Ihad not the letter till I gottn London,
several years after it wu written, that they
went on but y, were malecnntent with
their long stay there; that Will Atkins was
dead ; that five of the Spaniards were come
away; and though they had not been much
molested by the savagee,y yet they had had
some skirmishes with them, ass!' that they

beggedofhimto writetome tothink ofthe
promise I had made to fetch than away, that
'tihey might see their country again More they

ied

But I was gone a wildgeoee chase, indeed!
and they that will have any more ofme must be
content to follow me into a new variety of follies,
hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the
justice of Providence may be duly oMerved;
and we may see how easilyI-Ieavencan gorge
us with our own desires, make the strongest
ofourwishes beatntafiietion, and puniahus
most severely with these very things which we
think itwould be ourutmosthappineu tobe
allowed in. Whether I hadbusineas orno bu-
siness, away I went: it isno time now to en-
largeuponthereason orabsardity efmyown
conduct, buttocometothehistery; Iwas
cmbarkedforthevoyage,andthevC/iyagel
went.

Ishallonlyaddawordertwoeoncerningmy
honest popish clergyman; for let their opinion
ofus, andall otherbcotiel ingeneraLasthey
call us, be as uncharitable as it may, I verily
believe this man was very sincere, and wished
the good ofall men : yet I believe he was upon
the reserve in many of his expressions, to pre-
vent giving me offence ; for I scarce heard him
once call on the blessed Virgin, or mention St.
Iago or his guardian angel, though so common
with the rest of them: however, I say, I had
not the least doubt of his sincerity and pious in-
tentiotts on his own part ; and I am firmly of
opinion, if the rest of the popisir missionaries
were like him, they would strive to visit even
the poor Tartars and anlanders, where they
have nothing to give them, as well as covet to
flock to India, Persia, China, Sic. the most
wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they
expected to bring no gains to their church by
it, it may well be admired how they came to
admit the Chinese Confucius into the calendar
of the Christian saints. But this by the by.
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my
pious priest asked tne leave to go thither; being
still, as he observed, bound never to finish any
voyage he began. How happy had it been for
me in had gone with him! But. it was too

201

late now: all things Heaven appoints for the
best : had I gene with him, Ihad never had so
many things to be'thankful for, and thereader
had never heard of the second part of the travels
and adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I
must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go
on with my voyage. From the Brazils we
made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good
Voyage, our course generally southeast, now
and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea. were at an end; my
future rubs and cross events were to befall me
on shore, that it might appear the land was as
well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had
a supercargo on board, who was to direct all
her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for
stay, by chartcrhparty, at the several ports
she was to go to. This was none of my
business, neither did I meddle with it; my
nephew the captain, and the supercargo,
adjusting all those things between them as
they thought fit.

 

SECTION XLI.

'TH'E VESSEL TOUCHES AT MADAGASCAR.--AFFRAY WITH THE NATIVES,--WHO
ARE IMASSACRED BY THE CREW.--THE SAILORS AFTERWARDS REFUSE TO
SAIL WITH ROBXNSON, WHO IS LEFT BY HIS NEPHEW, THE CAPTAIN, IN

BENGAL.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was
needt'ul to take in fresh water, but made the best
of our way for the coast of Coromandel. W'e
were indeed informed them French man of war
of fifty guns, and two large merchant ships,
were gone for the Indies ; and as I knew we
were at war with France, I had some appre-
hensions of them ; but they went their own way,
and we heard no more ofthem. '

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious
description of places, journals of our voyages,
variations of the compass, latitudes, trade
winds, Ste. ; it is enough to name the ports and
places which we touched at, and what occurred
to us upon our passing from one to another.

We touched first at the island of Madagascar,
where, though the people are fierce and treach-
erous, and very well armed with lances and
news, which they use with inconceivable dex-
terity, yet we fared very well with them a while ;
they treated us very civilly; and, for some
trifles which we gave them. such as imchs,

scissors, Ste. they brought us eleven good fat
bulloclts ofa middling size, which we took in, '
partly for fresh provisions for our present spend-
ing, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here some timeaiter
we had furnished ourselves with provisions;
and I, who was always too curiousto look into
every neck of the world wherever I came, was
for going on shore as oiien as I could. It was
on the east side ofthe island that we went on
shore one evening ; and the people, who, by the
way, are very numerous, came thronging
about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance;
but as we had traded freely with them, and
had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in
no danger; but when we saw. the people, we
cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them
up at a distance from us ; which it seems, is
a mark in that country, not only of a truce and
friendship, but when it is accepted, the other
side sets up three poles or boughs, which is a
signal that, they accept the truce too; but then
this is a Itnowa condition ol'the truce, that you
want to pan beyond their three [kyle-s, to
wards them, nor they to come past your three
poles, or bonghs, towards you; no that you are
perfectly secure within the three poles, and all
the npttm! between your [plea and theint is
allowed like a market for free converse, tratfic,
and commerce. When you go there, you
must not carry your weapons with you: and if
they come into that space, they stick up their
javelins and lanees all at the first poles, attd
come on unarmed: but il'any violence is offered
them, and tho truce thereby broken, away
they run to the poles, and lay held of tlteir
weapons, and tllo truce is at an end.

it happened one evening when we went on
shore, that a greater number of their people
canto down than manhbm all very friendly and
civil; and they brought several kinds of provi-
sions, for which we satisfied them with such
toys as we had; their wurncn also brought us
milk and roots, and several things very accept-
able to us, and all was quiet t and we made no
a little trtttor but of some beagle: of trees, and
lay on shore all night.

I know not what was tlte occneion, but I
was ttut no well satisfied to lie on short: as the
rest; and the boat riding at an anchor about
a stone's cast from the land, with two men in
her :0 take care of her, I made one of them
come on shore; and getting some bouglu of
trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the
sailon the bottom of the boat, and lay under
tlto cover oflhe brancbett of the treat all night
in the boat.

About two o'clock in the morning we heard
one of ottr Inert make a terrible noise on the
shore, calling out, for God's sake, to bring the
boat in, and canto and help them, forthey were
all like to be murdered; at the same tinte I
heard the tire of five mtukets, which was the
number of the guns they had, and that three
times over; for. it seems, the natives here
were not so easily frightened with guns as tho
savages were in America, where I had to do
with them. All thin while I knew not what
was the matter, but musing immediately from
sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to he
thrturt in, and resolved. with three liteeee
we had outboard, toland and assist our
men.

We got the boat. soon tothe shore, but our
tnen were in too ntuch haste : for being come
.0 the thin, they plunged into the water, to
get to the boat with all the expedition they
cut-Id, being puruued by between three and four
hundred men. Our men were but nine in all,
andonly five ofthom had fumes with them 3 the

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUBOE.

rest had pistol-and swords, indeed, but they
were of amalt use to them.

We took up seven of our men, and with
ditiiculty enough too, three of them being very
ill wounded; and that which wan still worse
was, that while we stood in the beat to take
our men in, we were in as much danger no
they were in onshore; tbr they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick, that we were glad
to barricade the sidoot' the boat up with the
batches, and twoer three louse boards, whiCh
to our great satisfaction, we had by mere acci-
dent in the boat. And yet, had it been day~
light, they are, it seem, such exact marksman,
that if they could have seen but the least part
of any of us, they would have been sure of us.
We had. by the light of the moon, a little sight
nt'them. as they stood polling us from the shore
with darts and arrows: and having got ready
our firearms, we gave them a volley, that we
could hear, by the cries of some ol'thom,had
woumletl several ; however, they stood thus in
battle array on the shore till break of day,
which we suppose was that they might see the
better to talus their aim at tl.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell
how to weigh our anchor or set up our sail, be
cause we Inuet needs Itand up in the boat,
and they were as sure tehit us an we were to
hit a bird in a tree with small ahot. "it! made
signals of distress to the ship, which though
aha rode a league oli', yet my nephew the cap-
tain, hearing our tiring, and by glasses per-
ceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired
towards the there, pretty well understood an;
and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood
as near the shore a; he dent with the ship,
and then sent another boat, with ten hands in
her, to mist us : but we called to them not to
come too near, telling them what condition we
were in ; however they stood in near to us, and
one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in
his hand, and keeping one heat between him
and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly
ace him.uwam on board as, and made fast the
line to the boat ; upon which we slipped out a
little cable, and leaving our anchor behind,
they toweduaoutet'the reaehol'thearrows;
we all the while lying close behind the barrio-do
we had made.

Aasoonuwewmgotfiunbetweendto
chip and the shore, that we owld lay her side
to the shore. she run along jun by them, and
poured in abroadsidu among them loaded with
pieces ol'imn and lead, small btdlots,and such
stuff, beside. the great shot, which made a
terrible havoc them.

When we were some board andoatnfdaa-
",wehadtimetoenmine into the occasion
of this fray; and, indeed, our mpereargo,
who had been ollen in those parts, put moupon
it; for he said he was sure the inhabitants
would not have touched us aller we had made
a truce, ifwe had not done something to pro-
voke them to it. At length it came out that
anold woman, who hadoometoaelluslome
mult, had brought it within our poles, and a
young woman with her, whonlsohrought some
roots or herbs ; and while the old woman
(whether she was mother to the young woman
ornu they could not tell wasaelling us the milk,
one ofottr men ofl'e some rudeness to the
womb that was with her, at which the old
woman made a great noise: however, the Kea-
man would not quit his prize, but carried her
out of the old woman's sight among the trees,
it being almost dark: the old woman went
away without her, and, as we may suppose,
made an outcry among the people alto came
from; who, upon notice, rained this great army
upon us in three or four hours; and it was
great Odds but we had all been destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance
thrown at him just at the beginning of the
attack, as he salliod out ni'the tont they had
made: the rest cameofl' free, all but the fellow
who was the cousin of all the mischief. Who
paid dear enough lbr hisblack mistress, for we
Could not hear what became of him a great
while. We lay upon the shore two days ailer,
though the wind presented, and made signals
or him, and made our boat sail up shore and
down shore several leagues, but in vain, so we
were obliged to give him over; and if he alone
had suffered for it, the log ltad been lea.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without
venturing on shore once more, to try if I could
learn any thing of him or them; it wu the
thirtl night after the action that I had a great
mind tolearn, if I could by any means, what
mischief we had dons,and how the game mood
on the Indians' side. I Iva-careful to do it in
the dark, lest we should be attacked again;
but Iought, indeed, to have been sure thatlhe
men Iweat withbad been under my oomnnnd,
beforelengagedin athing eohazardousand
mischievous as I was brought into by it, with-
out design.

Wetooktweutyasetoott'ellows with as as
anyln the ahip, besides the and
myself,aad we landed two hours before mid-
night, attheaameptaoewherethe Indians
atooddrawnupintheeveningbetbre; Handed
lumbeeamemydeaigmul have aaid,waa
chiefly toaee iftheybad quilted the field,and
'I' they hadlefiany lurks behind them of the

11-3 7' 5r",

. 203

mischiefwe baddonethem; and Ithought if
wecotddaurpriae opeortwoof them, perhaps
we might get our man again, by way of
exchange.

w. landed without my noise, and divided '

our men into two bodies, whereof the boat-
awain eunmanded one, and I the other. "'0
neither aaw nor heard any body stir when we
lutdodzutdwernarelnd up,onehodyata
distance from the other, to the place: but at
first could see nothing, it being very dark; till
by and by our boatswain, who led the first
party, stumbled and fell over a dead body.
This made them halt awhile; tbr knowing by
the circumstances that they were at the plane
where the Indians had stood, they waited for
my coming up there. We concluded whalt till
the moon began to rise, which we knew would
he in less than an hour, when we could easily
discern the havoc we--had made among them.
"In told thirty-two bodies upon the ground,
whereof two were not quite dead; some had
an arm, and some aleg shot ofi',and one his
head: those that were wounded, we atlppoeo,
they had carried away.

"then we had made, as I thought, a full
discovery of all we could come to the know-
ledge ol', I was molved for going on board;
but the boatswain and his party sent. ms word
that they were resolved to make a visit to the
Indian town, where these dogs, as they called
them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with
them; and iflhey could find them, as they still
fancied they should, they did not doubt of
getting a good booty: and it might be they
might find Tom Jetl'ry there; that was the
man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew
well enough what answer to have given them,
for I should have commanded them instantly
on board, knowing it. was not a hazard fit for
us to run, whohad a ship, nndahip-loadingin
ourcharge, and avoyage to make which de-
pended very much upon the line of the men:
but as they sent me word they were resolved
to go, and only asked me and my company
to go along with them, I positively refused it,
and roaeup, forlwasaitting enthe ground,
inordertogototheboat. One or twoot'the
men begantoimportuneme logo; and when
Infined,hogaa to gnmbte,aadeay that they
were not under my command, and they would
go. Come, Jack, says one of the men, will
yougowithme? I'llgolbrone. Jaeksairlhe
would,--and than another,--and in a word, they
alllefimebutone,whoml toatay,
andaboylefiintheboat. Sothe anperenrgo
aadI,withtbe tbhdmmbaektolhe
boat, where we told them we would stay for
them,snd talto care to take in an many of
them as should be lull; thrl told them it was a
. ntad thing they wore going ahottt,andaupposed
mat of them would rttn the fate of Tom Jefl'ry.

Tln-y told me, like salmon, they would
warrant it they would come ofl'sgoin, and they
Would lttlm care, &c.; so away they went. I
entrt-atcd them to consider the ship and the
Voyage, that their lives were not their own, and
thttt they weru intrtutted with the voyage, in
uonut measure; that if they miscarried, the
tthip might huh-st firr want oflhcir help, and
that tht-y could not answer for it to God or
man. But I Ini-IlIt as w. ll havo talltutl to the
rnnintuttst of the ship; they were mad upon
tln Ifjftlll'lll v, only tht.y gave me good words.
and Imam-d I would not be angry; that they
did not IlonlIt but they would be back again in
about an hour at furthest; litr the Indian town,
they xttitl. watt not above half a mile off. though
they found it above two mile: hefotu they got
to it.

Well, they all went away: and though the
altu-ntpt was deapt-rntu, and such as none but
mndmvn would have gone about, yet, to give
them their due, they went about it as warily
as boldly: they wr-re gallantly armed, for they

ad every man afnsuu or musket, a bayonet,
and a pistol ; some of them had braid outlas-
gus, some of them had Imogen, and the boat-
swain and twomore htul polctucs : besides all
which, they had among thorn thirteen hand-
grtentnlocs: bolder follows and butter provided,
never went about any wicked work in the
world.

Whrn they went out, their chiefdeeign was
plunder, and they were in mighty hopes of
finding gold there; but a circumstance, which
none of them were aware of, not them on fire
with revenge, and made devils of them all.
"'hcn they came to the few Indian hot-tea
whichtht-y thought had been the town. which
was not above half a mile ofl', they were under
a grunt disappointment, for there were not
above twelve or thirteen houses; and where
the town watt. or how big g, they knew not.
They <<insulted, therefore, whaty to do, and
were some time before they could resolve; for
if they fell upon these, they must cut all their
thmats, and it was ten to one but some of them
might "cape, it being in the night, though the
moon was up; and if one escaped, he would
run and raise all the town sothey should have
a whole army upon them. again, on the other
hand, if they went away and let! those un-
touched, for the people were all asleep p, they
could not tell which way to look for the town;

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUIOE.

however.thelastwutbebestadviee; sothey
resolved to leave them, and loolt tor them
as well as they cottld. They went on a little
way,andPSxtndaeowtied toatree; this,
they presently concluded, would be a good
guide to them, for, they said, the cow cer.
tainly belonged to the town befhre them, or to
the town behind them; and if they untied her,
they ahouid see which way she went; if she
went back, they had nothing to say to her

but, if she went flirward, they would lbllow
her: so they cut the cord, which was made of
twisted flags, and the cow went on befixethetn,
directly to the town, which," they reported,

consisted of above two hundred bouzo- or huts,
and' In some of these they found several fami-
lies living together.

Here they found all in ailence, as profoundly
secure as aluep could make them: and, tint,
they called another council, to consider what
they had to do; and, in a word, they resolvui
to divide themselves into three bodies, and so
act three house-on fire in three parts of the
town ; and aathe men came out, to seize them
and bind them, (if any mined,they need not
be asked what to do then,) us] so to search
thormt ofthe housea for plunder: but they re-
solved to march ailentlyftrst through the town,
and see what dimensions it was of, and iftht-y
might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately revived that
they would venture upon them: butwhile they
were animating one another to the work, three
of them, who were a little before the teat, called
out aloud to them, and told them that they had
found Toot Jefl'ry :theyallraaupto the place
where they found the poor fellow hanging up
naked by one arm, and his throat cut. There
was anlndian house just by the tree, where
they found sixteeaor serenteenof the principal
Indians, who had been concerned to the fray
with us before, and two or three of them
wounded with our shot; and our men found
they were awake, and talking one to another
in that house, but knew not their number.

The sightof theirpoor mngled comrade>>
eurag ed them, as before, that they swore to
one another they would be wronged, and that
not an Indian that came into their hands
should have any quarter; and to work they
went immediately, and yet not so madly as
mightbe expected ftototherage sndfury they
werein. Theirfitstcarewastogetsome-
thing that would aoon take fie, but, alter a
littlesearch, they fund that wotttd be to no
purpose; fortnostoftheboaseswwalow,"
thatched with flags and rusbee, of which the

countryhfitllasotbey presetttlyaudeatnaWr"

mw--rr'v F'A. m'l'rre' -. r

ADVENTURES 05' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

wildfire, u we cell it, by wetting n little powder
in the palm oftheir hoods: end inequwer of
an hour they let the town on fire in four or five
places. nod pnrticulnrly that house where the
Indium were not gone to bed.

As soon I! the tire begun to blue, the poor
frightened cmuturett begun to rush out to love
thu-ir lives, but met with their fate in the
eucinpt; end eepecinlly It the door, where
tin-y drove them beck, the beetswnin hitmwlt'
killing one or two with hie polemic; the house
bum: lnrge, end nanny in it, he did not cure to
go in, but called for a hand granule, and threw
it among them, which at first frightened tltem,
but, when it hunt, made such havoc wrung
them. that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indinns who were in the
open port of the houw were killed or hurt with
the grenade, except two or three who proceed
to the door, which the bootswnin and two more
lit-pt, with their beyonuu on the muzzle: of
their pit'cntt, end despntched ell thnt come in
their way: but there was another npnrtment in
the house, where the prince or king, or whntever
in: was and levernl other: were ; end these were
lit-pt in till the home, which was by this time
all in :1 light finne, full in upon them, and they
were smothered together.

All this while they fired not e gun, bee-use
llll'y would not woken the people faster then
they could router them, but the tire begun to
woken them fut enough, and our fiallowe were
glad to keep I. little together in bodies; for the
tire grew so rnging, oil the houses being made
"flight combustible stufi', that they could herdly
beer the street between them, end their limi-
nt-sx we: to follow the fire, for the utter execu-
tion : as fututhe fire either forced the people
out of those homes which were burning, or
frightened then: out of others. our people were
ready nt theirdoon to knock themon the head,
still calling end helleoing onetoonothcrto re-
member Tom Jefi'ry.

\Vhile thin wns doing, I must confess I we:
very uneasy, end <<ponielly when I new the
flames of the town, which, it being night,
seemed to be jtut by me. My nephew, the
cepIein. who we: mined by his men, seeing
such it fire, weneryuneuy, unknowing whet
themnerwu, erwhet wavy-egg, espe-
cinll heenn' g the too, y ll time
theyyhegnntnuem fireenns: ethoueond
thoughtgeppreesedbiemiodeoneorningmennd
the. ,whntwouldhecotnoet'ulund,
Itlut, thoughhe could ill cplreenymere men,
yetnotknowing whntexigenee we mightbe in,
he takes mother beet, end with thirteen men
Ind Mm on share to me.

 

205

He was surprised to see me end the leper>>
eergo in the boot, withnomore than two men;
end though he wee glut thnt we were well, yet
he was in the nine impatience with no to know
what was doing; for the noise continued, end '
the flame increued; in short, itwu next to an
imposibility for my men in the world to rennin
their curiosity to ltnow what had happened, or
their concern for the safety of the men: in e
word, the eeptninteld me he would goend help
his men, let whet would come. I ugued with
him, as I did before with tltenlen, the safety of
the ship, the dangerof the royege, the interest
of thtowners end merchentr, no. and told him
I end thetwo men would go, nndonlylee ifwe
could at n dietence leern whet we: like to be the
event, Ind come beck and tell him. It we: .1]
onetoutktomy nephew, uit weetotnlk to the
rest before; he would go, he said; end he only
wished he hed lefthut ten men in the ship; it
he could not think ofhnving his men loot fix
wantofhelp: he had retherlone the ship, the
voyage, end his life and Ill; end nv'ny he went.

I won no moreehleteeteybehind now tbnn
I was to persuade them not to go; no, in short,
the captain ordered two men to row beck the
pinnecu, and fetch twelve men more, leaving the
longboet nt on anchor; end thet when they
come beck, six men should keep the two boots,
Indeixmoreeemenfierugeo thnthe left only
sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship'e
company consisted of eixtybfive men, whereof
two were lost in the lute quit-rel which brought
this mischief on.

Being newonlhe mudt, you maybe lure
we felt little ofthe wetmdonundbeing
guided by the fire, we keptno pull, but went
directly to the pincoofthe flame. Ifthe noise
ofthegunewunurpriningtolflbeforefiheuien
of the poor people were now quite of mother na-
ture, end filled us with horror. I must eonfeel
I was never at the locking: city, oret the taking
I. town by storm. I hurt heerdel'Oliver Crom-
welltelting in Ireland, nndkitling
men, Wt!m,lnd child; end lhedreedot'
Count Tilly sucking the city of Mngdebtrg,
end cutting the threats of twenty-two than-ad
ofnllnerel: but! neverbed nnidoeofthe
thing itself before, nor is it poesible to deecribe
it,ertheborrorthntwuttponotrnlindnu
baring it. However, we V!" on, end at
length eemetethetown, threw-no
entering the streotlefit forthe fie. The first
object we met withwuthernine efn but or
hmorrethertbeuheeofit,brthebnhse
we: consumed; endjuet before it, pleio
tebeseen bythel'uzhtoftbe ire,lny Barnum
end three wotnenkilled, end,uwethought.
one or two more lay in the heap armng the fire;
in short, there were such instances ofrago alto-
gether barbarous, and of a fury something be-
yond what was human, that we thought it im-
possible our men could be guilty of it ; or ifthey
were the authors of it, we thought they ought
to be every one of them put to the worst of
deaths.

But this was not all: We saw the fire increa-
acd furwanl, and the cry went onjuat as the fire
Wentou; no that. we were in the utmost confu-
sion. We advanced a little way further :and,
behold, to our astonishment, lltrno naked women,
and crying in a. moat dreadful manner, came
flying as if they had wings, and after them xix~
teen or seventeen men, natives, in the some
terror and consternation, with three of our Eng-
lish butchers in the rear; who, when they could
not overtake them, tired in among them, and
one that was killed by their shot fell down itt our
night. \Vhen the rest sawus, believing us to
be their enemies. and that we would murder
themas well as those that pursued tln-In. they
not up a moat dreadful shriek, eslneeially the
Women, and two of them fell down, as if already
dead, with the fright.

My very soul shnlnlt witltin me, and my
blood ran chill in my veins, whett I saw this:
and I believe, had the three English sailors that
pursue-l them wine on, I had made our men lull
them all: however, we took some ways to let
the poor flying creatures know that we would not
httrl them ; and immediately they came up to us,
and kneeling down with their hands lifted up,
made piteous Iamentalion tons to save them,
which we let them ltnow we would; whereulmn
they crept all together in a huddle close behind
us, as for pnueetion. I lefl my men drawn up
together. and charging them to hurt nobody, but
if possible, to get at some of our people, and see
what devil it was [rescued them, and what they
intended to do, and toeommand them ofi'; as-
suring them that if they stayed till daylight,
they would have a hundred thousand men about
their earszl say, [tell them, and went among
those flying people, taking only two of our men
with me; and there was indeed a piteous spee-
tacle among them ; some of them had their feet
terribly burned, with trampling and mnning
through the tire, other: their hands burned ; one
of the women had fillen down in the fire, and
was very much hunted before she could get out
again; andtwo orthreeofthemen had cuts in
their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing;
and another was shot through the body, and
died while I was there.

I would fain have learned what the ocwion
ofall this was,hut I oouldnotlmderstandoae

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CBUSOE.

word they aaid ; though by signs, I perceivec.
some of them know not what was the occasion
themselves. I was so terrified in my tlmghta
at this outrageous attempt, that I could not
stay there, but went back to my own men, and
revolved to go into the middle of the town,
through the fire, or whatever might be in the
way, and put an end to it, coat what it would:
acconlingly, as I came back to my men, I told
them my resolution, and commanded them to
follow me ; when at the very moment came finir
ofonr men, with tho boatswain at their head,
roving over heaps of bodies they had killed, all
covered with blood and dust, as ifthey wanted
more people to manure, whenour men hallooed
to them a: loud an they could hallou; and with
much ado one of them made them hear, so
that-they lmew who we were, atld came up
to us.

As mm as the boatswain saw us, he set up
a halloo like a shout of triumph, for having, as
he thought, more help come; and without
waiting to hear mo, Captain, says he, noble
raptuin! I am glad you are come; we are not
half done yet: villanoua hell-hounddogs! I'll
killas many of them as poor Tom has hairs
upon his head: we have sworn to spare none
of them; we'll root out the very nationnf them
from the earth: and thus he ran on, out of
breath too with action, and would not give us
leave to speak a word.

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence
hitn a little, Barbarous dog! said I, what are
you doing? I won't have one creature touched
more, upon pain of death: I charge you, upon
your life, to stop your hands, and stand still
here, or you are a dead man this minute..--
Why, air, says he, do you know what you do,
or what they have done ! If you want a remu
for what we have done, come hither ; and with
that he showed me the poor fellow hanging,
with his throat cut.

I confess I was urged than myself, and at
another time would have been forward enough ;
but I thought they had carried their rage too
far, and remembered Jacob's words to his sons
Simeon and Levi--"Cursed be their anger,
for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was
cruel." But I had now a new task upon my
hands; fin when the men I carried with me
saw the sight, as I had done, I hadaa much
todotoreatrain them as I thwld have had
with the others; nay, my nephew himself fell
in with them, and told me, in their hearing,
that he wuonlyeoneernedforfearofthe men
being overpowered; andaa to the people, he
thoughtnotoneofthem oughttolive; forthey
had allgluttadtheuuelrea with themttrder d
thepoorllunntnd that they ought to housed
like murderers; these words, away an
eight of my men, with the boatswain and his
crew, to complete their bloody work; and I,
seeing itqniteout ofmypowerton-strain them,
come away pensive and-ad; for I could not
bear the sight, ouch less the horrible noise
and cries of the poor wretchea that fell into
their hands.

I got nobody to come bad: with me but the
supercarge and two men, and with these
walked back to the boat. It was a very great
piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back
as it were alone; for as it began now to be
almost day, and the alarm had run over the
country, there wood about forty men, armed
witlt lancos antl bows, at the little [time where
tho twelve or thirteen houses stand, mentioned
before; but by accident I missed the place,
and came directly totho seaside; and by the
tiutul got to the seaside it. was broad day;
immediately I took the pinnnce and went on
buanl, and sent her back to assist the men in
what might happen.

I observed, about the time that I came to the
boat side, that the fire was pretty well out, and
the noise abated: but in about half an hour
after I got on board I heard a. volley ofour
men's firearms, and saw agreat smoke; thia,
as I understood afterwards, wasourmon falling
upon the men who, as! said, otood at the few
houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen
or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire,
but till. not meddle with the worncnorchildren.

By the time the men got to the shore again
with the pinnace, our men began to appear;
they came dropping in, not in two bodies a!
tlu-y went, butnraggling here andthere inauch
amounor, that asrnall force of resolute men
might have cut them all oli'. But the dread of
them was upon the whole country; and the
men were surprised, and I0 frightened, that I
believe a hundred of them would have tied at
the sight of but tire of our men; not in all this
terrible action was there a manthat made any
considerable defence; they were so surprised
between the terror ofthe fire and the sudden
attack of our men in the dark, that they knew
not which way to turn themselves; fit if they
fled oneway they were met by oneparty; if
backagain byanother; oothatthey were every
where knodted down: nor did any of our men
receive theleasthurt, enceptonethatsprained
hial'oot,andanotherthatbadoneot'bis hands
binned. wtth neph the

I was angry ' my ew, cap-
tain, andt'izeed, with all the men innty mind,
but with bimlnpartlmlar, uwellforhia act-

ingsomtofhisdmy,ucommandero(tbelbip
and having thecharge of the voyage upon him,
asin his prompting, rather than cooling, the
rageofhisblindmenflnaobloulyandcmel an
enterprise. My nephew answered me very
respectfully, but told me that when he saw the
body ofthe poor learnanwhotnthey had mur-
deredinsocruelandbarbarousamanner.be
was not master of hinuelf, neither could he
govern his passion; he owned he should not
have done so, as he was commander of the
ship; but as he was aman,andnaturemwed
him,hecouldnotbearit. Ast'orthe restot'
the men, they were not subject to me at all,
and they knew itwellenougbuotheytookno
notice of my dislike.

The next day we set sail, sowe never heard
anymoreol'it. meen difi'ered in the ac-
count ol'the number they had killed; but ao-
cording to the best oftbeir loco-nits, put all to-
gether, they killed or destroyed about one hun-
dred and fifty people, men,wornen, andchildren,
andlct'l notahouseatandinginthe town. As
for the poor fellow Tom Jefl'ry, as be was quite
dead, (for his throatwu lo cut that his head
was halfofll) it would do him no service to
bring him away; so they only took him down
from the tree, where he was hanging by one
band.

However just our men tl'mght this action, I
was against them in it. and Ialways, afier that
time, told them God would blast the voyage;
for I looked upon all the blood they shed that
night tobe murder in them: for though it is
true that they had killed Torn Jefl'ry, yetJefl'ry
was the aggresor, had broken the truce, and
had violated ordebauched a yotnig woman of
theirs, who earnedowntothent innocewy, and
on the faithol' the public oapitulation.

The boatswain defended this quarrel when
we were aflerwards on board. He said itwaa
truethatweeeetnedtobreaktbetntce,"
really had not; lndthatthewnrnl begin the
night before by the natives themelres, who had
shot atus,aodkilledmeot'ourntenwithout
anyjustproroeationnothatas wewereinn
capacity to fight them now, we might alsoha
in a capacity todoeurselveajtltiee upon them
in an ' manner; that though the
poor man had en alittlelibetty withthe
wench,beottght not to have been murdered,
and that in such a villain:- manner; and that
they did nothing but whatwasjttst,andeat
thelawaot'Godallowedtobedonetonaah
derere.

One would thili this Mid have beat enough
to have warned no againat going on in.
among heathen Ind barbarians: but it '3 in.

207.
possible to make mankind wise but at their
own tutu-use; and their oxiueriencu seems
to be always of most. use to them when it is
dean-st bought.

"in were now bound to the gulf of Persia,
and front thence to the coast of Corotnantlt'l,
only to to at Surat: but the e If of tlto
supercargo 3 design lay at the bay of Bengal;
where if he missed his lmsiuussImtwanl-bottnd,
he was to go up to China, and returtt to the
coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befI-ll ILII was ill the
gulf of Persia, where live of our men venturing
on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, were
surrotIth-d by the Arabians, and either all
killed or carried away into slavery ; the rest
oftbe hoat's - w \"I euot able to restate them,
and bad but just time to get olI' their boat. I
began to upbrnitl them with thejusl retribution
ol'IIeaI'I-u in this case: hill the boatswaiu very
warmle told me, be thought I Item farther in
my tires tltan I could show any warrant
fir Ill N-riputre; and ref-rrI-Il to Luke .
4. where our SaIionr it matestbat those In:
In full were not sin-
III'N above all the Galilean ; but that which
put me to silence iii the case was, that not one
ol'tlIt-se five men who were now lot-It were of
those who went. on shore to the massacre of
Madagascar. so I always called it, though our
tttI'It could not bear to Itear the word mm:
with atty patience.

But my frequent preaching to Illl'm on the
subject had worse consequences than I expect-

   

 

   
        
 

 

 

ed ; and theboatawam,who had been the head-

of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time
and told me he found that I brought that ntfair
continually uponthe stage; thatI made unjust
retII-etions upon it, and hail |I$t'tl the men very
ill on that aecount, and himself in particular;
that as l was but a passenger, and had no com-
mand in the ship. or coneI-nt in tlte onauo,

they were not oin-ved to hear it , that they
did nut know hut I might hate some ill desi-vn
in my head, and lwrhaps to call them to an ac-

count for it when they came to England; and
that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to coucem myself
any farther with him, or any ofhis atl'airs, he
would leave the ship; for he did not think it
was safe to sail with me among them.

I hcard him patiently enough till he had done,
and then told him, that! confessed I had all
along oppmd the massacre of Madagascar,
and that I had, on all ocmiom, spoken my
mind freely about it, though not more upon
him than any of the rest; that as to having no
oornmandiathesltip, that was true: ItordidI

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

exercise any authmity, only took the liberty of
speaking my mind in thing. which publicly
c-nIcI-rnI-Il us all; and what concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business: that I
was a comidorahle owner in tho ship '. in that
claim, I conceived [had a right to speak even
farther than I had done, and would not he no-
cnuutahle to him or any one else; and hogan
to he a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought
the atfair had been over. "(It were at this
time in the road at Bengal; and being willing
to see the place,I went on shore with the su-
pereargo, in tho ship's boat, to divert myself;
and towards evening was preparing to go on
board, when one of the men catne to "It. and
Itllll me he would ttot have me trouble m_I self
to come down to the boat, for they had orders
not to I any me on board arty more. Any one
may" <<mess what a surprisoI "as in at so inso-
h~nt a meande. ' and! asked the man. who
bade him deliver that message to me? III: told
me, the coekswain. I said no more to the fel-
low, hut haIle him let them know lll' lIaIl tit-li-
I'erI-Il his message, and that I had given him
no atmwer to it.

I imIIII-Iliately went and found ottt the super-
cargo.aud told him the story ; adding what I
presently fiIrI-saw, that there would be It mutiny
in the ship; and entreated him to go immedi-
ately on board the ship in an Indian hoat, and
acquaint the captain ufit. But Imifitt have
spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken
III him on shore the matter was effected on
board. T he lmatswain, the gunner, tlte car-
penter, and all tltc inlicrior otficers,as soon as
I was gone MI in the boat, came up. and
desired to speak with the captain; and there
the boatsIIain, making along haraugue. and
repeating all ltc hada said to me, told the
captain. in It ('er words, that as I was now
gone peaceably on shore, they were loatlt to
use any violence with me, which, ifl had not
gone on shore, they would otherwise have
dune, to oblige me to have gone; they there.
fore thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped
tlIetnSelI'es to serve in the. ship under his com-
mand. they would perform it well and faithfully;
but if! would not quit the ship, or the captain
oblige Inc to quit it, they would all leave the
ship, and sail no farther with him ;and at that
word all, he turned his face toward the main-
maet, which was, it seem, the signal
on between them, at which all the seamen,
being got together there, cried out, One and
all! an: and all!

My nephew,the captain, wan manofsp"

andofgreat,preleacoofmind; Indthoughho
wumtrprisetl, you may be sure, at the thing,
yet he told them calmly that he would consider
of the matter , but that he could do nothing In
it till he had spoken to me about it. He ust-d
some arguments 'with them to show them the
nureasonablenws and injustice of the thing:
but it was all in vain; they swore, and shook
hnmls mend before his face, that they Would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them
not to sulfur me to come any more on board the
ship.

'l'hiswas a hard article ttpon him, who knew
his obligation to me, and did not know how
I might lalu: it: so he began to talk smartly to
them: luld Illa-tn that Iwas a very considerable
uu-m-r ol'the ship, and that, in justice. he could
not pill me out ul'tny own house; that this was
new door to solving me as the famous pirate
Kidd had done, wlto made amutiny in the ship,
set the captain on share on an uninhahited
istamlmml ran away with the ship ; that let them
go into what ship they would, il'ever they came
to England again it would cost them very dear;
that the sl up was mine, and that he could not
put me out of it ; and that he would rather lose
the ship and the voyage too than disuhlige me
so much; so they might do as they pleased:
however, he would go on shore and talk with
me, and invited the hoatswain to go with him,
and perhaps they might accommodate the
Inatlvr with me. But they all rejected the
prulmsal, and said they would have nothing to
do with me any more; and if I came on board

209

they would all go on shore. Well, llld the
captain, if you are all of this mind, let me go
on shore and talk with him. Seaway he come
to me wIth this account, I little after the Int-t-
sage had been brought to me from the cock-
Swain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must
confess; rm 1 was not without apprehensions
that they would confine him by violence, set
sail, and um away with the ship; and then
I had been stripped naked in a remote country,
having nothing to help myself; in short, I had
been in a onse case than when I was alone
in the island. But they had not come to that
length, it seems, to my satisfaction : and when
my nephew told me what they had said to him,
and how they had swam and shook hands that
they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was
sutl'ercd to come on board, I told him he shottld
not be concerned at it at all,l'or I would stay on
shore: Ionlydesired he would take care and
send me all my necessary things on shore, and
leave me a sufficient sumof money,and I would
find my way to England as well asI could.

This was a heavy piece of news to my
nephew, huttltere "as no way to help it but to
comply . so, in short, he went on board the
ship vain. and satisfied the men that his uncle
had yielded to their imtmrtunity, and had sent
flrr his goods from on heard the ship; 50 that
the matter was over in a few hours, the men
returned to their duty, and I began to consider
what course I should steer.

 

SECTION XLll.

IIEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT "'ITH W'IIOM I": MAKES SOME TRADING
VOYAGES ---TI|EY ARE MISTAKEN FOR PIRATES--I'ANQUISHTHEIR PURSCERS.--
VOYAGE T0 CHINA.--RE.\'CONTRE WITH THE COClIlN-CIIINESE.--ISLAND 0P

FORMOSO--GULF 0F
HANDS OI" THE DUTCH.

I mu now alone in the most remote part of
the world, uI think I may call it,for I was
near three thousand leagues by sea farther of
from Eulmd than! was at my island; only,
it is true, I might travel here by land over the
great Mogul's country to Surat, m'uht go from
thence to Bumby sea, up the gulf of Persia,
and take the way of the caravans, over the De-
sert efArabia, to Aleppo and Seanderoon; from
thence by see again to Italy, and so overland
into France; and this put together might at
least be a full diameter of the globe or more.

I had another way before me, which was to
Wait for some English ships. which were

14

NANQUlNr--APPREIIENSIONS OF FALLING INTO TH!

coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for
England. But as I came hither without any
comem with the English East India Company,
so it would be difficult to go Eon hence without
their licence, unlas with great favour of the
captains ofthe ships, orthe Company's fictorl,
and to both I was an utter st

Hero I had the mortifieatiou tom the ship
let sail without me; a treatment I think-man
in my circumstances scarce ever met with,
except when pirates running away with the
ship, and setting those that would not age.
with their villnny on shore. Indeed, th'l
was next door to it, both ways; however, my
nephew led me two servants, or ralherono oom-
paniun and one servant ; the first was clerk to
the purser, whom he engaged to go with me,
and the other was his own servant. I took me
also a good lodging in the house ofan English-
\vomnn, whore several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one
Englishman; hero I was handsomely enough
entertained: and that I might not be said to
run rashly upon any thing, I stayed here above
nine months considering what course to take,
and how to manage myself. I had some Eng.
lish goods with tne of value, and a Considerable
tzurn of money ; my nephew furnishing me with
a thousand pieces ofeight, and a letterof credit
for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be
stmitened, whatever might happen.

[quickly disposed of my goods to advantage,
and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things,
were the most proper for me, in my present
circumstances; because I could always carry
my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals
made for my return to England, but none fall-
ing out to my mind, the English merchant who
lodged with me, and whom! had contracted
an intimate acquaintance with, came to me
one morning. Cotmtryman, says he, I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it
suits withrny thoughts, may, for aughtl know,
suit with yours also, when you shall have tho-
roughly considered it. Here we are posted,
you by accident, and I by my o\\1t choice. in a
part of the world very remote front our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us
who understand trade and business, agreat deal
of money is Iobegot. If you will put one thou-
sand pounds to myone thousand pounds, we
will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our
minds; you shall be captain, I'll be merchant,
and we'll go a trading voyage to China: for
what should we stand still for? The whole
world is in motion, rolling round and round;
all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and
earthly, are busy and diligent ; why should we
be idle? There are no drones in the world
but men; why should we be of that num-

her?
I liked this proposal very well, and the more
boonuseitsoemedtoboe withsotnueh

goodwill, and insot'riendlyamanner. I will
notsay butthatltnight, by nylooeo unhingod
circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a pro-
posal for trade, or indeed any thing else;
whom, otherwise, trade was none of my
element. However, I might perhaps say with

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

some truth, that if trade was not my element,
rambling wu, and no proposal for seeing any
part of the world which I had never seen
before could possibly come amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could
get a ship to our minds, and when we had got
a vessel, it was not easy togetEnglish sailors;
that is to say, so many as were necessary to
govern the voyage and the sailors
which we should pick up there. Alter some
time we got ornate, aboatswain, and agunner,
English; a Dutch or, and three fora
mastmcn. With these we fotmd we could do
well enough, having Indian seamen, such as
they were, to make up.

There are so many travellers who have
wrote the history of their voyages and travels
this way, thnt it would be very little diversion
to any body to give a long amount a! the places
we went to, and the Is who inhabit there .
these things I leave to others, and rethr the
reader to thosojotrrnals and travels of English-
men of which many I find are published and
more promised every thy; it is enough for me
to tell you that we made this voyage to Achin, in
the island at Sumatra, and lion: hence to Siam,
where we exc some of our wares (hr
opium and some arrack ; the first aeommodity
which bears a great price among the Chinese,
and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. In a word, we went up to Suskan,
made a very great voyage, were eight months
out, and returned to Bengal; and I was very
well satisfied with my adventure. I observe
that our people in England often admire hotv
ofiicers which the Company send into India,
and the merchants which generally stay there,
get such very great eat-tee as they do, and
sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy
thousand pounds at a time ; but it is no won-
der, or at least we shall aeeso much farther
into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce,
that it willhenone; andtnuchless itwillbe
so when we outsider that at those places and
ports where the English ships come, there is
such and constant demands for the growth
of all other countries, that there is a certain
vent for the returns, as well as amrket abroad
for the carried out.

Inshot't wemade a verygood voyage,and
I got so much money by my first adventure,
andsuchan insigbtintothsmethodofgotti
more that had I been twenty years yotmger,
should have been tempted
abroad more inobedienee to a restless desire
ot'seeing the world thana covetom desire of
gainingm'by it? And, indeed, I think it is
with greet; uticeInowcall itrestlessdosire,

lbr tt was'so. When Iwas at home,I was
restless to abroad; and when I was
abmad,! wasreatleas tobeatbome. I say,
what was this gain to me? I was rich enough
already, norhad I any uneasy desires about
getting more money; and therefore the profit

ol'thevoyage to mewasofnogreatl'orce
l'or Iheprom promwpling me forward to farther under
takings thought that by this voyage
I had g'tnaade noprogtess stall, because I was

come back, as I might call it, to the place from
whence I came, as to a home. whereu my eye,
which, likethatwhich Solution speaks of, was
norer satisfied with seeing, was still desirotu
of wondering and seeing more. I was come
into a part of the world which I was never in
before, and that part, in particular, which I
hard heard much of, and was resolved to see as
much ofit as I could ; and then [thought I
might say Ihad seen all the world that was
worth seeing.

But my fellow traveller and I had difl'erent
notions: [do not name this to insist on my
own, for I acknowledge his were the must
just, and the most suited to the end ol'a mclh
chant's life :' who, when he is abroad upon
adventures, it is his wisdom :0 stick to that,
as the best thing for him, which he is like to
get the most money by. My new friend kept
himself to the nature of the thing, and would
have been content to have gone like a carrier's
horse, always to the same inn, backward and
forward, provided he could, as he called it, lind
his accountin it. Ontheotherhnnd, mine was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never
cares to nee a thing twice over. But this was
not all: 1 bad a kind ofimpatienceupon me
to be nearer homo, and yet the most muted
resolution ' inahle which way logo. In the
interval of these consultations, my fiieod, who
was always upontheeearch for bttsinces,pro-
posed another voyagetome strung thespico
islands, and to bung home aloading ol'clavea
Guru the Manillas, or thereahouts ; places,

sdecd, where the Dutch trade, but islands

belonging partly to the Spaniards, though we

went not so fit, bot tom other, where they

have not thswhole power, as they haveat
vta,Ceylon, kc.

B.We wesenot longin preparing for this voy-
age; thedriefdifiatltywas inbring'ingmeto
cuneintn'n: lie-evens: last, nothing else

0mg, amused bding that realy stirring M
andtrading,the profit beingsogreat,and,as

211

Imay say, certain,had more pleasure in it,
and had more satii'action tomy mind, than
sitting still, which, to me especially, was the
unhappiest partol'lil'e, I resolved on this voyage
too, which we madevery successfully, touching
at Borneo, and several islands whose natnes I
donotrettiemher, andcame home inabout
five uremia. We sold our spice, which was
chiefly cloves and mo nutmegs, to the Pets
sian merchants, who carried them away to the
gulf; and making nenr fiveol'one, vie really
got a t deal ofmoney.

My ',end when we made up this account,
smilodatme: Well now,eaidhcwilh asortol'
agreeable, insult upon my indolent temper,
is not this better than > ' about hero,
like a man nl'nothing todo, and spending our
time in ' atthe nonsmoandignorance
of the Pagans 1--Why, truly, says I, my field,
Ithinlt itis,andI beg into be aconvetttothe
ptinoip lee of merchandising; but I must tell
you, said I, by the way, you do not know
what I am doing; a>> If I once conquer my
backwardnese, and cutbarkheartily y, asold as
I atn,Ishallharass youupanddown the world
till hire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly,
I shall never let you lie still.

But, to be short with my atiom,a little
while alter this there came his Dutch ship
from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an Eu-
ropean trader, of about two lumdrcd tone bur-
then; the men, as they pretended, having been
so sickly, that the captain had not hands
enough logo toseawith,helay byat Bengal:
and having, it scents, got money enough, or
being willing, foretherreasons, to go lbr Eu-
rope, he gave public notice he would sell his
ship. This came to my ears before my new
partnerheardofit,andl had agrenttnind to
buyit; lo Iwentto him,andtold him ofit.
He considered awhile, tbt he was no rash man
neither; but musing some time, he replied,
She is a little two big; but, however, we will
have her. Accordingly, we bought the ship,
and agreeing with the master, we paidl'or her,
andtook ion. Whenwehaddoneso,
wereaolvedtoentertain the men, ifwe could,

tojointhemwitltthoee wehad,fortbepunuing'

ontbusinemthot onasudden,dieybaving
reeeived,nottheirwages,lmttheitshareol'
themoney,aswe eotone
ot'tbemwastobehtmdiwe inquire-inane!)

aboutthem,andatlengthweretold thstthey
wereallgnne byhndtoAggthe
cityol'dieMognl' ognl'eresidence,andfiom
aflotl'IVdIDStlIl, Smyandgnbyseatothe

I
while as that I should miss the opportunity of
going witlt them; for such a ramble, I thought,
and in such company as would both have
guarded and diverted me, would have suited
mightily with my great design; and I should
have both seen the world and gone homewards
too: but I was much better satisfied afew days
after, when I came to know what sort offellows
they were; for, in short, their history war,
that this man they called captain was the gun-
her only, not the commander; that they had
been a trading voyage, in which they had been
attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who
had killed the captain and three ofhis men;
and that after the captain was killed, these
men, eleven in number, had resolved to run
away with the ship, which they did, and brought
her to Bengal, leaving the mate and five men
more on shore; of whom hereafler.

\Vell, let them get the ship how they would,
We came honestly by her, as we thought, though
we did not, I confess, examine into things so
exactly as we ought; for we never inquired any
thing ofthe seamen, who would certainly have
faltered in their account, contradicted one ano-
ther, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or other we should have had reason
to have suspected them; but the man showed
us a bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel
Clostershoven, or some such name, for I sup-
pose it was all a forgery, and called himself by
that name, and we could not contradict him;
and witltal having no suspicion of the thing, we
went through with our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailors
here after this, and some Dutch: and now we
resolved for a second voyage to the southeast
for cloves, Ito. that is to say among the Phi-
lippino and Molucca isles; and, in short, not
to fill up this part ot'rny story with times, when
what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from
first to last, six years in this country, trading
from port to port, backward and forward, and
with very good success, and was now the last
year with my new partner, going in the ship
above mentioned, on a. voyage to China, but
designing first to Siam, to buy rice.

In this vo 'age, be. h con winds
obliged to bea't up andldlgwnya gremhile in
the strait: of Malacca,and among the ialanda,
we were homer got clear of those diflicult
seal than we found our ship had Iprung a leak,
and we were not able, by all our industry, to
find out where it was. This forced utomalte
some port; and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain
to put into the river of Canmodia; for I had
made the English mate, one Mr. Thoma,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

captain, not being willin to take the charge
of the ship upon mysel Th'u rivet-lies on
the north aide of the great bay orgult'whieh
goes up to Siam. While we were here, and
going ollen on shore fur refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he
wu, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an
English East India ship which rode in the
same river, at or near the city of Cambodia;
what brought him hither we knew not; but he
icontes to me, and speaking English, Sir, says
he, you are a stranger to me, and I to you, but
I have something to tell you that very nearly
concerns you.

I looked steadfastly at him a good while,
and thought at first I had known him, but I did
not: Ifit very nearlycoucerns me, said I, and
not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me?
----1 am moved, says he, by the imminent dan-
ger you are in, and, for ought 1 see, you have
no knowledge of it.--I know no danger I am
in, says I, but that my ship is leaky, and I
Cannot find it out; but I intend to lay her
aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it.--
But, sir, says he, leaky or not leaky, find it or
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your
ship on shore to-morrrow, when you hear what
I have to say to you: do you know, sir, said
he, the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen
leagues up this river? and there are two large
English ships about live It: ea on this side,
and three Dutch--\Vell, said I. and what is
that to me ?---'Why, sir, said he, is it {or a man
that is upon such adventure. as you are, to
come intoa port and not examine first what
ships there are there, and whether he is able
to deal with them? I suppose you do not think
you are amatch for them? I was amusedvery
much at his discourse, but not amazed at it,
for I could not conceive what he meant: and!
turned short upon him, and said, Sir, I wish
you would explain yourself; 1 cannot ' ine
what reason I have to be afraid of any of the
Company's ahipl, or Dutch chips: I am no
interloper; what can they have to say to me '!
Helooked likea man half and half
pleased, and pauing awhile, butsrniling, Well
Iir, says be, if you think youself secure, you
must take your-chance; I am sorry your fate
should blind you against good advice; but
assure yourself, ifyou do not been imme-
diatety, you will the very nan title he attacked
by five lougboata full dawn, and perhaps, if
you are taken, you will be hanged fora pirate,
and the ' be examined aflerwards. I
thought, sir, added he, I should have met with
a better reception than this, thr doing you a
piece of service of such importance--1 can
never be ungrateful, said I, or any service, or
to any man that offers me any kindneu; but it
is past my comprehension what they should
have such a design upon me lbr: however,
since you say there is no time to be lost, and
that there is aomovillanous design on hand
against me, I will go on board this minute,
and put to sea immediately, if my men can
stop the leak, or if we can swim without atop-
ping it: but, air, said 1, shall I go away igno-
rant of the came of all this? Can you give tne
no further light into it?--[ can tell you but
part of the story, sir, says he; but 1 have a
Dutch seaman here with me, and Ibolieve I
could persuade him to tell you the rest; but
there is scarce time for it: but the short of the
story is this, the first part of which, Isuppoee,
you know well enough, viz. that you was with
this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain
was murdered by the Malays, with three of
his men; and that you, or some of those that
woman board with you, ran away with the
ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the
stint of the story, and you will all be seized as
pirates, I can assure you, and executed with
Vt'fy little ceremony; for you know merchant
ships show but little low to pirates, if they get
them into their powtm--Now you speak plain
English, said I, and I thank you, and though
llutow nothing that we have done like what
you talk of, for I am sure we mine honestly
and fairly by the ship ; yet seeing such a worlr
is doing, as you say, and that you seem to
mean honestly, I will be upon my guard.--
Nny, sir, says he, donot talk of being upon
your guard; the best delimoe is, to be out of
the danger; if you have any regard for your
life, and the lives of all your men, put to sea,
without fiil, at high water; and as you have a
whole tide before you, you will be gone too far
out before they can come down; for they will
come away at high water, and as they have
twenty miles to come, you will get near two
hours of them by the difl'erence of the' tide,
not reckoning the length of the way; besides,
as they areooly boats, and not ships, they will
not venture to follow you far out to sea, espe-
cially if it blows.--Well,aeid I, you have been
very kind in this; what shall I do for you to
make you amends? --Sir, says he, you may
notbe willingtomakemeanyamends,beeause
you maynot be convinced ofthe truth ofit: I
will make an odor to you; I have nineteen
mnlhs' payduetotne onboatdthesbip" 1',
whichleatneoutofEnglIndintandthe
Dulcbtnantbatiswith me ha seven months'
payduetohim; ifyouwilltnake goodourpay
tons," will goatoagwitb you: ifrouflntl

2l3

nothing more in it, we will desire no more;
but if we do convince you that we have saved
your lives, and the ship, and the lives oflll the
men in her, we will leave the test to you.

I consented to this readily, and went imrru-
diately on board, andthe two men with me.
As soon as 1 came to the ship's side, my parto
ner, who wason board, earns out on the quan-
tcrdeclt, and called to me. with a great deal of
joy, 0 ho! 0 ho: we have stopped the leak!
we have stopped the leak l--Say you so?
said I, thank God; but weigh anchor then
immediately--Weigh! says he ; what do you
mean by that? What is the matter ?--Ask no
questions, said I: but all hands to Work, and
weigh without losing a minute. He was eur-
prised, but, however, he called the captain,
and he immediately ordered the anchor to he
got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet a little land breeze blowing, we stood out
to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, and
told him the story; and we called in the men,
and they told us the rest ofit: but as it took up
a grt-at deal of tin-re, before we had darts a sea-
mnn comes to the cabin door, and called out to
us that the captaln bade him tell us we were
chased. Chased! says I; by what?--By five
aloops, or boats, says the fellow, full of men.--
Very well, said I ; then it is apparent there is
something in it. In the next place I ordered
all our men to be called up, and told them
there was a derign to seize the ship, and to
take us for pirates, and asked them if they
would stand by us, and by one another; the
men answered cheerfully, one and all, that
they would live and die with us. Then I asked
the captain what way he thought best for
us to manage a fight with them; for resist
thetnlwasresolvedwe would,andthatto the
last drop. He said readily that the way was
to keep themofl'withourgreat shot as long as
we could,and then to tire at them with our
small arms, to keep them fiom boarding us;
but when neither of these would do any longer,
we should retire to our close quarters; perhaps
they had not materials to break open our bulk-
heads, orget in upon us.

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders
to bear fore and aft, out of

to bring two
the steer-age, to clear the deck, and load them
with musket bullets and null pieces of old iron,
andwheteumonentohand:andthulwe
made ready for fight; but all this while we
keptout tosea,with wind mgb, and could
see the ballast a distance,being five large
longboats,following tnwith all the ml they
could matte.
Twoot'thoeeboats(whichbyourglmuwe
could see were English) outsailed the rest, were
new two leagues ahead of them, and gained
upon us considerably, so that we found they
wunld come up with us ; upon Which we fired a
gun without ball, to intimate that they should
bring tozandwe putoutaflagoftruce, asasignal
f-rt' parlcy; but they came crowding afterus, till
the y came within shot, when we took in our
white flag, theyhnving made no answer to it,
and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a
shot. Nothwithstanding this, thech on till
they were near enough to call to them with a
speakiiig-tmmpet which we had on board; so
we called to them, and bade them hecpofl', at
their peril.

it was all one: they crowded after us, and
endeavoured to come under our stern, so u to
board us onour quarter; upon which, seeing
they were resolute for mischief, and depended
upon the strength that followed them, I ordered
to bring the ship to, solhat they lay upon our
broadside ; when immediately we fired five guns
at them, one of which had been levelled so true
a: to carry away the stem of the hindarrrwst
boat, and bring thcmto the necessityof taking
down their sail, and running all to the head of
the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by,
and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost
hoot crowd on after us. we made ready to fire at
her in particular. While this was doing, one
of the three boats that was behind, being for-
warder than the other two, made up to the boat
which We had disabled, to relieve her, and we
could see her take out the men: we called again
to the foremost boat, and offered a truce, to
parley again, and to know what her business
was with us ; but had no answer, only Ihe crowd-
ed close under our stern. Upon thisour gun-
ner, who wasavery dexterous fellow, run out
his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but
the shot missing, the men in thoboat shouted,
waved their caps, and came on : but the gunner,
getting quickly ready again, fired them a
socondtime, one shot of which, though it mis-
sed the boat itself, yet fell in arnong the men,
and we could easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we toolt no notice of
that. wore the ship again. and brought our quar-
ter to bear upon them. and firing three guns more,
we thund the boat was almost split to pieces;
in particular, her rudder at! a piece of her
stern was shot quite away; so they handed her
sail immediately, and were in great disorder.

But to complete their misfortune, our gunner
let fly two guns at them again; where he hit
them we could not tell, but we fotmd the boat
was sinking, and some of the men already in
the water: upoathis Iimmediatelytnannedout

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

our pinmce, which we had leptclosebyour
aide, withordentopitinpsomeofute men, if
they could, and save them from drowning, and
immediately come on board the ship with them,
becausewe sawthe reuofthe boatsbegan to
come up. Our men in the pinnace followed
their orders, and took up three men, one of
whom was just drowning, and it was agood
while before we could recover him. As soon
as they were on board, we crowded all the sail
we could make, and stood farther out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats
came up to the first, they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered fi'om adanger, which,
though I knew not the reason of it, yet Rented
to be much greaterthan I apprehended, I re-
solved that we should change our course, and
not let any one know whither we were going; so
we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of
the course of all European ships, whether they
wereboundtoChinaorany where else within
the commerce of the European nation.

When we were at sea, we began to consult
with the two seamen, and inquire what the
meaning of all this should be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that
the lirllow that sold as the ship, as we said, was
no more than a thief, that had run away with
her. Then he told us how the captain, whose
norm-too he told us, though I donut remember
itnow, was treacherously murdered by the na-
tives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that be, this Dutchman, and four
more, got intothe woods, where they wandered
about agreat while, till atlength he, in particu-
lar, ina miraculous manner, made hiss-scape,
and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing
near the shore in its way from China, had sent
their boat on shore for fresh water : that he durst
not come to that part of the more where the boat
was, but made shill in the night to take the water
farther off, and swimming a. great while. at
last the ship's boat toolt him up. He then told
us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having
deserted the rest in their travels, and gave an
account that the fellow whohad runaway with
the ship sold her at Bengal to a setof pirates,
which were acruisingioher; and that they
had already taken an English ship and two
Dutch ships very richly laden.

This latter part was timed to concern or
directly, though we knew it lobe false; yet, as
my partner said very justly, if we had fallen into
their hands, and they had had met: apropos-
aeesion against us heirreband, it had been in
vainforus tohare defendedouraelres,orto
hope it any goodquarterat their hands; and
been '

ever; bow-othuuwecouldgivongoodm
cwmofounnlvu,ow|dpmvewhC/n wowm
whenthenhippmin, dwbomwbughthcr,
anduwlikn;and,whiehwumomflnnnfltbo
ramifwowmputupontheneenuilyofbringb
ingilbeforothn ptopotjndga, we timid be
mtohnvenomnjutioa, nndnotlobehuged
fimundjudgndnfiuwudn.

I was noun time ot'my I opinion:
but after-little nun sedan thinking, I told
himlmoughtitwunvarygnuhnurdforun
watwmmmmingloBong-Lbnhntwawm
on thewrong side oftho Suniu oanl-ca,
Ind thuifthonhmwugivnn,wedaould be
mtnbewnylnidnn Iide,uwnllby
the Dutchd'BntnvinuthnEngiish elsewhere;
lhntifwodiouid bonken, :- it ware, naming
nwny,we should even tandem umolvetnnd
then wouldwnntnomore evidence to destroy
us. Ill-oukndthaEngl'uh Inflor'l opinion,
who Inidhemoflny mind,nndthnt we
Wmminlybouken. This dugert
Hula uni-dad my puma, and I" the ship'-
compnny, Ind we immediately resolved toga
nuytodneuuof'l'anquinflndnoonwdie
cont ofChinn; nnd, putting the Gut design
utotndandnolnownyorodmtodispo-o
oftholhip,nndeomnhnnkinmnfthoven~
Ielnul'mecwnlry,mnhuweewldgot. Thin
Inn tpprovndot'uthehnntmethodhtour
acuity; nnd Mindy we neared nwny
N.N.E.koepinglbovnfiftyluguuofl'finm
Ibennnlmtotho nnuwnrd. Thinbow>>
om, pmmmnomoineonvenionco; (influx,
thewindl,whenwonnotodmdinnneefmm
mom, mementobnmmuudilyngnimt
,blowingdmonthde,uweenllit,finmmo
E. E.N.E.nolhtwawerenlongwhilo
npmnwvoyngenndwnwmbutillprwided
withvictuhfiunlongnm;nnd,whit$wu
Itiflwunefllmwumdmgerthuthou
English and Dutch drip-whole bout pin-wed
m,whomofmmbundthnwny,mighl
bemfinboinmnndiflohmnothudiip
bumdtoChimnighth-nilixmntinnofm
Ind puns I. with tho nun.

Winn"... -.

215

putlifizforwhntmiflcitmnealhnd
bani-,Iwumwmedfiwnthid'befin;
whdlmdmuythingthunmitndlhn
nun at" dish-soot 0: much lea
flikvinh;lhndchieflybocn myown my,
or,u[nnyrighllyuy, lhndboennobody'n
enemybutmyownwutnow 1mm
n-ndinthowuneonditionimginnblo;fcr
thoughlwuperfoaly innocenyl win in no
conditionlomkcthuinnoeennuppwgand
iflhndbeontnkonfithndboenmdmnmp-
ponodguiitnfthowwntkind. Thinnndemo
verynnxinlutomkonnmpomimghwhich
myhdohlknowmguwhntpunor place
wocouldgnto. My Waning molhu:
dejected,thwghbowulhnmC/tmnedn
first, hegnntomngemouldduaibinglo
moths mnndpoflsoflhueumtold mnhe
waMpminontbocon-tofCodainChinyonhn
hnyof'l'onquin,inlandingto gnuherwudnto
Mm,nlownoncoin pone-indium>>
mguuonndwben will n grant myEmo-
pout Emilie. resided; Ind pnflieuhdy the
mini prim wally wont thither, in
order totheirgoingfirwudto China. >>
Hitherthenwa rudvedlo go; and>>-
cordingly,d:oughnflerntediuunndinnguhr
cum, md very much-tniumd hummer,
weumwidiinuightofthnmveqaflyin
tbomning;nndnponrefloctionondnpnu
cinmmwn won in, Ind tho dungerif
woMmmMnnsdvedlopotinton
Itnnllrim,whieh,lwwnnt,hlddeplhoowgh
ofwnlerforu,nndtomifweenuld,either
ovorhndorbytholhip'npinm,oomn Inknaw
what-hip! wm innny pan thembouu.
This hnppy clap wu, inched, our dalivmnee:
firthough we did not immediately no nny
Empmnhipninthnbnyd'Tonquin,yet the
next morning theme-mimic tho hnytwo
Dutch-hips; nudnthild,widmtmycololn
mewhidiwoboliaedtobenm
m,pnnodbyunhwttwolengnen'diahnce,
Mngforthomd'Chin-undinthenficb
noon-want bytwo Englilhnhipn mringthe
lune cum; and this we we aw
our-aha hunt with anemia both one way
and the other. The we wen in us
wild Infill-rm; tho poqflothicru, nun
byoecupntionorpmlouinnznnd his
m. "Ind muhlouoetd'thou, nod,
exceptgotlbgninwplwiniamwed notbow
Ihtkmhdwdowimmwitmwitb
nud- difimltythuwo kept annulus Em
behg-iudwdbymmwnyn Wo
wmbnmflfimdthinmy,withinn
fiwmdhumtlhhmnhwnfl;nnd
bywhmtmwmwtbpou
of land which opens the great bay of Tonquin;
and it was in this beating up along the shore
that we discovered we were surrounded with
enemies. The people we were among were
the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the
coast, having no with any other
nation, and dealing only in fall and oil, and
such from commodities: and it maybe pa:h
tiettlnrly seen that they are the most barbarous
of any of the inhabitants. Among other cus-
toms, they have this one, viz. that if any vessel
has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon
their coast, they presently make the men all
[trimmers or slaves: and it was not long before
we found apiece of their kindness this way, on
the occasim following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprung
a leak at sea, and lltat we could not find it out ;
and it haptx'rted that, as I have said, it was
stopped uncchtcdlyfln the happy minute of
our bring to be seized by the Dutch and English
ships in the bay ofSiam; yet as we did not find
the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we dc~
sired, we resolved, while we were at this place,
to lay her on shore, and take out what lu-avy
things we had on board, and clean her bottom ;
and, if mible, to find out where the leak:
were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship,
and brought all ottr guns and other move-ables
to one side, we tried to bring her down,that we
might come at her bottom; but on second
thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry
ground, neither could we find out a proper
plan: for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been ac-
quainted with such a sight, came wandering
down the shore to look at us; and seeing the
ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and
heeling in towards the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom with
stages, and with their boats on theofi'side, they
presently concluded that the ship was castaway,
atullny so fast on the ground. On this suppo-
eiti-m, they all came about us in twoor three
houn' time, with ten or twelve large boats,
having some ofthem eight, some ten men in a
boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on
board and plundered the ship; and if they had
found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we know nothing of their governor.

When they came up to the ship and began
to row round her, they discovered us all hard at
work on the outside of the ship's bottom and
side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as
every seafaring man knows how. They stood
for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a
little surprised, could not imagine what their

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.-

design was; but being willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity togct some of us into the
ship, and others to hand down arms and ammu-
nition to those that were atwork todefend them-
selves with, if there should be occasion; and it
wunomorethanneedfixinlessthanaquarter
of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems
that the Ihipwas really a wreck; and that we
were all at work endeavouring to save her, or
to save our lives by the helpot'our boats; and
when we handed our arms into the boats, they
concluded by that motion, that we were en-
deavouring to save some of our goods; upon
this they took it for granted we all belonged to
them, and away they came directly upon our
men, as if it had been in a line of battle.

Our men, seeingso many of tltcm, began to
be frightened, for we lay but in an ill poemreto
fight, and cried out to us to know what they
should do. I immediately called to the men
that worked upon the stages, to slip them down,
and get up the side into the ship; and bade those
in the boat to row round, and come on board;
and those few of us who were on board worked
with all the strength and hands we had, to bring
the ship to rights ; but,however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as
they were ordered, before the Cochin C hineae
were upon them; and two of their boats boarded
our longboat, and began to lay hold on the men
as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold on was an English

seamen, a stout, strong fellow, who, having a
musket in his hand, never ofl'ered to fire it, but
laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought ;
but he understood his business better than I could
teach him, for he grappled the pagan, and drag-
ged him by main force out of their boat into ours,
where takinghim by the ears, he beat his head
so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died
in hishands; and, in the meantime, a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musket, and
with the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he
knocked down five of them who attempted to
enter the boat. But this was doing little to-
wards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless,
because ignorant of their danger, began tothrow
themlvcs into the longboat1 where we had but
five men in all to defend it; but the following
accident, which deserved our laughter, gave
our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the
outside oftho ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he had eslked her to stop the leaks, had
got two kettles just let down into the host, one
filled with boiling pitch, and the other with
resin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff at the
shipwrights use for that work; and the ma
unintended Ihecarperuerhadagreatironladls
in his hand, with which he supplied the men
thstwere at workwiththe hot stufl'; twoofthe
enemy's men entered theboat just where this
fellow stood, being in the fore-duets ; he irame~
diately saluted themwith a ladle full of the stufl',
boiling hot, whid'tso burned and scalded them,
being halfnaked, that they roared out like bulls,
and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the
sea. The c teraaw it, andcried out, Well
done, Jack! give them some more ofit: and
stepping forward himself, takes one ofthe mops
and dipping' It in the pitch-pot, he and his man
threw it n them so plentifully, that, in
short, of all the men in the three boats there was
not one that escaped being scolded and hunted
with it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and
made such a howling and crying, that I never
hoard a worse noise: for it is worth observing,
thatthough pain naturally makes all people cry
out, yet every nation has a particular way of ex-
clnrnntion, and makes noises asdill'erent from
one another as their speech. I cannot give the
noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more to the tone of
it; for I never heard any thing more like the
noise of the wolves, which, as l have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the fionticrs of Lan-
gIIudoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in
my life; not onlyas it was a perfect surprise to
me, and that ottrdanger was imminent beihre,
but, aswe got this victory without any blood-
shed, except of that man the lisllow killed with
his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at, for l was sick of killingench poor
savage wretches, even though it was in mynwn
defence, knowing tltey cameon errands which
they thought just, and knew nobetter; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary,
(furthere is no n wickedness in nature,)
yet I thought it was a and life, when we must be
always obliged to be killing our fellow creatures
to preserve ourselves; and, indeed, I think so
still, and [would even now utter a great deal
rather than I would take away the life even of the
worstperson Inj me; and I believe all con-
sidering people who know the value of Me would
be of my opinion, If they entered seriously into
the consideration oi" It.

But to return to my story :--All the while
this was doing, my partner and I, who ma-
nagedtherest ot'themen onboard, had with
great dexterity broughtthe ship almostto rights,
and having gotthe gtms intotheir places again,
thegunnerealled tome tobidourboatgetout
oftheway y, for hewouldlet flyamongthem.
lcalledbatiagainlohinyandbidhimnot

217

ofl'er to fire, or the would do the
work without him: but bid him heat anothc
pitch-kettle, whichonreook, whowasonboard,
tnokcareof: butthoenemy was so terrified
with. what they had met with in their first
attack,thatthey wouldnoteomeonagain.
and some of them who were firthest nfl', seeing
the dtipswirn, as it were, upright, began,u
we suppose, to see their mistake, and give
over the enterprise, finding it was not as they
expected. Thus we got mgclear ofthis merry
light, and havin ggot some rice, andnorne roots
and bread, with about sixteenhogsmnhoerd,
two days before, we resolved to stay here no
longer, but go forward, whatever came of it;
forwe made no doubt but weshouldbe sur-
rounded the next day with rogues enough,
perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would die-
pose of for us. We thereiitre gotall our Ihmgs
on board the same evening, and the next
morning were ready to sail: in the mean time,
lying at anchor at some distance from the shore,
we were not so mnchconoerned, beingnow Ina
finhting posture, aswell as in a sailing posture,
If anv enemy had prese.nted The next day,
having finished our work within board, and
finding our ship was perfectly healed of all he!
leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into
the bay of T onqnin, for we wanted to inform
ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we
durstnotstandinthere,became wehadseen
several ships go in, as we , but a little
helbre; so we kept on N. E. towards the
island ofFornwsn,asrnuchafraidofbeing
seen byn Dutch or English merchant ship, as
a Dutdt or English merchant ship in the
Mediterranean is of an Algerine man of war.
When we were thus got to sea,we kept a
N.E.asifwewould go to the Manillas u
the Phtlippine islanrb, and this we did that
we might not fall into the way 'of any of the
European ships; and then we sleeved Dori),
till we came to the latitude of PS2 deg. $ min.
by which means we made the island Formosa
dmctly, where we urns to an anchor, inorder
to getII-ater and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who are vsryoourteons and civi
in their manner; supplied us with willingly,
and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in
all their moments and bargains, which is
whatwedidnot find amongother people, and
may be owing to the rennins of Christianity
whichwasonceplantedherebyaDntclImb
sionary ofpretestants,and Is a teaimony of
what I have often observed, vi: that the
Christian religion always civilinea the people
and reformstheirmanners, whereit isreceived.
whether it wotka saving efl'ects upon them
or no.

From thence we nailed still north, keeping
thecoast ot'China at on equal distance,till we
knew we were beyond all the ports of China
where our European ships usunllycorne; being
resolved, ifpoisible. not to {all Into any of their
hands, dapeciolly In thiscountry; whereuour
clrcurmtnncett were, we could notfailot' being
entirely ruined.

Being now come to the latitude of thirty
degrees, we resolved to put into the first trad-
ing portwe should come at; and standingin
forthe shore, a bontcame off two leaguee to
us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who knowing us to be an European ship, come
to other his service. which, indeed, we were
glad of, and took him on board; upon which,
without asking us whither we would go, he
dismissed the boot he come in, and-sent it
back.

I thought it was now aomuch in our choice
to make the old man carry us whither we
would, that I began to talk to him about carry-
ing us to the gulf of Nnnquin, which isthe
most northorn partot' the coast of China. The
old man said he knewthe gulfot' Nnnquin very
well, but smiling, asked us what we would do
here? I told htm we would sell our cargo
and purchase Chino wares, calicoee, raw silks,
tea, wrought silks, 81c. and so would return
by the same course we came. He told usour
beat port had been to have put in at Macao,
where we could not have failed of a market
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might
for our money have need all sorts of
China goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin.

Not being able to put the old man outol'
his talk, of which he was very opinionated or
conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well an merchants, and that we had a mind to
co and see the great city ol'Peking. and the
famous count ot'the much ofChina. Why
then, says the old man, you should go to
Ningpo, where, by the river which runs into
the sea there, you my 30 up within five
lenguea ofthe great canal. This canaliea
navigable stream, which goes through the
heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all
the rivers, passes some considerable hilla by
the help of aluioea and gates, and gnu up to
the city of Peking, being in length near two
hundred and seventy leagues.

Well, said I, Senhor Portuguese, but that l
not our business now- the great question is, it
you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin,
fiom whence we can travel to Peking ailer-
wnrdc '! He said we could do so very well, and

-in your thoughts at my talk;

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOI.

that there wasagreat Dutch ship uncoupling
way just hem. Th'n gave Inea little died,
for a Dutchshipwasnow our lemmandwe
had much ratherhavernetthedevil, at least if
he hadnotcomeintoo frightt'tdafigure; and
we depended upon it that a Dutch altip would
be our destruction, for we were in no condition
to fight them; all the-hips they trade with into
thosepartabeingofgrentbtlden,andofmuch
greater force than we were.

Theoldman found me alittle confused,and
under some coucem, when he named a Dutch
ship; and said to me,Sir, you need be under
no apprehensions of the Dutch 3 I suppose they
are not now at war with you>> nation?---No,
said I, that's true; but [know not what liberh
lice men may take when they are outol' the
reach of thelswe of their own country.--Why,
says he, you are no pirates; what need you
fear? They will not meddle with peaceable
merchants, sure.

if! had any blood' Intny hodythatdidoot
fly up into my face at that word, it was hin-
dered by some atop in the vouels appointed by
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the
greatest disorder and oonfiuion imaginable:
norwasitpoesible for-me toconoeal itso, but
the old man enaily perceived it.

Sinaaye he, I find you are in somedisorder
y be pleased
to go which way you think fit,and depend
upon it, I'll do you all the service I can--Why,
senhor, said I, it is true, I am a little unsettled
in my resolution at this tithe, whither to go in
partieular;and Iamsotneth' moresot'or
what you said about pirates. I thereare
nopirnteainlheae sou; weare but inanill
condition to meet with them, for you see we
have but a small force, and arehutvery weakly
manned .--0, sir, says he, don't be concerned,
Ido not know thatthere have beenany pi-
ratea in these eeal these fifteen years, except
onc,whichwasseen,aaI hear,inthe baon
Siam, about a month since, but you may be
assured she' to gone to the southward; nor was
sheaship ofany great three, or fit for the
work- shewas not built for a privateer,but
was run away with by a repruhate crew that
was onboard.afler the captainand some of
his men had been murdered by the Malayan,
at or nearthe islandofSumm--What! said
I, eeemtng to know oath of the matter, did
they murder thecap Iain--m; --No,sasd he;I
don'tunderatand thatthoy minderedbin; but
as they atterwards ran away with the sh
isgenerally believed thatthey 50!",th
intothehandsot'the Malayan-,whodid nub

derhitn;antlperhapstheyprocnredthensto
do iL--Why than, said I, they deserve death
as much as il'they had done it themselves.--
Nay, says the old man, they do deserve it;
and they will certainly have it, if they light
upon any English or Dutch ship; fix they have
all agreed together, that ifthey meet thatrogua
they'll give him no omen--But, said I to
him, you say the pirate is gone out of these
sens; howcan they meet with him then ?--
Why, that's true, says he, they do say so; but
he was. as I tell you, in the bay ofSiam in the
river Cambodia; and was discovered there by
some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and
who were lellon shore when they ran away
with her; andsome English and Dutch traders
being in the river, they were within alittle
of taking him: nay, said he, if the foremost
boots had been well seconded by the rest,
they had certainly taken him; but he, finding
only two boats within reach of him, tacked
about, and fired at those two, and disabled
them before the others came up. and then stand-
ing ofl' to sea, the others were not able to
follow, and so he got away: but they have all
soexaet a description of the ship, that they
will be sure to know her; and wherever they find
her they have vowed to give no quarter either
to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all
up at the yardann.--What! said I, will they
execute them right or wrong; hang them fun
and judge them afterwards '!--0 sir, says the
old pilot, there is no need to molten formal bu-
siness of it with such as those ; let them
tie them back to back, and set them a diving,
'tis no more than they dmrve.

I knew I had iny old man fast on board, and
than he could do no harm, so that I turned short
upon him; Well now, senhor. said I, this is
the very reason why I would have you carry
us up to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao,
or to any other part of the country where the
English or Dutch shipsoome; for be it known
toyou, senhor, those captains of the English
and Ditch ships are a parcel of rash, proud,
insolent fellows, that neither know what
bclmgs to justice, or how to behave themselves
as the laws ol'God and nature direct; but
being proud ot'their oflices,and not tmdeh
standing their power, they would act the
murdererstoptmishrobbers; wouldtakeupon
them to insult men falsely sauteed, and deter-
mine than: guilty without due inquiry: and
perhapslmayliveto bring some ol'them to
account for it, when they may be taught how
jtlsliceialobeemted;andthatnomn
oughttobatreatedasaeriminaltillsome
evideueemybebadd'tbe crime,andthathe
i the me.

219

Withthia I toldhim Ihatthiswasthe very
dilp they attadtsd, and gave him at'ull ao-
oount of the skirmish we had with their boats,
and how l'oolishly andoowardly they behaved.
I told hitrtall the donut our buying the ship,
andhowthe Dntchtnanservedus. Itold
him thereasons I had tobelievethestory of
killing the master by the Malayans was true,
as also the rtmning away with the ship; but
it wasalla fietimot'theirowntosuggeetthat
the men had turned pirates, and they ought
tohave been sureit wessobefore they had
ventured to attack In by surprise, and oblige
us to mist them; adding, that they would
havethe blood of those men, whom we killed
there in just defence,>> answer for.

The old mantras amazed atthis relation,
and told us we were very much in the right to
goaway to the north; and that il'he might
sdviseus. it shouldbe tosell the ship in China,
which we might. very well do, and buy or
build another in the country; and, said he,
though you will not getso good a ship, yet you
may getoneable enoughtoesrryyouandall
your goods back again to Bengal,or any where
I told him I would take his advice
when I come to any port where I could find
a ship fix my turn, or get any customer to buy
this. He replied, I should meet with cus-
tomers c for the ship at Nanuin, and
that a Chinese junlt would serve me very well
to go back again; and that he would procure
me people both to buy one and sell the other.
Well but, senhor, said I, as you say they know
the shipso well, I may, perhaps, if I follow
your measurembe instrumental to bring some
honest innocent men into a terrible broil, and
perhaps to be murdered in cold blood; [or
wherever they find the ship, they will prove
theguilt upon the men, by proving this was the
ship, and so innocent men may probably be
overpowered and murdered--Why, says the
old roan, l'lltindout away to preventthat also;
for as I know all thweoornmanders you speak
ofvery well, and shall see them all as they pas
by,I willbe suretoset themtorigbts in the
thing,andlet thernltnow thattbey had been
so much intha wrong; that thoughthe people
whowereon board atfirsttnight runaway
withtheahip,yet it wasnottruethatthey had
turned pirates; and that, in particldsr, these
wevenotthementhat firstwent ofl'with the
ship, bin innocently bought her for theirtrade;
and I am persuadedthey will sofsrbelieveme,
as at leastto act moreeautiotflyfix thelime
to come.

Whilethese things were passing between
tn,by way ofdiseourse,we wentl'orward di-
xectly for Nanquin. and in about thirteen daya'
sail came to an anchor at the southwest point
of the great golf of Nanquin; where, by the
way, I came by accident to understand that two
Dutch ships were gone the length before me,
and that i should certainly fall into their hands.
I consulted my partner again in this cxigency,
and hewasasmuchat a Ion as I was,and
would very gladly have been safe on shore
almost any where; however, I was not in such
perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if
there was no creek or harbour which I might
put into and pursue my business with the Chi-
nm privately, and be in no dangerof the ene-
my. He told me, if I would sail to the south-
ward about forty-two leagues, there was little
part called Quinchang, where the fathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao, on their
progress to teach the Christian religion to the
Chinese. and where no European ships ever
put in; and if I thought to putin there, I might
consider what farther course to take when I
was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was
not a place for merchants, except that at some
certain times they had a kind of a fitir there,
when the merchants from Japan came over
thither to buy the Chinese merchandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place; the
name of the port, ashecalled it, I tnay perhaps
spell wrong, for i do not particularly remember
it, having lost this, together with the names of
many other places set down' In a little pocket-
book whichP was spoiled by the water byan
accident; but this I remember, that the Chi<
nese or Japanese merchants we corresponded
with called it byaditferent name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pro-
nounced it as above, Quinchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to
go to this place, we weighed the next day,
having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water: on both which occap
sions the people of the country were very civil
to In. and brought us abundance of things to
sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots,
tea. rice, and some fowls, but nothing without
money.

\Ve came to the other port (the wind being
contrary) not till five days, but it was very
much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful, and
I may say thankful. when I set my foot on
shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it

was possible to dispose of ourselves andefl'ccts _

any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set one foot on
board that unhappy vessel more; and, indeed,
I must acknowledge, that of all the circum-
stances of life that ever I had any experience

ADVENTURES OI" ROBINSON 030803.

of, nothing makes mankind so completely
miserable as that ofheing in constant fear.
Well does the Smpturc say, " Thefearot'man
bringaasnare;" it isa life ofdeath, and the
mindis so entirely oppressedby it,thatitis
capable of no relief.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon
the fancy, by heightening every danger, repre-
aentingthe English andDutcbcaptains to be
men incapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest men and rogues; or
between a story calculated fix our own turn,
made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive,
and a true genuine accoumof our whole voy-
age, progress,and design; for we might many
ways have convinced any reasonable creature
that we were not pirates; the goods we had
on board, the course we steered, our frankly
showing ourselves, and entering into such and
such ports; and even our very manner, the
force we had, the number of men, the few arms,
little ammunition, short provisions; all these
would have served to convince any men that
we were no pirates. The opium and other
goods we had on board would make it appear
the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen,
who, it was said, had the names of all the men
that were in the ship, might easily see that we
were a mixture of English, Portuguese, and
Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board.
These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might havo made it evident to the
understanding of anycommander, whose hands
we might fall into, that we were no pirates.
But fear, that blind, melon passion, worked
another way ,andthrew us into the vapours;
it bewildered our understandings, and act the
Imagination at work to forms thousand terrible
things that perhaps might never hap ap.pen We
first supposed, as indeed every body had related
to us, that the seamen on board the English
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch,
were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and
especially at our beating of their boats and
escaping, that they would not give themselves
leave to inquire whether we were pirates or
no; but would execute us of hand, as we call
it, without giving us any room for a defence.
We reflected that there really was so much
apparent evidence before them, that they would
scarce inquire alter any mamas, first,that
the shipwas certainly the same, and that some
ofthvaeamenamongthemhnew ber,and had
beenon board her; and, secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia
that they were ' down to examine us, we
fought their boats andfled; so that wen-ado
nodoubtbmthevwereaafullyaatisfiedofotr
being pirates, as we were satisfied of thecon-
tnry;and,asl ofleuaaid, Iknow not but I
should have been apt to have taken those cih
cumstances for evidetice, if the tables were
turned, and my case was theirs; and have
nude no scrupleot'cuttingall thecrewto
pieces, without believing, or perhaps consider-
ing, what they might have to ofi'er in their
defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our
apprehensions; and both my partner and I
scarce slept a night without dreaming ol'halters
and yerdanns, that in to say, gibbeta; offight-
ing. and being mm; or killing, and being
killed; and one night I was in such a firry in
my dream, fencying the Dutchmen had hoard-
ed ua,andI wns knockingone oftheir women
down, that I struck my doubled flat against
the side ofthe cabin I lay in, with euchatbme,
as wmmded my- hand grievously, broke my
knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, no that
it awaited me out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel
usage we might meet with from them if we fell
into their hands: then the story of Amboynn
came into my head, end how the Dutch might
perhaps tot-tun us, as they did our countrymen
there, and make some of our men, by extremity
of torture, confessthoae crimes they never were
guiltyol', orownthemselvessndall ol'uatobe
pirates, and so they would put us to death with
n formal appearance of justice; and that they
might be tempted to do this for the gain of our

. ahipandcargo, which was worth ibur or five
thotmnd pounds, put all together.

These thingstormentedmeandmypertner
too, night andday; nu did we consider that
the captains of ships have no authority to act
tints; andifwe had surrendered prisoners to
them,they could not answer the destroying us,
or torturing us, but would heaccotmtahle fix- it
when they came to theirown country; this, I
say, gaveme nonfiction; forii' they were
tooct thus withu, whatadvantage would itbe
tousthattheyahouldbecalled to an aocotmt
1hr it? orifwewerefirattobe murdered,what
satisfactitm would it he to us to have them
punished whenthey came home?

I cannot red-sin taking notice here what re-
flections [now lad upon the sea; varilgydo:
my partsctihr' cirunutances; ow

t it was, thatl,whohadspent forty
years ina lifed'ctnttinual dithculties,andwas
atlaneome,asitwere,tothe port or hsven
whiehallmendriveat,viz.to have rest and
plenty.ahou|dhs avolunteerin newsonows
hymym nhappy choice; andtlnt I,who
Ind escaped so many dangers in my m:

221

shouldnowcorne to behanged in myoldege,
and in aoremote a plnce, forauime which I
wasnotintheleastindinedto,mudtlesa
guilty of.

Aficr Irene thoughts, something of religion
would come in: and I should be considering
that this seemed to me tobe adisposition ofim-
mediate Providence. andlought to look upon it
lndsnhtnit to itassuch; that although [was
innocentutomemlwasfarfi'ombeing innocent
astomy Mnker: and I ought tolooh in and
examine what other crimes in my life were
most obvious to me, and for which Providence
might justly inflict this punishment u a retric
hution; and that I ought to submit to this, just
aslwould to ashipwreek, ifithad pleased
God to have brought such a disaster upon me.

In its turn, natural courage Would sometimes
take its place, and then I would be talking
myselfup to vigorous resolutions; that I would
not be taken tohe harbarouslyused by a pared
ot' merciless wretchea in cold blood; that it
was much better to have fallen into the hands
of the savages, though I was sure they would
feast upon me when they had taken me, than
those who would perhaps glut their rage upon
rnehy inhuman torturesandbarbarities; that
in the one of the savages l elwnys resolved to
die fighting to the last gasp, and why should I
not doso now, seeing it wasmuchmoredread-
ful, to me at least, to think offilling into these
men's hands, than ever it was to think ofbeing
eaten by men? for the savages, give them
theirdue,wouldnoteet a mantill he was
killed and dead, but that these men had many
arts beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever
these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put
myself into a kind of fever with the agitation
ofasuppeeed fight; my bloodwould boil, and
myeyes sparkle, as it'lwasengeged,and I
almys resolved to take no er at their
hands; but, even at last, if! could resist no
longer, I would blow up the ship and all that
was in her, and leave them but little booty to
boast of.

The weightthe anxieties and per-
plexitiea of these things were toour thoughts
while we were u Ina, the greater was our
satisfiction when we saw ourselves on shore
and my partnertoldmahedreamedthsthehad
averyheavyloaduponhishaek,whiehhewa'sto
carryupahill,andiintndtbatbewasmahle
tostandlonger underit; hutthat the Portu-
guesspilotcameandtookitofl'hishaehand
thehilldiseppeared, the grand before him sp-
pearing allnnoothandplain; andtrulyitwan
so; theywevnalllihemsnwhohadaloadtah-

ofl'theirhaehs. meypamlhadaweifl-

.32
taken off from my heart that it Was not able
any hunger to bear; and,as I said above, we
Resolved to go no more to sea in that ship.
"Him we came on shore, the old pilot, who
was now our friend, got us a lodging and a
warehouse (in our , which, by the way,
was much the same; it was a little house, or
hot. wirlralarger housearljoiningto It all limit
with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to lteep out pilfcring thieves, ofwhich, it
seems, there were not a few in that country;
however, the magistrates allowed us a little
guard. and we had a atldicr with a ltind of hal-
herd, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at our
door; to whom we allowed a pint ofrice. and a
"Hit! piece of money, about the value of three-
pence, per day, so that our goods were ltept
very safe.

The fair, ormart, usually kept in this place,
had been over some time; however, we found
that there were three or four junk! in the river,
and two Japaners, I mean ships from Japan,
with goods which they had bought in China,
and were not gone away, having some Japanese
merchants on shore.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did
for us was, to get us acquainted with three mis-
sionary Romish priests who were in town, and
who had been there some time convening the
people to Christianity; but we thought they
made but poor work of' It, and made them but
sorry Christians when theyh haddone; however,
that was none of our business. One of these was
a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon;
another was a Portuguese, and the third s
Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous,
easy in his manner, and very agreeable corn-
pnny; the other two were more reserved,
scented rigid and austere, andspplied seriously
to the work they came about, viz. to tallt with,
and insinuate themselves among, the inha-
bitants, wherever they had opportunity. We
often ate and drunk with those men; and
though, I must confess, the conversion, asthey
call it, ofthe Chinese to Christianity is so far
from the true conversion required to bring hea-
then people to the faithof Christ, that it seems
to amount to little more than letting them know
the name ofChrist, and say smpnyerstothe
Virgin Mary and herSon, in a tongue which
they understand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must he confessedthat the
religionists, whom we call missionaries, have a
firmheliefthatthese people willbesaved, and
thnt they are theimtmments ofit;and, on
this aceount,they undergo not only the fatigue
efthevoyage,andthehasards oflivinginsuch
places, but oftentimes death itself, with the

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

most violent tortures, for the sake of this
work.

But to return to my story: This French
priest, Fnther Simon, was appoin nted, It seem,
by order ofthe chiefot'the rnission,to go up to
Peking, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor,
and waited only for another priest, who was
ordered to come to him from Macao, logo along
with him; and we scarce ever met together
but he was inviting me to go that journey;
telling me how he would show me all the glo-
rious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world; a city,
said he, that your I..eodon and our Paris put to-
gather, mtnothe equal to. This was the city
of Peking, wltich,l confeu, is very great, and
infinitely full of people; but as I looked on
those things with different eyes flora other men,
se I shall give my opinion ofthem In a few
words, when I come in the course ofmy travels
tospealt more particularly of them

But, first, I come to my friar or missionary.
Dining with hirnoneday, and being very merry
together, I showed some little inclination to go
with him; and he pressed me and my partner
very hard, and with a great many pcrsuasions,
to consent. Why, Father Simon, says my
partner, should you desire our company so
much? you ltaow we are heretics, and you do
not love us, nor cannot keep us company with
any plenum--0, says he, you may perhaps
be good catholics in time: my business here is
to convert healhens, and who knows but_l may
convert you too?--Very well, Father, said I, so
you will preach tous all the way '!--1 will not
be troublesome to you, nys he: our religion
does not divest us of good manners: besides, we
arehere likecountryrnen; and sows are,corn-
paredtothe place we are in; sndifyou are
httguenots, and I a catholic, we may all he
Christiamat last; "least," are all gen-
tlemen,andwe may converse so, without being
uneasy to one another. I liked this part of his
discourse verywell, aaditbeganto putrnein
mindefmypn 'estthatlhadldlintheBr-asils;
butthis FatherSimon did not come up tohis
characterby a greatdeal; in though I'Father
Simon had no of a criminal levity
inhimneither,yethehadnet that fund of
Christian seal, strict piety, and sheets afl'eetien
adreIigion, that my other good ecclesialic

But to leave him a little, though he m
left os,ner !- to go with him; we
had something else before I. at Est, ir'r we
had all this while til ship and em merchan-
dise to dispose of, and we began to he very
doubtful what we shotid do, for we were new
haplace afrerylittle hueineaeundoneel
"about torenture to eeillbrthe river of
Kilam, and the city of Nanquin; hut Provi-
denceleemednnwmoreviaihly, an I thought,
thaneven loomeern itaell'inour nfl'airaund
I waa ed, from this rerytimo, to
think! should one way or other get uutot'
this entangled circumstance, and be brought
hometomyownemmtryagain,thmghl had
not the least viewot' the manner. Providence,
I say, began here to clear up our way a little:
and the first thing that offered was, that our
old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant
to us, who inquired what we had; and.
in the first place, he bought all our opium,
and gnve us a rerygood price for it, paying B8
in gold by weight, some in smell pieces of
their own coin, and acute in amallwedgea, of
about tort or eleven mum each. While we
were dealing with him for our opium, it came
into my head that he might perhepa deal the
the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to
propose it to him; he ehrunk up his shoulder-
at it. when itwu lira: to himbut
in a few days after he come to me, with one
of tho mise' prieeta for his interpreter.
andtoldrneheheda tomakelorne,
which was thin--he had bought a great quan~
tity of goods of u, when he had no thought:
of pmpoanle made to him of buying the ship;
and that, therefore, he had not money emugh
to payfirtheahipflut in wouldletthoeanae
men who were in 'the ship navigate her, he
would hire the ahip to go to Japan; and would
send them from thence to the Philippine island:
with another loading, which he would pay the
freight ot'hefiire they wentfrorn Japan; and
that at their return he would buy the ship. I
hogan to listen to his propoaal,nnd an eager
did my he'd still run upon umhling,tliat I
couldnothrtbogintoemmain anotionot'
going myselt'with him, and no to nail from
the Philippine irlandaaway to the South Seas,-
aeoordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if
he would not hire I- m the Phillppine islands,
and d' uathere. He aaid,No, he
eouldnot dothat,fiarthe0 he could not have
tlnerenunofbiaeargo;butheweulddiaeliarge
' pan, atthe dlip'l return. Well,atill
I mbrtakinghimatthatprepoaal,and go'
myselfgbut myparmer,wieerthan myael,
pounded rne horn it, representing the

gen, aawellot'tho aeaaaaol'thelapaneee,
whom a false, and, and mackerel-p>>
ple;|ihewiae thoaed'theSpaniudaattho
Erwin", m fake, cruel, and headma-

mmzhmummdmmw

223

aeonchuiou: the tint lhingwe hadtodn
wan. to eon-alt with the captain of the
ahip,andwithhialnen,and know ifthey
were willing to goto Japanznndwhilelwaa
doingthianheyomgmaawhorn mynrphew
hadlefiwithrne umyeonpanionlhrmytra.
uh cane tome, and told no that. he drought
that voyage promised reryfiirmnd thatthm
we: a great of advanlage, and he
wwldhererygiad il'lundertook it; but that
if I would not, andwould giro him leave, he
wouldgoaaamerehant,_orhowlplemdtn
order him;thatiferer heeune tel-England,
andlweathereandalire,hewould render
meafaithfiiaeeomtd'hia meoeee,whieh
ahouldbeaamuehtnineaalpleaud. lwu
really loath topart with hinfbut eonaidering
the prospect ol'adranage, which reallywaa
considerable, andthat how-la young fellow
aalikelytodowellinituanylknew,lin-
clined tolethim'gorbutltoldhitnlwould
multmypartner, and givehirnan answer
the next day. My pamerandl diaoouraed
about it,urdmypannermdeanoatgene-
roueofl'er:Youknowithuboenanmlueky
ship, said he, andwe bothreaolre not top
toseelnitagu'n; it'ywrawward(aohe
called my man) will rennuothe e,Iwill
leave my ehareol'theveaoeltohim, endlet
him maltethebeetol'itnndifvreliretnmeet
hEnglandmndhelneetawithnme-abroad
heahallaecount fwouehall'oftheprofitaof
theahip'sfreighttoua;theotherahallbehia
own.

lt'mypartner,wbowaenowayeoneerned
with my young man, undo bin ouch an
od'er,lewlddonoleaathanod'erhimthe
aameundalltheahip'aeonpanybeingwifling
togowithhim,wemadeorerhalfthedtipto
himinproperty,andtnokawritingfron him,
ohliging him to woman hr the other; and
away he went to Japan. The Japan Inc>>
chant proved averypunetmlhoneot man to
him;proteetedhimat1apan.andgnthilaa
lieeneetoeomeonllm,whidtthoPSmope-
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well.
Here, having got a good acquaintance at Ma-
nilla. he got his ship Inside a free ship; and the
governor of Manilla hired him to go to Aca-
pulco In America, on the coast ofMexico,and
gave him a licence to land there, and to travel
to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe with all his men. He made the voy-
age to Acapulco very happily, and there he
sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he
found means, somehow or other, to get to Ja-
maica. with all his treasure, and about eight
years alter came to England exceeding rich, 0.
which I shall take notice in its place; in the
mean time, I return to our particular afl'airs.
Being now to part with the ship and ship's
company, it came before us, ofcoursc, to con-
sider what recompense we should give to the
two men that gave us such timely notice of the
designagainstus in the river Cambodia. The
truth was, they had done us a very Considera-
ble service, and deserved well at our hands;
though by the way, they were a couple of
rogues loo; for as they believed the story of
our being pirates, and that we had really run
away with the ship, they came down to Its not
only to betray the design that was formed
against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates;
and one of them confessed afterwards that
nothing else but the hopes ol'going a roguing
brought him to do it: however, the service
they did us was not the less; and, therefore,
as I had promised tobcgr-atcful to them, I first
ordered the money to he paid them which they
said was due to them on boardtheir mpective
ships; over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented them very well; then I made the Eng.
lishnIan gunner in the ship, the gunner being
now made second mate and purser; the Dutch-
man I made boatsu'ain; so they were both
very well pleased, and proved very serviceable,
being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.
' 'We were now on shore in China: if I thought
myself banished and remote from my own
country at Bengal, where Ihad many ways to
get home for my money, what could I think of
myself now, when I was got about a thousand
leagues farther of from home, and perfectly
destitute of all manner of "M t of return '!
Allwehadfor itwasthis, thatin about four
months' time therewas to be another fair at
the place where we were, and then we might
beable to purchased! sorts oftho manufac-
tures of the country, and with] might possibly
find some Chinese junks or vessels from Ton-
quin,tbatwouldbetobesotd.and wouldcarrv

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

us and our goods whither we pleased. This I
Iiltid very Well, and resolved to wait ; besides

as our particular person were not obnoxious,
so if any English or Dutch ships came thithert
perhaps we might have an opportunity to load
our goods, and got passageto some other place
in India, nearer home. Upon these hopes
we resolved to continue here; but, to divert
ourselves, we toolt two or three journeys into
the country. First, we went ten davs' joumey,
to the city ofNanquin, a city well worth seeing
indeed; they say it has a million ofpeople in
it: it is regularly built, the streets all exactly
straight, and cross one another in direct lines,
which gives the figure of it great advantage.
But when I come to compare the miserable
people of those countries with ours, their fa-
brics, their manner of living, their government,
their religion, their wealth, and their glory, as
some call it, I must confeu that I scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them here.
It is very observable, that we wonder at the
grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies,
the government, the manufactures, the com-
merce, and conduct of these people; not that
it is lobe wondered at, or, indeed, in the least
to be regarded, but because having a true no-
tion of the barbarity of those countries, the
rudeness and the ignorance that prevails there,
we do not expect to find any such thing so far
off. Otherwise, what are their buildings to
the palaces and royal buildings of Europe '!
What their trade tothe universal commerce of
England, Holland, Frame, and Spain? What
are their cities to <<as, for wealth, strength,
gayety of apparel, rich furniture, and infinite'
variety '! What are their ports, supplied with
a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our
merchant fleets, our large and powerfitl navies '1
Our city of London has more trade than half
their mighty empire: one English, Dutch, or
French man of war of eighty guns, would be
able to fight almost all the shipping belonging
toChiria: but the of their wealth,
their trade, the power of their government, and
the strength of their armies, may be a little
surprising to us, because as I have said, con-
sidering than us barhnrousnation of pagans,
little better than nugss, we did not expect
nichthingsamongthem: and tbis,indced, is

the advantage with which all their greatne-

sndpoweris tedtous; otherwise, it
isinitsell'nothingatall; forwbatlhavesaid
ofthsirshipsmaybesaidoftheirarmiesand
hoops, alltheforcesofthcirempire,diougb
they wereto two million of men into
thcyfieldtogether,wottldbsabletodo

hutruinthecountrynndstarvethemelvcgif
they were tobcsiege astrong town in Flanders,
or to fight a disciplined army; one good line
of German cuirassiers, or of French cavalry,
might withstand all the horse of China; 3. mil-
lion of their foot could not stand before one
embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not
to be surrounded, though they were not who one
to twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if I
say that thirty thousand German or English
foot, and ten thousand horse, well managed,
could defeat all the forces ofChina ; and so of
our fortified towns, and of the art. of our engi-
neers in assaulting and defending towns; there
is not a fortified town in China could hold out
one month against the batteries and attacks of
an European army; and, at the same time, all
the armies of China. could never take such a
townas Dunkirk, provided it was not starved;
no, not in a ten yeurs' siege. They have fire-
arms, it is true, but they are awkward and un-
certain in their going off; and their powder
has but little strength. Their armies are badly
disciplined, and want skill to attack, or temper
toretreat; and, therefore, I tnust confess, it
seemed strange to me, when I came home, and
heard our people say such fine things of the
power, glory, magnificence, and trade of the
Chinese; because, as far as I saw, they ap-
peared to beacontemptible herd or crowd of ig~
norant sordid slaves, subjected to a government
qualified only to rule such a people : and were
not its distance inconceivahly great from Mus-
covy, and the Muscovite empire in a manner
as rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the
czar of Muscovy might with ease drive them
all out of their country, and conquer them in
one campaign: and had the czar (who is now
a growing prince) fallen this way, instead of

attacking the warlike Swedes, and equally im-
proved himself in the art of war, as they say
he has done; and if none of the powers ofEu-
rope had envied or interrupted him, he might by
this time have been emperor of China, instead
of being beaten by the king of Sweden at Nar-
va, when the latter was not one to six in num-
her._ As their strength and their grandeur, so
their navigation, commerce, and husbandry is
very imperfect, compared to the same things in
Europe: also in their knowledge, their learning,
and in, their skill in the sciences, they are
either very awkward or defective, though they
have globes and spheres, and asmnttering of the
mathematics, and think they know more than
all the world besides; butthey know little of
the motions of the heavenly bodies; and so
grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common
people. that when the sun is eclipsed, they think
a great dragon has assaulted it, and is going
to run away with it; and theyfall a clattering
with all the drums and kettles in the country,
to fright the monster away, just as we do to

'hive a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of the kind
which I have made inall the accounts I have
given of my travels, so I'shall make no more
such ; it is none of my business, nor any part

. of my design; but to give an account of my own

adventures through a. life of inimitable wander-
ings, and a long variety of changes, which,
perhaps, few that come after me will have
heard the like of: I shall therefore say very
little of all the mighty places, desert countries,
and numerous people I have yet to pass
through, more than relates to my own story,
and, which my concern among them will make
necessary.

 

SECTION XLIII.

JOURNEY TO PEKING.---ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEIHNG 'I'O MOSCOW.--
BENCONTRES WITH THE TARTARS.

I was now, as nearas I can compute, in
the heart of China, about thirty degrees north
of the line, for we were returned from Nanquin.
I had, indeed,a mind to see the city ofPeking,
which [had heard so much of, and Father Si-
mon importuned me daily todo it. At length his
time of going away being set, and the other
missionary who was to go with him being an-
rived from Macao, it was necessary that we
should resolve either to go or not ; so I refer-

15

red it wholly to my partner, and left it wholly
to his choice, who at length resolved it in the
affirmative, and we prepared for our journey.
We set out with very good advantage, as to
finding the way, for we got leave to travel in the
retinue of one of their Mandarins, a kind of
Viceroy or principal magistrate in the province
where they reside, and who take great state
upon them, travelling with great attendance, and
with great homage from the people, who are
sometimes greatly impoverished by them, be-
ing obliged to furnish provisions for them and
all their attendants in their journeys. That
which I particularly observed, asto our travel-
ling with his baggage, was this, that though we
received suflicient provisions both for ourselves
and our horses from the country, as belonging
to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay
for every thing we had, alter the market price
of the country, and the Mandarin's steward
collected it duly from us; so that our travelling
in the 'retinue of the Mandarin, though it was
a very great kindness to us, was not such a
mighty favour in him, but was a great advan-
tage to him, considering there were above
thirty other people travelled in the same man-
ner besides us, under the protection of his reti-
nue ; for the country furnished all the provisions

for nothing to him, and yet he took our money
for them.

We were twenty-five days travelling to Pe-
king, through a country infinitely populous, but
I think badly cultivated ; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable,
though they boast so much of the industry of the
people; I say miserable, if compared with our
own, but not so to these poor wretches, who
know no other. The pride of the people is infi-
nitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their
poverty, in some parts, which adds to that which
I call their misery; and I must needs think the
naked savages of America. live much more hap-
py than the poorer sort of these, because as they
have nothing, sothey desire nothing; whereas
these are proud and insolent, and in the main are

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE-

 

in many parts mere beggars and drud'ges ; their
ostentation is inexpressible ; and, i they can,
they love to keep multitude of servants or slaves,
which is to the last degree ridiculous, as well as
the contempt of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly af-
terwards in the desarts and vast wildernessee
ofGrand Tartary than here; and yet the roads
here are well paved and well kept, and very
convenient for travellers ; but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a haughty, im-
perious, insolent people, in the midst of the
grossest simplicity and ignorance ;and my iiiend
Father Simon and I used to be very merry upon
these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of
these people: for example, coming by the house
ofa country gentleman, as Father Simon called.
him, about ten leagues off the city ofNanquin,
we had first of all the honour to ride with the
master of the house about two miles ; the state
he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being
a mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was
very proper for a searamouch, or merry-andrew,
being a dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tas-
sels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side;
it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a
most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a
poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor
creature along; he had a whip in his hand, and
he belaboured the beast as fast about the head
as his slaves did about the tail ; and thus he rode
by us, with aboutten or twelve servants, going
from the city to his country seat, about half I
league before us. We travelled on gently, but
this figure ofa gentleman rode away before us,
outlast we stopped at a village about an hour to
refresh us, when wocatne by the country seat of
this great man, we saw him in a little place be-
iltfl! hisdoor, eating his repast. It was a kind
of a garden, but he was t'asy to be seen : and we
were given to understand that the more we
looked at llllll the better he would be phrasel.
He sat lllltlt'l' a tree, something like the palmetto,
whieltelli-ctnal shaded him over the head, and
on lht-snullt 'tle but tttnlv-r lllt' tree was also
plat-ed a l: umbrella. which made that part
lac-l; \'l'llt'ull _. - he sat lolliu: hack in a. great
<<Elmwc-hair, her I, a l :tvy corpuh-Itt tan, and
had his IIIt'nl brought him hy two woutt-I '
lit-had twumote, one orwltich red the
with a spoon, and the other held the dish with
d and scrapt-tlotl'what he let l'allupun
p's beard and tall'ety vest with the
other; wlule the great fat bntte thought it below
lllltl to employ his own hands in any ol' those
liuniliar tlII'lCt's. which kings attd monarchs
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy
lingers ul'tht-ir sen-ants.

i took this time to think what pains men's
pride puts them to, and how troublesome a
haughty temper, thus ill managed. must be to a.
man ofeommotl some; and leaving the poor
u retch to lilt'ls'c himself witlt our looking at him,
as it' we admired his pomp, though we really
Irlllt'tl and nuntt'tnued him, we pursued our
journey; only Father Simon had the cttriosity
to stay to inform himself what dainties the
country justice had to feed on in all his state,
which he had the honour to taste of, and which
v: -. I think. a meg ofboiled rice, witlt a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with
green pepper, and another plant which they
have tltere, somclhiug like ottr ginger, but
smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard;
all this was put together, and a small piece of
lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his
\t'orship's repast; four or five servants more
attended at a distance, who, we supposed, were
to eat of the same after their master.

As for our Mandarin with whom we trap
velled, he was respected as a king, surrounded
always with his gentlemen, and attended in all
his appearances with such pomp, that I saw little
of him but at a distance; but this Iobserved,
that there was not a horse in his retinue but
that our earrim' packhorses in England
seemed to me to look much better; though it
was hard to judge rightly, Br they were so
covered with cquipage, mantles, trappings, Ste.
that we could scarce many thing but their
feet and their beads as they went along.

  
 
 
      

   

  

 

 

 

227

I was now lighthearted, and all my trouble
and pcrplexity that I have given an account of
being over, I had no anxious thought about
tne, which made this journey the pleasanler to
me; ttor had I any ill accident attended Inn,
only in passing or fouling a. small river my horse
fell, and tirade me free ol'thc country, as they
call it, that is to say, thretv me in; the place
was not deep, but it wetted me all ovur. I
mention it, because it spoiled my pocket-book,
wherein I had set down the names of several
people and places which I had occasion to re-
member, and which, not taking due care of,
the leaves rotted, and the words were never
after to be read, to my great loss as to the names
ol'snme places I touched at in this journey.

At length we arrived at Peking; I had no-
body with me but the youth whotn my nephew
the captain had given me to attend me as a
scrvant.and who proved very trusty and dili-
gent ; and toy partner had nobody with him bttt
one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the
Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the
court, we bore his charges for his company,
and to use ltitn as an interpreter, for he underh
stood the language of the country, and spoke
good French, and a little English: and, indeed,
this old man was a most usclitl implement to
us every where; for we had not been above a
week at Peking, when he came laughing, Ah,
Senhor Inglese, says he, I have something to
tell you will make your heart glad--My heart
glad! says I; what can that be ? I don't know
any thing in this country can either give mo
joy or grief, to any great degree--Yes, yes,
said the old man, in broken English,rnakc you
glad, me sorry.-VVhy, said I, will it make you
sorry ?--Became, said he, you have brought
me here twenty-five days' journey, and will
leave me to go back alone, and which way shall
I get to my port. afterwards without a ship,
without a horse, without peeurte: so he called
money, being his broken Latin, of which he had
abundance to make us merry with. In short,
he told us there was a great caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish merchants in the city, pre-
paring to set out on their journey by land to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he
was sure we would take the opportunity to go
with them, and leave him behind, to go back
alone.

I confess I was greatly surprised with this
goodnews, andhad mpowertoapeakto
him fix some time ; but at last I turned to him,
Howdoyoulmow this'haid I. Areyountn'e
it is true 7--Yee, says he; I met this morning
in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an
Armenian, who isamngtbetn; homelnt
float Astraesn, and was designing toga to Ton-
quin, where] formerly knew him, but has al-

tered hts mind, and is now resolved to go with
the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river
Wolga. to Astracan. Well. senhor, says
I, do not be uneasy about being left to goback
alone; if this be amethod for my return to Eng-
land, it shall be your fault it' you go back to
Macao at all. We then went to consult toge-
ther what was who done; and I asked my
partner what he thought of the pilot's news,
and whether it would suit with his afi'airs?
He told me he would dojust as I would; lbr
he had settled all his affair: so well at Bengal,
and left his cfl'eets in such good hands, that as
we had made a good voyage here, if he could
vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be worth the carriage, he would be con-
tent to go to England, and then make his voy-
ngt- back to Bengal by the company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that
if our Portuguese pilot would go with us we
would hear his chargasto Moseowpr to England,
if he pleased; nor, indeed. were we to be es-
teetned over generous in that neither, if we
had not rewanled him farther, the service he
had done us being really worth more titan that :
for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea,
but he had been like a broker for us on shore;
and his procuring for us the Japan merchant
was some hundreds of pounds in ottr pockets.
So we consulted together about it, and being
willing to gratify him, which was but doing
him justice, and very willing also to have him
with us besides, for he was a most necessary
man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a
quantity of coined gold, which, as [compute
it, came to about one hundred and seventy-five
pounds stc'rliog, betweai In, and to bear all his
charges, both lbr himself and horse, except
only a horse to carry his goods. Having set-
tled this between ourselves, we called him to
let him know what we had resolved. I told
him he had complained of our being to let him
go baelr alone, and I was now to tell him we
were resolved he shotdd not go back at all; that
astvehadresolvedtogo toEuropswiththe
caravan, we resolved also he should go
with us; and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and said, it was a
loogjourney, and hehadno tocarry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came
there. "'e told him we believed it was so, and
therefore we had resolved to do something for
him that should let him see how sensible we
wereofthe servicebe haddone us, aulalso
how hewastous;and thenItold
him what we had resolved to give him here,

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

which he might lay out as we would do on
own; and that asfor his charges, ifhe would
go with us we would set him safe on shore (lit.
and casualties excepted) either in Museovy or
England, which he would, at our own charge,
except only the earrings of his goods. lie re-
ceivcd the like amen transported, and
told us he would go with us over the whole
world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
Wear, asitwaswithus, soitwas with the
other merchants; they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in five weeks, it
was four months and somedays before all things
were got together.

It was the beginning of February, our style,
when we set out from Peking. My partner
and the old pilot had gone express back to the
port where we had first put in, to dispose or
some goods which we had left there: and l,
with a Chinese merchant whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to
Peking on his own affairs, went to Nnnquin,
where I bought ninety pieces of fine dammit",
with about two hundred pieces of other very
fine silks of several sorts, some mixed with gold,
and had all these brought to Peking again:
my partner's return; besides this, we bought
a very large quantity of raw silk, and some
other 8, our cargo amounting, in these
goods only, to nbout three thousand five hundred
pounds sterling; which, together with tea.
and some fineealicoes, and three eunels' loads
ul'nutmegs and cloves, loaded inall eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode
upon; which, with twoor three re horses,
and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in
our retinue.

The company was very great, and, as near
as lean remember, made between three and
four hundred horse, and upwards of one hun-
dred and twenty men, very well armed, and
provided for all events: it as the eastern cs-
ravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs,
soarethese by the Tartan; but they arenot
altogether In dangerotuu the Arabs, nor so
barbarous, when they prevail.

Thseotnpanyoonsistedofpeopleot'sereral
nations; but there were above sixty ot'thetn
merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though
ofthemsomewereLivooians; andtoourplr-
ticular satisfaction, five of then:" were Scots,
who appeared also to be men great expo-
rienceinbtuinem,aodofverygoodsub-
stance.

When we had travelled one day's jotn'ncyt
the guides, who were five in umber, called
all the gentlemen andmercbam, that into>>,
d] the empt the servents, to e
greeteotmcil,utheyeelledit. Atthiseotrn-
cit every one deposited e eertein quentity of
money to e em stock, for the neeeesery
erpenseol'huyingfiirege (ntthewey, where it
we! not otherwise to be had, end formisfying
the guides, getting horns, end the like: end
here they constituted the journey, us they all
it,viz.they named eeptsiu end ofieersto
drew usellup, endgive the wordot'oolnmend,
incest! of enettseh, end giveeveryonelheir
turn ol'eommnd; norwesthist'ortning ll into
order my more then whet we found needfitl
upon the wsy, es shell he observed.

The roedellonthis side ol'the country is
rerypopulou,end is filll ofpottersendesrth-
makers, that is to any, people thet temper the
earth for the Chine-were; end ssI weeeorn-
mg along, ottr Portugel pilot, who head elweys
something orotherto seytomelte nemerry,
carnesneering torne,endtoldntehewould
show me the greeted rsrity in all the cotntry,
and that [should heve this tosey of Chine,
alter all the ill-humoured things I had seid of
it, that Ihedleenonethingwhiebm not to
be seen in ell the world beside. I wes very
importunste tohnow whet it was: at lest he told
me it me gentleman's house built with China-
were. Well, seys I, In not the materiel: of
their buildings the product of their own country,
and so itis ellChine-were, is itnotiL-No, no,
says he,I meenitisehouse ellmede ol'
Chine-were, such esyou cell it in Englend, or
as it iseslled incur country, porcelain--Well,
says I, such ething they be; how big is it?
Cnnweeerryitineber upon eeetnel'! it'we
een, we will iL--Uporte cemel! seys the
old pilot, holding up both his hands; why there
is a family of thirty people lives in it.

I was thencurious, indeed, tosee it; end
when! oemeto it, it wesnothing but this: it
was s timber house, or ehous'ebuilt, es we cell
it in England, with lnth end plaster; but all
this plastering wen reelly Chine-were, that is
to say, it we: plutered with the eerth the!
make: Chins-were. The outside, which the
sun shone but upon, wns glued, end looked
very well, perfectly white,end pointed with
blue figures, es the hrge Chine-were in Eng-
land ispeinted,endherdesifithndheen
burned. Astothsinside,ellthewells,in--
steed of weinseot, were lined with herdened
end peintedtiles, like the little aquere tiles we
eel] gelley-tiles in Englnnd, ell made of the
finest Chins, end the exceeding fine,
indeed, with extraordinary nriety of coluns,
mixed with gold; runny tiles mnking but one
firm. but joined so ertificielly, the m

229

heingmedeofthesemeeerth,thetitwesvery
herdtoseowherethetilesmet. Theflmrsol
theroornswereot'thelente composition, end
.hudutheeerthenfleorsweheveinuse in
severdpuhofEnghnduherduetnne, end
smooth, hutllotbtnedend peinted,except
some mailer rooms, like dowels, which were
ellesit were pevedwith the nine tile: the
eeiling,endelltheplesteringworkinthewhole
hot-e, wereofthesemeeerth; end, efier ell,
thsrooI'wes covered with tiles oflheseme,
hutofe deepdtininghleek. ThisweseChitn
werehouse, indeed, truly end literally to be
cefldsqendhsdlnotheenuponmyjoumey,
leouldhevs stayedsotnedeystoueenden-
eminethepertieulenof it. Theytoldme there
were founleitqendfishpondsintheglrden,ell
pevedoedtebottomendsideswiththe sente;
endlinestenmset upin rows entheweflrs,
entirely formed of the poroelein eerth,.end
burnedwhole.

Asthisisoneal'the singularities d'Cbins,
Iotheymnybeeflowedtoexeel init;butlun
verystnetheyeseelintheirewounts diuiir
Ibeylold me such incredible thing. oftheirpeth
fixtnsneeinernekery-were, funnehitis,thet
Icerenottorelete, uknowingiteotddnotbs
true. Theytoldme,inpertieuler,ofoneworh-
nunthst msdeeshipwithell its tackle, end
mnetsendseils,ineerthen-wm,bigenough
tocerryfihymen. Iftheyhsd told-none
hunched it, sndnndeevoyegethepeninit,
height have seid something to it, indeed; but
ssitwes, Iltnewthewholeot'lhestory, which
wes,inehort,eskingperdonfortheword,thet
the folluw lied; so I smiled, endseid nothing
wit.

Thisoddsighttteptmetwohoursbehindute
ceraven, for whichthe lender of it fir thedey
finedmeeboutthevalueofthreeshillingsund
told me, ifit hed been three deys'yturney
without the well, es it Ins three deys withh,
hemusthevefinedtnefotxtimesutnuch, end
nude me esltperdon the next council dey: I
promised to he moreorderly; end, indeed, I
flauntl eftemerds the orders nude fir keeping
ell together were shsohttely neeeusry for our
common safety.

IntwodeysmorewepessedthegreetChine
well, medeforefortifieetion egeinst theTel-
tern,endeverygreetweskitis,goingomhills
end mountninsin eneedleu treek,wheretbe
redsnreintpessehle,endtheprecipieessuehes
noenelnyeouldpossibly enter,orindeedelimh
np,orwhere.iftheydid,nowelleonldhhtder
them. Theytellusitsleegdtisneere droo-
sendEnglish miles,bC/tlnttheeotnttryisfive
htmdredinestreightlneesle'edlins,whiehthowall batmds, without rn the windings
andtumiugs it takes; it is about four liIthoIns

high, and as many thick in some places.

lstoad still an hour, or thereahout, without
trespassing our orders, (for so long thee-raven
was in passing the gate,) tolook at itonevery
side, near and far of, I mean that was within
my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been extolling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it.
I told him itwas a most excellent thing to keep
out the Tartan; which he happened not to
understand-simeant it, andso took it fora
compliment; but the old pilot laughed: O,
Senhor Inglese, says be, you speak in colours.
--ln colours! said I; what do you mean by
that ?--\Vhy you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way; gay one way, and
dull mother. You tell him it is good wall to
keep out Tartars; you tell mo by that it is
good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I
understand you, Senhor lnglese ; I understand
you: but Senhor Chinese understood you his
own way.---Well,says I, senhor, do you think
it would stand out an army of our country people,
with a good train of artillery, or our engineers,
with two in: of miners? Would not
they better it down in ten days, that an army
might enter in battalia; orblow it up in the air,
foundation and all. that there should be no sig n
of itleft?---Ay,ay, sayshe, 1 know that. The
Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said,
and I gave him leave to tell him a few days
after, for we were then almost out of their
country, and he was to leave us in alittle titne
aller this; but when he knew what I said, he
was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard
no more of hIs fine story of the Chinese power
and greatness while he stay ed.

After we passed this In Ighty nothing ,called
awall, somethinglikethePicts wall, so n'famous
in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we
began to find the country thinly inhabited, and
the people rather confined to live in fortified
townsendcities, asbeing subjectto the inroads
and depmdatiom of the Tartan, who rob in
great armies, and therefore are not to be
resisted by the naked inhabitantsof an open
country. And here! began to find the neces-
sity of keeping together in a caravan as we
travelled, for we aw several troops of Tartan
rovingabout; butwlIenIcarne toseetbem dis-
tinctly, I wondered more thatthe Chinese em-
pire could be conquered by such oontemptible
fellows, for they are a mere horde of wild
fellows,' seeping no order, and understanding
no discipline or manner of fight. Theirborses
are pout .ean creatures, taught nothing, and fit

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

3""

e>>

for nothing; andthiswehundthefirstdnywo
sawthem,whichwasafierwemteredthewilder
part of the country. Ourleader it fine day
gsveleere forahomsr'neend'ustogo a lumi-
ing,astheycall it,andwbntwuthisbuthtmt.
ingofaheep; however, itmaybeealled hunt-
ingtoo,fortheaeatures anthewildest and
swiftesteffootthnt everI saw d'theirkind;
only they willnot runagreatwaynndyousre
lure ofaportwhen youbegin the chase, forthey
appeargenerallythirtyorfiirtyinaflock, and,
like true sheep, always keep together when
they fly.

1n pursuitofthis odd sort ofgame, it was
our hep to meet with about forty Tartan;
whether they were ' mutton as we were,
or whether they looked for another kind of prey,
we knownot; but as soonas they saw us,one
ofthem blew a kind ofhorn very loud, but with
a barbarous sound that I had never heard
before, and, by the way, never care to hear
again; we all this was to call their
friends about them, and so it was; flu in less
than ten minutes a troop of tbrty or titty more
appeared at about a mile distance; but our
work was over first, as it happened.

One ofthe Scotsmercbants ofMoscow hap-
penedtobe amongus,and assoonashe
heard the born, he told us that we had nothing
to do but to charge them immediately, without
lossoftirne; anddmwingusup in aline, he
asked ifwe were resolved. We told him we
were ready to follow him; so he rode directly
tom them. They stood gazing at us like
a mere crowd, drawn up in no order,nor show-
ing the face d'sny orderatall; butas soonas
they saw Its advance, they let ily their arrows,
which, however, missed us very happily: it
seems they mistook not their aim, but their dis-
tance; for their arrows all fell a little short of
us,hutwithso true an aim, thsthsdwe been
about twenty nearer, we must have had
several men wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted, and h it was at
a great dinanoo, we fired, and sentthemleaden
bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot
full gallop, to fall In amengthem sword In hand,
forsoourboldSeotthatledmdirected. He
was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved
with that vigour and bravery on this occasion,
and yet withg such cool carnage too, that I never
saw anyman inaction fitter for command
Assoonsswecameuptotheunwe fnedour
pistols in their fsces,and then drew ; but they
fled in the ten confinion imaginable
Theoniy standany ofthemmade wasonour
right, where three of them stood, ara'l,by signs.
called the resttoeomehaekto them, having a
kind ofscimitar in their hands, and their bows
hanging to their backs. Our bravo commander,
without asking any body to follow him, gallops
up close to them, and with his fusee knocks
one of them off his horse, killed the second
with his pistol, and the third ran away; and
thus ended our fight: but we had this misfor'
tune attending it, that all our mutton we had
in chase got away. We had not a man killed
or hurt; but as for the Tartars, there were
about five of them killed; how many were
wounded we know not; but this we knew,
that the other party were so fiightened with
the noise of our guns, that they made ofi', and
never made any attempt upon us.

"to were all this while in the Chinese do-
minions, and therefore the Tartars were not
so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which
held us three days and nights' march; and we
were obliged to carry our water with us in
great Ieathern bottles, and to cncamp all night,
just as I have heard they do in the desert of
Arabia.

I asked our guides whose dominion this was
in; and they told me this was a kind of bor-
der, that might be called no man's land, being
a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tats
tary; but, however, it was all reckoned as
belonging to China, but that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of
thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the
worst desert in the whole march, though we
were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at
first very frightful to me, we saw, two or three
times, littlc parties of the Tartars, but they
'seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to
have no design upon us:_ and so, like the man
who met the devil, if they had'mothing to say
to us, we had nothing to sayfitio'them; we let
them go. Once, however, a mi! y of them
came so near as to stand and; ' us; whe-
ther it was to consider if they , ttack
us or not, we knew not; but w n we
passed at some distance by them, we made a
rear guard of forty men, and stood ready for
them, letting the caravan pass half a mile or
thereobouts before us : but utter a while they
marched of; only we found they saluted us
with five arrows at their parting, one of which
wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we left him the next day, poor creature, in
great need of a good farricr: they might shoot
more arrows, which might fall short of us, but
we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.

We travelled neat a month after this, the
ways not being so good as at first, though still

  
 

231

in the dominions of the emperor of China, but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which
were fortified, because of the incursions of the
Tartars. When we were come to one of
these towns, (it was about two days and ti half
journey before we were to come to the city
of Naum,) I wanted to buy a camel, of which
there are plenty to be sold all the way upon
that road, and horses also, such as they are,
beCause'so many caravans coming that way
they are often wanted. The person that I
spoke to, to get me a camel, would have gone
and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be oflicious, and go myself along with
him: the place was about two miles out of
the village, where it seems they kept the
camels and horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a
Chinese, being very desirous of alittle variety.
When we came to the place, it was a low
marshy ground, walled round with a stone
wall, piled up dry, without mortar or earth
among it, like a park, with a little guard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought
a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away,
and the Chinescmtm that went with me led the
camel, when on asudden came up five Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the fellow
and took the camel from him, while the other
three stepped up to me and my old pilot, see<<
ing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had no
weapon about me but my sword, which could
but ill defend me against three horsemen.
The first that came up stopped short upon my
drawing my sword, for they are arrant cowards ;
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a
blow on the head, which I never felt till after-
wards, and wondered, when I came to myself,
what was the matter, and where l was, for he
laid me flat on the ground ; but my never-failing
old pilot, the Portuguese (so Providence, un-
locked for, directs deliverances from dangers
which to us are unforeseen) had a pistol in
his pocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the
Tartars neither; if they had, I suppose they
would not have attacked us; but cowards are
always boldest when there is no danger. The
old man seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the follow that had struck me,
and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and
pulling him down by main force a little towards
him with the other, shot him in the head, and
laid him dead upon the spot. He then imme-
diately stepped up to him who had stopped us,
as I said, and before he could come forward
again, made a blow at him with n scimitar

which he always were, but missing the man, .

cut his horse in the side of his head, out
ansoftheearsofl'bythe root,and agreat
slice down by the side of his face. The poor
beast, enragedwiththewound,wasnomore
to be governed by his rider, though the fellow
sat well s too, but away he flew, and
carried him quite out of the pilot's reach; and
at some distance rising upon his hind legs,
threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, thepoor Chinese came in
who had lost the camel, but who had no weapon:
however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him,
and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon
he had by his side, somethiq like a polsaxe,
but not a poleaxs neither, he wrenchcd it from
him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still; and seeing he
did not fly, as he expected, norcome on to
fight him, as he apprehended. but stand stock-
still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work
with his tackle, to charge his pistol again ; but
as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, away he
scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I
called him afterwards, a complete victory

By this time I was a little recovered; for I
thought when I first began to wake, that I had
been in a sweet sleep; but, asI said above, I
wondered where I was, how I came upon the
ground, and what was the matter; but afew
moments after, as sense relented, I felt pain
though I did not know where; so [clapped my
hand tomy head,end took it away bloody; then
I felt my head ache; and then, in a moment,
memory returned, and every thing was present
tome again. I jumped upon my feet instantly,
and got hold of my sword, but no enemies in
view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse
standing very quietly by him; and, looking
farther, I saw my champion and deliverer, who
had been to see what the Chinese had done,
coming baclt with his hanger in his hand: the
old man, seeing me on my feet, came running
to me, and embraced me with a great deal of
joy, being afraid before thatI had been killed;
and seeing me bloody, would see how I was
hurt; but it was not much, only what we call
a broken head; neither did I afterwarth find
any great inconvenience fine: the blow, fir it
was well again in two or three days

We made no great gain, however, by this
victory, for we lost a camel and gained a.
horse; but that which was remarkable, when
we came back to the village, the man demanded
.o be paid for the camel; I disputed it, and it
was brought to a hearing before the Chinese
jdge ofthe place. To give him his due, he

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 0817808.

acted with a deal of prudence and impar
tiality; andmfing heard both sides, he
gravely asked the Chinese man that went with
me to buythecamel, whose servant he was?
I am no servant, says he, but went with the
stranger.--At whose request? says thojtutice.
At the stranger's request, says he. Why
then, says the justice, you were the r's
servantforthe time; and the camel beingdr
livered to his servant, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it.

I confusthe thingwuso clear,thatIhad
notaword to say: but, admiring to see such
just reaming upon the consequence, and an
accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for
the camel, and sent fir another; but, you may
observe, I did not go to fetch it myself any
more, for I had had enough of that.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the
Chinese empire; they call it finified, and so
it is,asfortifications go there; for this Iwill
venture to affirm, that all the Tartan in Kara-
ltathay, which, I believe,m some millions,
could not batter down the walls with their
bowsand arrows; butto call it strong, if it
were attacked with cannon, would be to make
those who understand it laugh at you.

We wanted, as I have said, above two days'
journey of this city, when messengers were
sent express to every part of theroad to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had
aguard sent for them; fir that an unusual
bodyof Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
had appeared in the way, about thirty miles
beyond the city.

This was very bad news to travellers; how-
ever, it was carefully done of the governor,
and we were very glad to hear we should have
a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had
two hundred soldiers sent us from a imn
of the Chinese, on our lefi, and three undred
morcfrorn the cityofNaum, and with these
we advanced boldly; thethree hundred soldiers
fromNaum marchedinowfi'ont, thetwohun--
dred in ourrear,andourmeaoneacbsida of
our camels, with our bag and the whole ra-
ravan in the centre; inthis order, and well pro
pared for battle, we thought otnselres a match
for the whole ten thotnand Mogul Tartan, if
theyhad appeared; but the next day, when
they did appear, it was quite another thing.

ltwasearlyinthemorning.wben, march-
ing from a well situated little town, called
Changu, we had a river to past, which we
were obliged to terry; and, had the Tartan
had any intelligence, then had beenthe time
to have attacked in, when the caravan being

A
over, the rear guard was behind; but they
did not appear there. About three hours
alter, when we were entered upon a desert of
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by
a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy
was at hand; and they were at hand, indeed,
for they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese,-our guard on the front, who
had talked so big the day before, began to
stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a sol-
dier that he is just ready to run away. My
old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, Senhor Inglese, says he, those fel-
lows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us
all; for if the Tartars come on, they will
never stand it.---I am of your mind, said I;
but what must be done?--Done! says he,
let fifty of our men advance, and flank them on
each wing, and encourage them; and they
will light like brave fellows in brave company;
but, without this, they will every man turn his
back. Immediately I rode up to our lender,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind;
and accordingly fifty of us marched to the
right wing, and fifty to the loll, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched,
leaving the last two hundred men to make a
body by themselves, and to guard the camels;
only that, if need were, they should send a
hundred men to assist the last fifty.

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innu-
merable company they were: how many we
could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought,
was the least: a party of them came on first
and viewed our posture, traversing the ground
in the from of our line; and, as we found them
within gunshot, our leader ordered the two
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a
salvo on each wing with their shot, which was
done; but they went off, and I suppose back,
to give an account of the reception they were
like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute
cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately
halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and
wheeling off to the left, they gave over their
design, and said no more to us for that time
which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifl'erent for a
battle with such a number.

Two days after we came to the city of
N sun, or Naum; we thanked the governor for
his care of us, and collected to the value of a
hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave
to the soldiers sent to guard us ; and here we
rested one day. This is a garrison, indeed,
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here ;

233

but the reason of it was, that formerly the
Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them titan
they now do, the Muscovites having abandona
ed that part of the country, which lies from
this city west for about two hundred miles, as
desolate and unfit for use; and more especially
being so very remote, and so difficult to send
troops thither for its defence: for we had yet
above two thousand miles to Muscovy, proper-
ly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers,
and two dreadful deserts; ono of which we
were sixteen days passing over; and which, as
I said, was to be called no man's land ; and,on
the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of
the Muscovile dominions. I think the first
town, or fortress, whichever it may be called,
that belonged to the czar ofMuscovy, was cal-
led Arguna, being on the west side of the river
Arguna.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfac-
tion that I was so soon arrived in, as I, called
it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a coun-
try governed by Christians; for though the
Muscoviles do, in my opinion,but just deserve
the name of Christians, yet such they pretend
to he, and are very devout in their way. It
would certainly occur to any man who travels
the world as I have done, and who had any
power of reflection, what a blessing it is to be
brought into the world where the name of God
and a Redeemer is known, adored, and wor-
shipped; and not where the people, given up by
heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil,
and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones;
worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images .of monsters.

Not a town or city we passed through but
had their pagoda, their idols, and their tem-
ples, and ignorant people worshipping even the
works of their own hands. Now we came
where, at least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus;
and whether ignoranlly or not, yet the Chris-
tian religion was owned; and the name of the
true God was called upon and adored, and it
made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the
brave Scots merchant I mentioned above with
my first acknowledgment of this; and taking
him by the hand, I said to him, Blessed be
God, we are once again among Christians.
He smiled, and answered, Do not rejoice too
soon, countryman; these Muscovitos are but
an odd sort of Christians; and but for the
name of it, you may see very little of the
substance for some months further of our
journey. '
Well,eaysI,hutstillitishetterthanpa-
ganism andwormipp pIag of devils --Why, I
will tellyou,sayshe, excepttheRussiansol-
diersinthegarriltnsnndafewol'theinhe-

ADVENTURES OF IOIINSON CBUSOE.

hinntsot'thecitiesnponthamd,all thenet,
ofthiscountryJoraboveathou-andmilesfir-
ther,isinhabitodby theworatandlnost igno-
rantet'pagans: Indy-o,indeed, wefetmdit.

 

SECTION XLW.

ROUTE THROUGH MUGOOVYr--ROBIISON AID A SCOTS HEICHAM DESTROY Al
IDOLr--THI WHOLE CARAVAN IN GREAT PHIL FROM I'Bl reason OF THE
PAGANS.--TOBOLSCI.--HUSSCOVITE "Halt--DEPARTURE FROM 1030148".--
INCOIHITER WITH A TBOOP Ol' BORDERS IN THE DISII'I'.--BOIIISOI "AC"!
ARCKAKGIL, AID FINALLY ABIIVIS 11' "GLAND.

We: were now launched into the greatest
piece of solid earth, if I understand any thing
ofthe auri'aceofthe g,lobe thatis tobeformd
in anyp part of the world; we had, at least,
twelve thousand miles to the sea, eastward-
twothousand tothe bottomot'the Balticsea,
westward; and above three thousand, if we
tell that sea and went on west, to the British
Ind French channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south;
andahouteighthundredto theFrosensea,
north. Nay,g if some people may be believed,
there might be no sea, northeast, till we came
round the pole, and consequently intothenorth-
west, and so had a continent ofland into
America, the Lord knows where; though I
could give sane reasons why [believe that to
be a mistake.

As we entered into the Muscovite domi.
nieas a good while befitre we came to any
considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
Iherebutthia: first, that allthe river-nun tn
the east; asIunderstoodbythecharts,which
some inourcaravanhad with them, it was
plain all those rivers ran into the greatriver
Yamour, or Amour; which river, by the na-
tural course of it, must run into the East sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us,
that the mouth of this river is choked up with
bulrushes ot' a monstrous growth, viz, three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high,I
must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of
it: but, as its navigation is nine use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartan, to
where it alone belongs, dealing in nothing but.
cattle, so nobody, that ever I: heardof ,bas
been curious enough either to go down to the
momhot'itinhoats,orcomeupfromtho
mouth ofitin ahips,asi'ar asIcanfind: but
thisiscettain, that thisriverrnnningeest, In
to latitude of about fifty degIees, carries a

vast concourse ofrivers alongwith it, and finds
anocean to empty itself in that latitude; so
we aresureofseathere.

Some leagues to the north of this river
there are moral outsider-able rivers, whose
strearnsrnnasduenorthas theYamour runs
east. and these are allt'ound tojoin their
mm with the great river Tenants, named
sot'rom the northernmost nations of the Mogul
Tartan; who, as the Chinese say, were the
first'l'artars in the world; andwho, asour
geographers allege, are the Gogand Magog
mentioned in sacred story. These rivers
running allnorthward,aswellas allthe other
rivers I am yet to speak If, malts it evident
that thenorthernocean hound-the land also
onthatsideuothatitdoes notseemratienal
inthe least to thinhthat thelandcanextend
itselftojoinwithAmericaonthatside,orthat
there is not a communication between the
nonhernand eastern ocean: bntd'thislshall
saynomore; itwasmyobservatitmatthattime,
andthersforeItakenoticeot'itinthisplace.

l)VlTe new advanced from theriver Arguna

beaay and moderate Journeys andwere very
visiblyobliged to the carethecmrofMus-
covy hastaken to have cities andtownsbnilt
inumanyplacesasitis pomibletoplsce
them, where his soldiers keep pgarI-ison,some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by
the Romans in the remotest of their
empire; some of which that hadroadof
were in Britain, for the security of
commerce, and for the lodging travellers: and
thus it was here; fiat wherever we came,
though attbeeetowns and stations the garri-
sons and governors were Russian andpro-
femed Christians, yet the inhabitants were
mere pagans; sacrificing to idols, and war-
shippingthenm,moon,andatars,orall thehnst
of heaven; and not onlyso, but'were,d'all
the heathens and pagans that ever Imet with,
the most barbarous, except only that they did
not eat men's flesh, as our savages of America
did.

Some instances of this we met with in the
country between Arguna, where we enter the
Muscovite dominions, and a. city of Tartars
and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in
which is acontinued desert or forest, which
cost us twenty days to travel over. In a vil-
lage, near the last of these places, I had the
curiosity to go and see their way of living,
which is most brutisb and unsufi'erable: they
had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; thr
there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree,
an idol, made of wood, frightful as the devil;
at least, as any thing we can think of to repre-
sent tho devil can be made: it had a head not
so much as resembling any creature that the
world ever saw; ears as big as goats' horns,
and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; a
nose like acrookcd ram's hom, and a mouth
extended four-comered, like that of a lion, with
horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under
bill: it was dressed up in the filthiest manner
that you could suppose: its upper garment was
of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a
great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two
horns growing through it: it was about eight
feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any
other proportion of parts.

This scarecrow was set up at the outer
side of the village ;,and, when I came near to
it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they
made no distinction by their habits, all laying
flat upon the ground round this formidable block
of shapelcss wood :I saw no motion among
them any more than if they had been all logs of
wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought
they had been so; but, when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and
raised a. howling cry as if it had been so many
deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away, as if
they were displeased at our disturbing them.
Alittle wnyofi' from the idol, and at the door of
a tent or but, made all of sheep-skins and cow-
skins dried, stood three butchers,--I thought
they were such; when I came nearer to them
I found they had long knives in their hands ;
and in the middle of the tent appeared three
sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer.
These, it seems, were sacrifices to that sense-
less log of an idol; the three men were priests
belonging to it, and the seventeen prostratcd
wretches were the people who brought the offer-
ing, and were makingthcir prayers to that stock.

I confess, I was more moved at their stupid- '

235

ity and brutish worship of a hobgoblin that ever
1 was at any thing in my life; to see God's
most glorious and best creature, to whom he
had granted so many advantages, even by crea-
tion above the rest of the works of his hands,
vested with areasonable soul, and that soul
adorned with faculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his Maker and be honoured
by him, sunk and degenerated to a degree so
very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful
nothing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up
by themselves, and made terrible to themselves
by their own contrivanee, adorned only with
clouts and rags; and that this should be the
effect of mere ignorance, wrought'up into hol-
lish ldcvotion by the devil himself; who, envy-
ing to his Maker the homage and adoration
of his creatures, had deluded them into such
sordid and brutish things as one would think
should shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and
reflection of thoughts ; thus it was, and I saw
it before my eyes, and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossible: all my
admiration turned to rage. and I rode up to
the image or monster, call it what you will,
and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet
that was on its head, and cut it in two;and one
of our men that was with me took hold of the
sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it;
when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howl-
Iing ran through the village, and two or three
hundred people came about my cars, so that
I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some
had bows and. arrows ; but I resolved from that
moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at. the town,
which was about four miles off, in order to
provide some horses which they wanted, sc-
veral of the horses having been lamed and
jaded with the badness of the way, and long
march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I
communicated my design to the Scots mer-
chant of Moscow, of whose courage I had suffi-
cicnttestimony ; I told him what I had seen, and
with what indignation I had since thought that
human nature could he so degenerate; I told
him, ifI could get but four or five men well
armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and
destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them
see that it had no power to help itself; and
consequently could not be an object of worship,
or to he prayed to, much less help them that
offered sacrifices to it.

He laughed at. me :--says be, Your zeal
may be good, but what do you propose to your-
self by it 7--Propose ! said I ; to vindicate the
honour ofGod,which is insulted by this devil-
worship .--But how will it vindiclte the ho-
nourof God, said he, while the people will not
be able to know who: you mean by it, unless
you could to them, nnd tell them no?
and then they will fight you, end beat you too,
I'll assure you; for they are desperate fellows,
and that especially in defence of their idolatry.
--Cnn we not, said 1,.do it in the night, and
then leave them the reasons and the causes in
writing in their own language 7~Writingl
said he; why there is not a man in five nation
of them that knows any thing of a. letter, or
how to read a word any way.--Wretched
ignorancelaeid I to him: however, I have n
great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw
inferences from it to them, to let them see how
brutish they are to worship such horrid things.
--Look you, sir, said he, if your uni prompts
youtoit aownrmly, you must do it; hut,in
the next place, I would have you consider,
these wild nations of people are subjected by
force to the our of M a dominion, and
if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come hythousands to tho ernor of Non-
zinsltoi, and demand satisfaction; and if be
central give them miafiction, it in ten to one
hut they revolt; and it will occasion u new
war with oil the Tartan in the country.
This, Icont'eas, put new thought: into my
head for awhile, but I harped upon the some
string still; and all that day [was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the
evening the Scots merchant met me by wei-
dont inour walkaboutthe town. and desired to
speak with me: I believe, mid he, I have put
you ofl'your good design ; I have been a little
concerned ehom it since; for I abhor idolatry
as much as you can do.--'I'ruly, said I, you
have put it ofl'n little, as to the exeemion of it,
hutyou have not put it outd'rny thoughts; and
I believe I shall do it before Iquit this place,
though I were to be delivered up to then! R>>
satisfaction--No, no, said he, God forbid they
should deliver you up to such a crew of mon-
sters! they shallnotdothatneither; thuwould
he murdering you Mad--Why, said I, how
would they use me?---Une you! said he, I'll
tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
afl'ronted them in their worship, justas you did,
and whom they took prisoner, after they had
iarnedhimfithannrrnw, thatheeould notrun
away: they took him and stripped him stark-
nakod, andocthim upon the topof the idol-
monster, andstoodnllarotmdhimnndahotas
many crows into him as would stick over his
whole body; andthentheyhurnt him, and all
thearrowutidtinginhim, unmifieototho

u

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

idol.--Andwasthiatheumeidol?aaidl,yea,
said ho, the very lame--Well, soidl, I will
tellyonletory. Solrelntedtheatoryofonr
menntM ,andbowtheyburnodand
sucked the village there, and killed man,
woonn, andcbild, fortheirmtndering onoot'
wmjmu itilrelated beforeaandl
added, thntI thought weonghttodosotothis
vill e.

I: listened very attentively tothe story; but
when I talked of doing no to that village, said
be, You mistake very much; inns notthis
village, itwnsalmootahundrod mileofi'omthis
place; hutitwutheaameidol, fortheyenrry
himehout in procouion niloverthe country.--
Woll, said I, then that idol oughttohepunish--
edfiirit;ond itnhall,asid[,ifllivethil

nightwt.

Inaword, findingmeresolnte, he likedthe
design, andtoldmelaliouldnotgoalone,but
hewouldgowithtne, huthewonldgofimnnd
bring snout fellow, ouoot'hisewno-ymen, to
gosloowithus;nndone,saidhe,asfnmous
forhia zealu youennduiro nnyonotobo
against such devilish things as these. In A
word, he brought me his oontrade, n Scotl-
man, whom he called Captain Richardson;
andl gave himefitll aoootmtofwhat I hsd
noon, andeloowhat I intended; and he told
me readily, hewouldgowith me ifiteoothim
hielife. Sowengreedtogo,anlywethree. I
had, indeed, proposed it tomy partner, buthe
declined it. He said, he was ready to assist
metatheutrnost, anduponalloeeasions, liar
my defence; but this was an adventure quite
outol'hisway;oo, Iny,weresolvedupanou
work, onlywethreoara'lmymnn-oervnnt, and
toput'gitzeemtionthatnightehoutmidnight,
with ' ' e.

Howeverffimxyaeoudw ta we were
willing to delay ittillthenennight, became,
thecaravan being toaetforward inthemorniog,
we supposed the govemoreonld notpretondto
givethern any misfactionnponne whonwe
were out of his power. The Scots merchant,
umeedyinhisrelolutiunformeenterprisema
hold in executing, me a Tmai'srohe
orgownofoheep-akim,and shounet,withs
bowandarrowo,endhadprovidedthosamefor
himselt'and his eotmtrytnun, that the people,
if they saw us, should not determine who we
were.

Atlthe first night we spentinmixingnp
some combustible matter withaqun-vita, gim-
powder, and suchother muerialeuwe could

et; and, having a good quentityol' tar in I
ittlepot, ahoutnnbownfier night we not out

uponourexpedmon.
mambodlutlnirwnnly,
thuinlhognuha,orunt,uweuflodit,
whgrowonwllntlmgprimwhomwonio-
mokforhtehm,.wenw| light;lnrlgoinC/
Ilpeloutolhedoot,weheudpooploulking
uifthenwmfinorlixoflhem:woeon-
dudodnbonfimnlmif wontwildfinlothe
idol, these men wwltlootnc out immodinloly
Indmnuptotbepluetomilfmntho
damnation lhatwoinundndforit;lndwhn
lo do withtlutnwolnowmt. Once we
Mightofunyingiumymdseuingfinlo
ituldistanco, hutwlim wee-me In handle
iywefotmdlnoobulkyixourwringe; Iowa
wenunlou-gnin. The-wondSeoI-mn
mforuuingfi'ototho teat <<Mud
kmekinghemallnlwenthenon the
had,whonlhoynmaout;bmlcmldnotjoin
with m; l wu mind killing them,if it.
were pouiblotouoidit. Well,thcn,nidtho
Seotsmcrdnnylwilltollymwhuwowilldo;
wowilltrytomko them prisouu, tietlzoir
hmds,undmlhlhommnd|ndmthoiridd
demoyed.
Asithappened,wehulwineorpwkw
enoughnbout. :3,th we modlolia our
firelucln wgether with; .0 we rotolvod lo
fincklhaopooplofill,lndwilhu little noise
.- wc could. Tbfimmingwodid,wo
hockodnthodoor,wlnn,onooflheprieul
coming wmmimmodiucly leiuduponhin,
stopped his mouth, Indtied hislnndshehind
him,udledhimtotheidol,whenwepgged
himlhubomighlnotmkonmiufliedhil
foetabotogotbu,andlafihimonthogmnd.
Twoofuthenwuitednthodoor,npeaing
Mmeomtowwh-nbo
mummflutwowniwl Inlangtilltho
thirdmmobwktomzwthenmbody
mhgmwoknoekedaglingudy, ind
inmdimlyontanotwomo,mdwomed
fienjuinthomm,huwmob-
ligedtogolllwilhthenmndhythmdown
bytboiddn-odiflmfmm mm;
"going",wohmdtwomwm
mummodoa.nnduhirduoodhhind
thanwithintlndou. Woniudlholwo,"

287

flinzlpytlmtiuotlu otherSeouu-n ml
layman," althotwom
MMthomtdmbylholm,"
(henna-yawn idolmnd kfitlwn Ihmto
neiflheir idol mldreliove humiliating
Malawian.
Whulhefmuwohtlthminhdfilled
thehtuwithmnnhmhdmthqm
the>> animated, women threw in nunnll
lmhwhgiankind,whiuhflamedlih
Handle, Ind fiallowingitin, wobudthm
wmhufiwpooplo,|nd,uwomppoud,hnd
beau-Mm affluird'nbolic sacrifice.
The, w,inlhm,frightmdwdmh,
nlanwuwdtnmhlia;uudmid,;nd
notdllo to uhherflonlnumke.
hnwwd,wvtoakdzm,bandlhmuwo
haddouethaotbanndlllwithunuyuobo.
[thenidwo themouloftho
hotu,orhn,fuu;fotindeedwowmnoubh
when tho mob Inymtlnnlheywm.
Whonwehadduoa this," anhdmomull
togetherto'lhoidol:whenwom than"
fell Iowukwithhin; Indfimwodlnbed
hhnlllovct,undhiambualn,wilhtu,md
mh'dwauweMwhich mallow
miudwithbrimmfihmwe his
eyuand out and mlhfinllmfgmpowder;
thenwe wnppodupugrmpieeonfwildfin
in his bonnetggnd lhmnickingalltheeon-
butibleswa hndbmldnwithmuponhin,
waloolwdlboutmloeifwe endiflndlny
thingalutobelpmbtn-nhinfwhanmy
Scotsman remembend thu It'll>> mm, a
hugwhmthemwmnhuohy'bapol

We myod byithmfletoflnhou,u
mammhfio "and
mnhudunol'thoidolblew q),uxl,u
mafipomhghdqflhmddefilmdtb
' Ind, ill-Mill wellwil

will all Methanol!" into this,

hmylmlbl'onpwuhuntdownmnd

tumulyndl-nm . -
Ahmfiuw-pufimod, "M
in the morning among our fellow travellers,
exceedingly busy in getting ready for our
journey; nor could any_ man suggest that we
had been any where but In our beds, as travel-
lers might be supposed to be, to fit. themselves
for the fatigues of the day's journey.

But the atl'air did not end so; the next day
came a great number of the country people to
the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian
governor for the insulting their priests, and
burning their Cham Chi-Thaungu. The peep
ple of N ertzinsltoi were at first in a great con-
stemation, for they said the Tartar-s were
already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to
appewe them, and gave them all the good
words imaginable; assuring them that he
knew nothingof it, and that there had not a
soulinhis been abroad, sothatit
could not be from any body there; but if they
could let him know wyho did It, they should be
exemplarilypunished Thevreturnedhsnghtily,
that all the country reverenced the great Chant
Chi-Thanh gu, who dwelt in the sun, and no
mortal would have dared to oll'er violence to
his image but some Christian Inherent; and
they therefore resolved to denounce war against
him and all the Rumians, who, they said, Were
miscreants and Christian.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to
make a. breach-or to have anycsuseof war
alleged to be given by him, the Czarltaving
strictly charged them to treat the conquered
country with gentleness and civility, gave
them still all the good words he could. At
'ast he told them there was a caravan gone
towards Russia that morning, and perhapsit
was some of them who had done them this
injury , and that if they would besatistied With
that, he would send after them to inquire into it.
This seemed to appease them a little; and
accordingly the governor sent alter us, and
gave In a particular account how the thing
was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it, they should make their
escape; but that, whether we had done it or
no, we should make all the haste forward that
was possible; and that, inthemeontime,he
wouldkeeptheminpla playaslougashecould.

This was very fiiendly in the governor;
however, when it came to the caravan, there
wasnobody knewanythingofthe nutter;
andasforusthatwere guilty,wewereleastof
all suspected. However, the of the
caravan for the time took the hint thatd'tha
governor gave us. and we travelled two ys
andtwonigbts without anyconsiderablestop,

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

and then we layatavillage called Plothm:
nordidwe makeanylongstopbere,butbsss-
erred on towards Jarswens, another of the car
of Muscovy's colonies. and where we expected
we should be safe. But upon the second day's
march from Plothus, by the clouds of drut
behind in at a great distance, some of our
people began to be sensible we were pursued.-
We had entered a great desert, and had passed
byagreat lakecalled SchalrsOser,when we
perceived a very great body of horse appear
on the other side of the lake, to the north, we
travelling west. We observed they went away
west, as we did, but had supposed we would
have taken that side of the lake, whereas we
very happilyhe took the south side; and tn two
days more they disappeared gain: for they,

believing we were still before them, ptshed on
till they came to the river Udda, a very great
river when it passes farther north, but when
wecametoitwefounditnamwandfirrdable.

The third day, theth sithsrtbund their
minalte, or had intelligence of II, and came
pouringinuponustowardstheduskofthe
evening. We had, toour great satisfaction,
jrst pitched upon a place for our camp p, which
was very convenient for thenight; fibres we
were upon a desert, but 'at the hegtn-
ning of it, that wasabove live hundred miles
over, wehad no towns to lodge at, and indeed,
expected none but the city Jarawena, which
wehadyettwodayslnarchto;lhedeaert,
however, had some few woods it on this'side,
and little river-s, whichran all into the great
river Udda ; it was in a narrow strait, between
little, but very thick woods, that we pitched
our littlecampfor that night, oxpectingtobe
attacked before morning.

Nobody knew but ornselves what we were
pursuedfyor: butasitwasusualfortheMogul
Tartar-s to go aboutin troopsin thatdmert,
so the caravans always fortify themselves every
nightagainsttheuaasagaimtarmiesd'robbers;
and It was therefore no new lobe pursued.

But we hadthil night")! thenights of
our travels, a most IflW camp; fire
we lay between two woods, with a little rlvulet
runningjustbet'orewfiont, sothatwe could
notbenrrrotmded,mattaekedanywaybtttin
ourfrontorrear. Wetnohcarealsotomake
our from as as we cordd, by placing
our packs, with our camels and horses, all m

aline,on the insideot'theriver, andfdling
some trees in our rear.

In this postme we sneaaped forthe night;
but the enemy was nptm II befits wahrl
finished our situation. They did not earns on
us likethiem,as weeapoctedflrutlmllh.
mileage" to us, to demand the mentobe
delwered to them that had abused their priests,
and burned their god Churn Chi-Thaungu
with fire, that they might burn them with fire;
and upon this, they said, they would go away,
Ind do us no farther harm, otherwise they
would destroy us all. Our men looked very
blankatthis we, and began to stare at
one another, to see who looked with the most
guilt in their faces: but.mbotly was the word;
nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent
word he was well assured that it was not done
by any of our camp; that we were pcacenble
merchants. travelling onour husincs; that we
had done no harm to them or to any one also;
and that, therefore, they must look further for
their enemies who had injured them, for we
were not the people; so desired them not to
disturb us, fir, if they did, we should defend
ourselves.

They were far from being satisfied with
thieforananSWerzanda crowdot'them
came running down indie morninghy break of
day, to our camp; but seeingus insuehanun-
accountable situation, they durst come no for-
ther than the brink in our fionywhere theystnod,
and showed us such a number that indeed ter-
rified us very rmch; lbr those that spoke least
of them spoke of ten thomnd. Here they
stood and looked at us awhile, and then setting
up u. greathowl, they let fly acloudot'arrows
among us; but we were well enough litrtified
for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and ldonotretnetnherthatoneofuswas hurt.

Some time after this, we saw them more a
little to our right, end expected them on the
mnwhenacunningfellow, aComckot'
Jarawena, in the pay of the Musoovites, call-
ing to the leader of the caravan, said to him,
I'll go send all these people away to Siheillta;
this was a city four or five days' join-nay at
least to the right, and rather behind us. So he
takes hisbowandarrows.andgettingon
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly,
as it were hack to Nertzinskoi; alter this, he
takesa gmtcireuit sbout,andootnesdireetly
onthe oftheTartsrs,asifhehadheen
sentespresstotnllthem a loogstoryflhatthe
people whohadhtanedtheCharn Chi-Thanngu
weregonetoSiheillta, withaeuavanot'mis-
aeants, as healledtlwtnflhat is tossy,
Christians: andthat theyhsdreeolved tohurn
the godeIi-Isar,belonging to the Tongueses.

As this fillow was huelfa merehz'artar,
and posted spoke their language; coin.
terfeitsdso'welnhattheyalltoditfi'ombin,
and anytheydrovein a mostviolurtlas'ry
to Mwhieh. it seats," five days'

239

journey to the north; and in less than thee
hoursthey wereentirelyotuot'otrsight,andwe
never heard any more of them, nor whether
they went to Siheilks or no. So we passed
away safely on to Jarawena, where there was
s garrison of Museovites, and there we rested
five days; the caravan being exceedingly fati~
gued with the lost day's hard march, and with
want ofrest in the night.

From this city we had a. frightful desert,
which held us twenty-three daye' march.
We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating mix-selves in the
night; and the leader of the csravan procured
sixteen carriages, or wagons of the country,
fix carrying our water or provision: and
these carriages were our defence, every night,
round our little (amp; so that had the Tarlnra
appeared, unless they had been very numerous
indeed,theywouldnothavebeenabletohtnus.

We rnayweltbesu towantnetagain
after this long journey; [or in this desert we
neithersawhousenortree,andaeareeabush;
though we saw abundance of the sahlehun-
ters, who are all Tartars of the Mogul Tarh
tary,ofwhich this country input; and they
frequently attack small mum, but we saw
no numbers of them together.

After we had passedthis desert, weeatne
into a country pretty well inhabited; that is
to say, we found towns and castles, settled try
the czar of Masonry, with garrison of sta-
tionary soldiers, to the mavens, and
defend the country againetthe Tartan, who
wouldvotherwise make it very dengue-tetra-
velling; end his wish majesty has given
such strict orders for the well guarding the
warmandmerehants, that, it'thereareany
Tartan heard of in the ootmtry, detachments
ofthogsrrisotuarealwayssenttoseethetrap
vellsrs safe from station Inflation. And thI-
thegovemot'Adinekoy,whomlhadan

it] to make a visit to,bytneans ot
the Scots merchant, who was ' with
him,od'eredasaguardotfifiytnen,ifwe
W there was any danger, to the nut
was.

oops-es

through, where wesawthesametoteud'
paganinnandharharityashefire; only,-
theywmemqwedbytheMwfimthsy
"undertone!
hikitnot'bcastamndtheir houses are built
oftheaarne; youknownota manl'rorna
woman, neither by the ruggedness of their
countenancea nor their clothes; and in the
winter, when the is covered with snow,
they live under ground in vaulta, which have
cavities going from one to another.

If the Tartan had their Charn Chi-Thaungtt
for a whole village or country, these had idols
in every but and every cave: besides, they
Worship the etars, the out, the water, the anew,
and, in a word, every thing they do not under-
atand, and they understand but very little, so
that every element, every uncommon thing.
lets them asacrificing. I met with nothing
peculiar to myself in all this country, which
I reckon was, from the deacrt I spoke of last,
at least four hundred miles, half of it being
another desert, which took us up twelve days
severe travelling, without houso or true; and
we were obliged again to carry our own provi-
sions, as well water as bread. After we were
out of thin desert, and had trnvclhxd two days,
wv came to Januay, a Mincwitc city or station
on the great river Janezay, (Yenisey,) which,
they told us tin-re, parted Europe from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism
atill prevailed, except in the Muscovito garri-
aons; all the country between the river Oby
and the river Janeray is as entirely W,
and the people as WIS, a: the rcmotcstol'
the Tartars; nay. as any nation, for aqht I
know, in Asiaor America. I alsol'ound, which
I observed to the Muscovite govomont whom
I had anopportunityto converse with, that the
poor pagans are not much wiser, or nearer
Christianity, for being under the Muacovite
government, which they acknowledged was true
enough; but that, as they said, war none of
their businesa: that if the our expected to
convert his Siberian, Tongueee, or Tartar
subjects, it should be done by sending clergy-
men among them, not soldiers; and, they
added, with more sincerity than I expected,
that they found it was not so much the concern
of their monarch to make the people Christiana
as it was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great river Ohy, we
crousedawild unurltivated cotntry,barrcn of
people and good management, otherwise it in
in itaell'a moat pleamnt, finitful, and agreeable
country. What inhabitanta we found in it are
all pagana, except ouch as are aentamong
them fiom Bosnia: for this is the country, I
mean on both rides the river Oby, whither the
Mucovite crimimla that are not put to death
are haniahed,andfiomWhenee it ianextto
inpuible they mu evc come away.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

I have nothing material to cay of my parti-
cular flair: till I came to Tobolnki, the capi-
tal city of Siberia, where I continued Dome
time on the firllowing occasion. .

We had now been almost men months on
our journey, and winter began to come on
apace; whereupon my partner and I called a
council about our particular affairs, in which
wofiiunditpmpernawewerebmndforI-an-
land, and not for Moscow, to consider how to
dispose ofourselvea. They told us of aledgee
and reindeer to carry in over the snow in the
winter time; and, indeed, they have such
thing: that it would be incredible to relate the
particulars of, by which means the Russians
travel more in the winter than thoy can in
summer, as in these sludges they are able to
run night andtlay; the new being frozen, is
one universal covering to more, by which the
hills, wales, rivers, and laltea, are all smooth and
hard as a stone, and they run upon the surface,
without any regard to what is undemeath.

But I had no occasion to push at a winter
journey of this kind: I was bound to England,
not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either I must goon as the caravan went, till I
came to Jamelaw, and then go 06' west tor
Narva, and the gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China
cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the
mvan at a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but aix days by water to Arch-
angel,and from thence might be sure of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.

Now, to go any of theae journeys in the
winter would have been preposterous: for as
to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen
up,andIcouldnot getpauage; and togoby
landinthoeo countries waat'ar less safe than
among the Mogul Tartan; likewise, to go to

el in October, all the ships would be
gone from thence. and even the merchants who
dwell there in ctlnnter retire aouth to Moscow
in the winter, when the abipo are gone; In
that I could have nothing but extremity of cold
to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions,
andmtlieinau ytownallthewinter:
aothat,upon tho whole,lthotrght it much my
better way to let the caravan go, and make
provision to winter where I was, at Tobolaki,
inBiberia, in thelatiutded'ahoutlixty degrees,
wherolwuaure efthreethingatowearout
acold winter with, viz. plenty of "him,
such as the cumtryafl'orded, a warm house,
with fuel enough, and excellent company.

[Iva-now in aquitedifl'eren climatein-
mybelovedialand,wherelnever feltcold,
enceptwbenl bad nyagne; entheeontnry,
themeulficienuywem.

AuoewermhoueJmuteoul'es-Igmdy
dielikedwrwny in Enghnd ofmekingfireein
every room infirehminopenchimneyl,
which,whenvhefirewuom,nlweyekepnhe
lirinlheroomcoldulheclimte; Making
an apartment in a house in the Iown,l
ordered e chimney I>> he built like e finance,
in the centre of nix never-l room, like I
Ion; the funnel Iowrylhelmoke went up
onewuy,thedoertomezlhefirewenlin
Imam, Ind ell the rooms were kept equally
m.hutnofire eeen,just utheyheeuhe
Mgnios in Englnnd. By this new, we Ind
nlweyI the eune clinme in all the rooms,
and an equal hen wu preserved; Indhow
cold never it we! without, it we: nlweyl
wum within; and yet we new no fire, nor
Wm ever inoovnmoded with make.

The most wonderful lhingof all m, that
it should hepoeeihle to meelwilhgoodeem-
punyhere, ineemmtryeoherhlmmulhuol'
the mast nonherly pen: of Europe, neer the
fiuen ocean, within but I. very few degree.
oI'Nm Zenhll. But this being the may
wherethe ewe criminals of Masonry, u I
observed before, era all finished, this city
was full of noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers,
and mien of Mueeovy. Here we: the
Emma prineeGellitzen, the old general Ro-
hollilki, and seven] olherpenomofnole,
Indemnelndiee. ByneenaofnySeou
merchant, who-n, nevertheless, I parted with
here, I mule-n enquainlmee wilhmenlof
these gentlemen; lndfmmtheee,mthelon,g
wiumnighbinwhichleuyedhereflreeew-
edeevenlveryegreeehl

:
i.
5.
a
E
Er

l
a
g
i

i
i
s.
5
g _
all '

E
ii

241

himhilwouderwoddeeuewhenlhnd-
' nay-ell! Mludhiulhdlhu'
diepeealoftbelineudl'arnneedel
my whjean;lhnl,notmlheunding nyehew
hmpower,lhedno(onepemndhefl'ecaedlo
uygovmywtomypumineflmydw'
minim. Hedieokhianeaduihu,mdnid,
there,indeed,louldiddieearofMuseovy.
Iloldhimlhuellthelnndeinnykingdon
were nym.|ndullmynbjeeu werenol
only nylemnu,bmlenenuuwill; the:
meyweulddlfghtfornetothehndmp.
Indllmmeanar-nchl
nyeelftobe,wuemeonnivernllybeleved,
undyeuehorrihlyfeuedhyhie-fiecu.
~Mer Inning hiuwilhlheneriddleu'.

prinee,wholo|dme,withueiC/
mmol'lifewutnhemofour-
eelvee; that he would not have
Memudlifeuminewhemreflvlne-
wry;lndlhnlhefolmdmonfelicity inthe
ntinmenlhemmedloheheniehedlofltere',
thumrhel'omdinthehi'hutwlhorilyho
enjoyed incheeormdhieuunerllwm;
Mlheheighlofhmnwiedomwutohrin'
our dawnmouciranflnnceenndm
mete u eelm wilhinunrdenhe weigh! ol'ihe
meilhem. Whmheeunefnt
bimonhe nidhemedtounrlheheirfm
hisheed.|ndtheclothesfremhisheck,u
olhershnddonehefirehin;hmnliulelimo
nndconeiderniouhndrnndehimlootinlohin-
ulfiuwellummdhinflothinguwilhmt:
lhuhel'wnd themindofnnnflfltwuhut
oncehrmghtlorefleaupulheweofmfi-
1ernllife,lnd howlinlelhisworlrl ween.
modiniuuuefelicity,wuperfectlyupo-
hhefukhglfilidtyirmfuflymfl'r
ingmibefiudaflebinewnheneub
and denial, with but very little adenine-
Trenduwerflflnnirbhr-Ihe intend>>
miulife,dotheefirwuuh,udlihenyfir
melee,inerderhhedth,eenqleted,hhi
opiniou,|lllhnlheworfl'::fldeku;
Indthwghthegmhel, 'M,C/b'
rfielnndlheplmelwhian-qayd
Idaewerld,hulnuehhlhenllmmw
ehletemyetullheeem'ngedfidyyd-
"ammonium-flue.
and sauna-liq; unwind,

Marthe "uranium-Io h
themselvescrimes,andhad inthetntheseeds
ofall manner ofcrimes; but neither were re-
lated to, noreoncemed with, any of those vin-
tuesthatconstituteduswise men,or ofthose
(races that distinguished us as Christians;
that being new deprived of all the fancied
felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise
(1' all those vices, he said he was at leisure to
look upon the dark side of tltem, where he
found all manner of deformity, and was now
convinced thatvirtue only makesn man truly
wise. rich, and great, and preserves ltirn in the
way to a superior happiness in a future state;
and in this, he said, they were more happy in
their banishment than all their enemies were,
who had the full ion of all the wealth
and power they had lefl. behittd them. Nor,
sir, says he, do I bring my mind to this poli-
tically, by the necessity of my circumstances,
which some call miserable; bttt, if I know any
thing of myself; I would not now go back,
though tlte czar my master should call me,
and reinstate mo in all my former grandeur: I
ssy,Iwould nomore goboclttoitthanlbe-
lteve my soul, when it shall be delivered from
thisprisonol'the body,andhas hadatasteoi'
the glorious state beyond life, would comeback
to the gaol offleslt and blood it is now enclosed
in, and leave heaven, to deal in the dirt and
crime of human afi'airs.

He spoke this with so much warmth in his
temper, so much earnestness and motion of
his spirits, that it was evident it was the true
sense ol'his soul; there was no room to doubt
his sincerity. I told hitn 1 once thought my-
selfa kind of monarch in myold station, of
which I had given him an account ; but that I
thought he wasnot only a monarch, buts great
conqueror; for that he that has got a victory
over his own exorbitant desires, and the ab-
solute dominion over himself, whose reason
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater
than he that conquers a city. But, my lord,
saidl, shall I takethe libertytoaslt you a
question 1--With all my heart, says he. If
the door of your libertywas opened, said I;
would you not talte hold of it to deliver you
bout this exile '.'--Hold, said he; your ques-
tion is subtile, and requires some serious, just
distinaions, to give it a sincere answer; and I
will give it you from the bottom of my heart.
Nothing that Ihnowofinthis world would
move me to deliver myself ion-t this state of
banishment, except these two; first, the enjoy-
ment of my relations: and, secondly, a little
warmer climate: but! protest to you, thatto
go hackto the pomp ofthe oourt,theglory,
the power, the hurryd'stninister ofstate;

ADVENTURES OII' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

the wealth, the gayety, and the pleasures of a
oourtier;ifmymnstershouldsendmewosd
thismotnentthst he mm toallhe be-
nished me from, I protest, if] know myself
at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen Isles, thr the palace
at Moseow.--But, my lord, said I, perhaps
you not only are hanist from the pleasures
of the court, and from the power, authority,
and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may
be absent too from some ofthe conveniences
of life; your estate, perhaps, confiscated and
your efl'ects plundered; and the supplies let!
you here may not be suitable to the ordinary
demands of life.--Aye, says he, that is as you
suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, Ste. ; so,
indeed, I am; but you are now to consider
me only 33 a man, a human creature, not at all
distinguished from another; and so I can suffer
no want, unless I should be visited with sick-
ness and distemper: However, to put the
question out of dispute, you see our manner;
we are, in this place, five of rank; we
live perfectly retired, as suited toa state of
banishment; we have something rescued from
the shipmk of our fortunes, which keeps us
Guru the mere necessity of hunting for food;
but the poor soldiers, who are here without
that help, live in as much plenty as we, who
gointothewoodsandeatehsablesutdfoses;
the labour of a month will maintain them a
year; and, as the way of living is not expen-
sive, so it is not hard to get suflicient to our-
selves. So that objeetion is out of doors.

I have not room to give afull account ofthe
rnost agreeable conversation I had with this
truly great man; in all which he showed that
his mind was so inqired with a superior
knowledge of things, so supported by religion,
as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his
contempt of the world was really as much as
he had expressed, and that he was always the
same to the last,aswill appearinthestory I
am going to tell.

I had been bereeightmonths,anda dark,
dreadful winter, I thought it ; thecold so intense
thatleouldnotsomuchas lookabroadwith-
out being wrapped infurs, and a maskoffur
before my face, or tamer a hood, with only a
hole for breath, and two for sight: the little
daylight we had was, as we reclined, for
threetnooths,notabove five hours sday,and
six at most; onlythatthe snow lyingontbe
ground continually, and the weather clear, it
was never quite dark. Our horses were kept,
or rather starved, , and as for our
servants,whotnwehired heretolooksflu
ottrselrns and horses, we had,evsrynowsad
prettygoodml. Authemd'provieiw-
hibewimumhidupinflaemmernnd
well cwed:ourdrinkmnler,mixed with
qua-vita imndol'bnndyzmdforolreu,
meld ill-lead of wine, which, lpwovu,lhey
hue emelleot good. The homemwhoven-
mehmdellweuhm,frequendyblwgmm
in fine venison, and lonelimel bun' flesh,
but we didnoxounheenfoc the lost. We
hdegoodnodofm,wilhwhichwemed
ourfriende,ulbon,lndwelivedvorycheer-
fully-ad well, I" (hinge cauidored.
ItwumwMemh,thedayl nonuni-
denblyloogu,md the weatheruleuttole-
nblenotbeochermvellmbegumprepue
dodges lowrylhem o'ver the mommdlo
geuhingimdytobegoing; Immylneuum
beingfixod,ullnvenid,fix el,end
mfiermovyorlbeB-hic,lmedom
motion; know' very well that the ship-
fmm the lamb not no: out hr am pm
offlleworldtillMoya-June,endlhufl
lmdmebylhobegimingofAWit
would be In low I: In, ships would he
roadylogolny;ondlbemforelmdono
bmelobegooe,udbeudid:ineword,l
nugget: may people, mynlllhe Invol-
leu,goonybel'oaeme. filament,
ymlheygofiomlheooemvayfit
hde,vix.loeuryfim,lndbuynecemriee,
which theyhring beck rid: them to finish
their shape: ohozldmo went on % nine
unndloAroh-ng Huxlhen they be'
to em hock Igo'n, ehove eight but]:
milee,weoC/dlomhelaeue.

E
3
i

E. .

243

dumdhiooweueinuqecilnydngeos
nfityoflhepeople'hombenidndhilhc.
Wemutoundedwithluoogenhiopun-
honor kahuna the oath-He Innoc-
vignbleoeeon,wbetedfipoevorleiled,lnd
hum mm;overyo1het woynve
haematite-topo-
.. end

otherinyuothexitilinuinbmenptit.
Iwu oileoeed,indeed,uooee,eodimnd
Ibuuhoywenioe prieooeveryjotulewre
uitheyhodbemlookodupinlbeunlen
Moeeow:hmver,ileomeinlo mythoughu
lhltlnighl'fimehly Mdmmhu mum
bopmune ompe om
eon; end that, whuem heard 1 nos"!-
waddoerteinlylryiflaxddeurybimofl'.
Upcomiollookenoeouioomneeveningno
lellhimzn' "taught. I npneenled whim
thuilwuveryeuyformetoolnyhin
oweynherebeingnogimdomhininlhe
mun-nuiuln-ootgoingloMoooew,
hntoArchengel,mdMIwemhlhen-
Iinued'eoenvm, bywhich I wont
obligedtolieioihenfiourymwuindae

I
nfonloogwivhmesendutohueohemeoee,
IM other partials", it than" be male,
Lillhecouldhenernpplyhimoelf.

He heard me nrymulivd], Ind looked
umenlyoo mellow whilelnpoh;ny,
coddeee inhieveqfieelhuwhulaid
puthil Ipirill mammogram; '

H
youol'myeootomptdthe would? Did you
believelepokentyveryaoulto you, end that I
hed really obtained that. degree of felicity here
that had placed are above all that the world
eouldgireme'l Did you believelwaseincere
whenItoldyoquouldnotgohaek,iflwu
recalledeven tobe ell thatl once walinthe
court, with the favour of the cur my manor?
Did you believe me, my friend, to he an
honed men; or did you believeme tobee
boa-ting hypocrite ? Here he , as if
he would hear what I would say; but, indeed,
I aoon alter perceived that he atopped became
his apiriut were in motion, hie great heart
wan full of etrugglee, and he could not go on.
I was, I confuse, astonished at the thing as
well aaatthemnn,ondlusedeomeargu-
ment- with him to him to net himqu
freetthat he ought to look upon this a: a
door opened by Heaven for his deliverance,
and a summons by Providence, who he: the
care and dispoaition of all events, to do him-
eelf good, and to render himself useful in the
world.
He had by this time recovered himself:
How do you know, eir, says he warmly, but
that, instead of n Inltunone from Heaven, it
may he a faint of another instrument; repre~
renting in alluring colours to me the ahow of
felicity an a deliverance, which may in itself
be my snare, and tend directlyto my ruin?
Here I unfree from the temptationof re-
turning to my former miserable greatness;
there I unnot m but that-ll the acedsof
pride, embition, avarice, and luxury, which I
know remain in nature, may revive and take
root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me;
and then the happy prisoner, whom you nee
now malterol' his soul'a liberty, shall be the
miter-hie slave of hill own eeneee, in the full
of all pereoItal liberty. Dear air, let me re-
main in this hleaed confinement, banished
from the critnee of life, rether than purchase
n show offreedont at the expeltee ofthe liberty
of my reason, and at the future happineee
which I now have in my view, but shall then,
I fear, quickly loee eight of g for I am but
ooh; a man, a. more men; have pensions
and afl'ectinne as likely to posses and even-
throw mea- anyman:0 he not myfriend
and tempter both together!

If I we: Iurprised before, I was quite dumb
new, and stood Iilent, looking at him, and, in-
deed, admiring whatlraw. The ein
h'neoul weegreamhat though theweather
wuextrntelycold.itputhiminto amoet
violent eweagand Ifound he wantedto give
mtohiemhdgeollaidawerdortwo,

ADVENTURES 0" ROBINSON 030803.

thathouldleevehimtoet--idarofit,"
waitonhimagain,andthenlwithdrewtomy
ewnaparvneat.
Ahoetlwohoueafber,lbeard
aternearthedoorot'myrootn,andlwae
pingtoopenthedoor,huthehedopenedit,
andcamein. Mydearfriend,eayehe,yeu
hadalmoet ovueet me,hut I an recovered.
Domtalreitillthatldonoteleeewithym
ofl'er;Iaeeureymitianotforwantofeenee
ofthekindneeeot'itinyouzandlcameto
make the meet-income adnowledgrnentofit
toyouzbutIhopeI have gotthevictory
over myeelfi--My lord, eaid I, I hope'you
arefullyeatlefied that you do not resist the
cell dilution--Sir, nidhe,ifit hadheen
from Heaven, the lame power would have
influencedmetohaveaeceptedit: but Ihope,
endarn fully eatiofied,thatitiefromHeaven
that! declined it; and I have infinite natio-
faction in the parting,thatyou ehall leavetne
enhonefimanatillfihoughnotafreemn.

I had nothing todohut to aequieece, and
makepmfeeeionatohimofmybavingnoend
in ithuta aincere deeire toeervehint. He
embraced me very paniomtely,endaeeured
mebe wae sensible ofthat,andrhouldalwayn
<<knowledge it;andwiththat heofl'eredme
avery fine preeent d'eablel, too much, indeed,
formetoa fromamaninbie circum-
etnncee,endeould have avoided them,hut
hewouldnotberefi-ed.

The next morning I eentmyeerventtehie
lordship withaemall of toa,andtwo
pieeeeofChinadamek,andfiawlittlewedgee
ofJapangold,whiehdidnotallweighehove
aixotmceeortbereabae,hutwerefareborto(
the valueof his eahlee, which, whenI come
toEngland, Ifoundworth near- two hundred
potmde. He aeoeptedthetemandone piece
ofthedamask,andoneofthe pieces ofgold,
whiehhadefinennrnpupon it,ot'theJapan
coinage,whiehlfoundbetookforthe rarity
of it, but would nottahe mymore;nndhe
sent word bymyeervant thathe deaired to

withme.

When I came to him,betoldme1hnew
whethadpasaed between ne,andhopedI
wouldnotmove himanymoreinthatafi'air;
hutthat,eince I hadmade ouch agenevou
otTertohim,heuhedmeifIhndkindoe-
enough to offer the lame to anotherpereen
thalhewouldnametomefinwhombehed
agreatrhareofconcern. Itold birntbatI
eouldnotuylinclinedtodoeomuehforany
but himself, for whom I had a '
value,andahouldhaveheeogladtohavebe.
tbeimnmnentd'hiedelivennee; howevc,
huttoldhimlwould
inletzinghitn
yonhieeecennt:
endtheteee cenflnntpreveilonhimfl
wouldehowmyrcepeatohimhymyconeern
hie-onghuttheee uetnotedione
iepeethere. He cent ewey the nut dey
Iii-eon; endinehomltwentydeyeheceine
heck withthemeeee eixoreeven

3
iii
a
z

for
to
hr

indie whole, emountedtoeverygreetvelne.
Hhmmhoughtdnehorminmhetown,
hinlefithcyonnglordetedmencetillnight,
when hecenieineoguito into ourepertnieiit,
endhie hiefetherpreuntedhimtome,end, in
ehori,w weeoneenedthemennerot'onrtmel-
Iingendevcry thingproperlbrthejouney.
I bed in considerable qmntity of
nhlee,hleeh nlune, fine eminennndeiich
otherfimu veryrich, indietcity,in
endimgefiireoincot'thegoodelhedhrought
"Chine; ferthe clovce end
vlvnhichI eold the greeteetpert
the mteflerweids etArchengel,
prieethenleutldheveg ot
ypertner, whoweeeeneihle
t. whoeebueineeetnoreperti-
ailerly thenniine wee merchandise, wee
mightily plceeedwithouretemneecountol'
we.medehere .
weethe ingoflunowhenllefllhil
pleee,ecity,1helicve, little heerdof
"3""

hotter
;tnend
of end

.indeed,itieeoferotitof
cenunerce,thetlknownot howit
dioddbcmuchtelkcdof. Wewetenown-

tnevevyeinellcenven,hevingonly

-twohoreceendeemcleinell,endellot'
peeeedfiiiininenhoughmynewgueet
proprietor etnrol'devenofthcinfltweetnoet
nem-eleleothet Iehonldtekemeeemnte
withmethenlhedhefiireundtheyeunglord
pe-edfonnyetewerd;whetgreetimnlpee-
eedformyeclfiiknowmt,neitherdiditcon-
mmetninquin. Wehedheretheworet
endthelergeetdceerttopeeeoverthetwe
metwithinourwholejotnneyflcellitthe
Mbeceneethoweywuverydcepinlome
Mendvcry uneveninotheie; theheet
wehedtoeeyfiwitweeflhexwethoughtwe
Hmnoopeaf'l'ertenermhhentnfeer,
diluttheynevuceineonthieeiletheriver

245

Ohymretleenhtlvuynldo-g "we"
itaherw'iee.
MyymgladhedefiidifiiMu-eevhc
nthueSihwhnmwhewu
minedwiththecomtrymndledmbypfl-
mMnthtweevoidedeeuingiilohe
pincipeltowneendeitieenpcnthegnetned,
encheeTtenen,Se|oyK.eieini,end-evevel
odicveneceucthoflwvitegurieuwiifl
enhepttheveerevery mendnia'm
theiroheervetieeweetievellerenndeeeich-
ingleet enyofthehenidiedpenoneofm
ehonldmeltetheir eecepethetweyintoMm-
my; hathythillneem,eewewcvchpteC/
dihedtiegeoeurwholcjowneyweeede-
lon,endwewcreehligedto endlie
inuntcnte,whenwemighthevehedvery
goodeeeotnmodetionintheciticeonthcwey:
tliietlieymniglodweeeoeeneibleofithethe
wouldnotellowiietolieehvoedwhenweceme
to~eevcvel citieeonthcwey,htnleyehmd
hhmcmwithhheuvmgintheweoh,ene
metueelweyiettheeppointedpleeee.
WewerejtltenteredEnmpeJevingpu-
eedtheriverKeme; whichinthceenerte'n
the hetwcenEuiupeendAliIJtId
diefiretcityontheEurepeeneidewucelled
SoloyKem-koi.whidiieumucheetemy,
thegreetciiyoetheriverKenie: endheiewe
thoughttoeeeeeineevidentelteretioninbc
people; hutwewmminekmfiireewehed
evutdeeert to pe-,whieh ie user-even
litindredniileebngineomeplecee,hntnet

""8"
fiillofidde.endtheirweyd'livingwhollyhei~
hmemeptinthecitice, uehflve,elllthe
villegeeneerthem,wherethey ereChmiem,
eethey eellthcmeelvee,ofthe Greckchtlch.

pin-ind
endrobbcd,enipelhlpiflllfddegfldibl'm
ofihievee; ofwhet theywere I e-
yeteteleeetoktiow,huttheyweie elln
honeheek,euriedhoweendenvwe,uidweee
upon us twice: at length they placed them-
selves just in our way; upon which we drew
up in a little line, before our camels, being not
above sixteen men in all; and being drawn up
thus, we halted, and sent out the Siberian ser-
vant. who attended his lord, to see who they
were: his master was the more willing to let
him go. because he was not a little apprehen-
sive that they were a Siberian troop sent out
after him. The man came up near them with
a flag of tntce, and called to them; but though
he spoke several of their languages, or dialects
of languages rather, he could not understand
a word they said ; however, after some signs
to him not to come nearer to them, at his
peril, the fellow came back no wiser than he
went; only that by their dress, lit-said, he be>>
licvud them to be some Tartars of Kaltnuclt.
or of the Circassian hordes, and that there
must be moreof them upon the great desert,
though he never heard that any of them were
seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a roo-
tion to attack us. and rode round our little
wood to see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they
went oll'agnin; and we resolved not to stir tor
that night.

This was small comfort to us ; however. we
had no remedy: there was, on our left hand, at
about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road; I immediately
resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for,
first, I considered that the trees would in a
great measure cover us from their arrows; and,
in the next place, they could not come to charge
us in a body; it was, indeed, my old Portu-
guese pilot who proposed it, and who had this
excelleney attending him, that he was always
readiest and most apt to direct and encourage
us in cases of the most danger. We advanced
immediately. with what speed we could, and
gained that little wood ; the Tartars, or thieves,
for We know not what to call them. keeping
their stand.and not attempting to hinder us.

\thn we Came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece
of ground. and on the one side a very great
spring or water, which running out in a little
brook, was, a little farther, joined by another
of the like size; and was, in short, the source
of a considerable river, called aflorwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this
spring were not above two hundred, but very
large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon
as we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe
from the enemy,u.nlcss they attacked us onfoot.

ADVENTURES Ol' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

While we stayed here waiting the motion of
the enemy some hours, without perceiving
they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, cut several arms oftreea half
off. and laid them hanging across from one
tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in.

About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us: and though we had not
perceived it. we found they had beenjoincd by
some more ofthe some," that they were near
foursome horse; whereof. however, we fancied
some were women. They came on till they
were within half shot of our little wood, when
we fired one musket without ball, and called
to them in the Russian t to know what
they wanted, and bade them keep 011' : but they
come on with a double fury up to the wood side,
not imagining we were so barricaded that they
could not easily break in. Our old pilot was
our captain, as well as our engineer, and do-
eired us not to fire upon them till they came
Within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to
kill ; and that when we did fire, we should be
sure to take good aim; we bade him give the
word of command, which he delayed so long,
that they were some of them within two pikea
lengthof us when we let fly. We aimed so
true that we killed fourteen of dim, and
wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loadedourpiecel
with two or three bullets at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire,
and retreated immediately about one hundred
rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that dis-
tance, we aallied out, and catchedfour or five
of their horses, whose riders we s
were killed, and coming up to the dead, we
judged they were Tartars, but knew not how
they came to make anexcmsion such an un-
usual length.

We slept little, you may be are, but spent
the most part of the night in strengthening our
situation, and barricading the come: into
the wood. and keeping a strict watch. We
waited for daylight, and when it come, it gave
us a very unwelcome discovery, indeed ; for the
enemy, who we thought were dbcouraged with
the reception they met with, were now greatly
increased, and had set up eleven or twelve
huts or tents, as if they were resolved to bo-
siege us; and this little camp they had pitched
upon the open plain, about three quarters of a
mile from us. We were, indeed, mtprised at
this discovery; and now, I confess, I gave my-
selfover for lost, and all that I had; the lo. of
my effects did not lie so near me, though very
considerable, In the thoughts of falling into the
handsot'utchbarbarians, atthe latterend ol'
myjoumey, after In many dificultiee and he-
urdsaalhadgonethrough,andeven in eight
ofour port, where we expected safety and de-
liverance. As to my partner, he was raging,
anddeclared tluttoloeehis goodswoultlbehia
ruin, and that he would rather die than be
starved ; and he was forfighting to the lutdrop.

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh
nhowed itself, was for fighting to the last also;
and my old pilot was of the opinion that we
were able to resist them all in the situation
we were then in; and thtu we spent the day in
debates of what we should do: but towards
evening we found that the number of our ene-
mies still increased, and we did not know but
by the morning they might be a still greater
number; so I began to inquire ofthoee people
we had brought from Toholslti, if there were
no private ways, by which we might avoid
them in the night, and perhaps retreat to same
town, or get help to guard us over the desert.

The Siberian, who was servant to the
young lard, told us, if we designed to avoid
them, and not fight, he would engage to carry
us of in the night, to I way that went north,
towards the river Petrou, by which he made
no question butwe m' t get away, and the
Tartan-i never the wiser: but, he said, his lord
had told him he would not retreat, but would
rather choose to fight. I told him he mistook
his lord;t'ur thathewaa too wise a manto
love fighting for the sake ofit; that I knew his
lord was brave enough, by what he had show-
ed already; but that hie lord knew better than
to desire seventeen or eighteen men to fight
five hundred, unleu an unavoidable neceeeity
forced them to it; and that, ifhe thought it
poseihle for us to escape in the night, we had
nothing else todo but to attempt it. He an-
swered, ifh'u lordship gave him such order!
he would lose his life if he did not perfovm it:
we soon brought his lord to give that order,
though privately, and we immediately pre-
pared for the putting it in practice.

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark,
we kindled a fire in our little camp, which we
kept burning, and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars might con-
clude we were still there; butaa soon as it
was dark, and we could see the stars (for our
guide would not stir before,) having all our
horses and camels ready loaded. we followed
our new guide, who I lean found ateered him-
eelt'hy the north our.

After we had travelled two hours Very hard,
it began to be lighter still; not that it was
guite dark all night, butthe moon began to

247

rise, an that, in short, it was rather lighter
than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the
next morning we were got about thirty milu,
having almost spoiled our horses. Here we
found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy,
where we rested, and heard nothing of the
Knlmuck Tartar: that day. About two hour.
before night we set out again, and travelled
till eight the next morning, though not quite
so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river, called Kirta. and came
to a large town inhabited by Ruseians,
called Orovnoys; there we heard that several
of Knlmucks had been abroad upon
the desert, but that we were now completely
out of danger of them, which was to our great
satisfaction. Here we were obliged to get
some fresh horse-g and having need enough of
rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and
I agreed to give the honest Siberian who
brought us thither the value of ten pistoles.

In live days more we came to Veuslima,
upon the river Wirtzegda, and ntnning into
the Dwina: we were there, very happily, near
the end of our travebt by land, that river being
navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archan-
gel. Frotn hence we came to Lawrenskoy the
8d of July; and providing ourselves with two
luggage boats, and a barge for our own conve-
nience, we embarked the Ni, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th ; having been a year
five monthsand threedayl on thejourney, in-
cluding our stay of eight moths at Tobolslti.

We were obliged to stay at this plane six
weeks for the arrival of the chips, and must
have tu'ried longer, had not a Hamburgher
corneinahovoamontluoonerthananyof the
English ship: when, alter some consideration
that the city ofHamburgh might happen to be
as gooda market forourgoodsas Lenden,we
all took freight with him; and, having put our
goodaoo hoard,itwastnoetnamral form to
put my steward on board to take care of them;
by which means my young lord had a eulfietent
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming
on shore in all the time we stayed there;
and this he did that he might not be seen in
the city, where some of the Moscow men-
chants would certainly have seen and disco--
vered him.

We then eeteail fiom Archangel the m
ot'August, the nmeyearzand after no em-
ordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe
the mm of September. Here my partner and
Ifottndaverygoodsaleforotlrgoods,alwell
than of China u the cables, kc. of Siberia;
and dividing the produce, my share amotmted
In threethotnndfunhundredandaeventyfive
pounds seventeen shillings and threepence, in-
cluding about six hundred pounds worth ofdin-
monds which I purchased at Bengal.

Here the young lord look his leave of us,
and went up the Elbe, in order to go to the
court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek
protection, and could correspond with those
of his father's friends who were left alive. He
did not part without testimonies of gratitude
for the service I had done him, and his sense
of my kindness to the prince his (other.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

To conclude, having stayed near four months
in Hamburgh, I came from thence by land to
the Hague, where I embarked in the packet,
and arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705; having been absent from England ten
years and nine months. And here I resolved to
prepare for alonger journey than all those,
having lived a life of infinite variety scventy-
two ycars,and learned sufiiciently to know the
value of retirement, and the bleging of ending
our days in peace.ELEGANTLY ILLUSTRATED

BOOKS FOR PRESENTS.

PUBLISH]! BY

HENRY C. BAIRD,

(30(1ka TO I. L. CAREY)

8. E. COB. MARKET AND FIFTH STREETS,

PHILADELPHIA.

 

I.

Inngftllnm'a $021M! ifinrka.

wn'a :lezs mun: lsmuvnlos.
FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY HUNTINGTON,

Sn lam-(nu Cunt,
Ana. elegantiy printed on fine veuum'paper,

EIGHTH EDITION, IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO.

MNDOboundt'nmv-ugmdgu:
" nmmm Mkcymbysm

"MummlmleVMNMbahdmp-dm .-
Kama-Inn.

 

II.

ifiillifi'z finttirul Efinrkz.'

KLLUSTBATID 1301' ORIGINAL nxsxuxa 37 I. LIVTZI.
(uh 21mm NM! i] am lrflltl,
TO WHICH All ADDI'D 3mm m POIIS,
mwumuu mm

mmmumflm;uumumum

\Kr'v'cj'

III.

deiIhe fiarnlh. $1 flumuunf;

BY L031) BYRON.
mum: mum-nun wn-a rwnnv: Innu- crux. noun-ac.
Crunch by Quantum Imus, '

llol DIIIOI'I ll IUIIAI'I [Adllllfilll tonne! lhlflol.
Bowman, yflnudonflnommmotm

M36.oobouadinmru,gatalga;wdC/maybomdiu "Kismet".

 

IV.

@ulm unh 33mm. 3311 Inrh Mum.

WITH ILLUSTRATNB ESGBAVINOS ON STEEL,

FROM DESIGNS BY HENRY WARREN.
m on: vounu oo'uvo.
Miummgmmmum; wTurlzymoromSloo.

 

mantra Iullu finnkb.

ILLUSTRATED BY 1313'!le ITIBL INGBAVIRGS.
Beautifully printed. on fine white paper.
THIRD EDITION, OOXPLETI IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO.

Muflhmhmflt odga; wdmflthSWthmfi

<<n m '31th Serum! uhn-Lh'Au-l' -
3m.;'h;mmuSS;a'mummmm$u Smw.=indthpuflMm "'5".

 

G31}: Iuhq nf the Inke.

m m m lull. IRGHVIIIOS, no: omonux. 3181636,
EXPRESSLY NB ms EDITION.
In h. curl-um an Inn] Mucus.
mu: m on an. m.
WORD EDITION, comm IN ON! V0"!!! MAYO.
Phi!" Mhmfldml; wMMbSmaW-wmfl.

vdumumhmm hhpflulfl '1.
hmmflhmwmmdumhmwufihnu-
@Ige @uak unh ntbee 13mm.

BY WILLIAM OOWPER.

WITH TEN STEEL ENGRAVINGS BY CHENEY, CUSHMAN, ETC.

In em volume octave. Wrist, rt'duly gilt, $2.00; or Turkey morocco extra, $3.00.

"The illustrations are Inn in number; fine, qniriled. and mlcful - and on work would tom both an clepn Ana
Inh'insiully valuable pmnt ibr ma coming holldayL'L-Suwday via'.

 

VIII.

(lite female 160m of @reut Sfirituin,

CHRONOLOGICALLY ARRANGED.
wmn corIous sancrIons AND CRITICAL REMARK-8.

BY FREDERICK BOW'I'ON.
Wren anmnoxs BY AN AMERICAN EDITOR,

AND FIXEL! ENGRAVED ILLUSTRATIONS BY CELEBRATE>> ARTISTS.

In em toluene octave. Scarlet cloth, gilt edges. Price $6.00 ; Turkey morocco, $7.00.

" Mr Rowlnn has hm mounted as with admirably witcled s necimcm 0f nearly om: hundred mm: mm celeb: Med
hunk: poels at Great Britain. from Ih: lime nf Lad ' Juliana men, the first of whom Ihare is any maul, lo lb.
Mill'nxds, aha Howim, me Cooks, me Barmu, and o! of the prevent day."--uiuu': Mamanu' Magazine.

 

IX.

@be female ienefe nf flmeriru.

BY RUFUS WILMOT GRISWOLD.

"I am obnnxlnu.' lo each carping lonzue
That says my hand a needle 1mm fits;
A peak penall scan] I lh-Is shnuld wrong,
PM we): dnpile Ihcy CAM on female wilI. . . .
nu! cure the anti ue Gmka Wm far more mild,
Else 0! our sex w. y (cigvcd they (hon nine,
And may undo Calliopr's own child 'r--
50 'mongsl we mt lhey placed the an: divine."
2m: Four Hen-gnu. By June Madman, Baron, 1540.

IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO, WITH FINE STEEL ENCRAVINGS.,

Bound in plain doth, cloth gill alga, or morocco mm.

" We agree u 1" the author (hat many at tho pimps qnnlcd in "I: vnlume before In ' illusln'te as high and "Mama!
I range of poetic an a the Emile gcnlus orany age or oounlry an display! "~vaidcnu Journal
" who shall say that Ameriun women In lackipg in the elements of Iry, flier lhc Abundant evidence to Iho

contrary. which in mum in link handsome whims lrgm the hands or hm compiler in 1h: country--one, loo,
whose lane in "my mum in u "quantifiable in his mdumy."---Somnmz Landry Guam.4.. 2"" v"... - 1.1-5 ~- <<run :gg-qtvifiz-l--x-u 53.15057}!

(Ebz 125nm unh 1mm; nf (IBnglunh.

DY 301'!!! mow 0mm).

wrra: A $91.25le PORTRAIT OF anon m was mm mm.
Third miu'zm. Gotham. M8390.

'SmhmmldeInm-lmmmnml n ibhhdldhmwlh
hmMmmeh-flny napluyollimnryw -- 'Iclw'uu.
b: anfium

@132 13mm nah 13mm] of the flnrimtz.

BY WILLIAI P8133, LI.

conrnxsmo TRANSLATIONB AND aracmsns or rm;
Poms or GREECE AND ROME;

WITH A" ILIOANT. IRORAVID "IV 0' TE! OOUSIUX LT loll.

aw; <<in, price $3.00; or elegantly bound by Samuel loan in "they llama>>, $5.00.

"Umbra" lorhilaequimtl. mm.ij Mum wounnlnbhafli'h album.
(InsomnnaWotcmmudpuukuaflm MW.

XII.

15mm unh 13min; nf (Strut %rituin,

Pam; Tu: Tu: or CuAuczn m 'rax Baomxmo or 78: 1911: szm.

BY mom cmmm.

REVISED BY AN AIEBXCAN EDITOR.
Inmmlmmalm. (110%)

Km.

@3112 guttitul aflnrkz nf @11an (13mg.

OOMILI'I'I.

WITH FIIELY ENGRAVED'ILLUUIATIOII- '
bum-03d... (hm