a!""\VlTH THIS CARGO l PUT T0 SEA."THE FAVORITE LIBRARY.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

Robinson Crusoe

HY

DANIEL DEFOE

 

Frofusely Illustrated in Black and White and
with Colored Plates.

 

BOSTON:
DEWOLFE, FlSKE & Co.LIST OF BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

LIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS.
Woon's NATURAL HISTORY.

CHILD'S LIFE OF CHRIST.

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
SWISS FAMILY Romxsox.
GRIMII'S FAIRY TALES.
HANS ANDERSIax's FAIRY TALES.
BLACK BEAUTY.
MOTHER Goosa RHYMES.
AUNT MARTHA'S COR.\'I~:R CUPBOARD.
ARABIA}: NIGI-IT'S ENTERTAIXMENTS.

ALICE IN \VOXDERLAND.

 

 

 

(.'uIWRImI'l'. um

 

Ui-l'VUIJ'HI FINN}: .\- Co.
O F

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good
family, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner
of Bremen, who settled first at Hull : he got a good estate by

merchandise, and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York,
from whence he had married my mother.

I had two brothers, one of which was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Flanders, and was killed in a battle
against the Spaniards; what became of my second brother I never
knew.

My head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts ;
my father had designed me for the law ; but I would be satisfied with
nothing but going to sea, and my inclination to this led me so
strongtly against the will, nay the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that propension
of nature tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall
me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and ex-
cellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.

He pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate manner,
not to precipitate myself into miseries which nature and the station
of life I was born in seemed to have provided against.

I was sincerely affected, resolved not to think of going abroad,
but to settle at home according to my father's desire. But alas! a
few (lays wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of my father's
farther importunities, I resolved to run quite away from him.

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose.
Being one day at Hull, where I went casually, and one of my com--
panions beihg going by sea to London, in his father's ship, and
prompting me to go with him, with the common allurement of sea-
faring men, that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I con-
sulted neither father or mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without
asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any consideration
of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows.

On the first of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound
for London; never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer than mine. The ship was no
sooner gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and
the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and as I had never
been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terri-
fied in my mind; I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had
done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven.

The storm increased, and the sea, which I had never been
upon before, went very high, though nothing like what I have seen
many times since; but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every
time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of
the sea, we should never rise more; and in this agony of mind, I
made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please God here
to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon
dry land again, I would go directly home to my father, and never
set it into a ship again while I lived ; that I would take his advice,
and never run myself into such miseries as these any more.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm
continued, and indeed some time after; but the next day the wind
was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to
it; however, I was very grave for all that day, being also a little
sea-sick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up, theI? OBINSON C R 030E. 5

wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening followed; the
sun went down perfectly clear and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a. smooth sea, the sun shining upon
it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.

 

CRUSOE TEMPTED TO GO TO SEA.

In a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface
and settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry

of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my
former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises
that I made in my distress.

I found indeed some intervals of reflection, and the serious
thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes, but
I shook them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a
distemper, and applying myself to drink and company, soon mas-
tered the return of those fits, for so I called them, and I had in five
or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any young
fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it, could desire.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
roads; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we
had made but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary.

After we had lain there four or five days, it blew very hard.
However, the roads being reckoned as good as a harbour, the an-
chorage good, and our ground tackle very strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the
eighth day in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the
sea went very high indeed, and we thought once or twice our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the
sheet anchor; so that we rode with two anchors a-head.

By this time it blew a terrible storm, and now I began to see
terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen them-
selves. 'I'he master, thOugh vigilant in the business of preserving
the ship, yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear
him softly to himself say several times, ' Lord be merciful to us, we
shall be all lost, we shall be all undone; ' and the like.

The sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every three
or four minutes. I could see nothing but distress around us. The
ships that rid near us we found had cut their masts by the board,
being deep laden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid
about a mile a-head of us was foundered.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of
our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very un-
willing to. But the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not
the ship would founder, he consented ; and when they had cut
away the foremast, the maiumast stood so loose, and shook the ship
so much, they were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear
deck.

But the worst was not come yet, the storm continued with such
fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known
a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and wal-
lowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out she
would founder. The storm was so violent that I saw what is not
often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more sensi-
ble than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment
when the ship would go to the bottom.

In the middle of the night, one of the men cried out we had
sprung a leak ; another said there was four foot water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.

We worked 011, but the water increasing in the hold, it was ap-
parent that the ship would founder, and though the storm began to
abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might
run into a port, so the master continued firintr guns for help , and a
light ship who had rid it out just a--head of us ventured a boat out
to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us,
but it was impossible for us to get on board, till at last our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which they after great
labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them close under
our stern, and got all into their boat.

It was to no purpose for them or us after we \\ ere in the boat
to think of reaching their own ship, so all agreed to let her drixe
and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could. Our
master promised them, that if the boat was staved upon the shore
he would make it good to their master, so 1)arthi"o"i11g and partly
driVing, our boat \\ ent away to the northward, sloping a.'touards the
shore almost as far as \Vinterton Ness"WT: "'ALKI-ID 0N FOOT T0 YARMOUTH."
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our
ship before we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time
what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the
oar to bring the boat near the shore, we c0uld see, a great many
people running along the shore to assist us. Where the land broke
off a little the violence of the wind, we got in, and though not
without much difficulty got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, and had money given us sufficient to carry us either
to London or back to Hull, as we saw fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone batik to Hull, and have
gone home, I would have been happy, but my ill-fate pushed me on
now with an obstinacy that nothing could resist.

My comrade, who was' the master's son, spoke to me after we
were at Yarmouth, and looking very melancholy and shaking his
head, asked me how I did, and telling his father who I was, and
how I had come this voyage only for a trial in order to go farther
abroad ; his father turning to me with a very grave and concerned
tone, ' Young man,' says he, 'you ought never to go to sea any
more, you ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you
are not to be a seafaring man ' ' Why, sir,' said I, ' will you go
to sea no more?I ' That is another case,' said he, 'it is my calling,
and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if
you persist ; perhaps this is all befallen us on your account, like
Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. And, young man,' said he,
' depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will
meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
atl'er's words are fulfilled upon you.'

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw
him no more. Having some money in my pocket, I travelled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many
struggles with myself, what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered
to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should
he laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see
not my father and mother'only, but even everybody else.

'l'hat evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to
my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa.

I fell acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on
the coast of Guinea; and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again ', and who taking a fancy to my conver-
sation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me
say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would go the voy-
age with him I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate
and his companion, and ifI could carry anything with me, Ishould
have all the advantage of it that the trade \vOuld admit; and per--
haps I might meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship with
this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the
voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which by
the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very
considerably; for 1 carried about PS40 in such toys and trifles as
the captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered to-
gether by the assistance of some of my relations whom I corre-
sponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my
mother, to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage, which I may say was successful in
all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of
my friend the captain, under whom also I got a competent knowl-
edge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how
to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observation; and
in short, to understand some things that were needful to be tinder-
stood by asailor: for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took
delight to learn; for I brought home 5 pounds 9 ounces of gold
(lust for my adventure, which yielded me in London at my return
almost PS300, and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which
have since so completed my ruin.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; and my friend, to my
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the
same voyage again, andI embarked in the same vessel with one
who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com-
mand of the ship.

This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry quite PS100 of my new gained wealth, so
that I had PS200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow,
who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this
voyage; and the first was this : '

Our ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or
rather between those islands and the African shore, was surprised
in the grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have
got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would cer-
tainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having 1:: guns, and the rogue 18.

About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bring-
ing to by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern, as he intended, we brought 8 of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer
off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small
shot from near 200 men which he had on board. However, we
had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared
to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves ; but laying us on
board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered 60 men
upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the
decks and rigging. We plied them with small-shot, half-pikes,
powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice.

However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our
ship being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded,
we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I appre-
hended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, asI 2 ROB/A'501V Cli' U505.

the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the rover,
as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly over-

 

" r paov'en VERY nnxmxous."

whelmed. ' But alas ! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go
through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to
sea again, believing that it would some time or other be his fate to
be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and then that I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after
his little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his
house; and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered
me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape ; and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
bility in it.

After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty,
again in my head : my patron lying at home longer than usual,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money ; he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go
out into the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a young
Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I
proved very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that sometimes
he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth
the Maresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not halfa league
from the shore we lost sight ofit ; and rowing we knew not whither
or which way, we laboured all day and all the next night, and when
the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of
pulling in for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from
the shore; however, we got well in again, though with a great deal
of labour, and some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty
fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long-
boat of our English ship we had taken, he ordered the carpenter of
his ship to build a little state room or cabin in the middle of the
long boat, like that of a barge. He had in it room for him to lie,
with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers.
to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink;
particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We 11 ent frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was
most dexterous to catch fish for him. he never went without me:
it happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for
pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction in
that place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily; and had
therefore sent on board the boat over night, a larger store of pro-
visions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship ; for that they
designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat, washed clean, her ancient and pendants out,
and everything to accommodate his guests; when by- --and by my
patron came on board alone, and told me his guests had put oFf
going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered me with the
man and boy , as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some
fish, for that his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded
that as soon asI had got some fish Ishould bring it home to his
house; all which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to ha\e a little ship at my
command , and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish my-
self, not for a fishing business, but for a voyage.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this
Moor to get something for our subsistence on board ; for I told him
we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread: he said, that was.
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water into the boat.

I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident by the make were taken out of some English prize; and I
conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if
they had been there before, for our master; I conveyed also a
great lump of bees'-wax into the boat, which weighed above half a
hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw,
and a hammer, all which were of great use to us afterwards; espec.
ially the wax to make candles.

Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into
also; his name was Ismael, who they called Muly, or Moley, so I
called to him. Moley, said 1, our patron's guns are on board the boat,
can you not get a little powder and shot, it may be we may kill some
Alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he
keeps the gunner's stores in the ship? Yes, says be, I'll bring
some, and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which
held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot. 'I'hus furnished with everything needful, we
sailed out of the port to fish.

The castle which is at the entrance of the port knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.

After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for when
I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that he might
not see them ; I said to the Moor, this will not do, our master will
not be thus served, we must stand farther off: he, thinking no
harm, agreed ; and being in the head of the boat set the sails; and
as I had the helm I run the boat out near a league farther, and then
brought her to as if I would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I
stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped
for something behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under
his twist, and tossed him clear Overboard into the sea.

He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to
me, begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over the
world with me; he swam so strong after the boat that he would
have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had done him no
hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none; but, said I,
you swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm,
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm, but
if you come near the boat I'll shoot you through the head. So he
turned himselfabout and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt" IF you COME NEAR THE BOAT, I'LL SHOOT you."I'YBUT FIRST. I WAS TO PREPARE MORE LAND."

f? '-
but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me,
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust
him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, who they called
Xury, and said to him, Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll
make you a great man, but if you will not stroke your face to be
true. to me, that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard, I
must throw you into the sea; the boy smiled in my face, and
spoke so innocently that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.

As soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the cast, that I might keep in with the shore; and having
a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail
that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon,
when I first made the land, I could not be less than 150 miles
south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's domin-
ions, or indeed of any other king thereab0uts, for we saw no
people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I
would not stop; the wind cominuing fair, until I had sailed in that
manner five days: and then the wind shifted to the southward, I
concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they
also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what,
or where.

I neither saw, or desired to see any people, the principal
thing I wanted was fresh water: we came into this creek in the
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and (lis-
cover the country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, of we know not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to
(lie with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till (lay. Well,
Xury, said I, then I won't, but it may be we may see men by day,
who will be as bad to us as those lions. Then we give them the

2
shoot gun, says Xury, laughing; make them run way. Such Eng-
lish Xury spoke by conversing among the slaves; however, I was
glad to see the boy so cheerful, and gave him a dram to cheer him
up.

We dropped our little anchor and lay still all night ; I say still,
for we slept none! for in two or three hours we saw vast great
creatures of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore and run into
the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of
cooling themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too ; but we
were both more frighted when we heard one of those mighty creat-
ures come swimming towards our boat. any said it was a lion,
and cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. No, says I,
Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoy to it and go off to sea,
they cannot follow us far. I had no sooner said so, but I perceived
the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length, which some-
thing surprised me; however. I immediately stepped to the cabin
door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon which he immedi-
ately turned about and swam tOwards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous
cries and howlings, that were raised as well upon the edge of the
shore, as higher within the country, upon the noise of the gun; a
thing I have some reasons to believe those creatures had never heard
before. This convinced me that there was no going on shore for us
in the night upon that coast, and how to venture on shore in the
day was another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of
any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the hands
of lions and tigers.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere
or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat. Xury
said, if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would
find if there was any water and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go? why I should not go and he stay in the boat?
The boy answered with so much affection that made me love him
ever after. Says he, If wild mans come, they eat me, you go way.""'E FILLED OUR JARS."
Well, Xury, said I, we will both go, and if the wild mans come, we
will kill them, they shall eat neither of us ; so I gave Xury a piece
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of bottles
which I mentioned before; and we hauled the boat in as near the
shore as,we thought was proper, and so waded on shore, carrying
nothing but our arms and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the com-
ing of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy seeing a
low place about a mile up the country rambled to it; and by-and-by
I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I run forward
towards him to help him, but when I came nearer to him, I saw
something hanging over his shoulders which was a creature that he
had shot, like a hare, but different in color, and longer legs; how-
ever we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat ; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found
good water and seen no wild mans.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd islands also,
lay not far off from the coast. My hope was, that if I stood along
this coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that
would relieve and take us in. I put the whole of my fortune upon
this single point, either that I must meet with some ship or must
perish.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin and sat me down, Xury having the helm, when on a sudden,
the boy cried out, Master, Master, a ship with a sail! and the
foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs
be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we
were gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the
cabin, and immediately saw not only the ship, but what she was
(viz. ), that it was a Portuguese ship, and as I thought was bound
to the coast of Guinea for negroes.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way, but that they would be gone by, before I could
make any signal to them ; but after I had crowded to the utmost
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective-glasses, and that it was some European boat, which as
they supposed must belong to some ship that was lost, so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and
as I had my patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them
for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw, for
they told me they saw the smoke, though they (lid not hear the
gun ; upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for
me, and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They ask me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and
in French. butI understood none of them; but at last a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and
told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors at Sallee; then they bade me come on
board, and very kindly took me in and all my goods.

It was an inexpressihle joy to me, that any one will believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable
and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and I immediately
offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my
deliverance; but he generously told me, he would take nothing
from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me when I
came to the Brazils.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and
told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked me
what I would have for it. P I told him he had been so generous to
me in eventhing, that I could not offer to make any price of the
boat, but left it entirely to him, upon which he told me he would
uive me a note to his hand to pay me 80 pieces of eight for it at
brazil, and when it came the1e, 1f any one offered to give cmore he
would make it up. He offered me also 60 pieces of eight more tor
my boy Xury. which I was loth to take, not that I was not willing
to let the captain have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor
boy's liberty. who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an obli-
gation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian; upon
this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain
have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two
(lays after. And now I was once more delivered from the most
miserable of all conditions of life, and what to do next with myself
I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember; .in a word, I made about 220 pieces of eight
of all my cargo, and with this stock 1 went on shore in the
Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house
of a good honest man like himself, who had an Ingeino as they
callit; that is, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived with him
some time, and acquainted myself by that means with the manner
of their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how well the
planters lived, and how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I
could get licence to settle there, I would turn planter among them,
resolving in the meantime to find out some way to get my money which
I had left in London remitted to me. To this purpose getting a.
kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land that
was uncured, as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my
plantation and settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. My stock was but low as well as his; and
we rather planted for food, than anything else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began to come into
order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made
each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the
year to come; but we both wanted help; and now I found more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portu~
gul captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and in what
condition I was now in, with all other necessary directions for my
supply; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means by some of the English merchants there, to send over not
the order only, but a full account of my story to a merchant at
London, who represented it effectually to her; whereupon, she not
only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket sent the
Portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and
charity to me.

I went on the next year with great success in my plantation :
I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my ground, more than I had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours; and these fifty
rolls being each of above a hundredweight, were well cured and
laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon: and now in-
creasing in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of
projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such as are indeed
often the ruin of the best heads in business.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of my voyages to the
coast of Guinea, three of them came to me the next morning, and
told me they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to (iuinea, that they
had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so
much as servants; that as it was a trade that could not be carried
on, because they could not publicly sell the negroes when they
came home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the
negroes on shore privately, and divide them among their own plan-
tation; and in a word, the question was, whether I would go their
supercargo in the ship to manage the trading part upon the coast of
Guinea? And they offered me that I should have my equal share
of the negroes without providing any part of the stock.

I told them I would go with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose
of it to such as I should direct if I miscarried. This they all en--
gaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so; and
I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in
case of my death, making the captain of the ship that had saved my
life, as before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my24 ROE/NSON LVN/50E.

effects as I had directed in my will, one-half of the produce being
to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.

Accordingly the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished,
and all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voyage,
I went on board in an evil hour, the first of September, 1659, being
the same day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to
my own interest.

 

"A RMHNO WAVE CAME ROLLING .A-STERN OF US."

Our ship was about no ton burthen, carried 6 guns, and 14
men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we had on board no
large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with
the negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles,
especially little lookingglasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the
like.

The same (lay I went on board we set sail, standing away to
the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over for
the African coast, when they came about 10 or r 2 degrees of north-ROBINSON causes. 25

em latitude, which it seems was the manner of their course in those
days. We passed the line in about 12 days' time, and were by our
last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our knowledge ;
it began from the south-east, came about to the north-west, and
then settled into the north-east, from whence it blew in such a ter-
rible manner, that for 12 days together we could do nothing but
drive, and scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate
and the fury of the winds directed; and during these 12 days, I
need not say, that I expected every (lay to be swallowed up, nor
indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, the wind blowing very hard, one of our men
early in the morning, cried out, Land ! and we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the
world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected we should all have perished immediately, and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

Now though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for
us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed,
and had nothing to do but think of saving our lives as well as we
could; we had a boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was
first staved by crashing against the ship's rudder, and in the next
place she broke away, and either sunk or was driven off to sea, so
there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board, but
how to get her off into the sea, was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
in pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
already.

In this distress, the mate of the vessel lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her slung over
the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go, and committed our-
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain>>like, came rolling a-stern
of us, and bade us expect the coup-degrace. In a word, it took
us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once 3 and separating
us as well from the boat, as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say, 0 God ! for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.

The wave that came upon me, buried me at once 20 or 30 foot
deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried with a
mighty force and swiftness t0\vards the shore a very great way; but
I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim forward with all my
might. Iwas ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as I
felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head
and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and though it
was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself 50. yet it re-
lieved me greatly gave me breath and new courage. I was covered
again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it out ;
and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck
forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground with my
feet. I stood still a few minutes to recover breath, and till the water
went from me, and then took to my heels, and run with what
strength I had farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me
again, and twice more I was lifted up by the waves, and carried
forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well been near fatal to me; for
the sea having hurried me along as before, landed me, or rather
dashed me against a piece of rock, and that with such force, as
it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliver-
ance; for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath as
it were quite out of my body; and had it returned again imme-
diately, Imust have been strangled in the water; but I recovered
a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be
covered again with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece
of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave
went back; now as the waves were not so high as at first, being
nearer land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore, that the next
wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to
carry me away, and the next run I took, I got to the main land,
where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and ,quite out
of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there was
some minutes before scarce any room to hope.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands. and my
whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of my
deliverance, making a thousand gestures and motions which I can--
not describe, reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned,
and that there should not be one soul saved but myself.

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my
condition, I began to look round me to see what kind of place I
was in, and what was next to be done, and I soon found my com-
forts abate. I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe,
and a little tobacco in a box, this was all my provision, and this
threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a while I ran about
like a madman ; night coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart
to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts
in that country, seeing at night they always come abroad for'their
prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time, was,
to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which grew
near me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the
next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of
life; I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find
any fresh water to drink, which I (lid, to my great joy : and having
drunk and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I
went to the tree, and getting tip into it, endeavoured to place my-
self 50, as that if I should sleep I might not fall ; and having cut
me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my
lodging, and having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep,28 li'OB/A'SO/V 'CRCSOE.

   
   

and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, {cw could
have done in my condi-
tion.

When I wakcd it was
broad (lay, the weather
clear, and the storm abat-
ed, so that the sea did not
rage and swell as before ;
but that which surprised
me most, was, that the ship was
liftcdol'f in the night from the
sand where she lay. by the swell-
ing of the tide, and driven up
almost as far as the rock which
I first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the dashing
me against it; this being within
about a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I
might have some necessary things for my use.

" I FELL FAST
ASLHEP. "
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was a boat, which lay
as the wind and sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two
miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad, so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter ot a mile oft
the ship , and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief for I saw}
evidently, that if we had kept on board, we 5had all been safe, that
is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so mis--
erable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as
I now was; this forced tears from my eyes again, but as there was
little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship, so I
pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to the extremity, and
took the water. When I came to the ship, my difficulty was still
greater to know how to get on board, for as she lay a'ground, and
high out of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold
of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I spied a small
piece of rope, which I wondered I (lid not see at first, hang d0wn
by the forechains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of
it, and by the help of that rope, got up into the forecastle of the
ship. I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of
water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard
sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and
her head 10w almost to the water; by this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my first
work was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free ;
and first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
by the water, and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in
the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I had
indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now
Iwanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things
which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application; we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood,- and a spare toptnast
or two in the ship. I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying
every one with a rope that they might not drive away; when this
was done I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I
tied four of them fast together at both ends as well as I could, in
the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank
upon them crossways, I f0und I could walk upon it very well, but
that it was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light; so I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw cut a spare
topmast into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with agrcat
deal of labour and pains, but hope of furnishing myself with neces-
saries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to
have done upon another occasion.

My next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve
what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea. But I was not long
considering this: I first laid all the plank or boards upon it that I
could get, and having considered well what I most wanted, I first
got three of the scamen's chests, which I had broken open and
emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft ; the first of these
I filled with provisions, viz: bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little
remainder of liuropean corn which had been laid aside for some
fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed;
there had been some barley and wheat together, but to my great
disappointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or
spoiled it all; as for liquors, I found several cases of bottles be-
longing to our skipper, in which there were some cordial waters,
and in all about five or six gallons of rack; these I stowed by
themselves, there being no need to put them into the chest, nor
no room for them.F A ROPE."

0

PI l-ZCE

" I 5pm!) A SMALL
After long searching I found out the carpenter's chest, which
was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than
a ship-loading of gold would have been at that time. I got it down
to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing titne to look into
it, for I knew in general what it contained.

There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and
two pistols; these I secured first, with some powder-horns, and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords: I knew there were
three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner
had stowed them, but with much search I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water; those two I got to my
raft, with the arms, and now I thought myself pretty well freighted,
and began to think how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar, or rudder, and the least capfull of wind would have
overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements, I. A smooth calm sea, 2. The
tide rising and setting in to the shore, 3. What little wind there
was blew me towards the land; and thus, having found two or three
broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were
in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this
cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very
well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the place
where I had landed before, by which I perceived that there was
some indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped to find some
creek or river there, which I might make use of as a port to get to
land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was, there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set
into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could to keep in the middle
of the stream.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek,
to which with great pain and difficult I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust
her directly in, but here I had liked to have dipped all my cargo
into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say
sloping, there was no place to land, but where one end of my float,
if it run on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again, all that I could do
was to wait till the tide was highest, keeping the raft with my oar
like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat
piece of ground, which I expected the water would fl0w over; and
so it (lid ; as soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about
a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, and
there fastened or moored her by sticking my two broken oars into
the ground; one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end 3 and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to View the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure
them from whatever might happen; where I was I yet knew not,
whether on the continent or on an island, whether inhabited or
not inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts or not: there
was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to over-top some other hills which lay
as in a ridge from it northward; I took out one of the fowling-
pieces, and one of the pistols, and an horn of powder, and thus
armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
after I had with great labour and difficulty got to the top, Isaw
my fate to my great affliction, (viz.) that I was in an island en-
vironed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some
rocks which lay a great way off, and two small islands less than
this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

At my coming back, I shot at a great bird which I saw sitting
upon a tree on the side ofa great wood: I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world; I
had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose
an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused
screaming, and crying every one according to his usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I knew; as for the creatureI
killed, Itook it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and back re--
sembling it, but had no talons or claws more than common; its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

3
I came back to my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on
shore, which took me up the rest of that day, and what to do with
myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild
beasts might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was
really no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of a hut for that night's lodging; as for food, I yet saw not
which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures like hares run out of the wood where I shot the fowl.

Inow began to consider, that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging, and sails, and such other things as
might come to land, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the first storm that
blew must necessarily break her all in pieces.

I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a second raft,
and having had experience of the first, I neither made this so un-
wieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
very useful to me; as first, in the carpenter's stores I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or
two of hatchets, and above all, that most useful thing called a
grindstone. All these I secured together, with several things be-
longing to the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and
two barrels of musket-bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a large bag full
of small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead: but this last was so
heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-
topsail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort. "

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they
were too heavy, being large casks, I went to work to make me a
little tent uith the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose,
and into this tent I brought eV erything that I knew would spoil,
either with rain or sun, and I piled all the empty chests and casks
up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt,
either from man or beast.

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without,
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two
pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed
for the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very
weary.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever were laid
up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satisfied still ; for while
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every-
thing out of her that I could; so every day at low water I went on
board, and brought away something or other.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
times 011 board the ship; in which time I had brought away all
that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring,
though I belieVe verily, had the calm weather held, I should have
brought away the whole ship piece by piece: but preparing the
12th time to go on board, I found the wind begin to rise.

How e1 er, at low water I went on board, and though I thought
I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing more
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scis-
sors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in an-
other I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some
European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some
silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. 0 Drug! said
I aloud, what art thou good for? thou art not worth to me, no not
the taking off of the ground: one of those knives is worth all this
heap; I have no manner of use for thee, e'en remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth
saving.- However, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making
another raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it
blew a fresh gale from the shore.

It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my business to
be gone before the tide of flood began. otherwise I might not be
able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into
the water, and swam cross the channel, which lay between the ship
and the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the
weight of the things I had about me, and partly the roughness of
the water, for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water, it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all
my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all the night,
and in the morning when I looked out, behold no more ship was to
be seen; I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz.: that I had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence to get everything out of her that could be useful to me,
and that indeed there "as little left in her that I was able to
bring awa\ if I had had more time.

\Iy thoughts were now w holl\ employed about securing mt self
against eithera satages, if any should appear, or wild beasts if any
were in the island _: and I had many thoughts of the method how
to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and, i
short, I resolved upon both, the manner and description of which,
it may not he improper to give an account of.

I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front
towards this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing
could come down upon me from the top ; on the side of this rock
there was a hollow place worn a little way in like the entrance or
door of a cave, but there was not really any cave or way into the
rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I re>>
solved to pitch my tent; this plain was not above an hundred yards
broad and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door,
and at the end of it descended irregularly every way down into the
low~grounds by the sea-side.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the h0110w
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the
rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
ending.

In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end being out of the ground about five foot and a half, and sharp-
ened on the top : the two rows did not stand ab0ve six inches from
one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and I laid them in rows one upon another, within the circle, be-
tween these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes
in the inside, leaning against them, about two foot and a half high,
like a spur to a post, and this fence was so strong, that neither man
or beast could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of
time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring
them to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but
by a short ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when I was in,
I lifted over after me, and so I was completely fenced in, and
fortified. .

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition and stores, of which you
have the account above, and I made me a large tent, which, to
preserve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very
violent there, I made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and
one large tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a large
tarpaulin which I had saved among the sails.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that
would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and 50
passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock,
and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug out through my

"THE KID FOLLOWED m2."

 

tent, I laid them up within my
fence in the nature of a terrace,
that so it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half;
and thus I made me a cave just
behind my tent, which served
me like a cellar to my house.

In the interval of time while
this was doing I went out once
at least every day with my gun,
as well to divert myself, as to see
if I could kill anything fit for
food, and as near as I could to

acquaint myself with

what the island pro--

duced. The first time

I went out I presently

discovered that there
were goats in the island, which
was a. great satisfaction to me.
They were so shy, so subtilc, and
so swift of foot, that it was the
most difficult thing in the world
to come at them. But I was not
discouraged at this, not doubting
but I might now and then shoot
one, as it soon happened, for
after I had found their haunts
a little, I laid wait in this man--
ner for them: I observed if they
saw me in the valleys, though
they were upon the rocks, they

would run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were feeding in
.he valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me,
from whence I concluded, that by the position of their optics, their
sight was so directed downward, that they did not readily see objects
that were above them; so afterward I took this method, I always
climbed the rocks first to get above them, and then had frequently
a fair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-
goat which had a little kid by her which she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily ; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock
still by her till I came and took her up: and not only so, but when
I carried the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed
me quite to my enclosure, upon which I laid down the dam, and
took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to
have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill
it and eat it myself.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into
my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of
books and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days
from the working days.

To prevent this I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in
capital letters, and making it into a great cross I set it up on the
shore where I first landed, \'i7.., I came on shore here on the 30th
Sept., 1659. Upon the sides of this square post, I cut every day
a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again
as the rest, and every first day of the month as long again as that
long one, and thus I kept my calender, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

Among the many things which I brought out of the ship in the
several voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not all less useful to me ; in par-
ticular, pens, ink, and paper, three or four compasses, some mathe-
matical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navi-
gation.

Also, I found three very good Bibles which came to me in
my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my
things, some Portuguese books also, and among them, two or three40 R OBI/V501V CR USOE.

Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all of which I care-
fully secured.

And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two
cats, of whose eminent historyr I may have occasion to say some-
thing in its place ; for I carried both the cats with me; and as for

'19.

 

"HE WAS A TRUSTY SERVANT To Mn."

the dog. he jumped out of the ship of himself and swam on shore
to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a
trusty servant to me many years.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the cir-
cumstance I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of my atTairs
in writing; not so much to leave them to any that were to corn:
after me, forI was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring uponthem, and afflicting my mind; and
as my reason began now to master my despondency, I began to
comfort myself as well asI could, and to set the good against the
evil, that I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse; and Istated it very impartially, like debtor and creditor,
the comforts I enjoyed, against the miseries I suffered, thus:

EVIL.

1 am last upon a Izorrilzle'
desolate ixland, void ty' all hope
of re'roz'ary.

[ am sing/ad out and sepa-
rated, ax it won, from all flu:
world to In" mixc'raolc'.

lmn dizvdc'd from mankind,
a .rolimirc, on: banished from 1111-
nzan .rotirlr.

flzaw' no Clo/lie: to (0210' "If.

I run wit/mu! an)y dcy'onu' or
"ltd!!! lo ruixt any violence of
man or l'e'axl.

1 11am no my] lo speak to, or
relitz/e nlr.

Goon.

But I am alive, and not
drowned a: all my slzip'x company
was.

But 1 am singled om' too
from all the .r/np': crew lo or
~rparcd from deal/z ,- and He Illa!
miraculously sand 71:: from
deal/z, (an deliver me from this
condilion.

Ba! 1 am not .rtarm'd and
port's/ling on a lzarren place, af-
fording no :Izslmantc.

Bu! 1 am in a llot climate,
when I] I Izod (lo/lit: 1 could
hardly wc'ar llu'In.

But I am tax! on an zit/and,
wlmrc 1 see no wild mm to lmrl
mt, ax I mw on [/15 roar! of
Afriaz : and w/zal If I lzad oven
shipwrecked (litre ?

But God wonderfully sent
Illa 5/12)? in floor along]; to (lie
More, that I have got/ten on! w
many "canary filing: a: will
titlm' supply my wants, or anal/e
me to supply mpg/f wen a: long
a: I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there
was scarce any condition in the world so miserable. but there was
something negative or something positive to be thankful for in it.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition,
and given over looking out to sea to see if I could spy a ship ; I
say, giving over these things, I began to apply myself to accommo--
date my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as
I could.

I set myself to enlarge my cave and works farther into the
earth, for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labour I bestowed on it: and so when I found I was pretty safe as
to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right hand into the
rock, and then turning to the right again, worked quite out and
made me a door to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortifi-
cation. _

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a back-
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow
my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and a table,
for without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in
the world.

I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time by
labour, application, and contrivance, I found at last that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had tools;
however I made abundance of things, even without tools, and some
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which per-
haps were never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. . .

For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with rrly axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with my adze. However, I made me a
table and a chair, and some large shelves of the breadth of a foot
and half one over another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all
my tools, nails, and ironwork.

I began now to think my cave or vault finished, when on a..
sudden (it seemsI had made it too large) a great quantity of earth
fell down from the top and one side, so much, that in short it
frighted me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under
it I had never wanted a grave--digger. Upon this disaster I had a
great deal of work to do over again ; for I had the loose earth to
carry out, and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.

I went to work with it accordingly, and got two shores or posts
pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards across over
each post; this I finished the next day ; and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured ; and the
posts standing in rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain admitted me, and made frequent dis--
coveries in these walks of something or other to my advantage;
particularly I found a kind of wild pigeon, who built not as wood
pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them
up tame, and did so; but when they grew older they flew all away,
which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had
nothing to give them; however I frequently found their nests, and
got their young ones, which were very good meat.

I was at a great loss {or candle ; so that as soon as ever it was
dark, which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to
bed: I remembered the lump of beeswax with which I made candles
in my African adventure, but I had none of that now; the only
remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved the
tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the
sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp;
and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle.

In the middle of all my labours it happened, that rummaging
my things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but
before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little
remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured with the
rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it was to put

 

"GRINDING MY TOOLS."

powder in, when I divided
it for fear ofthe lightning,
or some such use, I shook
the husks of corn out of it
on one side of my fortifi-
cation under the rock.

It was a little before
the great rains, just now
mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away, taking no
notice of anything, and
not so much as remember-
ing that [had thrown any-
thing there ; when about a
month after, or thereabout,
I saw some few stalks of
something green shooting
out of the ground, which
I fancied might be some
plant I had not seen; but
I was'surprised and per-
fectly astonished, when,
after a little longer time,
Isaw about ten or twelve
ears come out, which were
perfectly green barleyof the
same kind as our European,
nay, as our English barley.

I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some
other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and
whieh'I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was

ashore there.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure in their
season, which was about the end of June; and laying up every corn,
I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread.

The very next day after my wall was finished, I had almost had
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed ; the case was
thus: As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dread-
ful surprising thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the earth
come crumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge
of the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set up in the
cave cracked in a {rightful manner.

I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was really
the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before; and for fear [should be buried in it, I
ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there-
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which
I expected might roll down upon me.

lwas no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, but I
plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on
shook three times at about eight minutes' distance, with three such
shoeks as would have overturned the strongest building that could
be supposed to have stood on the earth, and a great piece of the
top of a rock, which stood about halfa mile from me next the sea,
fell down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life:
I perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it 3 and
I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.

Iwas so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the
like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead
or stupefted; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick
like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the fallingr of the
rock awaked me as it were, and rousing me from the stupetied con-
dition I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then
but the hill falling upon my tent and all my household goods, and
burying all at once; and this stink my very soul within me a second.
time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not heart enough to
go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still
upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing
what to do : all this while I had not the least serious religious
thought, nothing but the common, Lord have mercy upon me; and
when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as
if it would rain; soon after that the wind rose, by little and little,
so that, in less than half an hour, it blew a most dreadful hurricane:
the sea was all on a sudden covered with foam and froth, the shore was
covered with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the
roots, and a terrible storm it was; and this held about three hours,
and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm,
.and began to rain very hard.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole
through my new fortification like a sink to let the water go out,
which would else have drowned my cave. After I had been in my
cave some time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
follow, I began to be more composed; and now to support my
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store
and took a small sup of rum, which however I did then and always
very sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next
day, so that I could not stir abroad, but my mind being more com-
posed, I began to think of what I had best do, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and
cables, etc.. in a circle as before, and set my tent up in it when it
was finished, but that I would venture to stay where I was till it
was finished and fit to remove to.

The next morning I began to consider of means to put this
resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss about my tools ; I
had three large axes and abundance of hatchets, but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches
and dull, and though I had a grindstone [could not turn it and
grind my tools too. At length I contrived a wheel witha string, toturn lL with my foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty.
This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.

The rain fell continually for several days, and I stayed within.
I thought at the time that the rain felt cold, which was unusual in
that climate. The next dayI was very ill; a high fever and violent
headache rendered me unfit for sleep at night or work in the day.
This was followed by a violent ague lasting seven hours, leaving me
alternately hot and cold, with faint sweats after it.

In a few days I felt better and being in want of fresh food, I
sallied out with my gun, and though still very weak, managed to
kill a she goat. I got it. home and broiled some of it and ate
sparingly.

The ague became again so violent, that I lay a-bed all day, and
neither eat or drank. I was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak,
I had not strength to stand up, or to get myselfany water to drink;
prayed to God again, but was light-headed, and when I was not, I
was so ignorant that I knew not what to say ; only I lay and cried,
Lord look upon me, Lord pity me, Lord have mercy upon me.

I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night;
when I waked, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and ex-
ceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In
this second sleep, I had this terrible dream.

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of
my wall. where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and
that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright
flame of fire, and alight upon the ground: he was all over as bright
as a flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards him; his
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words
to describe ; when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth~
quake, and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been
filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forward
towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me;
a

and when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to
me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to express
the terror of it; all that I can say I understood was this, ' Seeing
all these things have not brought thee to repentence, now thou
shalt die;' at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that
was in his hand to kill me.

No one, that shall ever read this account, will expect thatI
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
vision. I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed
of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the im-
pression that remained upon my mind when I awaked and found it
was but a dream.

Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had,
anti the fit being entirely off, I got up; and though the fright and
terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered, that the fit of
the. ague would return again the next day, and now was my time to
get something to refresh and support myself when I should be ill.

The first thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle with
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and to take
off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put about aquarter
ofa pint of rum into it, and mixed them together; and then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable
condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day; at
night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted
in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the shell; and this was the
first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, even as I could
remember, in my whole life.

I took out from a chest one of the Bibles which I mentioned
before, and having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred to me were these, 'Call on Me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shall glorify Me.'

The words were very apt to my case, and made some impres-
sion upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, and I mused
upon them very often. It grew now so late, that l inclined to-
sleep; but before I lay down, I did what I never had done in my
life, I kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me,
that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble, He would deliver
me, and immediately upon this I went to bed.

I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till by the sun it
must necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next
day; nay, to this hour I am partly of the opinion, that I slept all
the next day and night, and till almost three that day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning
in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had done;
for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line, I should have
lost more than one day: but certainly I lost a. day in my account,
and never knew which way.

Be that however one way or the other, when I awaked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry; and in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better.

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months, all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed, that no human shape had
ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation,
as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make more
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions I
might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

I went up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my
rafts on shore; I found after I came about two mlles up, that the
tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and very fresh and good; but this being
the dry season, there was hardly any water in some parts of it.

On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savanas, or
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on the
rising parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the water,
as it might be supposed, never orerfiowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very strong stalk;
there were divers other plants which I had no notion of, or under-

4
standing about, and might perhaps have virtues oftheir own, which
I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that
climate make their bread of, bttt I could find none. Isaw large
plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw several
sugar-canes. bttt wild, and for want of cultivation, imperfect. I
contented myself with these discoveries for this time, and came
back musing with myself what course I might take to know the
virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should
discover; but could bring it to no conclusion ; for in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew
little of the plants in the field, at least very little that might serve
me to any purpose now in my distress.

The next day, I went up the same way again, and after going
something farther than I had gone the (lay before, I found the
brook, and the savanas began to cease, and the country became
more woody than before; in this part I found different fruits, and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great abundance.
and grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime, very
ripe and rich. I found an excellent use for these grapes, and that
was to cure and dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried
grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed
they were, as wholesome as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might
be to be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habi-
tation, which by the way was the first night, as I might say, I had
lain from home. In the night I took my first contrivanee, and got
up into a tree, where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded
upon my discovery, traveling near four miles, as I might judge by
the length of the valley, keeping still dtte north, with a ridge of
hills on the south and north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west, and a little spring of fresh
water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, rttn the other
way, that is due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdurc, or flourish of
spring, that it looked like a planted garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying
it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with my other
afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my own, that I was
king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of
possession; and if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance,
as completely as any lord of a manor in England.

I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange, and lemon, and
citron trees; but all,wild and very few bearing any fruit, at least
not then. However, the green limes that I gathered, were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water which made it very wholesome, and very cool, and
refreshing.

I found now I had business enough to gather and carry home ;
and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes, as limes and
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was ap-
preaching.

When I came home from this journey, Icontemplated with
great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness
of the situation, the security from storms on that side the water,
and the wood, and concluded, that I had pitched upon a place to
fix my abode, which was by far the worst part of the country.
Upon the whole I began to consider of removing my habitation;
and to look out for a place equally safe, as where I now was situate,
if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.

This thought run long in my head, and I was exceeding fond
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me; but
when I came to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now
by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that something might
happen to my advantage, and by the same ill fate that brought me
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place;
and though it was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the
centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render
such an affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove.

However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much
of my time there, for the whole remaining part of the month of
July; and though upon second thoughts I resolved as above, not to
remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it
at a distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between with brushwood; and
here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together,
always going over it with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now
I had my country house, and my sea-coast house: and this work
took me up to the beginning of August.

At the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower,
and began to enjoy myself. I found the grapes 1 had hung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed, were excellent good raisins of the sun;
so I began to take them down from the trees, and it was very happy
that I did so; for the rains which followed would have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food ; for I had above two
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but it began to
rain, and from hence, which was the fourteenth of August, it rained
more or less, every day, till the middle of October: and sometimes
so violently. that I could not stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my
family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who
run away from me, or as I thought had been dead, and I heard no
more tale or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she came home
about the end of August with three kittens; this was the more
strange to me, because though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it,
with my gun; yet I thought it was a quite differing kind from our
European cats; yet the young cats were the same kind of house
breed like the old one; and both my cats being females, I thought
it very strange: but from these three cats, I afterwards came to be
so pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like rennin, or
wild beasts. and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

The rainy season, and the dry season, began now to appear
regular to me, and I learnt to divide them so, as to provide for
them accordingly. But I bought all my experience before I had it;
and this I am going to relate, was one of the most discouraging
experiments that I made at all: I have mentioned that I had saved
the few ears of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found
spring up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now
I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being
in its southern position going from me.

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with
my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my
grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts,
that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know when
was the proper time for it ; so I sowed about two--thirds of the seed,
leaving about a handful of each.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined
was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make
another trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new
bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before
the vernal equinox ; and this having the rainy months of March and
April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very
good crop; but having part of the seed left only, and not daring
to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole
crop not amounting to above halfa peck of each kind.

But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow ; and that I might
expect two seed times, and two harvests every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery which
was of use to me afterwards: as soon as the rains were over, and
the weather began to settle, which was about the month of Novem-
ber, Imade a visit up the country to my bower, where though I
had not been some months, yet I found all things just as I left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made, was not only
firm and entire; but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees
that grew thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with long
branches, as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year afterlt' OBINSOAy C I" U505. 5 5

lapping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it, that these
stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased,
to see the young trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led them up
to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce credible how

   

"1 SO\\'ED MY GRAIN."

beautiful a. figure they grew into in three years; so that though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet
the trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered it ; and it
was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me
a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall; I mean that of
my first dwelling, which I did; and placing the trees or stakes in a
double row, at about eight yards' distance from my first fence, they
grew presently, and were at first a line cover to my habitation, and
afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.

In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also
tothe time) for I found great occasion of many things which I ha'l
no way to furnish myself with, but by hard labour and constant
application; particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a
basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so
brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent advan-
tage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used to take great de--
light in standing at a basketanaker's, in the town where my father
lived, to see them make their wicker-ware ; and being as boys usu-
ally are, very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, Ihad
by this means full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted
nothing but the materials ; when it came into my mind, that the twigs
of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly
be as tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers in England, and
I resolved to try.

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country-house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, Ifound them to my
purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came the next
time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon
found, for there was great plenty of them; these I set up to dry
within my circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I carried
them to my cave, and here during the next season, I employed
myself in making, as well as I could, a great many baskets, both to
carry earth, or to carry or lay up anything as I had occasion ; and
though I (lid not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took
care never to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I
made more, especially, I made strong deep baskets to place my corn
in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it,
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store,
I began my journey.

When I had passed the vale where my bower stood as above, I
came within view of the sea, to the west, and it being a very clear
day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or a continent, I could
not tell 3 but it lay very high, extending from the west, to the
W. S. W. at a very great distance , by my guess it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded by
all my'observations, must be near the Spanish dominions, and per-
haps was all inhabited by savages. where if I should have landed, I
had been in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I
acquiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own, and to believe, ordered everything for the best ; I say, I
quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered, that if
this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or
other, see some vessel pass or re-pass one way or the other; but if
not, then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country and
Brazils, which are indeed the worst of saxages , for they are canni-
bals, 01 men- -eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all the human
bodies that fall into their hands.

With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward, I
found that side of the island where I now was, much pleasanter than
mine, the open or savana fields sweet, adorned with fl0wers and
grass, and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and
fain I would have caught one, if possible to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch58 1? OBLVS ON C li' USOE. '

a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and having
recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some years beforeI
could make him speak. However, at last I taught him to call me
by my name very familiarly; but the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the
low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes, but they
differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could
I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that
I had taken up my lot- on the worst side of the island; for here
indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on
the other side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here
was also an infinite number of fowls, of many kinds, some which I
had seen, and some which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those
called penguins.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I
could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I could
not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the country; but I
found myself mistaken ; for being come about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley; but so surrounded
with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I could not see
which was my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even
then, unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that time of
the day.

In this journey my dog surprised at young kid, and seized upon
it, and I running in to take hold of it, caught it and saved it alive
from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home ifI could; for
I had often been musing, whether it might not be possible to get a
kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply
me when my powder and shot should be all spent.

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a string which
I had of some rope-yarn, which I always carried about with me, I
led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my bower,
and there I enclosed him, and left him; for I was very impatient
to be at home, from whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a. satisfaction it was to me, to come into

 

" I KNOCKED IT DOWN \\'ITH A STICK."

my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock--bed. This little wan-
dering journey, without settled place of abode, had been so unpleas--
ant to me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was :1 perfect
settlement to me, compared to that ; and it rendered everything
about me so comfortable, that I resolved I would never go a great
way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay on the island.

Ireposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after
my long journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in
the weighty affair of making a cage for my poll, who began now to
be a mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor kid, which I had penned in
within my little circuit, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or
give it some food; aceordinglyI went,_and found it whereI left it;
for indeed it could not get out, but almost starved for want of food.
Iwent and cut bonghs of trees, and branches of such shrubs asI
could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did
before, to lead it away; but it was so tatne with being hungry, that
I had no need to have tied it; for it followed me like a dog; and
and as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond that it became from that time one of my do-
mestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.

I was now expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground
I had manured or dug up for them was not great; for as I observed,
my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck; for I
had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season; but now my
crop promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce
possible to keep from it ; as first, the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in
it night and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about
it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the more,
because it required speed. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced, in about three
weeks" time: and shooting sotne of the creatures in the daytime, I
set my dog to guard it in the night. tying him up to a stake at the
gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a little
time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong,
and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the
blade; so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in
the ear; for going along by the place to see how it throve, Isaw my
little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not how many sorts,
who stood as it were watching till I should be gone ; I immediately
let fly among them (for I always had my gun with me). I had no
sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had
not seen at all, from among the corn itself.

I stay ed by it to load my gun, and then coming away Icould
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me as if they
only waited till Iwas gone away, and the event proved to be so;
for as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their
sight, but they dropt down one by one into the corn again. I was
so proxoked that I could not have patience to stay till more came
on, knowing that eV' eryg rain that they eat now, was, as it might be
said, a peck- loaf to me in the consequence, but coming up to the
hedge, I fired again and killed three of them

This was \V hat I wished for; so I took them up, and served
them as we serve notorious thieves in England, Viz , hanged them
in chains for a terror to others ; it is impossible to imagine almost,
that this should haVe such an effect, as it had; for the few ls would
not only not come at the corn, but in short they forsook all that
part of the island and I could neV er see a bird near the place as
long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the latter
end of December, which was our second harvest of the year, I
reaped my crop.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down, and
all I could do was to make one as well as I could out of one of the
broadswords or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my first crop was but small I had no great
difficulty to cut it down; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end
of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half-peck of seed, I
had near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and half of
  
 
 
 
   
  
  

barley, that is to
say, by my guess,
for I had no meas-
ure at that time.

It might be truly
, said that now I worked
:, for my bread; it is a
little wonderful, and what I be-
lieve few people have thought
much upon, (viz) the strange
multitude of little things neces-
sary in the providing, producing,
curing, dressing, making and finishingr
this one article of bread.

Iliad no plough to turn up the
earth, no spade or shovel to dig it.
Well, this I conquered, by making a
wooden spade, as I observed before;
but this did my work in but a wooden
manner, and though it cost me a great

' x KILLED THREE OF THEM." _
many days to make it, yet for want of
iron it not only wore out the sooner, but made my work the harder,
and made it be performed much worse.

However, thisI bore with, and was content to work it out
with patience, and bear with the badness of the performance.
When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to go
over it myselfand drag a great heavy bough of a. tree over it, to
scratch it, as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.

All this made everything laborious and tedious to me, but that
there was no help for; neither was my time so much loss to me,
because as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day
appointed to these works; and as I resolved to use none of the
corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next
six months to apply myself wholly by labour and invention to
furnish myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
Operations necessary for the making the corn (when I had it) fit
for my use.

Within doors, that is, when it rained, andI could not go out,
I found employment on the following occasions; always observing,
that all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to
my parrot, and teaching him to speak, and I quickly learned him
to know his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud POLL,
which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any
mouth but my own.

I had long studied by some means or other, to make myself
some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not
where to come at them However, considering the heat of the
climate, 1 did not doubt but if I could find out any such clay, I
might botch up some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, be
hard enough, and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any-
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I
was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only
to stand like jars to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me,or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what odd mis-
shapen ugly things I made, how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as
well before as after they were dried ; and in a word, how after hav-
ing laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring
it home and work it; I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two mouths' labour.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet
I made several smaller things with better success, such as little round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers and pipkins, and any things my hand
turned to, and the heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.

It happened after some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, and Iwent to put it out after I had done with
it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the
fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
surprised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole if they would burn broken.

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn me some pots. I had no notion ofa kiln, such as the potters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead to
do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots
in a pile one upon another, and placed my firewood all round it with
a great heap of embers under them; I piled the fire with fresh fuel
round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside
red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all;
when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about 5 or
6 hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt
or run, for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass ifI had gone on 5
so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red
colour, and watching them all night, that I might not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the run-

ning of the sand.THE SPANIARD SHOT THE SAVAGE.
My next concern was, to get me a stone mortar, to stamp or
beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was no thought at arriv-
ing to that perfection of art, with one pair of hands. After a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to
look out for a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I
rounded it, and formed it in the outside with my axe and hatchet,

 

" WHAT ODD MISSHAPEN UGLY THINGS I MADE."

and then with the help of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow
place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this,
I made a great heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-
wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop
of corn, when I proposed to myself, to grind, or rather pound my
corn into meal to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to dress my meal, and
to part it from the bran. All the remedy that I found for this, was,

566 Ir'O/>'/.\'.S'().\' Clt'USO/f.

that at last I did remember I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin;
and with some pieces of these, I made three small sieves, but proper
enough for the work; and thus I made shift for some years; how I
did afterwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how
I should make bread when I came to have corn; for first I had no
yeast; as to that part, as there was no supplying the want, so I did
not concern myself much about it. But for an even, I was indeed
in great pain; at length I found out an experiment for that also,
which was this: I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep; that is to say, about two foot diameter, and not above nine
inches deep; these I burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon
my hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles of my own
making, and burning also; but I should not call them square.

When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all
over, and there I let them lie, till the hearth was very hot, then
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or leaves, and
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley
loaves, and became in little time a mere pastry-cook into the bargain ;
for I made myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings. Indeed,
I made no pics, neither had I anything to put in them, supposing I
had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts run many times upon the prospect of land which Ihad
seen from the other side of the island, and I was not without secret
wishes that I were on shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland,
and in an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat, with the
shoulder of mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then I thought I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon the shore, a great way in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite;
and was turned by the force of the waves and the winds almost bot-
tom upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand; but no
water about her as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have launched
her into the water, the heat would have done well enough, and I
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough 3 but
I might have foreseen, that I could no more turn her, and set her
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island.

So I was forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over
the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over the main increased,
rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length put me upon thinking, whether it was not pos-
sible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of
those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without
hands, viz., of the trunk ofa great tree.

I went to work upon this boat, the most like a fool, that ever
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with
the design, without determining whether I was ever able to under-
take it, not but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often
into my head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this
foolish answer which I gave myself, Let's first make it, I'll warrant
I'll find some way or other to get it along, when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree: I ques-
tion much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building of
the temple at Jerusalem. It was five foot ten inches diameter at the
lower part next to the stamp, and four foot eleven inches diameter at
the end of twenty-two foot, after which it lessened for a while, and
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labour that
I felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at
the bottom, I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs,
and the vast spreading head of it, cut off, which I hacked and
hewed through with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour.
After this, it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to proportion,
and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim up-
right as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to clear
the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This
I did indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint
of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua,
and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and conse--
quently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though
they cost me infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not more. But the first inconvenience was, it
was uphill towards the creek; well, to take away this discourage-
ment, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a
declivity. This I begun, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains;
but who grudge pains, that have their deliverance in view? But
when this was worked through, and this difliculty managed, it was
still much at one; for I could no more stir the canoe, than I could
the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a
dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work,
and when I began to enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to
be dug, how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found, that
by the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it must
have been ten or twelve years before I should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper end, it must
have been at least twenty foot deep ; .so at length, though with great
reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost; and before we
judge rightly of our strength to go through with it.

Ihave mentioned thatI saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and Ihad hung them up
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means some of them
were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others it
seems were very useful. The first thing that I made of these wasfi' 01" [AWON C I? USO I? . 69

a great cap for my
head, with the hair
on the outside to
shoot off the rain;
and this I perform--
ed so well, that af--
ter this I made me
a suit of clothes
wholly of these
skins, that is to say,
a waistcoat, and
breeehes open at
the knees, and both
loose, for they were
rather wanting to
keep me cool than
to keep me warm.

lspent a great
deal of time and
pains to make me
an umbrella. I took a world
of pains at it, and was a great
while before I could make
anything likely to hold; but
at last I made one that
answered indifferently well.
I could walk out in the hot-
test of the weather with
greater advantage than I
could before in the coolest,
and when I had no need of
it, could close it and carry it
under my arm.

I cannot say that after
this, for five years, any extra-
ordinary thing happened to

  
 

" 1 RESOLVED 1'0 DIG."
me, butI lived on in the same course, in the same posture and
place, just as before; the chief thingsl was employed in, besides
my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing my
raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have suffi-
cient stock of one year's provisions beforehand. I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my gun, I
had one labour to make me a canoe, which at last I finished. So
that by digging a canal to it of six foot wide, and four foot deep,
I brought it into the creek, almost halfa mile.

Though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it was
not at all answerable to the design which I had in view, when I
made the first ; I mean, of venturing over to the terra firma, where
it was about forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought no
more of it. But as I had a boat, my next design was to make a
tour round the island; for as I had been on the other side, in one
place, crossing as I have already described it, over the land; so
the discoveries I made in that little journey, made me very eager
to see other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought
of nothing but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my boat, and made a
sail to it, out of some of the pieces of the ship's sail, which lay in
store; and of which I had a great stock by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well. Then I made little lockers, or boxes,
at either end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries and ammu-
nition, etc., into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of
the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the
boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off of me like an
awning; and thus Icvery now and then took a little voyage upon
the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at
last being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, I
resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled my ship for
the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should
rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, :1 food I ate a great deal of, a. little bottle of rum, half a goat,

 

"I MADE ME A SUIT OF CLOTHES."

and powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats,
of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the sea-
men's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the night.
It was in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity, which
you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much
longer than I expected; for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge
of rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it; and beyond that, a shoal of sand, lying dry half a
league more; so that l was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point.

The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured ; but I am a warning piece
again, to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to
the point, when even I was not my boat's length from the shore,
but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the
sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it with such vio-
lence, that all I could do, could not keep her so much as on the
edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther out from
the eddy, which was on my left hand.

However, Iworked hard, till indeed my strength was almost
exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, to-
wards the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
could; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought
I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from the
8.8.13. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when in
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By
this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the island, and
had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone
another way too 3 for I had no compass on board, and should never
have known how to have steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight ofit; but the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up my mast again, spread my sail, standing away to
the north, as much as possible, to get out of the current.

When I was on shore I fell on my knees and gave God thanks
for my deliverancee, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my
deliverance by my boat. I refreshed myselfwith such things as I
had, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on- shore to look
about me and see where I was.
I began my march : the way was comfortable enough after such a
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the even-
ing, where I found everything standing as I left it; for I always

 

"I FELL 0:: MY KNEES."

kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my
limbs; for I was very weary, and fell asleep : but judge you, if you
can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was
waked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several
times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! where
are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you ? Where have you been ?

Iwas so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and with walking
the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly, but dozing between
sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to
me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe, at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at first
dreadfully frighted, and started tip in the utmost consternation;
but no sooner were my eyes 'opcn, but I saw my Poll sitting on the
top of the hedge; and immediately knew that it was he that spoke
to me; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to
him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry, Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you? Where have you been ?
How come you here ?--and such things as I had taught him.

Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and my am-
munition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap and
snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive, and particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and I do believe
they were more than once taken in them, but my tackle was not
good, for I had no wire, and .I always found them broken, and my
bait devoured.

At length I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several large pits
in the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to feed,
and over these pits I placed hurdles of my own making too, with a
great weight upon them; and several times I put ears of barley,
and dry rice, without setting the trap, and I could easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see
the marks of their feet. At length I set three traps in one night,
and going the next morning I found them all standing, and yet the
bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging. However,I
altered my trap, and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one
morning to see my trap, I found in one of them a large old lie--goat,
and in one of the other, three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him, he was so
fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go
about to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. 50 I let
him out, and he ran away as if he had been frighted out of his
wits. Then I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one,

I tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty brought
them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them and they began to be tame; and
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goat's-flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way, when perhaps I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep the tame
from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew
up, and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of
ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so
effectually, that those within might not break out, or those without
break in.

I pitched upon a plain open piece of meadow-land or savanna,
which had two or three little rills of fresh water in it, and at one
end was very woody.

I was about three months hedging it in, and till I had done it
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used them to
feed as near me as possible to make them familiar; and very often
I would go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice,
and feed them out of my hand; so that after my enclosure was
finished, and I let them loose, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a handful of corn.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more I
had three-andvforty, besides several that I took and killed for my
food. And after that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to
feed them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I
wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground into another.

But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's-flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which indeed in my begin-

 

"now LIKE A KING 1 Dim-:0."

ning I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in aday.
And as nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates
even naturally how to make use of it ; so I that had never milked a
cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily
and handily, though after a great many essays and miscarriages,
made me both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it after-
wards.

How like a king I dined all alone, attended by my servants!
Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only person permitted
to talk to me. My dog who was now grown very old and crazy,
and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at
my right hand, and two cats, one on one side the table, and one
on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand asa
mark of special favour.

It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on
the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood
like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened,
I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went
up to a rising ground to look farther, I went up the shore and down
the shore, but it was all one, I could see no other impression but
that one, I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observeif it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for that,
for there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every
part of a foot; how it came thither, I knew not, nor could in the
least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, likea man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to
the last degree, looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis-
taking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance
to be a man; not it is possible to describe how many various shapes
afl'righted imagination represented things to me in, how many wild
ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what strange un-
accountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came into my castle, for 501 think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued 5 whether I went over by
the ladder as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock,
which I called a door, I cannot remember 5 no, nor could I remem-78 [comma/v c1: USOE.

her the next morning; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox
to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of man !
and by what secret differing springs are the affections hurried about
as differing circumstances present! Today we love what to-morrow
we hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire
what toqnorrow we fear; nay, even tremble at the apprehensions
of; this was exemplified in me at this time in the most lively man--
ner imaginable: that I should now tremble at the very apprehen--
sions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but
the shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set his foot in the
island.

In the middle of the cogitations, apprehensions and reflections,
it came into my thought one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own; and that this foot might be the print of my,
own foot, when I came on shore from my boat; this cheered me
up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again; for I
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights ; so that
I began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
doors, but some barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience
for want of it; and indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and
almost dried up their milk.

l-Icartcning myself therefore with the belief that this was nothing
but the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to
start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my
country house, to milk my flock; but to see with what fear I went
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready every now
and then to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would have
made anyone have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience,
or that I had been lately most terribly frighted, and so indeed I had.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large,
as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out
beyond where my fortification joined to the rock; upon maturely"I sroon LIKE ONE THUNDERSTRUCK."
considering this therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortifica-
tion, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees, about twelve
years before, of which I made mention: these trees having been
planted so thick before, they wanted but a few piles to be driven
between them, that they should be thicker, and stronger, and my
wall would be soon finished.

So that I had now adouble wall, and my outer wall was thickened
with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I could think of,
to make it strong; having in it seven little holes, about as big as I
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my
wall to above ten foot thick; with continual bringing earth out of
my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon
it; and through the seven holes, I contrived to plant the muskets,
of which I took notice, that I got seven on shore out of the ship ;
these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames
that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was many a weary month a
finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could wellstand ; inso-
much, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them,
leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from
the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in five or six
years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so mon-
strous thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable;
and no men of what kind soever, would ever imagine that there
was anything beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way
which I proposed to myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue,
it was by setting two ladders ; one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon
that 3 so when the two ladders were taken down, no man livingROB-INS 01V C R (/5 0E. 81

could come down to me without misehieving himself; and if they
had come down, they were still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen at length, that they were
not altogether without just reason 3 though I foresaw nothing at that
time, more than my mere fear suggested to me.

 

"MY livnxtxo mvrsnsxox."

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me, for my little herd of
goals : they were not only a present supply to' me upon every ocea-
sion, and began to be sufficient to me, without the expense of pow-
der and shot ; but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild
ones, and 1 was loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have all
to nurse up over again.

6
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them ; one was to find another convenient
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every
night; and the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another and as much concealed as I could, where
Imight keep about half a dozen young goats in each place. So
that if any disaster happened to the {lock in general, I might be
able to raise them again with little trouble and time. And this,
though it would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought
was the most rational design.

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island; and I pitched upon one which was as private
indeed as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp piece of
ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is
observed, I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I found
a clear piece of land near three acres, so surrounded with woods,
that it was almost an enclosure by nature, at least it did not want
near so much labour to make it so, as the other pieces of ground I
had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in
less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round, that my flock
or herd, call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at
first they might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it.
So without any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats and
two he-goats to this piece ; and when they were there, I continued
to perfect the fence till I had made it as secure as the other, which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a
great deal. .

After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I
went about the whole island, searching for another private place, to
make such another deposit ; when wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance; I had found
a perspective-glass, or two, in one of the seamen's chests, which I
saved out of our ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so
remote, that I could not tell what to make of it ; though I looked
at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer ; whether
it was a boat, or not, I do not know; but as I descended from the
hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to
go no more out without a perspective-glass in my pocket.

When I was come down the hill, to the end of the island.

 

" I THOUGHT I SA\\' A BOAT l'l'ON THE Sim."

where indeed I had never been before, I was presently convinced
that the print of a man's foot was not such :1 strange thing in the
island as I imagined ; and but that it was a special providence that
I was cast upon the side of the island, where the savages never came.
Ishould easily have known, that nothing was more frequent than
for the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too
far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour;
likewise as they often met, and fought in their canoes, the victors
having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore,
where according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill, to the shore, as I said above,
being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and
amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind,
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly I observed a place where there
had been a fire made, and acircle dug in the earth, like a cockpit,
where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their in-
human feastings upon the bodies of their fellow--creatures.

l was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while;
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch
of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature; which though I had heard of often, yet I never had
so near a view of before; in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and l was just at the point
of fainting, so I gat me up the hill again, with all thespeed I could,
and walked on towards my own habitation.

'l'imc, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off my
uneasiness about'them: and I began to live just in the same com--
posed manner as before; only with this difference, that I used more
caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I
should happen to be seen by any of them.

Particularly I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of
them being on the island, should happen to hear of it; and it was
therefore a very good providence to me, that I had furnished my-
self with a tame breed of goats, that I needed not hunt any more
about the woods, or shoot at them; and ifI did catch any of them
after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done before.

For two years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once
off, though I never went Out without it ; and which was more, as l
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out
with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin
belt; also I furbished up one of the great cutlasses, that I had out
of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange ifI confess
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all
the contrivanees that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my
hands, than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop
a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be
heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and
above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke which is visible at a great distance in the day should betray
me; and for this reason I removed that part of my business which
required fire, such as burning of pots, and pipes, etc., into my new
apartment in the woods.

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said
before; and yet I could not live there without baking my bread,
cooking my meat, etc., so I contrived to burn some wood, as I had
seen done in England, under turf, until it became Chark, or dry
coal; and then puttingthe fire out, I preserved the coal to carry
home, and perform the other services which fire was wanting for at
home, without danger of smoke.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that
behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there
was a kind of hollow place; I was curious to look into it, and get-
ting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large;
that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps
another with me; but I must confess to you, I made more haste
out than I (lid in. when looking farther into the place, and which
was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth
shining directly in and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and plucking
up courage, I took up a great firebrand, and in I rushed again, with
the stick flaming in my hand; I had not
gone three steps in, but I was almost as
much frighted as I was before ; for I heard
a very loud sigh, like that of a man in
some pain, and it was followed by a
broken noise, as if of words half ex-

' pressed, and then a deep sigh
again. I stepped back, and was

indeed struck with such a sur-
prise, that it put me
into a cold sweat;
and if I had had a
hat on my head, I
will not answer for
it, that my hair might
not have lifted it off.
But still plucking up
my spirits as well as
I could, and encour--
aging myself a. little
with considering
that the power and
presence of God was
everywhere, and was
able to protect me ;
upon this I stepped
forward again, and
by the light of the
firebrand, holding it
up a little over my
head, I saw lying on
the ground a most
monstrous frightful
old he-goat, just
making his will, as
we say, and gasping

   
 
   
 
  
  

" I s'an-zi) HIM A LITTLE."
for life, and dying indeed of mere old age. I stirred him a little
to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get up, but was
not able to raise himself; and I thought with myself, he might even
lie there; for if he had frighted me so, he would certainly fright
any of the savages, ifany of them should be so hardy as to come
in there, while he had any life in him.

1 was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when 1 found the cave was but very small, that is to say,
it might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner of shape,
either round or square, no hands ever having been employed in mak-
ing it, but those of mere nature; I observed also, that there was a
place at the farther side of it, that went in farther, but was so low,
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into
it, and whither I went I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it
over for some time; but resolved to come again the next day, pro-
vided with candles, and a tinder-box, which I had made of the
lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next (lay I came provided with six large can-
dles of my own making; for I made very good candles now of
goat's tallow; and going into this low place, Iwas obliged to creep
upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the
way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew
not how far it might go, or what was beyond it. When I was got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near
twenty feet ; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island,
I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides and roof of this vault
or cave. The walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to me
from my two candles. What it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to
be, I knew not.

The place Iwas in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto, of
its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so
that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen,
neither was there any damp or wet on the sides of the roof.
The only difficulty in it was the entrance, which however, as it
was a place of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, Ithought
that was a convenience; so that Iwas really rejoiced at the dis-
covery, and resolved without any delay, to bring some of those
things which I was most anxious about, to this place ; particularly,
I resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare
arms, vi7.., two fowling-pieces, for I had three in all; and three
muskets, for of them I had eight in all ; so I kept at my castle only
five, which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon, on my out-
most fence; and were ready also to take out upon any expedition.

It was now the month of December, in my twenty--third year;
and this being the southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was
the particular time of my harvest, and required my being pretty
much abroad in the fields, when going out pretty early in the
morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with
seeing a light ofsome fire upon the shore, at a distance from me, of
about two mile towards the end of the island, where I had observed
some savages had been as before; but not on the other side; but to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped short
within my grove, not daring to go out, least I might be surprised ;
and yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I had,
that if these savages in rambling over the island, should find my
corn standing, or cut, or any of my works and improvements, they
would immediately conclude, that there were people in the place,
and would then never give over till they had found me out. In
this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of
defence; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them; that is to say,
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to .the last gasp, not for-
getting seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and
earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar-
barians; and in this posture I continued about two hours; but
began to be mighty impatient for'intelligence abroad, for I had no
spies to send out.

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in
this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so
setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat
place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after
me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpose, I
laid me down flat on my belly, on the ground, and began to look
for the place ; I presently found there was no less than nine naked
savages, sitting round a small fire they had made, not to warm them ;
for they had no need of that, the weather being extreme hot ; but as
I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh,
which they had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could
not know.

As soon as I saw them shipped, and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my great
sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was
able to make, I went away to the hill, where I had discovered the
first appearance of all; and as soon as I gat thither, which was not
less than two hours, (for I could not go apace, being so loaded with
arms as I was) I perceived there had been three canoes more of
savages on that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all
at sea. together, and making over for the main.

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going down to
the shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dismal work
they had been about had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones,
and part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretches, with merrimcnt and sport. I was so filled with indigna--
tion at the sight, that I began now to premeditate the destruction of
the next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.

However, I wore out a year and three months more, before I
ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found them again, as
I shall soon observe.

On the sixteenth of May it blew a very great storm of wind,
all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul
night it was after it ; I know not what was the particular occasion
of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with
a noise ofa gun, as I thought fired at sea.

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a qttite different nature from
any I had met with before ; for the notions this put into my thoughts
were quite of another kind. I started up in the greatest haste im-
aginable, and in a trice clapped my ladder to the middle place of
the rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time,
got to the top of the hill, the very moment that a flash of fire bid
me listen for a second gun, which accordingly, in about half a
minute, I heard, and by the sound, knew it was from that part of
the sea where I was driven down the current in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be a ship in distress,
and that they had some comrade, or some other ship in company,
and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I
had this presence of mind at that minute, as to think that though I
could not help them, it may be they might help me; so I brought
together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a good
handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill; the wood was dry, and
blazed freely; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt
fairly out; that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship,
they must needs see it, and no doubt they did ; for as soon as ever
my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter.

1 plied my fire all night long, until day broke; and when it
was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great
distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail, or a hull, I
could not distinguish, no not with my glasses, the distance was so
great, and the weather still something hazy also; at least it was so
at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that
it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at an
anchor, and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and run toward the south side of the island, to the
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the current, and
getting up there, the weather by this time being" perfectly clear, I
could plainly see to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away
in the night, upon those concealed rocks which I found, when I was
out in my boat.

I never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no ;
and had only the allliction some (lays after to see the corpse of a
drowned hoy come on shore, at the end of the island which was

 

"THE tom's>>: '01: A UROWNED new,"

next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes, but a seamen's waist-
coat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt:
but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was
of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a
tobacco-pipe ; the last was to me of ten times more value than the
first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on
board that might be useful to me; but that did not altogether press
me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but might by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread,
a great pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum,
for I still had a great deal of that left, a basketful of raisins. And
thus loading myself with everything neceSsary, I went down to my
boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more; my second cargo
was a great bag full of rice, the- umbrella to set up over my head for
shade, another large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of
my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle of
goat's milk and a cheese ; all which, with great labour and sweat, I
brought to my boat.

I resolved the next morning to set out with the first of the
tide; and reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under a great
watch-coat, Ilaunched out. I made first a little out to sea full
north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which set east--
ward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so
hurry me as the southern side current had done before, and so as to
take from me all government of the boat; but having a strong steer-
age with my paddle, I went at a great rate, directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its
building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks ; all
the stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces, with the sea; and
as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great
violence, her mainmast and forcmast were brought by the board;
that is to say, broken short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the
head and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog
appeared upon her, who seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and
as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea, to come to me, and I
took-him into, the boat; but found him almost dead from hunger
and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a
ravenous wolf, that had been starving a fortnight in the snow. IR OBli-VSOA" C lr' USOE. 93

then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would
have let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board; but the first sight I met with, was
two men drowned, in the cook-room, or the forecastle of the ship,
with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed
probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were not
able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in of
the water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides the
dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any goods
that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.

There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy, I
knew not, which lay lower in the hold; and which, the water being
ebbed out, I could see ; but they were too big to meddle with. I
saw several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the sea-
men; and I got two of them into the boat, without examining what
was in them.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken
off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for by what
I found in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a
great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course
she steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or
the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the
Brazils, to the Havana, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to
Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her ; but of no use
at that time to anybody; and what became of the rest of her people,
I then knew not.

I found besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about
twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difl'iculty;
there were several muskets in a cabin, and a great powder>>horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I had
no occasion for them ; so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I
took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two
little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron;
and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning
to make home again ; and the same evening, about an hour within
night, Ireached the island again, weary and fatigued to the last
degree.

I reposcd that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved
to harbour what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home
to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore,
and began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found
to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils; and in

 

" BEGAN 'ro EXAMINE Tm; PARTICULARS."

a word, not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I
found several things of great use to me. For example, I found in
one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with
cordial waters, fine, and very good; the bottles held about three
pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very
good succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on top, that the salt
water had not hurt them; and two more of the same, which the
water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me; and about a dozen and half of linen white hand-
kerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths ; the former were also very
welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day ;
besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found there
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hun~
dred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six
doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I sup-
pose they might all weigh near a pound.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid
it up, as I had done that before which I brought from our own ship;
but it was great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had
not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had ever escaped
to England, would have lain here safe enough, till I might have
come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them,
I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore
to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best of my
way to my old habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet;
so I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care
of my family affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough, only that
I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did
not go abroad so much; and if at any time I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go
without so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammu-
nition, as I always carried with me if I went the other way.

About a year and half after this, I was surprised one morning
early with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on
my side the island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke all my
measures, for seeing so many, and knowing that they always came
four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single>>handed,' so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis-
comforted. However, Iput myself into all the same postures for
an attack that I had formerlyvprovided, and was just ready for ac-
tion if anything had presented.

Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they made
any noise; at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the

 

" DANCING ROUND THE FIRE."

foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill by my
two stages as usual, standing so, however, that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means; here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that
they were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire
kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they had cooked
it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing in I
know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their Own way,
round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my per-
spective two miserable wretches dragged from their boats, where it
seems they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fell, being
knocked d0wn, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that
was their way, and two or three others were at work immediately
cutting him Open for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that
very moment this poor wreteh, seeing himself a little at liberty,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness alongr the sands directly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (thatI must acknowledge) when I
perceived him to run my way; and especially when, as I thought.
Isaw him pursued by the whole body; and now I expected that
part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would certainly
take shelter in my grove; but I could not depend by any means
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there. However. I
kept my station, and my spirts began to recover, when I found that
there was not above three men that followed him, and still more was
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in
running, and gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold
it for half an hour, I' saw easily he would fairly get away from them
all.

There was between them and my castle the creek which I
mentioned often at the first part of my story, when I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there. But when
the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though
the tide was then up, but plunging in swam through in about thirty

798 I" OBINS'OA' C If U501? .

strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but went no
further; and soon after went softly back again, which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the main.

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice
as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from
them. It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irre-
sistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion, or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence
to save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders
with all possible expedition), fetched my two guns, for they were
both but at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above; and get-
ting up again, with the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed
toward the sea, and, having a very short cut, and all down hill,
clapped myself in the way, between the pursuers and the pursued,
halloing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first per-
haps as much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back; and in the meantime I slowly advanced
toward the two that followed, then rushing at once upon the fore-
most, I knocked him down with the stoek of my piece. I was loth
to fire, because I would not have the rest hear 3 though at that dis-
tance it would not have been easily heard, and being out of sight
of the smoke, too, they would not have easily known what to make
of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued
him stopped, as if he had been frighted, and 1 advanced apace
towards him; but, as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a
bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, so I was then
necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at
the first shot.

The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen, and killed as he thought, yet was so frighted
with the fire and noise of my piece that he stood stock still, and
neither came forward or went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to fly still than to come on. I halloed again to him,u I KILLED HIM AT THE FIRST SHOT."
and made signs to come forward, which he easily understood, and
came a little way, then stopped again, and then a little further,
and stopped again, and I could then perceive that he stood trem-
bling, as if he had been taken prisoner. and had just been to
be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come
to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could
think of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps in token of acknowledgment for my saving his life.
I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned him to come
still nearer; at length he came close to me, and then he kneeled
down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground,
and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head. This, it
seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. Itook
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I could.

But there was more work to do yet, for I perceived the savage
whom I had knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the
blow, and began to come to himself; so I pointed to him, and
showed him the savage, that he was not dead. Upon this he spoke
some words to me, and though I could not understand them, yet I
thought they were pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of
a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-
five years. But there was no time for such reflections now; the
savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit
upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid ;
but when I saw that, I presexited my other piece at the man as ifI
would shoot him; upon this my savage, for so [called him now,
made a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in
a belt by my side, so I did.

He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one
blow out off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could
have done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for
one who I had reason to believe never saw a sword in his life before,
except their own wooden swords; however, it seems, as I learned
afterwards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and
the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them.
aye, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done this,li' 0 B LVSON CR (7505:. r o I

he comes laughing to Inc in sign of triumph, and brought me the
sword again, and with abundance of gestures, which I did not un-
derstand, laid it down with the head of the savage that he had killed
just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know howI had

 

"AT oxr: BLOW cu'i' 01:1: ms mean."

killed the other Indian so far oil", so pointing to him, he made signs
to me to let him go to him; so I bade him go, as well as I could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him ;
turned him first on one side, then on the other; looked at the
wound the bullet had made, whirh it seems was just in his breast,
where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had
followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He
took up his bow and arrows, and came back, so I turned to go
away, and beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to him that
more might come after them.

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand,
that they might not be seen by the rest if they followed; and so I
made signs again to him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant
he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to bury
the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did
so also by the other. I believe he had buried them both in a quarter
of an hour; then calling him 'away, I carried him not to my castle,
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch ofraisins to eat. and a draught
of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by his
running; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie
down and sleep; pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel
of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature laid down, and went to
sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made; with
straight strong limbs, not too large ; tall and well shaped, and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect ; but seemed to have something
very manly in his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness
of an European in his countenance too, especially when he smiled.
H is hair was long and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead very
high, and large, and a great \'ivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny ;
and yet not of an ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and
Virginians, and other natives of America are; but of a bright kind
of a dun olive colour, that had in it something very agreeable;
though not very easy to describe. His face was round and plump;
his nose small, not flat like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth well set, and white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept. about half an hour,
he waked again, and comes out of the cave to me; for I had been
milking my goats which I had in the enclosure just by. When he
espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down again upon
the ground, with all the possible signs of a humble thankful disposi-
tion, making many antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his
head fiat upon the ground close to my foot, and sets my other foot
upon his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to
let me know how he would serve me as long as he lived; I under-
stood him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased
with him.

In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak
to me ; and first, I made him know his name should be Friday, which
was the day I saved his life; I called him so for the memory of the
time. I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him know
that was to be my name; I likewise taught him to say Yes and No,
and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and I gave him a cake of bread, to (lo the like, which he
quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was day,
I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know I would give
him some clothes, at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. As we went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that he
had made to find them again, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again and eat them. At this I appeared very angry,
expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away,
which he did immediately, with great submission. I then led him
up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone ; and pull-
ing out my glass I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance of them, or of their canoes; so that it was
plain they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them,
without any search after them.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there
I fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a
pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I
mentioned. and which I found in the wreck: and which with a
little alteration titted him very well; then I made him a jerkin of
goat's skin. as well as my skill would allow ; and I was now grown
a tolerable good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had made
of a hare-skin. very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus
he was clothed for the present, tolerably well ; and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master.

The next (lay after I came home to my hutch with him, I he-
gan to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do
well for him. and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent
for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications,

lint I needed none of this precaution ; for never man had
more Iaithful, loving, sincere servant, than Friday was to me : with-
out passions. sullenness or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged ;
his very affections were tied to me, like those ofa child toa father;
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me
of this, put it out doubt, and soon convinced me, that I needed to
use no precautions, as to my safety on his account.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him everything, that was proper to make him useful, handy,
and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand me
when l spake. and he was the aptest scholar that ever was, and par-
ticularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased, when
he could but understand me. or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant to me to talk to him ; and now my life began to be
so easy, that I began to say to myself, that could I but have been
safe from more savages I cared not, if I was never to remove from
the place while I lived. -

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of
feeding. and from the relish ofa cannibal's stomach, I ought to let
him taste other flesh : so I took him out with me one morning to
the woods. I went indeed intending to kill a kid out of my own
flock, and bring him home and dress it. But as I was going, I saw
a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by
hen I catched hold of Friday, Hold, says I, stand still; and
made signs to him not to stir; immediately I presented my piece,
shot and killed one of the kids.

The poor creature, who had at a distance indeed seen me kill
the savage his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine how it
was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked
so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up
his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded, and, as I found, pres-
ently thought I was resolved to kill him ; for he came and kneeled
down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many things I
(lid not understand ; but I could easily see that the meaning was to
pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm, and taking him up by the hand laughed at him, and pointed
to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did.

I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin
off, and cut it out as well as Icould; and having a pot for that
purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some very
good broth ; and after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that
which was strangest to him, was, to see me eat salt with it 3 he made
a sign to me, that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a little
into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and
sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it; on the
other hand, I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pre-
tended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done
at the salt; but it would not do, he would never care for salt with
his meat, or in his broth; at least, not a great while, and then but
a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next (lay with roasting a piece of the kid ; this I
did by hanging it before the fire, in a string, as I had seen many
people do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side the
fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross-
stiek, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very
much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways
to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ;
and at last he told me he would never eat man's flesh any more,
which I was very glad to hear.

 

" mumw BEGAN TO TALK PRETTY WELL."

The next day I set him to work beating some corn out, and
sitting it in the manner I used to do, and he soon understood how
to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the meanin'gr
of it was, and that it was to make bread of: for after that I let him
see me make my bread, and bake it too. and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, as well as 1 could do it myself.[i' OIJINSOA" (JR (/5015. PS07

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place:
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost
everything I had occasion to call for, and of every place I had to
send him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I
began now to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed I
had very little occasion for before; that is to say, about speech.
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction
in the fellow himself; his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me
more and more every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for
him ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankeringinclination
to his own country again, and having learned him English so well
that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him whether
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle, at which
he smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always fight the better; that is, he
meant always get the better in fight; and so we began the following
discourse: You always light the better! said 1; how came you to
be taken prisoner then, Friday?

Friday. My nation beat much, for all that,

Master. How beat? if your nation beat them, how came you
to be taken?

Friday. 'l'hey more many than my nation in the place where me
was ; they take one. two, three, and me ; my nation over beat them in
the yonder place, where me no was ; there my nation take one, two,
great thousand.

Master. But why did not your side recover you from the hands
of your enemies then?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time.

Master. \Vell, Friday, and what does your nation do with the
men they take? do they carry them away, and eat them, as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

Master. Where do they carry them?

Friday. Go to other place where they think.

Master. Do they come hither?108 ROB/ALCOA" C/t' L'SOE.

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

Masten Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I been here; [pointing to the NW. side of the
island] which it seems was their side.

He told me that 11p a n'reat way beyond the moon, that was,
beyond the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, their dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to
my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had
killed much mans, that was his word; by all which I understood,
he meant the Spaniards whose cruelties in America had been spread
over the whole countries, and was remembered by all the nations
from father to son.

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over, and see
if I could possibly join with these bearded men, who I made no
doubt were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but if I could
we might find some method to escape from thence, being upon the
continent, and a good company together; better than I could front
an island forty miles off the shore, and alone without help. So
after some days I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse,
and told him I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation;
and accordingly I carried him to my frigate which lay on the other
side of the island, and having cleared it of water. for I always kept
it sunk in the water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we both
went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at 111anaging it, would
make it go almost as swift and fast again as I could; so when he
was in, I said to him, Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your
nation? He looked very dull at my saying so, which it seems was
because he thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him then
I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the place where the first
boat lay which I had made, but which I could not get into water.
He said that was big enough ; but then as I had taken no care of it,
and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had
split and dried it, so that it was in a manner rotten.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we would
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. lasked
him what was the matter with him? He asked me again thus:
Why, you angry mad with Friday, what me done? I asked him
what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at all. No
angry! no angry ! says he, repeating the words several times. Why
send Friday home away to my nation? Why (says I), Friday, did
yOu not say you wished you were there? Yes, yes, says he, wish
we both there, no wish Friday there, no master there. In a word,
he would not think of going there without me; I go there ! Friday
(says I), what shall I do there? He turned very quick upon me at
this. You do great deal much good, says he; you teach wild mans
be good sober tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and
live new life. Alas ! Friday (says I), thou knowest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself. Yes, yes, says he, you
teachee me good, you teachee them good. No, no, Friday (says
I), you shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself, as I
did before. He looked confused again at that word, and running
to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,
comes and gives it me. What must I do with this? says I to him.
You take, kill Friday, says he. What must I kill you for? said I
again. He returns very quick, What you send Friday away for?
Take, kill Friday, no send Friday away. This he spoke so
earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so
plainly diseovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm
resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I
would never send him away from me, if he was willing to stay with
me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled af-
fection to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I
found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country,
was laid in his ardent affection to thepeople, and his hopes of my
doing them good; a thing which as I had no notion of myself, so I
had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it.
But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an escape as
above, founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse,
viz., that there were seventeen bearded men there; and therefore,
without any more delay, I went to work with Friday to find out a
great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua or canoe to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in the island to
have built a little fleet, not of periaguas
and canoes, but even of good large vessels.

 
 
 
  

But the main
thing I look- _
ed at, was to 3', V 5
get one so near the '
water that we might

launch it when it was

made, to avoid the mis-
take I committed at first.

At last, Friday pitched
upon a tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what
kind of wood was fittest for it;
nor can I tell to this day what
wood to call the tree we cut .
down, except that it was very "upon our-ma ROLLERS."
like the tree we call fustic, or
between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same
colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity ofI? ORIJVSOA" C If I 750/5. I l I

this tree out to make it for a boat. But I showed him how rather
to cut it out with tools, which, after I had showed him how to use,
he did very handily, and in about a month's hard labour we fin-
ished it, and made it very handsome, especially when with our
axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat; after this, however, it cost
us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch by inch,
upon great rollers into the water. But when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along, so I
asked him if he would go, and if we might venture over in her;
Yes, he said, we venture Over in her very well, though great blow
wind. However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing of,
and that was to make a mast and sail and to fit her with an anchor
and cable; as to a mast, that was easy enough to get ; so I pitched
upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and
which there was great plenty of in the island, and I set Friday to
work to cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and
order it. But as to the sail, that was my particular care; I knew I
had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had had
them now six-and-twenty years by me, and had not been very care-
ful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever have this
kind ofuse for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and
indeed most of them were so; however, I found two pieces which
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work, and with a
great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be
sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly
thing, like what we call in England a shoulder of mutton sail.

After all this was done too, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for though he knew
very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to
a sail and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me work
the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jib-
bed, and filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon Inc, when I kept
more within doors than at other times; sol had stowed our new
vessel as secure as we could, bringingr her up into the creek.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of
my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for
the voyage; and the first thing I did, was to lay by a certain quan-
tity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended
in a week or a fortnight's time to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when
I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got twice
a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh.

Friday had not been long gone, when he came running back,
and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to
speak to him, he cries out to me, 0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow!
0 bad. What's the matter, Friday? says I. () yonder, there, says
he, one, two, three canoe! one, two, three! By his way of speak-
ing, 1 concluded there were six; but on inquiry, I found it was but
three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be frighted; "so I heartened
him up as well as 1 could.

I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing ran
in his head but that they were come to look for him, and would cut
him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so, that I
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat
me as well as him ; but, says I, Friday, we must resolve to fight them,
can you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he, but there come many
great number. No matter for that, said I again, our guns will fright
them that we do not kill ; so I asked him whether, if I resolved to
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just asI
bid him? He said, Me die, when you bid die, master; so I went
and fetched a good dram of rum, and gave him; for I had
been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left.
When he had drank it, I made him take the two fowling--pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with large swan-shot, as
big as small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small bullets each; and my two pistols
Iloaded with a brace of bullets each; [hung my great sword as
usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective--glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could discover;
and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three
human bodies (a barbarous feast indeed), but nothing more than as
I had observed was usual with them.

I observed also, that they were landed not where they had done
when Friday made his escape ; but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a thick wood came close almost down to
the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, filled me with such indignation, that I came
down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to
them, and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me?
He was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little
raised, with the dram I had giving him, he was very cheerful, and
told me, as before, he would die, when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which I
had charged, as before, between us. Igave Friday one pistol to
stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I took
one pistol, and the other three myself; and in this posture we
marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave
Friday a large bag, with more powder and bullets; and as to
orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him; and in the meantime,
not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass to
my right hand, of near a mile, as well to get over the creek, as to
get into the wood; so that I might come within shot of them,
before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning,
I began to abate my resolution 3 I do not mean, that I entertained

8" r Mun; mum-fry TO\VARD$ Tm: POOR VICTIM."
any fear of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certainI was superior to them; nay, though I had
been alone; but it occurred to my thoughts, what call? what occa-
sion? much less, what necessity l was in to go and dip my hands
in blood, to attack people, who had neither done, or intended me
any wrong?

These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts, all the
way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself
near them, that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I
would act then as God should direct; but that unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not
meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible
wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched
till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to
them; only that one corner of the wood lay between me and
them; here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the
tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing.

He did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me
they might be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another
lay bound upon the sand, 3. little from them, which he said they
would kill next, and which fired all the very soul within me; he
told me it was not one of their nation; but one of the bearded
men, who he had told me of, that came to their country in the
boat; I was filled with horror at the very naming the white-bearded
man, and going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass, :1 white man
who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied,
with flags, or things like rushes; and that he was an\European, and
had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where Iwas, which by going
a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that
then I should be within half shot of them; so I withheld my
passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree, and
going back about twenty paces, Igot behind some bushes, which
held all the way, till I came to the other tree; and then I came to
a little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the
distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him
perhaps limb by limb to their fire, and they were stooped down to
untie the bands, at his feet. ' I turned to Friday: Now, Friday,said
I, do as I bid thee. Friday said he would. 'l'hen, Friday, says I,
do exactly as you see me do, fail in nothing. So I set down one of
the muskets, and the fowling-piece, upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket, I took my aim at
the savages, bidding him do the like; then asking him, if he was
ready? he said, Yes. 'l'hen fire at them, said I; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more;
and on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you
may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them, who
were not hurt, jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look; for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that as I bid him, he might observe what I did; so as
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up
the fowling-picce, and Friday did the like; he saw me cock and
present, he did the same again; Are you ready, Friday? said I ;
Yes, says he; Let fly then, says I, in the name of God, and with
that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our pieces were now loaded with what I called swan-shot, or
small pistol bullets, we found only two drop; but so many were
wounded, that they ran about yelling, and screaming, like mad
creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded, most of them ;
whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and
taking up the musket, which was yet loaded; follow me, says I,
which he did, with a great deal of courage, upon which I rushed
out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot.
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Friday do so too ; and running as fast as I could, which
by the way was not very fast, being laden with arms as I was, I
made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they sat, and the
sea; the two butchers who were just going to work with him, had
left him, at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright,
to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the
rest made the same way; I turned to Friday, and bid him step for-
wards, and fire at them ; he understood me immediately, and run-
ning'about forty yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all; for I saw them all fall of a heap
into the boat; though I saw two of them up again quickly. I'IOW>
ever, he killed two of them, and wounded the third; so that he
lay down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at him, I pulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that bound the poor victim. and loosing his hands and
feet, Ilifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what
he was? He answered in Latin, Christianus ; but was so weak and
faint, that he could scarce stand or speak ; I took my bottle out of
my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should drink,
which he did ; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate , then
I asked him, what countryman he was? and he said Espagnol;
and being a little recovered, let me know by all the signs he could
possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance;
Seignior; said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, we will
talk afterwards; but we must fight now ; if you have any strength
left, take this pistol, and sword, and lay about you ; he took them
very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but as
if they had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers,
like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces, in an instant.
While I was loading my gun there happened a fierce engagment
between the Spaniard, and one of the savages, who made at him
with one of their great wooden swords, the "l".
same weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, ifI had not prevented it. The Spaniard,
who was as bold, and as brave as could be
imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian

 
 
 
 
  

" WRINGING Mv SWORD our OF HIS HAND."

a. good while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but
the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had
thrown him down (being faint) and was wringing my sword out of
his hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting
the sword drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through
the body, and killed him upon the spot; before I, who was run-
ning to help him, could come near him.

Friday pursued the flying wretches with no weapon in his hand
but his hatchet , and with that he despatched those three, who, as I
said before, were wounded at first and fallen, and all the rest he
could come up with, and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of
the savages, and wounded them both; but as he was not able to
run, they both got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued
them, and killed one of them; but the other was too nimble for
him, and though he was wounded, yet had plunged himself into the
sea, and swam with all his might off to those two who were left in
the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we
know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of
one-and-twcnty.

Those that were in the canoe, worked hard to get out of gun-
shot; and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me
take one of their canoes, and pursue them ; and indeed I was very
anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news home to their
people, they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred
of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented
to pursue them by sea, and running to one oftheir canoes, I jumped
in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I
was surprised to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost
(lead with fear, not knowing what the matter was ; for he had- not
been able to look up over the side of the boat. he was tied so hard,
neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had really but
little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand, or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing it seems still
that he was only unbound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell
him of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle, made him give
the poor wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being deliv-
ered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when Friday
came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced
him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced,
sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face, and
head, and then sung, and jumped about again, like a distracted
creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to
himself, he told me, that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage, at the
sight of his father, and of his being delivered from death; nor in-
deed canl describe half the extravagances of his affection after
this; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many
times. When he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom, half an
hour together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and
rubbed them with his hands; and I perceiving what the case was,
gave him some rum out of my bottle, to rub them with, which did
them a great deal of good.

When we got them to the outside of our wall or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get
them over; and I was resolved not to break it down. So I set to
work again; and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a
very handsome tent, covered with old sails.

When I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, Iunder-
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portu-
guese, who, having been cast away, and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace indeed with the savages, but were very
sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life.
He told me they were all of them very civil honest men, and
they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither
weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion
of the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own
country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve them if
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat.

The Spaniard thought it would be advisable to let him and the
other two dig and cultivate some more land, as much as Icould
spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another harvest
that we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen when they
should come; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree,
or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another. So we fell to digging all four of us, as well
as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
about a month's time, by the end of which it was seedtime, we had
gotten as much land cured and trimmed up, as we sowed twenty-
two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was in
short all the seed we had to spare.

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; but above all, the season for curing the
grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung
up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicaut, where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty
barrels.

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
him a. strict charge in writing, not to bring any man with him, who
would not first swear in the presence of himself and of the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the per-
son he should fmd in the island, who was so kind to send for them
in order to their deliverance; but that they would stand by and
defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they went,
would be entirely under and subjected by his commands ; and that
this should be put in writing, and signed with their hands.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old savage, the
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes, which they might
be said to come in, or rather were brought in, when they came as
prisoners to be devoured by the savages.

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my
hutch one morning. when my man Friday came running in to me,
and called aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are come.

Ijumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out, as soon as
I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which by the
way was by this time grown to be a very thick wood ; I say regard-
less of danger, I went without my arms. which was not my custom
to do. But I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I
presently saw a boat at about a league and a half's distance, stand-
ing in for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fairly to bring them in; also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which the shore
lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island. Upon this I
called Friday in, and bid him he close, for these were not the peo-
ple we looked for, and that we might not know yet whether they
were friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to
see what I could make of them ; and having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly dis-
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and a half's
distance from me south-south-east, but not above a league and a
half from the shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to be
an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long--boat.

I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a'creek to thrust in at for
the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come quite
far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed
my rafts; but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half
a mile from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise they
would have landed just as I may say at my door, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me
of all I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that they were
Englishmen; at least, most of them; one or two. I thought were
Dutch; but it did not prove so. There were in all eleven men,
whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of en-
treaty, affliction and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the
other two I could perceive lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was;
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that
was gone with him; or that I had any way to have come undiscov-
ered within shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men;
for I saw no firearms they had among them ; but it fell out to my
mind another way.

After'I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men, by
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about the
land, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that the
three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased ; but they
sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like
men in despair.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn
something of their condition. Icame as near them undiscovered
as I could, and then before any of them saw me, I called aloud to
them in Spanish, What are ye, gentlemen?

They started up at the noise, but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just
going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English: Gentle-
men, said I, do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a
friend near you when you did not expect it. He must be sent
directly from Heaven, then, said one of them very gravely to me,
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me; for our condition
is past the help of man. All help is from Heaven, sir, said I. But
can you put a stranger in the way how to help you, for you seem to
me to be in some great distress? I saw you when you landed, and
when you seemed to make applications to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.

The poor man with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, Am I talking to God, or man?
Is it a real man, or an angel? Be in no fear about that, sir, said i,
if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in ; pray
lay aside your fears, I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to
assist you, you see; I have one servant only; we have arms and
ammunition ; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?

Our case, said he, sir, is too long to tell you, while our mur-
derers are so near; but in short, sir, I was commander of that ship,
my men have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed
on not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this deso-
late place, with these two men with me ; one my mate, the other a
passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it.

Where are those brutes, your enemies, said I; do you know
where they are gone? There they lie, sir, said he, pointing to a
thicket of trees; my heart trembles, for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak; if they have they will naturally murder us all.
Have they any firearms? said I. He answered they had only
two pieces, and one which they left in the boat. Well, then, said
I, leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing
to kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners? He told
me there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce
safe to show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all
the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were.

 

"THEY BEGGED FOR MERCY."

He told me he could not at that distance describe them; but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. Well, says I,
let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we
will resolve further. So they willingly went back with me, till the
woods covered us frOm them.

Look you, sir, said I, if I venture upon your deliverance, are
you willing to make .two conditions with me? He anticipated my
proposals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything;
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him ; and the two
other men said the same.

Well, then, said I, here are three muskets for you, with pow-
der and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to be done.
He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he was able ; but
offered to be wholly guided by me. Itold him I thought it was
hard venturing anything; but the best method I could think of was
to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any was not killed
at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly, that he was loth to kill them, if he
could help it, but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had
been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped
we should all be undone still; for they would go on board, and
bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. Well, then,
says I, necessity legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to
save our lives. However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him they should go themselves, and manage as they
found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse, we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet; Iasked him if
either of them were of the men who he had said were the heads of
the mutiny? He said, No. Well, then, said I, you may let them
escape, and Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to
save themselves. Now, says I, if the rest escape you, it is your
fault.

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his
hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with
each man a piece in his hand. The two men who were with him
going first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen who was
awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the
rest; but it was too late then ; for the moment he cried out they
fired; 1 mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own
piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew
that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very much
wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to
him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should cry upon
God to forgive his villainy, and with that word knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more. There
were three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded. By this time I was come, and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives if they would give
him any assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering
the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of their
sincerity that could be desired. and he was willing to believe them,
and spare their lives, which I was not against. only that I obliged
him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were upon the
island.

Our next work was to repair the boat, anti think of seizing the
ship; and as for the captain. now he had leisure to parley with them.
He expostulated with them upon the \'illany oftheir practices with
him, and at length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows. ,

They appeared very penitent, begged hard for their lives, and
the captain finally granting this, they entered with us, heart and
soul, apparently, upon the capture of the ship.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made
his passenger captain of one, with fourother men ; and himself, and
his mate, and five more, went in the other. And they contrived
their business very well ; for they came up to the ship about mid-
night. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men
and the boat. but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like; holding them in a chat till they came to the
ship's side ; when the captain and the mate entering tirst with their
arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with the butt-end of their muskets, being very faithfully seconded
by their men; they secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them
down who were below, when the other boat and their men entering
at the fore chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook--room, making three men they found
there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered
the mate with three men to break into the round~house where the
new rebel captain lay, and having taken the alarm, was gotten up.
and with two men and a boy had gotten firearms in their hands;
and when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with
a musket ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the
men, but killed nobody.

'l'he mate, calling for help, rushed however into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out
again behind one of his cars; so that he never spoke a word; upon
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without
any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ; and it
having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I
was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of governor, and
presently I knew the captain's voice, when climbing up to the top
of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, be embraced me
in his arms. My dear friend and deliverer, says he, there's your: HEAD."

"7 CAPTAIN THROUGH THI-

E N13

' ' SHOT TH
ship, for she is all yours, and so are we and all that belong to her.
Icast my eyes to the ship, and there 'she rode within little more
than halfa mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as
soon as they were masters of her; and the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near
the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my
door.

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise. For I saw
my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all things easy.
and a large ship just ready' to carry me away whither I pleased to
go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer him one word;
but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or IShOuld
have fallen to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle out
of his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought
on purpose for me; after 1 had drank it. I sat down upon the
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him. '

We next began to consult what was to be done with the pris-
oners we had ; for it was worth considering whether we might ven-
ture to take them away with us or no, especially two of them, who
we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree; and
the captain said, he knew they were such rogues, that there was no
obliging them, and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons,
as malefactors, to be delivered over tojustice at the first English
colony he could come at; and I found that the captain himself was
very anxious about it. _

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it I durst undertake
to bring the two men he spoke of, to make it their own request that
he should leave them upon the island. I should be very glad of
that, says the captain, with all my heart.

I caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them, I
had had a full account of their villainous behaviour to the captain,
and how they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to
commit farther robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them
in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they
had digged for others.

I let them know, that by my direction the ship had been seized,
that she lay now in the road; and they might see by and by, that
their new captain had received the reward of his villainy; for that
they might see him hanging at the yard-arm.

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say, why
I should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my
commission they could not doubt I had authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy;
but I told them, I knew not what mercy to show them; for as {or
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England. And as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as
prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny, and running away with
the ship; the consequence of which, they must needs know, would
be the gallows; so that I could not tell which was best for them,
unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island; if they
desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it; I had
some inclination to give them their lives, ifthey thought they could
shift on shore.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them, I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them. Accordingly I gave
them the whole history of the place, and ofmy coming to it ; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; and in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards
that were to be expected ; for whom I left a letter, and made them
promise to treat them in common with themselves.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for relics
the great goat's-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and my parrot;
also I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which
had lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished,
and could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and
handled ; as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island, the nineteenth of December, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year x686, after I had been
upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the
month that I first made my escape in the barco-longo from among
the Moors of Sallee.

In this vessel, after along voyage, Iarrived in England the
eleventh of June, in the year r687, having been thirty-and-five
years absent. '

When I came to England I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, who I had left in trust with my money, was alive ;
but had had great misfortunes in the world ; was become a widow
the second time, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble ; but
on the contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to
me, I relived her, as my little stock would afford, which at that
time would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I assured
her Iwould never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I
forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in
its place.

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April following ; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
in all my ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry, and to my
particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship, who
first took me up at sea, off of the shore of Africa. He was now
grown old, and had left off the sea, having put his son, who was
far from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil
trade. The old man did not know me, and, indeed, Ihardly knew
him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon
brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I
inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner, and
found that I was now master of above PS5000 sterling in money,
and had an estate, 3151 might well call it, in the Brazils, of abovea
thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England;
and in a word, I was in a condition which Iscarce knew how to
understand, or how to compose myself, for the enjoyment of it.

Any one would think that in this state of complicated good
fortune I was past running any more hazards; and so, indeed, I
nad been, if other circumstances had occurred, but I was inured to
a wandering life, had no family, not many relations, nor, however
rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and although I had
sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep the country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing again, es--
pecially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there, and
how the rogues I had left there had used them.

My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it,
and so far pre\ailed with me that for almost se\ en years she pre-
xented 1111 running abroad, during \1h1ch time I took my two
nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care The
eldest, hax mg something of his can, I bred up as a gentleman, and
gave a settlement of some addition to his estate after my decease;
the other I put out to a captain of a ship, and after five years,
finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him
into a good ship and sent him to sea. And this young fellow
afterwards drew me in as old as I Was, to farther adventures myself.

In the meantime I in part settled myselfhere; for first-of all
Imarried, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfac-
tion, and had three children, two sons and one daughter But my
wife dying, a nd my nephew coming home with good success from
a \oyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad and his importu--
nity prevailed. and engaged me to go into his ship as a private
trader to the East Indies. This was in the year 1694.

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some
new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may perhaps give
a farther account of hereafter.
OF

ROBINS-ON CRUSOE.

HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in England,
viz., That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the
flesh, was never more verified than in the story of my life.

Any one would think that after thirty-five years' affliction, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of in my
first setting out into the world, should be worn out, and I might
have been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing
life and fortune any more.

Nay farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was
taken away in me; for I had no fortune to make, I had nothing
to seek. If I had gained ten thousand pound, I had been no richer;
for I had already sufficient for me, and {or those Ihad to leave it to ;
and that I had was visibly increasing ; for having no great
family, I could not spend the income of what I had, unless I would
set up for an expensive way ofliving, such as a great family, ser-
vants, equipage, gaiety, and the like, which were things I had no
notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing indeed to do but
to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily
upon my hands.

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least, not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronical distemper; particularly the
desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony I
left there, run in my head continually. I dreamed of it all night,
and my imagination run upon it all day; it was uppermost in all my
thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon it,
that I talked of it out of sleep; in short, nothing could remove it
out of my mind; it even broke so violently in all my discourses

 

CRUSOE AND HIS "'IFE.

that it made all my conversation tiresome ; for Icould talk of noth-
ing else. all my discourse run into it, even to impeninence, and I
saw it myselfi

But one blow from unforeseen Providence unhinged me at
once; and not only made a breach upon me inevitable and incur-
able, but drove me, by its consequences, into a deep relapse into
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, being born in my
very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and like the returns of
a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me; so
that nothing could make any more impressions upon me. This
blow was the loss of my wife.

She was, in a few words, the stay of all my affairs, the centre
of all my enterprises, the engine, that by her prudence reduced me
to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous project that fluttered in my head, as above; and did more
to guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a father's in-
structions, a friend's counsel, or all my ,wn reasoning powers could
do. I was happy in listening to her tears, and in being moved by
her entreaties, and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the
world by the loss by her.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom. as I had observed before. I had brought up to the sea, and
had made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made; and he came to me
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had been pro--
posing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies and to
China as private traders. And now, uncle, says he, if you will go
to sea with me I'll engage to land you upon your old habitation in
the island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.

I was not long resolving; for indeed the opportunities of my
nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination that nothing
could oppose me. On the other hand, my wife being (lead, I had
nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend, the widow, who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and, above all,
my young children. But it was all to no purpose ; I had an
irresistible desire to the voyage, and I told her I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage. but also in settling my family affairs for my absence and
providing for the education of my children.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1694--95, and I with my man Friday went on board in the Downs
the 8th, having a very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary
things for my colony, which if I did not find in good condition, I
resolved to leave 50.

First, Icarried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
place there, as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my
own account while I stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry
them forward as they should appear willing ; particularly. I carried
two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious fellow, who
was a cooper by trade but was also a general mechanic ; for he was
dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a
good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made everything that
was proper to make of earth, or of wood ; in a word we called him
our Jack of all Trades.

With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards con-
sented to stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary
handy fellow, as could be desired, in many other businesses, besides
that of his trade; for as I observed formerly, necessity arms as for
all employments.

.\[y cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have not kept an ac-
count of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen,
and some thin English stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I ex--
pected to find there, and enough of them, as by my calculation
might comfortably supply them for seven years.

I carried also an hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees, be-
sides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, and
two pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what time
and what extremities l was providing for, I carried an hundred
barrels of powder, besides swords cutlasses, and the iron part of
some pikes and halberds.
We set out on the 5th of February and had a very fair gale of
wind for some days; as I remember, it might be about the 20th
of February in the evening late, when the mate having the watch,
came into the round-house and told us, he saw a flash of fire, and
heard a gun fired.

This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for a
while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes we saw a very great
light, and found that there was some very terrible fire ata distance.
We stood directly towards _it, and in about half an hour's sailing,
we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire in the
middle ofthe sea. I immediately ordered that five guns should be
fired, one soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them that there was help for them at hand, and that they might
endeax our to sa\e themselves in their boat; for though we could see
the flames of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing
of us.

\\ e lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drme, waiting for daylight; w,hen on a sudden, to our great
terror, thoiigh we had reason to expect it the ship blew up in the
air: and immediately, that is to say, in :1 {en minutes, all the fire
\\ as out, that IS to say, the rest of the ship sunk. 'lhis was a ter-
rible and, indeed, an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men,
who I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be in
the utmost distress in their boat in the middle of the ocean, which
at present, by reason it was dark, I could not see.

However, to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to
be hung out in all parts of the ship where we could, and which we
had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night long, letting
them know by this that there was a ship not far off.

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's
boats by the help of our perspective glasses, and found that there
were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water. We perceived they rowed, the wind being against them,
that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient to let them know we Saw
them, and hung a waft out as a signal for them to come on board,
and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more
than half an hour we (TalllC up with them, and, in a word, took
them all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and
children ; for there were a great many passengers.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ecstasies, the variety of postures which these poor delivered

 

"THE SHIP BLEW UP."

people run into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected
a deliverance; grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of the head and hands make up the
sum of its variety.

A young priest applied himself to his country-folks, laboured
to compose them; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with
them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their
reason; and with some he had success, though others were for a
time out ofall government of themselves.

It was about a week after this that we made the banks of New-
foundland, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea, there to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provision to victual themselves with. When I say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that the young priest I spoke of,
hearing we were bound to 'the Iiast Indies, desired to go the voy-
age with us. and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel,
which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and
had very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the sea-
men entered themselves on our ship. and proved very useful fellows.

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees, 5 minutes north, and the
19th day of March, 1694-95, when we spied a sail, our course SE.
and by S. We soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that she
bore up to us, but could not at first know what to make of her, till.
after coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her maintop-
mast, foremast, and boltsprit, and presently she fired a gun as a
signal of distress; the weather was pretty good, wind at N.X.\\'., a
fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before
she was ready to sail by a terrible hurricane while the captain and
chief mate were both gone on shore. so that beside the terror of
the storm they were but in an indifferent case for good artists to
bring the ship home.

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had under-
gone; their bread and flesh was quite gone, they had not one ounce
left in the ship, and had had none for eleven days; the only relief
they had. was, their water was not all spent, and they had about
half a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar enough; some succades or
sweetzncats they had at first, but they were devoured, and they had
seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother and a maid-servant on
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the hur-
ricane began, and having no provisions of their own left, they were
in a more deplorable condition than the rest, for the seamen being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compas-
sion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers, and they were
indeed in a condition that their misery is very hard to describe.

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and indeed I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, thatI would have victuallcd them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have sup-
plied ourselves, but there was no necessity for that.

It was now in the latitude of 19 degrees, 32 minutes. and had
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at first the
winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little in-
cidents of wind, weather, currents, etc., on the rest of my voyage;
but shortening my story for the sake of what is to follow. shall
observe that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the roth
of April, 1695.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked
him if he knew where he was? He looked about alittle, and
presently clapping his hands, cried: Oh yes, oh there, oh yes, oh
there! pointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing and
capering like a mad fellow. and I had much ado to keep him from
jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place. '

Well Friday, says I, do you think we shall find anybody here
or no? And what do you think, shall we see your father? The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentifully. What is the matter,
Friday, says I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him more, no
ever more see again. Why 50, said I, Friday, how do you know
that? Oh no, oh no, says Friday, be long ago die, long ago; be
much old man. Well, well, says I, Friday, you don't know; but
shall we see any one else then? The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
though we lay halfa league off, he cries out, We see! we see 2 yes,
we see much men there, and there, and there. Ilooked, but I
could see nobody, no not with a perspective glass, which was. I
suppose, because I could not hit the place, for the fellow was
right, as found upon inquiry the next day, and there was five or
six men altogether, stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to
think of us.

:\s soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends, and in about half a quarter of an hour
after, we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek, so I
immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me, and
hanging out a white flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on shore,
taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told
the whole story of my living there, and the manner of it, and
every particular both of myself, and those I left there; and who
was on that account extremely desirous to go with me. We had
besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any
new guests there which we did not know of; but we had no need
of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek, and the first man I fixed my eye
upon, was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew
by face perfectly well; as to his habit I shall describe it afterwards.

I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself, but there
was no keeping Friday in the boat; for the affectionate creature
had spied his father at a distance, a good way off of the Spaniards,
where indeed I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go
on shore. he would have jumped into the sea.

He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like
an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man shed tears in
spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of
this poor fellow's joy when he came to his father; how he em-
braced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms,R 01)' A'SOJV CR (/5015. i4 3

set him down upon a tree, and lay down by him, then stood and
looked at him, as any one would look at a strange picture for a
quarter of an hour together; then lie down on the ground, and
stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up again, and stare
at him; one would have thought the fellow bewitched.

But this is adigression; I return to my landing. The first
Spaniard whom, as J. said, I knew very well, was he whose life I
had saved; he came towards the boat, attended by one more, car-
rying a flag of truce also, and he did not only not know me at first,
but he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come
till I spoke to him. Seignior, said I, in Portuguese. do you not
know me? At which he spoke not a word ; but, giving his musket
to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and, saying
something in Spanish, that I did not perfectly hear, comes forward
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know that
face again that he had once seen as of an angel from Heaven sent
to save his life. He said abundance of very handsome things, as a
well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning to the
person that attended him bade him go and call out his comrades.
He then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he
would give me possession of my own house again, and whereI
should see there had been but mean improvementsfso I walked
along with him; but, alas, Icould no more find the place again
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another; and in ten years' time they were grown so big that, in
short, the place was inaccessible, except by such windings and blind
ways as they themselves only, who made them, could find.

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications? He
told me Iwould say there was need enough of it when they had
given me an account how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that Iwas gone. He told me he could not but have some
satisfaction in my good fortune when he heard that I was gone away
in a good ship, and to my satisfaction ; and that he had oftentimes
a strong persuasion that one time or other he should see me again." DO \v'ou NOT KNOW ME?"
But nothing that ever befel him in his life, he said, was so sur-
prising and afflicting to him at first as the disappointment he was
under when he came back to the island and found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me; the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small. And, says he, had they been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory, and with
that he crossed himself on the breast. lint sir, says he, I hope you
will not be displeased when I shall tell you how forced by necessity
we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, and
make them our subjects, who would not be content with being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers. I answered I
was heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and nothing
troubled me at my parting from the island but that they were not
come back that I might have put them in possession of everything
first, and left the other in a state of subjection as they deserved.
Brit if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be
very far from finding any fault with it; for I knew they were a
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any man-
ner of mischief.

While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back,
and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it was
impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all
clear both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and point-
ing to them, said, These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you; and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he
let them know who I was; upon which they all came up one by one,
not as ifthcy had been sailors and ordinary follows, and I the like,
but really, as ifthey had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a
monarch or a great conqueror ; their behaviour was to the last de-
gree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.

IO
I must now go back to the circumstance in which I left the
island, and in which the persons were of whom I am to speak.
And first, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, in a large canoe to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions who he had left
behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that he
had been in, and in order to succour them for the present, and that
if possible, we might together find some way for our deliverance
afterward. .

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the
least room to hope for my own deliverance any more than I had
twenty years before, much less had I any foreknowledge of what
afterwards happened, Imean of an English ship coming on shore
there to fetch me off; and it could but be a very great surprise to
them when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but
to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had
left behind me, which would otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, hOwever, which I inquired into, that I might
begin where I left off, was of their Own part; and I desired he
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his coun-
trymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over.

He told me there was little variety in that part, for nothing
remarkable happened to them on the way, they having very calm
weather, and a smooth sea.

His countrymen were overjoyed to see him, and they were the
more surprised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen
into the hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would de--
vour him as they did all the rest of the prisoners; that when he
told them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was
furnished for carrying them away, it was like a dream to them ; and
their astonishment, they said, was something like that of Joseph's
brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them the story
of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court. But when he showed them
the arms, the powder, the ball, and the provisions that he brought
them for their journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves,
took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to come away with him.

Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for
pleasure.

In these they came away the next morning; it seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, or anything in the world, but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
make their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of
the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains be-
hind me, that any man could desire to meet with, to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did. was, that when the Span-
iards came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them
provisions and other relief, as I had ordered them to do ; also they
gave them the long paper of directions which I had left with them,
containing the particular methods which I took for managing every
part of my life there, the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame
goats, and planted my corn, how I cured my grapes, made my
pots, and, in a word, everything I did.

All this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two
of whom understood English well enough; nor did they refuse to
accommodate the Spaniards with everything else, for they agreed
very well for some time; they gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very socxably, and the
head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods, and
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs; for, as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot
parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home at night,
the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the
other but have let them alone, which, however, they could not find
in their hearts to do long; but like the dog in the manger, they
would not eat themselves, and would not let others eat neither.
The differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as
are not worth relating; but at last it broke out into open war, and
it begun with all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined,
without reason, without provocation, contrary to Nature, and im-
deed, to common sense; and though it is true the first relation of
it came from the Spaniards themselves. whom I may call the ac-
cusers. yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not
deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply
a defect in my former relation, and this was, that I forgot to set
down among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set
sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was
afraid once would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain rousing up his courage, and taking us all
to his assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons, and as they
had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly
dangerous words the second time, he threatened to carry them in
irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and
running away with the ship.

This it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it,
frighted some other men in the ship, and some of them had put it
into the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them good
words for the present, till they should come to some English port,
and that then they should be all put into jail and tried for their
lives.

The mate got intelligence of this. and acquainted us with it;
upon which it was desired, that I, who still passed for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men,
and tell them, that they might be assured, if they behaved well the
rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time passed should be
pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour's word to them,
they appeared easy; and the more so, when I caused the two men,
who were in irons, to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night.
The wind also falling calm, next morning we found that our two

 

" 3m THEM STAND OFF."

men, who had been laid in irons, had stole each of them a musket,
and some other weapons--what powder or shot they had, we
know not--and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet

hauled up, and ran away with her to their companions in roguery
on shore.
These two men made their number five; but the other three
villains were so much wiekeder than these, that after they had been
two or three days together, they turned their two newcomers out of
doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them, nor could they for a good while be persuaded to give them
any food. As for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to
go forward. The Spaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it.
So the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably,
they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more on the west, to be out of the danger of the savages, who
always landed on the cast parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines and stores in, and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for food, and especially some of
the peas which I had left them, they dug, and planted, and en-
closed, after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live
pretty well.

They were going on in this little thriving posture when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour,
and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island
was theirs, that the governor, meaning me, had given them pos-
session of it, and nobody else had any right to it, and they should
build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay them
rent for them.

The two men thought they had jested at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they
had built, and tell them what rent they demanded; and one of
them merrily told them if they were ground landlords he hoped, if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant them a long
lease, and bid them go fetch a scrivener to draw the writings.
One of the three told them they should see they were not in
jest, and going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and
claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire,
and it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes ifone of
the two had not run to the fellow, thrust' him away, and trod the
fire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting
him away, that he returned upon him with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the
danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck
at with the pole, knOcked the fellow down that begun the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him, and then, seeing the rest come at them, they stood
together, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bid
them stand off.

The other had firearms with them too, but one of the two honest
men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not
indeed lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them, and begone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sufficiently with the blow.

But not to crowd this part' with an account of the lesser part
of their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three
young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed
up tame for their store; and, in a word, plaguing them night and
day in this manner. it forced the two men to such a desperation,
they resolved to fight them all three the first time they had a fair
opportunity. In order to this they resolved to go to the castle, as
they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three rogues
and the Spaniards all lived together, at that time intending to have
a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play ; so
they got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and
called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard, that
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened, that the day before two of the Spaniards having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
(listinction, I call the honest men, and he 'had made a sad com-
plaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their plan-
tation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the xnilch-goat and theirthree kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance, and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved.

When the Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at
supper, he took the freedom to reprove the three Englishman,
though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them how
they could be so cruel, they being harmless inoffensive fellows, and
that they were only putting themselves in a way to subsist by their
labour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring
things to such a perfection as they had?

The Englishman answered, the island was theirs, the governor
had given it to them, and no man had anything to do there but
themselves ; and with that swore by his Maker that they would go
and burn their new huts; they should build none upon their land.

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too when
opportunity offered ; but the Spaniards it seems did not so perfectly
understand them as to know all the particulars, only that, in
general, they threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's
part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they
wandered about the c0untry part of the night, and then, lying down
in the place which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and
overslept themselves. The case was this, they had resolved to stay
till midnight, and so to take the two poor men when they were
asleep, and as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to
their huts while they were in them, and either burn them in them,
or murder them as they came out; and as malice seldom sleeps very
sound, it was very strange they should not have been kept waking.

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and mur-
dering, it happened, and 'very luckily for them all, that they were
up and gone abroad before the rogues came to their huts.

When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins, who
it seems was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades, Hal
Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are flown; they mused a while
to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon. and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had given them
notice of it, and with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this bargain they fell to work with the poor men's
habitation; they did not set fire indeed to anything, but they pulled
(10wn both their little houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected house-
hold stuff in pieces, and threu everything about in such a manner.
that the poor men afterwards found some :,of their things a mile off
of their habitation.

When they had done this, they pulled 11p all the young trees
the poor men had planted, pulled up an enclosure they had made to
secure their cattle and their corn ; and, in a word, sacked and plunv
dered everything, as completely as a horde of Tartars would have
done.

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three. So that had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them, for they were all very stout reso-
lute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder, than
they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dodged one
another. when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again; we shall see their differing con-
duct presently. When the three came back like furious creatures
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had put
them into, they came tip to the Spaniards, and told them what they
had done, by way of scoff and bravado ,: and one of them stepping
up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, sneering in his face, says he to him, And you, Seignior
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners.

'l'he Spaniard, who, though a quiet civil man, was as brave as
a man could be desired to be, and \vithal a strong, well--made man,
looked steadily at him for a good while, and then, having no
weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one blew
of his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe ; at
which one of the rogues, insolent at the first, fired his pistol at the
Spaniard immediately. He missed his body indeed, for the bullets
went through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear,
and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he
was more hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat,
for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but now resolving to go
through with his work, he stooped to take the fellow's musket whom
he had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man, and
had fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards being in the cave
came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured
the other two, and took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all
the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
began to cool, and giving the Spaniards better words. would have
had their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that
was between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would
be the best method they could take to keep them from one another.
told them, they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and associate with
them as they did before; but that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
Chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all, to make them their servants.

'l'he rogues were now no more capable to hear reason, than to
act reason, and being refused their arms, they went raving away and

 

"THEY CAME UP IN A VERY sunmsstvs, HUMBLE MAXNER."

raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though they
had no firearms. But the Spaniards, despising their threatening,
told them they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle, for if they (lid, they would shoot them as they
would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. How-
ever, this was far from cooling them, but away they went raging
and swearing. As soon as they were gone, came back the two
men, in passion and rage enough also, though of another kind ; for
having been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and
destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had provocation
enough ; they could scarce have room to tell their tale, the
Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find three men thus bullying nineteen, and receive no
punishment at all.

In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wander-
ing and almost stan- ed with hunger hav mg chiefly lived on turtles'
eggs, all that while, came back to the grme, and finding my Span-
iard, who. as I have said, was the governor, and two more with
him walking by the side of the creek, they came up in a very sub-
missive, humble manner, and begged to be received again into the
family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them, they had
acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by
them (the Spaniards) that they could not come to any conclusion,
without consulting the two Englishmen and the rest ; but, however,
they would go to them and discourse about it, and they should know
in hall'an hour.

It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it, for it
seems, as they were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which he
did, and sent them at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh,
and a broiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.

After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a
long debate had among them, their two countrymen charging them
with the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them ; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now ; upon
the whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator between them, and as
they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while
they were naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go
and build their fellows' two huts, one of the same, and the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground
again, where they had pulled up the fences, plant trees in the roomROB/A's 01V Cli'US OE. 157

of those pulled tip, dig up the land again for planting corn, where
they had spoiled it; and, in a word, to restore everything in the
same state as they found it, as near as they could, for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this, and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and
the whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together,
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work.

The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with
them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say,
which was this. that they were tired of living in the manner they
did ; that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted; and that having no help, they found they should be starved.
But if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one of the canoes
which they came over in, and give them arms and ammunition,
proportioned for their defence, they would go over to the main, and
seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying
them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves; and that though they could ill
spare their firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they
would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each
man a hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them.

In a word, they accepted the offer, and having baked them
bread enough to serve them a month, and given them as much goats'
flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of
dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill,
they boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it
was at least 40 miles broad.

The Spaniards would often say to one another, and to the two
honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and com-
fortably they lived now those three turbulent fellows were gone; as
for their ever coming again, that was the remotest thing from their
thoughts that could be imagined; when behold, after two-and--
twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his
planting-work, sees three strange men coming towards him at a
distance, with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes
frighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island,
he could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him,
How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages,
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishman; they are men in
clothes, with arms. Nay, then, says the Spaniard, why are you
concerned? If they are not savages they must be friends, for
there is no Christian nation upon earth but. will not do us good
rather than harm.

While they were debating thus, come the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood, which was new planted, holloaed
to them; they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of
that kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon
another question, viz., what could be the matter, and what made
them come back again ?

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz., that they
reached the land in two days, and went boldly on shore; that they
found the people very c0urteous and friendly to them, and that
they gave them several roots and some dried fish, and appeared
very sociable.

They continued here four days, and inquired as well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
everyway, who, as they made signs to them, used to eat men. But
as for themselves, they said that they never eat men or women.
except only such as they took in the wars, and then they Owned
that they made a great feast, and eat their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind,
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon,
and then to two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred
prisoners now, which he had taken in his war; and they were feed--
ing them to make them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen
seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners, but the other mis-
taking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to
carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them point-
ing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising, which was to
signify, that the next morning at sunrising they would bring some
for them; and accordingly the next morning they brought 'down
five women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many
cows and oxen down to a seaport town, to victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do;
to refuse the prisoners; would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that offered them; and what to do with them they
knew not; however, upon some debates, they resolved to accept of
them, and in return they gave the savages that brought them one
of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their
bullets, which, though they did not understand, they seemed ex-
tremely pleased with. And then tying the poor creatures' hands
behind them, they (the people) dragged the poor prisoners into the
boat for our men.

But having taken their leave with all the respects and thanks
that could well pass between people, where on either side they un-
derstood not one word they could say, they put off with their boat,
and came back towards the first island, where, when they arrived,
they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of
them for their occasion.

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniards asked them, Where their
new family was? and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to
beg some victnals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other
two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony resolved to go all160 [EOE/NSOJV C]? 0505.

down to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's father
with them.

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, to see two naked men and five women, all together
bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature
could be supposed to he. viz., to be expecting every moment to be

 

' nun; DREW LOTS AMONG THEM."

dragged out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be
eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did, was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he
understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in,
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them ; neither couldROBIJ\SOJ\I CR L-'SOE. [Gt

any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could make,
except one of the women.

However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to
satisfy them, that the men into whose hands they were fallen were
Christians; that they abhorred eating of men or women, and that they
might be sure they would not be killed. As soon as they were as-
sured of this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward,
and several ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several nations. .

The governor asked the three men what they intended to do
with these women, and said, I desire it of you, that you will all
engage, that if any of you take any of these women as a wife, that
he shall take but one ; for though we cannot marry any of you, yet
it is but reasonable that while you stay here, the woman any of you
takes should be maintained by the man that takes her, and should
be his wife. All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it
without any difficulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answered, No. Some
of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not Christians. On the other hand, to be short,
the five Englishmen took them every one a wife; and they drew lots
among them for choice.

Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there is no
room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon
their slaves. But that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards,
and to our men too, that they had nothing to do but to give notice
to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not show
themselves, only placing a scout 'in a proper place, to give notice
when the boats went to sea again.

After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards
peeped abroad again, and some of them had the curiosity to go to
the place where they had been, to see what they had been doing.
Here, to their great surprise, they found three savages left behind,
and lying fast asleep upon the gmund ; it was supposed they had

11
either been so gorged with the inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they
were asleep. and would not stir when the others went, or they
were wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to be
taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at a 1055 what to do; the Spaniard governor, as it happened, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not
what to do 3 as for slaves, they had enough already, and as to killing
them, they were none of them inclined to that ; the Spaniard gov-
ernor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood,
for as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, in-
vaded none of their property, and they thought they had no just
quarrel against them, to take away their lives.

After some consultation, they resolved upon this, that they
would liestill a while longer, till, if possible, these three men might
be gone; but then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
savages had no boat, and that if they were left to rove about the
island, they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in
it, and so they should be undone that way.

Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the fellows
fast asleep still, so they resolved to waken them, and take them
prisoners, and they did so; the poor fellows were strangely
frighted when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid, like
the women, that they should be murdered and eaten ; for it seems
those people think all the world does as they do, eating men's
fiesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away they
carried them.

It was very happy to them that they did not carry them home
to their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill ; but they car--
ried them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country-
work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, etc. , and
afterwards they carried them to the habitation of the two English-
men.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had
for them to do ; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them,
or that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, Iknow
not, but one of them run away, and taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after,
in some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore three
or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels as usual,
went off again in two days' time.

It was five or six months after this before they heard any more
of the savages; when on a sudden they were invaded with a most
formidable fleet, of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes full of
savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords,
and such-like engines of war; and they brought such numbers with
them, that, in short, it put all Our people into the utmost conster-
nation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost
side of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider
what to do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being en-
tirely concealed was their only safety before, and would much more
be so now, while the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved first of all to take down the huts which were built
for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave;
because they supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon
.as it was day, to play the old game over again, though they did not
now land within two leagues of it.

In the next place, they drove away all the flock of goats they
had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the
Spaniards ; and in short, left as little appearance of inhabitants any
where as was possible; and the next morning early they posted
themselves with all their force at the plantation of the two men,
waiting for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened; these
new invaders leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, came
ranging along the shore directly towards the place, to the number
of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our
army was but small indeed ; but that which was worse, they had not
.arms for all their number either.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but
they had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarterstaff,
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his
side a hatchet ; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of
the women could not be prevailed upon but they wOuld come into
the fight; and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had
taken from the savages, when the first action happened, which I
have spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another, and the
women hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor commanded the whole; and William
Atkins, who though a, dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most
daring bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came for-
ward like lions, and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had
no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now
proved a very useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind
a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let
the first of them pass by, and then fire intothe middle of them; and,
as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat as nimble as he could
round a part of the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards
where they stood, having a thicket of trees all before them.

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every
way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about
fifty of them pass by him, then seeing the rest come in a very thick
throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol-
bullets.

How many they killed or wounded they knew not. but the-
consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the savages;
they were frighted to the last degree, to hear such a dreadful
noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody
that did it ; when in the middle of their fright, W. Atkins and his
other three let fly again among the thickest of them; and in less
than a minute the first three, being loaded again, gave them a third
volley.

l-Iad \V. Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
they had fired, as they were ordered to do ; or had the rest of the
body been at hand to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among" ATE THEIR PROVISIONS VERY THANKFULLY."
them came principally from this, viz., that they were killed by the
gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt
them; but \V. 'Atkins staying to load again, discovered the cheat.

Some of the savages who were at a distance, spying them, came
upon them behind, and though Atkins and his men fired at them
also, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women ;
this slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them with his own hand, having no weapon, but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two
other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood, and the
Spaniards after firing three volleys upon them retreated also; for
their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that though
above fifty of them were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and
shot their arrows like a cloud , and it was observed that their
wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made outrageous
by their wounds, and fought like madmen.

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman that was killed behind them, and the savages, when
they came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched man-
ner, breaking the arms, legs, and heads with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages. But finding our men were gone they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kind of ring,
which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice in token of their
victory. After which, they had the mortification to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the loss of blood.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and
then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in
among them altogether. They had in each body eight persons,
that is to say 24, whereof were 22 men, and the 2 women, who by
the way fought desperately.
And as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows
were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not danger-
ously. But our men gave them no time; but running up to them,
fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt ends
of their muskets, their swords, armed staves and hatchets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way 'soever
they could.

Our men were tired with the execution; and killed, or mor-
tally wounded, in the two fights, about 180 of them ; the rest, be-
ing frighted out of their wits, scoured through the woods, and over
the hills, with all the speed and fear that nimble feet could help
them to do; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue
them, they got all together to the seaside, where they landed, and
where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet;
for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the seaward,
so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night. when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them were even
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

Our men were now satisfied, that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save the colony, but effectually to prevent any of
these people from going home again; depending upon this, that if
ever so much as one ofthem got back into their country to tell the
story, the colony was undone ; so that letting them know that they
should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes,
and destroyed them every one, that the storm had not destroyed
before; at the sight of which, the savages raised a hideous cry in
the woods which our people heard plain enough ; after which, they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a word, our
men did not really know at first what to do with them.

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider, that
while they made these people thus desperate, they ought to have
kept good guard at the same time upon theirplantations : for though
it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did
not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor
the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation at the
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting
about it; trod all the corn under foot; tore up the vines and
grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did to our men an inestima-
ble damage, though to themselves notone farthing's worth of service.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great,

 

"emu-z RANGXNG ALONG THE SHORE."

and indeed deplorable; but at the same time, our men were also
brought to very bad circumstances by them; for though their re-
treats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their
harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which way to turn themselves,
they knew not.

The first thing they concluded, when they saw what their
cumstances were, was that they would, if possible, drive them
up to the farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more
savages came on shore, they might not find one another. Then,
that they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of
them as they could come at, till they had reduced their number;
and ifthey could at last tame them, and bring them to anything,
they would give them corn, and teach them how to plant and live
upon their daily labour.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them
with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an
Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear ; and
so dreadfully frighted they were, that they kept out of sight farther
and farther, till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the
woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the ut-
most misery for want of food, and many were afterwards found dead
in the woods, without any hurt, but merely starved to death.

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but
being weak and half-starved one of them was at last surprised and
made a prisoner; he was sullen at first, and would neither eat 0r
drink, but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and
no violence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to
himself.

They brought old Friday to him. who talked often with him,
and told how kind the others would be to them all; that they
would not only save their lives, but would give them part of the
island to live in, provided they would give satisfaction that they
would keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond it, to injure
or prejudice others, and that they should have corn given them, to
plant and make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them
for their present subsistence ; and old Friday bad the fellow go and
talk with the rest of his countrymen, and see what they said to it,
assuring them, that ifthey (lid not agree immediately, they should
be all destroyed.

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in num-
ber to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer,
and begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve
Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian
slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place where they were; the
three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of bread; some
rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the sun, and three live goats.

They were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat
down, eat the provisions very thankfully, and were the most faith-
ful fellows to their words that could be thought of; for except when
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of
their bounds; and there they lived when I came to the island, and
I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and
they soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a
neck of land, surrounded with rocks behind them, and lying plain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the island.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; they
had a piece of land about a mile and half broad, and three or four
miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made
for myself, and gave them among them twelve hatchets and three or
four knives ; and there they lived the most subjected innocent crea--
tures that ever were heard of.

One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they taught the
savages to make wicker-work, or baskets ; but they soon outdid
their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious things
in wicker-work ; particularly, all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cages, cupboards, etc , as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
and abundance of other things, being very ingenious at such work,
when they were once put in the way of it.

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we
furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and
all things of that kind which they could want.

With the help of these tools they were so very handy, that they
came at last to build up their huts, or our houses, very handsomely ;
raddling or working it up like basket-work all the way round, which
was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd,
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat, as against
all sorts of vermin.

Our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages
to come and do the like for them; so that when I came to see the
two Englishmen's colonies, they looked at a distance, as if they
lived all like bees in a hive.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
them, I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and
the condition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and
mine too, that they would be troubled no more with the savages;
or that if they were, they would be able to cut them ofi', if they
were twice as many as before; so they had no concern about that.
Then I entered into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I
call Governor, about their stay in the island; for as I was not come
to carry any of them off, so it would not be just to carry olf some,
and leave others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay if their
strength was diminished.

They were all together when I talked thus to them ; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them
one by one if they had entirely forgot, and buried the first ani-
inosities that had been among them, and would shake hands with
one another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of interest,
that so there might be no more misunderstanding or jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour,
said, they had met with afflictions enough to make them all sober,
and enemies enough to make them all friends; that for his part, he
would live and die with them ; and was so far from designing any-
thing against the Spaniards, that he owed they had done nothing
to him but what his own mad humour made necessary.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap--
pointed the next day to dine all together; and indeed we made a
splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
shore, and dress our dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on
shore, assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and
four pieces of pork out of the ship's provisions, with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it.EAST. "

DID 1"

N

L!-

I.-\ DE A 51'

:1

u "'lli' 0/)'1.\'.SO.V CR USO/5. I 73

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the
cooks roasted; and three of them were sent covered up close on
board the ship, to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat
from on shore, as we did with their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were innocently merry, I brought.
out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be no dispute
about dividing, I showed them that there was sufficient for them all;
and desired that they might all take an equal quantity ofthe goods
that were for wearing ; that is to say, equal when made up ; at first,
I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them four shirts;
and at the Spaniards' request afterwards, made them up six.

I allotted the thin English stuffs, to make every one a light
coat, like a frock, which I'judged fittest for the heat of the season ;
cool and loose, and ordered, that whenever they decayed, they
should make more, as they thought fit. The like for pumps, shoes,
stockings and hats, etc.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necessary people; but above all, my general artifieer,
than whom they could not name anything that was more useful to
them. And the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt the
first thing he did ; and, which was still more, he taught the women,
not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they
were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy unhandy things, and
made them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind.

But to let them see how Nature made artificers at first, I carried
the carpenters to see Will Atkins's basket-house, as I called it, and
they both owned they never saw an instance of such natural inge-
nuity before; nor anything so regular, and so handily built, at
least of its kind. And one of them, when he saw it, after musing
a good while, turning about to me, I am sure, says he, that man
has no need ofus ; you need do nothing but give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows
or ploughs ; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad
axe, and a saw ; always appointing, that as often as any were broken,
or worn out, they should be supplied without grudging, out of the
general stores that I left behind.

 

" "'E MARRIED THEM."

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, Chisels, knives, scissors, and
all sorts of tools, and iron-work, they had without tale, as they
required, for no man would take more than they wanted, and he
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them, on any account
whatever : and, for the use of the smith, I left two ton of unwrought
iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought them, was
such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice atthem, for
now they could march as I used to do, with a musket upon each
shoulder, if there was occasion, and were able to fight a. thousand
savages, if they had but some little advantages of situation, which
also they could not miss of ifthey had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man, whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also; she was asober, well-educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every
one gave her a good word; she had indeed an unhappy life with us,
there being no woman in the ship but herself; but she bore it with
patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered and in so
fine a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they
had neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason
for taking so long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of
them came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain
on the island, and be entered among my family, as they called it,

Iagreed to it readily, and they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up, sur-
rounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining to
his plantation.

There were also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them; also the smith, who was a very neces-
sary man to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their
arms; and my other man, whom I called Jack of all Trades; who
was in himself as good, almost, as 20 men, for he was not only
a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow, and before I went
away, we married him to the honest maid that came with the youth
in the ship I mentioned before.

Upon their promising to endeavour to persuade their wives to
embrace Christianity, we married the other three couple; but Will
Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergy.
man, waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone;
and, turning to me, says he, I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of
your labyrinth here, and look; I dare say we shall find this poor
man somewhere or other talking seriously to his wife, and teaching
her already something of religion. I began to be of the same
mind; so we went ottt together, and I carried him a way which
none knew but myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as
that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far
harder to see in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the
wood, Isaw Atkins and his tawny savage wife sitting under the
shade of a bttsh, very eager in discourse. I stopped short till my
clergyman came up to me; and then having showed him where
they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a good
while.

We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun,
and to every quarter of the heavens, then down to the earth, then
out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the
trees. Now, says my clergymen, yott see my words are made good,
the man preaches to her; mark him now, he is telling her that our
God has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth. the sea,
the woods, the trees, etc. I believe he is, said I; immediately we
perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on his
knees, and lift up both his hands. We suppose he said something,
but we could not hear him, it was too far for that; he did not con--
tinue kneeling halfa minute, but comes and sits down again by his
wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the woman very
attentive, but whether she said anything or no we could not tell;
while the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the tears run
plentifully down my clergymen's cheeks, and I could hardly forbear
myself; but it was a great~amiction to us both that we were not
near enough to hear anything that passed between them.

This afi'ecting sight convinced me that Will Atkins was en-
deavouring to lead a sober pious and industrious life, so I left the
sharing ottt of the land to him, judging hitn best fttted for the task.

He divided things so justly, and so much to every one's satis-
faction, they only desired one general writing under my hand for
the whole, which I caused to be drawn up and signed and sealed
to them, setting out the bounds and situation of every man's plan-
tation, and testifying that I gave thetn thereby severally a right to
the whole possession and inheritance of the respective plantations or
farms, with their improvements to them and their heirs, reserving
all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from
me, or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy
of the same writing.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I

 

" ATKINS AND HIS 1'."va WIFE."

was not capable of giving them better rules than they were able to
give themselves, only made them promise me to live in love and
good neighbourhood with one another; and so I prepared to leave
them.

All the east end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of
the savages should come on shore there, only for their usual custo-

I2
mary barbarities, they might come and go, if they disturbed nobody,
nobody would disturb them 3 and no doubt but they were often
ashore, and went away again, for I never heard that the planters
were ever attacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend
the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might per
haps be set on foot in his absence, to his satisfaction; and I told
him that now I thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages
being thus divided among the Christians, if they \vOuId but every
one of them do their part with those which came under their hands,
I hoped it might have a very good effect.

I have now done with the island. I left them all in good cir-
cumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my
ship again the 5th of May, having been five-and-twenty days among
them. The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail. .

The third day towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather
calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the land with some-
thing very black, not being able to discover what it was, till after
some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way,
and looking at them with a perspective, cried out it was an army.
I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and spoke a little
hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word. Nay, sir,
says he, don't be angry, for 'tis an army and a fleet too; for I
believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, and they are coming towards us too.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards
us; so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails. As
for the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire; and
therefore they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close
by the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well,
and wait the issue in that posture. This I did that the men in the
boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put Out any fire
these savages might endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they
came up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Chris-
tians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their
number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we could make of
them when they came up, being about a hundred and six-and-
twenty ; and a great many of them too ; for some of them had
sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least six
or seven.

When they came nearer to us they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which they had doubtless
never seen before; nor could they at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we
called to our men in the boats, not to let them come too near them.

This very order brought us to an engagement with them, with-
out our designing it ; for five or six of their large canoes came so
near our long-boat that our men beckoned with their hands to them
to keep back, which they understood very well, and went back;
but at their retreat, about so arrows came on board us from those
boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded.

However, I called to them not to fire by any means; but we
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter
presently set up a kind ofa fence, like waste boards, to cover them
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern
of us, and pretty near us, so near that we could easily discern what
they were, though we could not tell their design.

But immediately Friday cried out they were going to shoot,
and unhappily for him, poor fellow, they let fiy about 300 of their
arrows, and, to my inexpressilfle grief, killed poor Friday, no other
man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less
than three arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such
unlucky marksmen they were.

I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the compan-
ion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five
guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave
them such a broadside, as they had never heard in their lives before,
to be sure.
I can neither tell, how many we killed, or how many we
wounded at this broadside; but sure such a fright and hurry never

 

" KILLED POOR FRIDAY."

was seen among such a multitude; there were 13 or 14 of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming;
the rest frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot. So I suppose that they were many of them lost.
And our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above
an hour after they were all gone.

And now I must take my last leave of poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all the decency and solemnity possible, by
putting him into a. cofifin and throwing him into the sea: and I
caused them to fire eleven guns for him; and so ended the life of
the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most afi'ectionate servant
that ever man had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in about
twelve days' time we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the line, being the north-easternmost land of all that part
of America. We kept on S. by 15. in sight of the shore four days,
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came
to an anchor off of the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my de-
liverance. from whence came both my good and evil fate.

We got hands and furnished a sloop for the use of my colony
on the isle, and I gave the master of her such instructions, as he
could not miss the place, nor did he miss them, as I had an account
from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the small
cargo I sent them; and one ofour seamen that had been on shore
with me there, offered to go with the sloop, and settle there upon
my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quan-
tity of land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes, and
tools for his planting-work, which he said he understood, havingr
been an old planter at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain.

Among the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent them
by their sloop, three milch cows. and five calves, about twenty-two
hogs among them, three sows, two mares, and a horse. For my
Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal
women to go, and recommended it to them to marry them, and use
them kindly.

I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse
about it : and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost
forty years' misery and disappointments, not satisfied with pros-
perity beyond expectation, not made cautious by affliction and dis-
tress beyond imitation.

From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea,
to the Cape de bon Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape of Good
Hope; and had a. tolerable good voyage, our course generally south-
east; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds, but my
disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross events
were to befall me on shore; that it might appear the land was as
well prepared to be our scourge as the sea; when Heaven, who
directs the circumstances of things, pleases to appoint it to be so.

We made no stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take
in fresh water , but made the best of our way for the coast of Coro-
mandel We were, indeed, informed that a French manyof war of
and as I knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them ; but they went their own way, and we heard no more
of them.

We touched first at the Island of Madagascar; where, though
the people are fierce and treacherous, and in particular very well
armed with lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable
dexterity ; yet we fared very well with them awhile, they treated us
very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave them, such as
knives, scissors, etc., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks,
middling in size, but very good in flesh; which we took in, partly
for fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt for
the ship's use.

I took a good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman,
where several merchants lodged; some French, two Italians, or
rather Jews, and one Englishman.

Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and that I might not
be said to run rashly upon anything,1 stayed here above nine
months, considering what course to take, and how to manage myself.
Ihad some English goods with me of value, and a considerable sumn

SIDE.

THEM SUCH A BROAD

E

" GAV
of money, my nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of
eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I
might not be straitened whatever might happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too; and
as I originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds,
which, of all other things, was the most proper for me in my pres-
ent circumstances, because I might always carry my whole estate
about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made {or my
return to England. but none falling out to my mind, the English
merchant who lodged with me, and with whom I had contracted an
intimate acquaintance, came to me one morning: Countryman,
says he, I have a project to communicate to you, which, as it
suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know suit with yours also,
when you shall have thoroughly considered it.

Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, andI by my
own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country, where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put a
thousand pound to my thousand pound, we will hire a ship here,
the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage.

I liked his proposal very well, and the more, because it
seemed to be expressed with so much good-will, and in so friendly
a manner; but it was, however, some time before we could get a
ship to our minds; and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy
to get English sailors.

It is enough to me to tell you, that I made this voyage to
Acheen, in the island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where
he exchanged some of our wares for opium, and some arrack, the
first, a commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese,
and which at that time was very much wanted there. In a word,
we went up to Suskan, made a very great voyage; was eight
months out, and returned to Bengal, and I was very well satisfied
with my adventure.
We' picked up some more English seamen after tins, and some
Dutch ; and now we resolved for asecond voyage to the southeast for
cloves, etc. , that is to say, among the Philippine and Malacca Isles ;
and in short, not to fill this part of my story with trifles, when what is
yet to come, is so remarkable, I spent from first to last six years in
this country trading from port to port, backward and forward, and
with very good success, and was now the last year with my new
partner, going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China.

After a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened
for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
morning; and upon reflection upon the past circumstances we were
in, and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a
small river, which however had a depth enough of water for us, and
to see if we could, either over land, or by the ship's pinnace, come
to know what ships were in any port thereabouts. The place we
were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by occu-
pation or profession; and though it is true we had not much to seek
of them, and except getting a few provisions, cared not how little
we had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty that we
kept ourselves from being insulted by them several ways.

When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend,
got us a lodging and a warehouse for our goods, which by the way,
was much the same: it was a little house or hut, with a large house
joining to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, there were
not a few in that country; however the magistrates allowed us also
a little guard, and we had a sentinel with the kind of lialberd, or
half-pike, who stood sentinel at our door.

In about four montlis' time, there was to be a fair at the place
where we were; and then we might have an opportunity to load
our goods, and get passage to some other place in India, nearer
home.

Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here ; but to divert
ourselves. we took two or three journeys into the country; first we
went ten days' journey to see the city of Nankin, and a city well
worth seeing indeed; they say it has a million of people in it;
which, however, I do not believe; it is regularly built, the streets
all exactly straighl, and cross one another in direct lines, which
gives the figure of it great advantage.

But whenI come to compare the miserable people of these
countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their
government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory (as some

 

"015'"le A new PROVISIOSS.'

call it), I must confess I do not so much as think it is worth nam-
ing, or worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after me
to read.

What are their buildings to the palaces and royal buildings of
Europe? What their trade, to the universal commerce of England,
Holland, France, and Spain? What are their cities to ours, for
wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an infinite
variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few junks and
barks, to our navigation, our merchant fleets, our large and power-
ful navies? Our City of London has more trade than all their
mighty empire: one English, or Dutch, or French man-of--war of
80 guns, would fight and destroy all the shipping of China.

And so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers
in assaulting and defending towns ; there is not a fortified town in
China could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of
an European army; and at the same time, all the armies of China
could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starved ; no not in a ten years' siege.

At length we arrived at Pekin; there was a great caravan of
Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, and they were prepar-
ing to set out on their journey by land to Muscovy within four or
five weeks.

The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between three and four hundred horse, and upwards ofa
hundred and twenty men, very well armed and provided for all
events; for as Eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the
Arabs, so are these by the 'I'artars; but they are not altogether so
dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail.

The company consisted of people of several nations, such as
Muscovites chiefly, for there were above sixty of them who were
merchants or inhabitants of '.\Ioscow, though of them some were-
Livonians, and to our particular satisfaction, five of them were Scots,
who appeared also to be men of great experience in business, and

en of very good substance.

When we had travelled one days' journey, the guides, who.
were five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that
is to say, all the passengers except the servants, to a great council,
as they called it. At this greatcouncil every one depOsited a cer-
tain quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was otherwise not to-
be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like.
And here they constituted the journey, as they called it, vi7.., they
named captains and officers, to draw us all up, and give the com--
mand in case of an attack, and gave every one their turn of com<
mand: nor was this forming us into order any more than what we
found needl'ul upon the way, as shall be observed in its place.

The road on this side of the country is very populous, and is
full of potters and earth-makers, that is to say, people that tempered
the earth for the China ware; and, as I was coming along, our

 

"KILLED Tm: secosn wn'a ms PISTOL."

Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to make
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would show me the
greatest rarity in all the country. I was very opportune to know what
it was. At last he told me it was a gentleman's house built all with
China ware. Well, says I, such a thing may be; how big is it?
(Zan we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can we will buy it.
Upon a camel ! says the Olll pilot, holding up both his hands, why
{there is a family ofthlrty people lives in it.
I was then curious indeed to see it, and when I came to it, it
was nothing but this: it was a timber-house, or a house built, as
"e call it in England, with lath and plaster, but all the plastering
"as really China ware, that is to 5m, it was plastered \xiththe earth
that makes China "are.

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and
looked very well, perfect white, and painted with blue figures, as
the large China ware in England is painted, and hard, as if it had
been burnt. As to the inside, all the walls, instead ofwainscoat,
were lined up, with hardened and painted tiles, like the little
square tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest
China, and the figures exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary
variety of colours mixed with gold, many tiles making but one
figure, but joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same
earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors
of the rooms were of the same composition, as hard as a stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller rooms, like
closets, which were all as it were paved with the same tile; the
ceilings, and in a word, all the plastering work in the whole house
were of the same earth; and after all, the roof was covered with
tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black.

This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be
called so; and had I not been upon the journey, I could have
stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it ; they told
me there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at
the bottom and sides with the same, and fine statues set up in rows
on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burnt
whole.

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for
which the leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three
shillings, and told me, if it had been three days' journey without
the wall, as it was three days within, he must have fined me four
times as much.

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a
fortification against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where if they did, no wall could
hinder them, They tell us, its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight measured
line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and
turnings it takes. It is about four fathom high, and as many thick
in some places.

And here I began to see the necessity of keeping together in a
caravan as we travelled ; {or we saw several troops of Tartars roving
about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I wondered more
that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such contemptible
fellows; for they are a mere horde or crOwd of wild fellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, or manner of fight.

Their horses are poor lean starred creatures, taught nothing,
and fit for nothing; and this we said, the first day we saw them,
which was after we entered the wilder part of the country; our
leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting,
as they call it ; and what was this, but hunting of sheep.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with
about forty Tartars; whether they were hunting mutton as we were,
or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I know not; but
as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of a horn very loud,
but with a barbarous sound, that I had never heard before, and by
the way, never care to hear again ; we all supposed this was to call
their friends about them, and so it was; for in less than half a
quarter of an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance, but our work was over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst
us, and as soon as he heard the born, he told us in short, that we
had nothing to do, but to charge them immediately without loss or
time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were resolved?
We told him we were ready to follow him; so we rode directly up
to them ; they stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in no
order, nor showing the face of any order at all ; but as soon as they
saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, which however missed us
very happily; it seems they mistook not their aim, but their dis-
tance ; for their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true
an aim, that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have
had several men wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance,
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following
our shot full gallop, to fall in among them sword in hand, for so our
bold Scot that led us directed; he was indeed but a merchant, but
he behaved with that vigour and bravery on this occasion, and yet,
with such a cool courage too, that I never saw any man in action
fitter for command.

As soon as we came up to them, we fired our pistols in their
faces, and then drew ; but they fled in the greatest confusion
imaginable; the only stand any of them made, was on our right,
where three of them stood, and by signs called the rest to come back
to them, having a kind of seimitar in their hands, and their bows
hanging at their backs. Our'brave commander, without asking
anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and with his fusee
knocks one of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol,
and the third ran away, and thus ended our fight; but we had this
misfortune attending it, viz., that all our mutton that we had in
chase, got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but as for the
'I'artars, there was about five of them killed ; who were wounded, we
knew not : but this we knew, that the other party was so frighted
with the noise of our guns, that they made off, and never made any
attempt upon us.

After this, we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful
deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing over, and
which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and on the
13th of April we came to the frontiers of the Mttscovite domin-
ions: I think the first city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might
be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun,
being on the west side of the River Argun.

We soon came to V'euslima, upon the River Witzogda, and
running into the Dwina, we were there very happily near the end
of our travels by land, that river being navigable in seven days'
passage to Archangel; from hence we came to Lawrenskoy, the
3rd of July, and providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a
barge for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived
all safe at Archangel the 18th, having been a year and five months
and three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
and odd days at Tobolski.

We were obliged 'to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival
of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher
come in above a month sooner than any of the English ships;
when after some consideration, that the city of I-Iamburgh might
happen to be as good a' market for our goods as London, we all
took freight with him.

We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August the same year,
and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the Elbe the
13th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China as the sables, etc., of Si--
beria; and dividing the produce of our effects, my share amounted
to PS3475, 17s., 3d., notwithstanding so many losses we had sus-
tained and charges we had been at ; only remembering that I had
included in this about six hundred pounds worth of diamonds
which I had purchased at Bengal.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, I
came from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in the
packet, and arrived in London the Ioth of January, 1705, having
been gone from England ten years and nine months. .

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing
for a longer journey than all these, having lived 72 years a life of
infinite variety, and learned sufficiently to know the value of re-
tirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

THE END.4. 1|. . .. ... .... V. ...r Ii}... ..q.>> ... ... . .. . Fan: , .14.>>;va ....J! .. . .IN: .v...L... , .
. ....
1

J.

..

n

a

. ..
w. w