THE HISTORY OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

---:-..q._.

F Robinson Crusoe, born at York
In Sixteen-thirty-two,
A tale I'll tell, 'twill please you well,
And teach you something too.

When nineteen years of age, he left
HIS home, and went to sea;

But Fortune frowned--his mates were drowned,
And almost killed was he.

'Twas eight years since he went on board;
Great perils he had known,

When he at last ashore was cast,
And found himself alone.

He climbed a tree, in which he slept;
And when he woke next day,

A clever plan the brave young man
Found out to work his way. '

The wreck he saw--he had no boat,
But he could wade and swim ;
The wreck he gained, and thence obtained
I . Such things as suited him.
I.4.2 THE HISTORY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

 

A chest of tools, some food and clothes,
Swords, pistols, powder, shot;

\Vith handy craft he made a raft
To carry all he got.

Two fowlingcpieces, powder-horns,
And ropes. and oars, he found.

So then for shore he steered once more,
And landed safe and sound.

To make our story short: for weeks
He went aboard each day,
And all that he of use could see
He brought on rafts away. .

Seeds, Bibles, paper, pens, and ink,
Two cats, a do", some casks;

Great store he had and he was glad,
Though weary were his tasks.

u
l
|
The land on which he dwelt he called
The " Island of Despair ; "
But blessings brought to him the thought
That GOD is everywhere.

He learned to labour, learned to wait,
Much work he had to do;

To work he went--he made a tent,
A chair and table too.

And many other things he made.
Then he a parrot caught,

And word by word the pretty bird
To talk to him he taught.

Of skins he made a coat and cap--
He worked at every trade--

And reat the glee he felt when he
A Farge umbrella made.

gh____.___ -V- . .___ .. m, , 1,-"$4.___

THE HISTORY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. '8

Because the sun was very hot,
And rain so often fell,

He wished to t and keep quite dry,
And keep quri)t,e cool as well.

For near two years he laboured hard
To make a sort of boat,

He thought it grand to quit the land
And be once more afloat.

He meant to sail all round the isle,
But drifted far away,

And there was he far out at sea,
In very great dismay.

At last he ot back to his isle,
But far rom where he dwelt;

GOD'S help he craved, and being saved,
In thankfulness he knelt.

 

His next thought was to save his boat,
Of that you may be sure;

He found a bay, and there she lay
As in a dock secure.

So Crusoe travelled back on foot,
And ladly reached his home;

Himsel he blamed, he felt ashamed--
VVhat need had he to roam?

But much he wished to have his boat;
And visits oft he paid,

Though rough the \va , to that small bay,
And pleasant trips e made.

 
   
   
 

The trips were short, he dared not tempt
The dangerous distant deep;

Whene'er he sailed, he never failed

Close to the shore to keep.
4

THE HISTORY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

When going to his boat one day
He came to sudden stand,

For, O'uess his awe ' he plainly saw
A cot-print on the sand l

A human foot-print! Eighteen years
Had he been there alone,

And ne'er had seen on sand or green
A foot-print, save his own!

And after six more years had passed,
He saved a sav e youth,

Man Friday nameag and Crusoe aimed
To teach him gospel truth.

Man Friday could not twenty count,
So twenty stones he took;

A clever whim, it was to him
As 20 in a book!

Of Crusoe and of Friday more
To know you should not fail;

For Crusoe bold, when very old
In London wrote the tale.

For more than eight-and-twenty years
He on the island dwelt:

To England then with Englishmen
He sailed, and glad he felt.

Full five-and- -thirty years had fled
Since he left Englands shore;
Think you that he far o'er the sea
Would want to go no more?

He went again--and yet again,
So prone was he to roam,

Till old 1n years, when it ap ears
He found "no place like home."

 

a?THE DANDY CAT.

(TOM TALONS.)

 

TOM TALONS, the cat ofa captain of fame,
A dashing young fellow, I don't know his name,

Said, " Master, no doubt, thinks I'm always to be

A servant at home; but I'll soon let him see,

With boots and with spurs, gloves, laces, and hat,

I'll start in the world as a gentleman cat.

Let mice feed on horse-beans or nibble raw ham,

I'll feast on fresh turbot, boiled fowl, and roast lamb."

The mice were in raptures. Tom Talons they eyed,

But Tom took no heed, he turned proudly aside,

And said, " You poor creatures can praise me or not,

You know I could worry and eat the whole lot;

But now I'm a captain a duel I'll fight,

And run off with somebody's chicken to-night !"A SINGING LESSON.

(PUSSINA AND FIDOA)

USSINA, the pet of Miss Malkin, one day
Said, " I, like my mistress, can sing and can play.
She has locked the piano, what care I for that?

I'll let Fido see I'm a musical cat!

I'll give him a lesson'in singing " Aid-row,"

I'm sure it is better than barking " Bow-wow."

So Fido, well pleased, said he lessons would take,
And sing half the night, to keep mistress awake.
Pussina, delighted, then mounted the stool,

And said, " Master Fido, you now are in school;
Get up on your hind legs, and open your jaws,
And warble Mal-row till I tell you to pause."
Miss Malkin declared, " 'Tis a wonderful thing,--

Pussina and Fido are learning to sing ! "AWAY FROM HOME.

(BOB OF BELGRAVIA.)

FINE cat, named Bob, in Belgravia bred,
Some very high notions got into his head;

From butlers and footmen, and housemaids and cooks,
He learned to assume haughty manners and looks:
They wanted to seem what they were not, and he
The poor slighted Bobby no longer would be.

" My talents," said he, " are not properly prized :
Here puppies are petted and pussies despised."
50 London he'left, and walked many miles,
And often he longed for the larders and tiles;
Dick's collar was limp, and Moll's sash was too long,
And Simkins's boots were too heavy and strong.
Said Bobby, " I'm sure I look 'somebody '--still
I'd better go back ; and so go back I will !"OUT FOR AN AIRING.

(TABBY AND CARLO.) '

F lady-like cats the sleek Tabby was best,
So gently she purred, and so nicely she dressed!

By cats and by dogs'it was always allowed
That Tabby was pretty, but Tabby was proud;
And Carlo, the dog, would often declare
That Tabby and he were an elegant pair!
They'll sit on the hearth-rug and pleasantly talk,
Or out for an airing together they'll walk.
On gentleman cats will proud Tabby look down;
On all little dogs Mister Carlo will frown.
Now Carlo seems happy, and Tabby, so sly,
With smiles on her lips and a tear in her eye,
Says Carlo one day to a terrier bowed.

O Tabby! you want to make Carlo too proud!ITTLE sister, come away,
And let. us in the garden play;
For it is a pleasant day.

On the grass-plat let us sit ;

Or, if you please, we'll play a bit, ;
And run about all over it. |
But the fruit we will not pick ; i
For that would be a naughty trick, l

 

 

And very likely make us sick.

' IN THE GARDEN.

Nor will we pluck the pretty flowers
That grow about the beds and bowers ;
Because, you know, they are not ours.

We'll take the daisies, white and red ;
Because mammal has often said
That we may gather them instead.

And much I hope we always may
Our very dear mamma, obey,
And mind whatever she may say.

THE DRIVE.

E two, with babies nice and I
clean,--- |

g \
By._ babies our two dolls I mean,--

' My baby could not keep awake,
I Behind my seat no harm she'll take ;--- '
i

 

Well, we and babes and puss make
five,

 

All going for a carriage drive. I

Now, Floss, don't bark! It isn't
right;

You'll make the homes both take
fright.

And if they do, they'll run so fast,
That you'll be left behind at last!
Mamma. is coming here, I see,--
Look, Floss! she nods her head to me!THE NURSERY.

ERE We are with our babes,-- Then their faces get dirty, and dirt

are they not pretty Clears? sticks so fast!

They are both made to cry, but they Meg has been in a bath since the night
never shed team before last.

They have fine rosy lips, with some I am sure we take pains to teach
hard stufl' beneath ; g babies to walk ;

4' But mamma. thinks they never will I We lend them, we jump them, and we

have any teeth ! ' coax them to talk

Their frocks get so dirty, and we cmi- We have tried, too, to teach them a
not tell how ; unisex-y rhyme ;

They were quite clean this morning, But still dolls will be dolls to the end
and look at them now! of all time!

BYE BYE, 'LITTLE DOLLY.

HERE, go to sleep, Dolly, in own I'll lay my clean handkemhief over

mother's lap ; your head,
I've put on your night--gown and And then make believe that my lap
neat little cap : ' is your bed:
So sleep, pretty baby, and shut up So hush, little dear, and be sure you
your eye: - don't cry :
Bye bye, little Dolly; lie still, and bye Bye bye, little Dolly; lie still, and bye
bye. bye. '

 

 

Lr_____.;e__--__. _, ehUMBRELLA COTTAGE.

E are pretty well, thank you ; And our carpet is made out of Mary's

 

 

and pray how are you? wool shawl.

And why do you laugh at our house? She wants not a shawl whilst she is
It is new, - having her tea ;

For we built it to-day ; and I'm sure And her shawl does well where it is,
it is grand, as you see.

Though uncle can carry it 03' in one At Umbrella Cottage we merrily
hand. ' live ;

It is open and pleasant, and it is not 1 And to friends, when they call, some
too small ; i nice apple we give.

 

THE TU RTLE-DOVE'S NEST.

 

ERY high in the pine--tree, " Coo," said the little doves.
The little turtle-dove " Coo," said she.
Made a. pretty little nursery, And they played together kindly
To please her little love. In the dark pine-tree
She was gentle, she was soft ;
And her large dark eye In this nursery of yours,
Often turned to her mate, Little sister, little brother,
Who was sitting close by. Like the turtle-dove's nest--
. Do you love one another?
The young turtle doves Are you kind, are you gentle,
Never quarrelled in the nest ; As children ought to be?
For they dearly loved each other, . Then the happiest of nests
Though they loved their mother best. Is your own nursery.T
1

E'RE singing! Floss, be quiet
now !
Your song is only bow-wow-wow!
You don't keep time,--you cannot
speak ;
We told you so one day last week.
Just wag your tail and hold your
_ tongue
Until our pretty song be sung.

SINGING. .

Now do see Floss! How sly he
looks !--

Floss, ours are not real music-
books.

Ma's album and pa's book of maps

Will do as well for us, perhaps ;

Because we have such little throats,

And have not learned to sing from
notes.

_._..;....g.._..

DOLLY AND HER MyAMMA.

OLLY, you're a naughty girl ;
All your hair is out of curl,
And you've torn your little shoe.
0h 3 what must I do with you?
You shall only have dry bread,--
Dolly, you shall go to bed.

Do you hear, miss, what I say?

Are you going to obey?
That's what mother says to me ;

his

 

So I know it's right, you see:
For sometimes I'm naughty, too,
Dolly, dear, as well as you.

But I mean to try and grow

All immune, can wish, you know:
Never into passions fly ;

01', when thwarted, sulk and cry.
So, my Dolly, you must be

Good and gentle,--just like me.T-- , , ..... _
3 .

 

' LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.

i _._:....;.___ .

I.

HE LITTLE Ran Rmmeoon--such was the name
Of a. nice little girl who lived ages ago ;

 

But listen, I pmy you, and then how she came
Such a. title to get you shall speedily know.

I
11
She lived in a. village not far from a wood,
And her parents were all the relations she had,
Except her old grandmother, gentle and good,
Who to pet her and please her was always most glad.

UL

Ber grandmother made her a ridingvhood, which
She was always to wear at such times as she could ;
'Twas made of red cloth, so the poor and the rich i
Used to call the child Little Red Riding-Hood.

IV.

Her mother, one day, said, " Your granny is ill,
Go and see her--be sure not to loiter along; I
Your basket with cheese-cakes and butter I'll fill--

Now, be sure not to gossip, for that's very wrong.h"-- ._____4 *'i

 

 

 

V.

" If met by a. stranger, be cautious, my child ;
Do not hold conversation--just courtesy and say,
' I'm sent on an errand.'--Do not be beguiled
By stmnge folks and smooth words from your straight path to stray."

 

VI.

Not for had she gone through the wood, when she met
With a, wolf who most civilly bade her Good-day.

He talked so politely, he made her forget
She was not to converse with strange folks on the way.

VII.

"To see your dear granny you're going," said he ;
" I have known her some years, so a. visit I'll pay ;
If what you have told me is true, I shall see."
And the wolf then ran 03' without further delay.

1

vi".

The maiden forgot her fond mother's advice,

As some pretty wild-flowers she gathered with glee,
To take to her granny. She said, " "l'will be nice

If I take-them to granny--how pleased she will be .'"

IX.

l The wolf hastened on to the grandmother's cot.
"Who is there?" cried the dome. " 'Tis your grandchild," he said.
"Pull the bobbin l" said she. Soon entrance he got,
And devoured the poor helpless dome in her bed.

Is--._ __ >>--+i
X.

He scarcely had finished his horrible feast,
When the Little Red Riding-Hood came to the door.
She tapped very gently ; the ravenous beast
Cried out, " Oh, I'm so hoarse ! oh, my throat is so sore 2 "

X].

Then Little Red Riding-Hood said, " Granny dear,
It is I who am knocking, so please let me in."
" Pull the bobbin," the wolf said ; " I'm glad you are here--
You bring me a supper," he said with a. grin.

Xll.

When Riding-Hood entered, the wolf said, " I'm weak ;
I have pain in my limbs, and much pain in my head ,:
Be quiet, dear grandchild, don't ask me to speak,
But undress youlself quickly and come into bed."

.\'llli

She quickly undressed, and she got into bed,
But she could not refrain from expressing her fears.

" Oh, grandmother dear E " the maid timidly said,
" I have never before seen such very large ems I "

XIV.

" The better to hem- you," the wolf then replied ;
But Red Riding-Hood heard what he said with surprise,
And trembling with fear, " Oh, my granny !" she cried,
" You have very large teeth ! and what great flashing eyes

'1:

 

 

->$.

g,"".737r--_--

 

 

LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.

XV.

" The better to see you !---the better to bite!
I am not your old granny, I'll soon let you set,>>--

I ate her to-day, and I'll eat you {yo-night ;
By-and-by you shall make a, nice supper for me."

XVI.

But just as he said so, the door open flew,

And in rushed some brave men, who had heard all that passed:

The blood-thirsty wolf then they speedily slew,
And saved Little Red Riding-Hood's life qt the lastL Cami"

 

<<a gum,