Crusoe in his Hut.THE

SURPRISING ADVENTURES-

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

BY

DANIEL DEFOE.

WITH ILLUSTRATION&

LONDON :
WILLIAM GLAISHER, 265, HIGH HOLBORN.
CRUSOE IN HIS HUT, SURROUNDED BY HIS PETS

THE ESCAPE FROM SALLEE

WBECKED . .

THE MEETING WITH FRIDAY

LEAVING THE ISLAND

THE FIGHT WITH THE WOLVES

ENCOUNTER WITH THE TARTABS

DEMOLISHING THE IDOL

Frontiepz'ece
. PAGE 16
. . 30

. . 141

. . 205-
. . 225

. . 310

. . 316LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBIN-SON OR USOE.

#-

' good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at
Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and, leaving
off his trade, lived afterwards at York 3 from whence he
had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from
whom I was called Robinson Krcutznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now called,
nay, we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and
so my companions always called me.

I had two older brothers; one of whom was a lieu.
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
formerly commanded by the famous colonel Lockhart, and
was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards.
What became of my second brother I never know, any
more than my father or mother did know what was

. become of me. .
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any

trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts. My father, who was very ancient, had given
me a competent share of learning, as far as house educa-
tion and a country free-school generally goes, and designed
me 'for the law 3 but I would be satisfied with nothing but
going to sea: and my inclination to this led me so strongly
against the will, nay, the commands of my father, and
' B

gag was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a
'H A>>
' '3
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal
in that natural propensity, tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befal me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with
me upon this subject. He asked me what reasons, more
than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my
father's house, and my native country; where I might be
well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune
by application and industry, with a life of ease and
pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate fortunes
on one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the other,
who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise,
and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
out of the common road ; that these things were all either
too far above me, or too far below me ; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper station of
law 1177:, which he had found, by long experience, was the
best state in the world; the most suited to human happi-
ness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour
and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to
precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
against. In a word, he said that he would do very kind
things for me, if I would stay and settle at home as he
directed; so he would not have so much hand in my mis-
fortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go away: and
to close all, he told me, I had my older brother for an ex--
ample, to whom he had used the same earnest persuasio'ns
to keep him from going into the Low Cormtry wars; but
could not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run
into the army, where he was killed: and though he said
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture
to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me; and I would have leisure hereafter tonosmson onusos. 3

reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there
might be none to assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know
it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my
having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told 'me, his
heart was so full, he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? And I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according to
my father's desire. But, alas ! a few days wore it all off ;
and, in short, to prevent any of my father's farther impor-
tunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither, as
the first heat of my resolution prompted; but I took my
mother at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter%
than ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were so 2
entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should never
settle to any thing with resolution enough to go through
with it; and my father had better give me his consent,
than force me to go without it : that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade,
or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should
certainly run away from my master before my time wars
out, and go to sea : and if she would speak to my father
to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and
did not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise
by a double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me,
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon any such subject; and that, for her part, she would
not have so much hand in my destruction 3 and I should
never have it to say, that my mother was willing, when
my father was not.

Though my mother refused to mention it to my father,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse
to him 3 and that my father, after shewing a great concern;
at it, said to her, with a sigh, " That the boyzmight be'

13
happy, if he would stay at home ; but if he goes abroad,
he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born :
I will not consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the meantime I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and frequently
expostulating with my father and mother about their being
so positively determined against what they knew my in-
clination prompted mc to. But being one day at Hull,
whither I went casually, and without any purpose of
making an elepcment that time; one of my companions
being going by sea to London, in his father's ship, and
prompting me to go with him, that it should cost me
nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of
it 3 but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without
asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any con-
sideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill
hour, God knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went
on board a ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or con-
tinned longer, than mine. The ship was no sooner out of
the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the sea to
rise, in a most frightful manner; and, as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and
terrified in mind. I began new seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the
judgment of Heaven, for my wicked leaving my father's
house, and abandoning my duty. All the good counsel of
my parents, my father's tears, and my mother's entreaties,
came new fresh into my mind ; and my conscience, which
was not yet come to that pitch of hardness to which it has
been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice,
and the breach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went
very high, .though nothing like what I have seen many
times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after. But
it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known any thing of the matter. I
expected every wave would have swallowed us up, andV; w. _...,._.<< o--a

ROBINSON cause a. 5

that every time the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in
the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more.
In this agony of mind, I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it pleased God to spare my life in this one voyage,
if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would
go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship
again while I lived: that I would take his advice, and never
run myself into such miseries as these any more.

These wise and sober thoughts lasted all the while the
storm continued, and indeed some time after 3 but the next
day the wind abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to
be a little inured to it. However, I was very grave for all
that day, being also a little sea-sick still : but towardsnight-
the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a
charming fine evening followed: the sun went down per;
fectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon
it, the sight was, I thought, the most delightful that ever

saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
seasick, but very cheerful: looking with wonder upon the
sea, that was so rough and terrible the day before, and
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after.
And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to
me: "well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder,
"how do you do arter it? I warrant you were frightened,
wa'nt you, last night, when it blew but a capfull of wind?"
" A capfull, d'you call it," said I, "'twas a terrible storm:
" A storm,'you fool you 1" replies he, " do you call that 'a.
storm? Why it was nothing at all; give us but a good
ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of wind as that: but, you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob.
Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all
that. D'you see what charming weather 'tis nowt" To
make short this'sad part of my story, we went the way of
all sailors: the punch was made, and I was made half
drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my
past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future. In a
word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface,
and settled calmness, by the abatement of that storm, so
the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and appre-
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten,
and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely
forgot the vows and promises I made in my distress ; and
I had, in five or six days, got as complete a victory over
conscience, as any young fellow that resolved not to be
troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another
trial still; and Providence, as in such cases generally it
does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuses.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yarmouth
Roads: the wind having been contrary, and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the storm. Here
we were obliged to come to anchor : and here we lay, the
wind continuing contrary, viz. at south-west, for seven or
eight days: during which time a great many ships from
Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common har-
bour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh 5 and, after we had lain four or five days, blew very
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good as a
harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least
apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and
mirth, after the manner of the sea : but the eighth day in
the morning the wind increased, and we had all hands at
work to strike our top-masts, and make every thing snug
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon, the sea went very high indeed ; our ship rid
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had come home ; upon which our master
ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two
anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in
the business of preserving the ship, yet, as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him, softly to him-
self, say several times, " Lord, be merciful to us ! We shall
be all lost : we shall be all undone l" and the like.
During these first hurries I was lying stupid in my cabin.
I thought the bitterness of death had been past ; and
that this would be nothing too, like the first But when
the master himself came by me, and said we should be all
lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my cabin,
and looked out ; bnt such a dismal sight I never saw ;
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every
three or four minutes. When I could look about, I could
see nothing but distress around us. Two ships that rid
near us, we found had cut their masts by the board, being
. deep laden; and our men cried out that a ship, which rid
about a mile ahead of us, was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that not with a mast
standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so much
labouring in the sea; but two or three of them drove, and
came close by us, running away, with only their sprit sail
out, before the wind.

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain begged
the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast,
which he was very unwilling to do ; but the boatswain
protesting to him, that if he did not, the shipwould founder,
he consented : and when they had cut away the fore-mast
the main-mast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much,
they were obliged to cut it away also, and make a clear
deck. '

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had beenin
such a fright before at but a little. But the worst was
not come yet: the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen
a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden,
and so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now
and then cried out, she would founder. It was my advan-
tage in one respect, that I did not know what they meant
by founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was so
violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the master, the
boatswain, and some others more sensible than the rest,8 LIFE AND anvnxrunns or

at their prayers, and expecting every moment that the
ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night,
and under all the rest of our distresses, one of the men
that had been down on purpose to see, cried out we had
sprung a leak ; another said, there was four feet water in
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me ;
and I fell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me,
that I that was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another : at which I stirred up, and went to
the pump, and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master, seeing some light eolliers, who, not able
to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away
to sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as
a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke,
or some dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so
surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a
time when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody
minded me, or what was become of me : but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his
foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead 3 and it was a
great while before I came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it
was apparent that the ship would founder; and though
the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible
she could swim till we might run into any port, so the
master continued firing guns for help; and a light ship,
who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out
to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came
near us ; but it was impossible for us to get on board, or
for the boat to lie near the ship-side, till at last the men
rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to save
ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy
to it, and then veered it out a great length, which they,
after much labour and hazard, took hold of 3 and we hauled
them close under our stern, and got all into their boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the
boat, to think of reaching to their own ship : so all agreednonmsox causes. . 9

to let her drive, and only to pull her 1n towards shore as
much as we could, and our master promised them, that if -
the boat was staved upon shore, he would make it goodto
their master. So partly rowing, and partly driving, our
boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the
shore, almost as far as Wintertonness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship, but we saw her sink: and then I understood,
for the first time, what was meant by a ship thundering.
I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up, when
the seamen told me she was sinking ; for, from that
moment, they rather put me into the heat, than that f
might be said to go in ; my heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring
at the car to bring the boat near the shore, we could see
(when our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see
the shore) a great many people running along the strand,
to assist us when we should come near. But we made but
slow way towards the shore; nor were we able to reach it,
till, being past the light-house at VVinterton, the shore
falls ofi' to the westward towards Cromcr; and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got
in; and, though not without much dificulty, got all safe
on shore; and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth,
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great hu-
manity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient to
carry us either to London, or back to Hull, as we thought
fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist, and though I had several times
loud calls from my reason, and my more composed judg-
ment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it..

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I.
The first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till two or three days, for we were separated
in the town to several quarters, his tone was altered;
and, looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, asked
me how I did : and telling his father who I was, and how
I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go
farther abroad ; his father taming to me with a grave and
concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you ought never
to go to sea any more ; you ought to take this for a plain
and visible token, that you are not to be a seafaring man."
" Why, sir," said I, " will you go to sea no more? " "That
is another case," said he ; "it is my calling, and therefore
my duty; but, as you made this voyage for a trial, you see
what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are to
expect if you persist: perhaps all this has befallen us on
your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,"
continues he, " what are you? and on what account did
you go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story;
at the end of which he burst out with a strange kind of
passion. " \Vhat had I done," says he, "that such an
unhappy wretch should come into my ship? I would not
set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand
pounds !" However, he afterwards talked very gravely to
me, exhorting me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin ; told me I might see a visible
hand of Heaven against me : " And, young man," said he,
" depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go,
you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappoint-
ments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more : which way he went, I know not.
As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled
to London by land: and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself, what course of life I should
take, and whether I should go home, or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to
me how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and
should be ashamed to- see not my father and mother only,
but even every body else.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of life
to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going
home ; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the
distress I had been in wore off: and as that abated, the
little motion I had in my desires to return were off with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and
looked out for a voyage

That evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, presented the most unfortunate of all enter-

. prises to my view ; and I went on board a vessel bound
to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a;
voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune, that, in all these adventures,
I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I.
might, indeed, have worked a little harder than 0
yet at the same time I had learned the duty and ofiice of
a fore-mast man; and 111 time might have qualified myself
for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it
was always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here ;
for, having money in my pocket, and good clothes on my
back, I would always go on board in the habit of a gentle-
man, ' and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor
learned to do any.

It wasmy lotfirstof alltofallinto prettygood com-
pany in London. I first fell acquainted with the master
of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who,
having had very good success there, was resolved to go
again. This captain, taking a fancy to my conversation,
which was not disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, if I wouldgo the
voyage with him, I should be at no expense ; I should be
his messmate and companion; and if I should carry any
thing with me, I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet
with some encouragement.

I embraced the ofi'er, and entering into a strict friend.-
ship with this captain, who was an honest plain-dealing
man, went the voyage with him; and carried a small
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
for I carried about PS40 in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered
together by the assistance of some of my relations whom
I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or
at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity
.and honesty of my friend the captain, under whom I also
got a competent knowledge of the mathematics, and the
rules of navigation; learned how to keep an account of
the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short to
understand some things that were needful to be understood
by a sailor. I brought home five pounds nine ounces of
gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London,
on my return, almost PS300 ; and this filled me with those
aspiring thoughts which have since completed my min.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader, and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I
resolved to go the same voyage again : and I embarked in
the same vessel with he who was his mate in the former
voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This
was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; for
though I did not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had PS200 left, and which I lodged with
my friend's widow, who was very just to me--yet I fell
into terrible misfortunes, the first was this, viz. : our ship,
making her course between these islands and the African
shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a
Moorish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the
sail she could make. "Te crowded also as much canvas as
our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have got
clear ; but, finding the pirate gained upon us, and would
certainly come us with us in a few hours, we prepared to
fight, our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen.
About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead
-of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of
our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning
our fire, and poured in also his small shot from near two-
hundred men which he had on board. However, we had -
not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He pre-1
pared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves 3 but,
laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter,
he entered ninety menupon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. We
plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and
such like, and cleared our decks of them twice. However,
to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship
being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield; and were carried all
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was noto so dreadful as at first I
apprehended, but I was kept by the captain of the rover
as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young and
nimble, and fit for his business. At this surprising change
of my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave,
I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back
upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, which I
thought was now brought to pass, and that I could not be-
worse. But, alas ! this was but a taste of the misery
I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this
stor .

A); my new patron or master had taken me home to his
house, I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would be
some time or othei his fate to be taken by a Spanish or
Portugal man-of- -war, and then I should be set at liberty
But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when
he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little
garden, and to do the common drudgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came home again from his cruise,
he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and wha'
method I might take to effect it; but found no way that
had the least probability in it. So that for two years,
though I often Ppleased myself with the imagination, yet
I never had the least prospect of putting it 1n practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thoughts of making some
attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying
at home longer than usual, without fitting out his ship,
which as I heard was for want of money, he used, once
or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was
fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the
road fishing; and as he always took me and a young
Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him very
merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching fish;
inasmuch that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth the Maresco, as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing with him in
a calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were
not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and,
towing we knew not whither, or which way, we laboured
all day, and all the next night 3 and when the morning
came, we found we had pulled off to sea, instead of
pulling in for shore, and that we were at least two leagues
from the land. However, we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labour, and some danger.

But my patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future, and, having
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship which he
had taken, he resolved he would not go a fishing any
more without a. compass, and some provision: so he
ordered the carpenter of his ship to build a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, like that
of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer, and
room before for a hand or two to work the sails. She
sailed with what we called a shoulder-of-mutton sail 3 and
the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a.
slave or two, and atable to eat on, with some small lockers
to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to
drink--particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We were frequently out with this boat a fishing; and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never
went without me. It happened one day that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, with two or three Moors
of some distinction, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the boat
over night a larger store of provisions than usual; and
had ordered me to get ready three fusils with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship; for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning, when, by and by, my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put off going,
upon some business that fell out, and ordered me with the
man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch
some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his house.
He commanded me, too, that as soon as I had got some
fish, I should bring it home to his house. All which I
prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone, I
prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business, but ,-
for a voyage ; though I knew not, neither did I so much
as consider, whither I would steer; for anywhere to get
out of that place was my wish.

. My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak/to
' this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board ;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread. He said, that was true 3 so he brought a large
basket of biscuit, of their kind, and three jars of fresh
water into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of
bottles stood, which, it was evident by the make, were
taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into
the heat, while the Moor was on shore, as if theyhad
been there before for our master. I conveyed also a great
lump of bees'-wax into the boat, which weighed about half
a hundred weight, with a. parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which were of great
use to us afterwards ; especially the wax to make candles;
> Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
, into also. His name was Ismael, which they called Muley,
or Moley 5 so I called to him: " Moley," said I, "our
patron's guns are all on board the boat : can you not get
a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves 3 for I
know he keeps the gunners stores in the ship." He brought
a great leather pouch, which held about a pound and a
half of powder, or rather more; and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat. At the same time I had found some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I
filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost
empty: and thus, furnished with everything needful, we
sailed out of the port to fish.

After we had fished for some time, and catched nothing,
I said to the Moor, "This will not do: we must stand
farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed 3 and, as I had
the helm, I run the boat out near a league farther, and
then brought her to, as if I would fish 3 when, giving the
boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was,
and making as if I stooped for something behind him, I
took him by surprise and tossed him overboard into the
sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and
balled to me, begged to be taken in, told me he would go
all over the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, there
being but little wind 3 upon which I stepped into the
cabin, and fetching one of the fowling--picces, I presented
it at him, told him I had done him no hurt, and if he
would be quiet, I would do him none: "But," said I,
"you swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm 3 make the best of your way to shore, and I will do
you no harm 3 but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot
you through the head, for I am resolved to have my
liberty." So he turned himself about and swam for the
shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease,
for he was an excellent swimmer.

I then turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and
said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make
you a great man 3 but if you will not stroke your face to
be true to me (that is, swear by Mahomet, and his father's
beard), I must throw you into the sea too." The boy, ._ fivxw'a .. , _ q .. .2" _,.//

. . ' . 1 . .23). mm... 2.. ,... ., . . , , 1.x 2. A

_ , ' < . 3%" ; _ . . . , A ,. . ,. .V n/ // /;z
I 7.. A ' A. , . . u. ,. ...... .~. ' _.'. . H...: .111 ... . / //z

,
M;

  

, %

 

       

  

  

._ . .____Tfl#...PSwmr\_q.w_<<.
_ ____: ,_ _ a? x. 5:

 

     

2:1,..."

"
_ _
.:...

Escape from Salleo.nomxsox cnuson. 17

smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not mistrust him 3 and he swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching
to windward, that they might think me gone towards the
Strait's mouth (as indeed anyone that had been in their
wits must have been supposed to do) ; for who would have
supposed we were sailed on to the southward, to the Bar-
barian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us ; where we
could never once go on shore, but we should be devoured
by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind 2

But, as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bend-
ing my course a little towards the cast, that I might keep
in with the shore 3 and having a fair fresh gale of wind,
and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail, that, I believe,
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I
first made land, I could not be less than 150 miles south
of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, that
I would not go on shore, or come to an anchor, till I had
sailed in that manner five days ; and then the wind shift-
ing to the southward, I concluded that if any vessels were
in chase of me, they would now give over ; so I ventured
to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth
of a little river, I knew not what or where, neither what
latitude, or what country. I neither saw nor desired to see
any people: the principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim
on shore as soon as it was dark and discover the country ;
but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful
noises of the barking, rearing, and howling of wild crea-
tures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was
ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on
shore till day. " Well, Xury," said I, " then I won't ;
but it may be that we may see men by day, who will be as
bad to us as those lions." " Then we may give them the

C
shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run way."
Such English Xury spoke, by conversing among us slaves.
However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave
him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer
him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it:
we dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night ; I say
still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw
vast great creatures, we knew not what to call them, of
many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure
of cooling themselves: and they made such hideous howl-
ings and yellings that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too ;
but we were both worse frighted when we heard one of the
mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat ; we
could not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing
to bea monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said it
was a lion, and cried out to me to weigh the anchor, and
row away. " N 0," says I, " Xury, we can slip our cable
with a buoy to it, and go to sea ; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the crea-
ture (whatever it was) within two oars' length, which some--
thing surprised me: however, I immediately stepped to
the cabin door and, taking up my gun, fired at him, upon
which he immediately turned about and swam towards the
shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrible noises
and hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well
upon the edge of the shore as higher within the country,
upon the noise or report of a gun; a thing, I have some
reason to believe, those creatures had never heard before.
This convinced me that there was no going on shore for us
in the night upon that coast, and how to venture on shore
in the day, was another question too ; for, to have fallen
into the hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as
to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint in the
boat. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one
of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go, why I
should not go, and he stay in the boat. The boy answered
with so much affection that made me love him ever after.
Says he, " If wild mans come, they eat me; you go way."
" Well, Xury," said I, " we will both go ; and if the wild
mans come, we will kill them: they shall eat neither of
us." So we hauled the boat in near the shore, and waded
on shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for
water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river: but the
boy seeing a low place, about a mile up the country, ram-
bled to it, and by and by I saw him come running to-
wards me. I thought he 'was pursued by some savage, or
frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forward towards
him to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw
something hanging over his shoulders, which was a crea-
ture that he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour,
and longer legs. However, we were very glad of it, and it
was very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury
came with, was to tell me he had found water, and seen
no wild mans.

But we found arterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek we found
the water fresh when the tide was out, which flows but a.
little way up: so we filled our jars, and feasted on the
hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the
country.

; As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew
I very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
: de Verd Islands also, lay not far off. But as I had no in-
' struments to take an observation, I knew not where to
look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them.

We made on to the southward continually, for ten or
twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which
began to abate very much, and going no oftener in to the
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design
in this was to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is
to say, any where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in

c2
hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands, or perish there among the Negroes.

\Vhen I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, I began to see that the land was inhabited ; and
as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us : we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on
shore to them, but Xury said to me, "No go, No go."
However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk
to them, and I found they ran along the shore by me a
good way. I observed they had in their hands, long
slender sticks, which Xury said were lances, and that they
would throw them a great way with good aim : so I kept
at a distance, but talked with them by signs as well as I
could, and particularly made signs for something to eat-
They beckonch to me to stop my boat, and they would
fetch me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my
sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back, and brought with
them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the
produce of their country; but we neither knew what the
one or the other was : however we were willing to accept
it. But how to come at it was our next dispute, for I
was not for venturing on shore to them, and they were as'
much afraid of us 3 but they brought it ,to the shore, and
laid it down, and went and stood a great way off, till we-
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing-
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were
lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pur-
suing the other. As the two creatures ran directly into
the water, they did not seem to ofl'cr to fall upon the-
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam.-
about as if they had come for their diversion : at last, one-
of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I
expected 3 but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my
gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both-
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I
fired, and sthot him directly ino the head. Immediately
he sunk down into the water, but rose instantly, and
plunged up and down as if he was struggling for life ; and
so indeed he was. He immediately made to the shore ;
but, between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached it.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and fire of my gun: some of them
fell down as dead with very terror. But when they saw
the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them, they took heart and came to the shore, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by his
blood staining the water, and by the help of a rope, which
I flung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on the shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree ;
and the Negroes held up their hands with admiration, to
think what it was I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire, and.
the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran up directly
to the mountains from whence they came, nor could I at
that distance know what it was. I found quickly the
Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a favour from me, which,
when I made signs to them that they might take him,
they were very thankful for. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, making as if I would give it them,
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very
freely, and brought me a great deal more of their provision,
which, though I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then
I made signs to them for some water, and held out one of
my jars to them, turning its bottom upward, to shew that
it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there
came two women, and- brought a great vessel made of
earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set
down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my
jars, and filled them all three.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
.and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I made
forward for about eleven days more, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five leagues before me, and, the sea being very calm,
I kept a large offing to make this point; at length, doubling
the point at about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly
land on the other side to seaward; then I concluded, as it
was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd,
and those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd
Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I
could not well tell what I had best to do.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm, when
on a sudden, the boy cried out, " Master, master, a ship
was a sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his
wits, thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships
sent to pursue us. I jumped out of the cabin, and imme-
diatelylsaw that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought,
was bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when
I observed the course she steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other way, and did not design to
go any nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched out to.
sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them if
possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be-
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone
by before I could make any signal to them 3 but after I
had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it.
seems, saw me, and so shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and made a signal of distress,
and fired a gun, both which they saw. Upon these signals
they very kindly brought to, and in about three hours I
came up with them.

They asked me what Iwas in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French 3 but I understood none of them : but at
last a Scots sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I
answered him, and told him, I was an Englishman, that I
had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors at
Sallee. Then they bade me come on board, and very kindly
took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me that I was thus de--
livered from such a miserable and almost hopeless con-
dition, and I ofi'ered all I had to the captain of the ship,
as a return for my deliverance ; but he generously told me
he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should
be delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. "For,"
says he, " I have saved your life on no other terms than as
I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one time
or other be my lot to be taken up in the same condition."

" N o, no," says he, " Signor Inglese [Mn Englishman],
I will carry you to the Brazils in charity, and these things
will help you to buy subsistence there, and your passage
home again."

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in
the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen that
none should offer to touch anything I had. As to my boat
it was a very good one, and he told me he would buy it of
me for the ship's use, and asked me what I would have for
it. I told him he had been so generous to me in every
thing that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces
of eight for it at Brazil. He offered me also sixty pieces
of eight more for my boy Xury, but I was very loathe to
sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully
in procuring my own. However, he offered me this medium
that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in
ten years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, Xury was
willing to go with him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived
in All Saints Bay in about twenty-two days. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself, I
was to consider. The generous treatment the captain gave
me I can never enough remember; he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, and what else
I was willing to sell; in a word, I made about 220 pieces
of my cargo, and with this stock I went on shore.

I had not been long here, but seeing how well the
planters lived, and how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved,

I
if I could get license to settle there, I would turn planter
among them ; resolving, in the meantime, to find out some
way to get my money, which I had left in London, remitted
to me. To this purpose I purchased as much land that
was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan
for my plantation and settlement, and such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to
receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. My stock was but low as well as
his, and we rather planted for food than anything else for
about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order, so that the third year we
planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece
of grmmd ready for planting canes in the year to come ;
but we both wanted help ; and now I found, more than
before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right, was
no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on. I was
gotten into an employment quite remote to my genius, and
directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which
I forsook my father's house, and broke through all his
good advice. In this manner I used to look upon my
condition with the utmost regret. I had nobody to con-
velse with, but now and then this neighbour ; no work to
be done but by the labour of my hands; and I used to
say, I lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate
island.

I was in some degree settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back 3 when,
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in
London, he said, "Signor Inglese, if you will give me
letters, with orders to the person who has your money in
London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as
I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, I will bring you the produce of them, God
willing, at my return; but, since human affairs are all
subject to changes and disasters, I would have you give
:orders for PS100 sterling, which, you say, is half your
stock, so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the
same way, and if it miscarry, you may have the other half
to have recourse to for your supply. This was so wholes
some advice, and looked so friendly, that I could not but
be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I
accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with
whom I had left my money, and wrote the English
captain's widow a full account of all my adventures, my
slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portugal
captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and what
condition I was now in, with all other necessary direc-
tions for my supply ; and when this honest captain came
to Lisbon he found means to send over not the order only,
but a full account of my story, to a merchant at London,
who presented it to her; whereupon she not only deli-
vered the money, but sent the Portugal captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested this PS100 in English
goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to
me to the Brazils; among which, without my direction,
he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-work,
and utensils necessary for my plantation, which were of
great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made,
for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the captain, had laid out the PS5, which my
friend had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase
and bring me over a servant, under bond for six years'
service, and would not accept of any consideration, except
a little tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of
my own produce. .

N either was this all ; but my goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stufi', baize, and things par.
ticularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell them to a very great advantage 3 so that I
may say, I had more than four times the value of my first
cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour;
for the first thing I did, I bought a negro slave, and
another European servant besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.

I went on the next year with great success. I raised
fifty great rolls of tobacco more than I had disposed of
for necessaries among my neighbours, and these fifty rolls
being each of above 1001b. weight, were well cured and
laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And
now, increasing in business and in wealth, my head began
to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach. -

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for
which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet retired
life, and which he had. so sensibly described the middle-
station of life to be full of; but other things attendedl
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own
miseries.

Having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and
beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my
plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow--
planters, as well as among the merchants of St. Salvadore,
which was our port, and I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy
it was to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such as
beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and
the like, not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants'
teeth, date, but negroes for the service of the Brazils.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related
to the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not
only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been
carried on by the assientos, or permission of the kings of
Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock, so
that few negroes were bought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company one day with some
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to me
the next morning, and told me they had been musing
very much upon what I had discoursed of with them the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me.
They told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go
to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and
were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it
was a trade that could not be carried on, because they
could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home,
so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the-
negroes on shore privately, and divide them among their
own plantations ; and, in a word, the question was,
whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea: and"
they offered me that I should have my equal share of the:
negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus established, to think
of such a voyage, was the most preposterous thing that
ever man, in such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer, than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good council was lost
upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with all
my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such
as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged
to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so ;
and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and;
effects, in case of my death, making the captain of the
ship that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir,
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed
in my will: one half of the produce being to himself,
and the other to be shipped to England. I also took all?
possible precaution to keep up my plantation.

Accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo fur--
nished, and all things done as by agreement by my-
partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour
again, the let of September, 1659, being the same day

gill: years that I went from my father and mother at>>
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six guns,
:and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and
'myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods,
except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
'trifles, especially little looking glasses, knives, scissors,
hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board, we set sail, standing
.away to the northward, with design to stretch over for
the African coast. We had very good weather, only ex-
cessively hot all the way, till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustine, from whence keeping farther off at
:sea, we lost sight of land. We were, by our last observa-
tion, in 7 degrees, 22 minutes, northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our
knowledge: it blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive ; and
scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever fate and
the fury of the winds directed. During these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up; nor did any in the ship expect to save
their lives.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the
master made an observation as well as he could, and
'found that he was upon the coast of Guiana, or the
north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazon 3 and now
he began to consult with me what course he should take,
'for the ship was leaky, and much disabled, and, looking
over the charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to, till we came within the circle of the Caribbee
Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Bar-
'badoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid the
indraught of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might
'easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa, without some assistance both to our ship,
.and to ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, in order to
:reach some of our English islands, where I hoped fornosmsou censor. 29'

relief 3 but a second storm came upon us, which carried
us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove-
us out of the way of all human commerce. In this
distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our
men, early one morning, cried out " Land 1" and we had
no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of
seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship
struck upon a sand, and, in a moment, the sea broke over
her in such a manner that we expected we should all
perish immediately.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation
of men in such circumstances. In a word, we sat looking
one upon another, and expecting death every moment,
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for another
world, for there was little or nothing more for us to do in
this.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the-sand, and
sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were
in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but
to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had
a boat at our stern, just before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the
next place she broke away, and either sunk or was
driven off to sea, so there was no hope from her. We
had another boat on board 3 but how to get her off into
the sea, was a doubtful thing.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got
her flung over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let
go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to
God's mercy, and the wild sea.

And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat could
not escape, and that we should be inevitably drowned.
As to making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we
have done'anything with it 5 so we worked at the oar
towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like men
going to execution 3 for we all knew, that when the boat
came near the shore, she would be dashed in' a thousand
pieces, by the breach of the sea. However, we com-
mitted our souls to God in the most earnest manner; and
the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our
destruction with our own hands, pulling, as well as we
'could, towards land.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astern of us, and took us with such a
fury, that it overset the boat at once, and separating us as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say, " 0 God i" for we were all swallowed up in
:a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt when I sunk into the water, for though I swam very
well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as
to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather
tcarricd me a vast way on towards the shore, and having
spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing
myself nearer the main land than I expected, I got upon
my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land as
fast as I could, before another wave should return, and
take me up again. But I soon found it was impossible
to avoid it, for I saw the sea come after me as high as a
great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no
means or strength to contend with ; my business was to
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could, and so by swimming to preserve my breathing, and
pilot myself towards the shore, if possible; my greatest
concern now being that the wave, as it would carry me a
great way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me back again with it, when it gave back towards
the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could
feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore a very great way 3 but I held my breath,
.and assisted myself to swim still forward with all myWrecked.
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate
relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the
surface of the water; and though it was not two seconds
of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatly, gave me breath and new courage. Finding the
water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck for-
ward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to
recover breath, and till the water went from me, and then
I took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had,
farther towards the shore. But twice more I was lifted
up by the waves, and carried forwards as before, the
shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to
me ; for the sea having hurried me along as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a. piece of rock, and
that with such force as it left me senseless, and indeed
helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow taking
my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out
of my body, and had it returned again immediately, I
must have been strangled in the water ; but I recovered
a little before the return of the waves, and, seeing I
should be covered again with the water, I resolved to hold
fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if
possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves
were not so high as at first, being near land, I held my
hold till the wave abated, and then fetched another run,
which brought me so near the shore, that the next wave,
though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as
to carry me away ; and the next run I took I got to the
main land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the
free from danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case
wherein there some was minutes before scarce any room
to hope.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contem-
plation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures
and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon all
my comrades that were drowned, and that there should
not be one soul saved but myself ; for, as for them, I
never saw them afterward, or any sign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not
fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it
lay so far off 3 and considered, Lord! how was it possible
I could get on shore!

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part
of my position, I began to look around me, to see what
kind of place I was 'in, and what was next to be done, and
I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had
a dreadful deliverance ; for I was wet, had no clothes to
shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort
me, neither did I see any prospect before me, but that of
perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts :
and that which was particularly afflicting to me, was,
that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other
creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a
word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe,
and a little tobacco in a box ; this was all my provision,
and this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for
a time I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what would
be my lot, if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time, was to get up into a thicky bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to
sit all night, and consider the next day what death I should
die ; for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did to my great joy ; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth, to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavoured to place myself so as that if I should sleep I

might not fall; and having cut me a short stick like a

truneheon for my defence, I took up my lodging 3 and hav-

ing been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept

as comfortably as I believe few could have done in my con-

dition ; and found myself the most refreshed with it that
j I think I ever was on such occasion.

\Vhen I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell
as before ; but that which surprised me most was that the
ship was lifted off in the night, from the sand where she
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock, which I first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the dashing me against it. This being
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
ship seeming to stand upright itself, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary things
for my use.

'When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again 3 and the first thing I found was
, the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed
5 her upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore, to have reached
her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and
1 the boat, which was about half a mile abroad; so I came
; back for the present, being more intent upon getting at
- the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present
" subsistence.

_., A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the
. tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter
of a mile of the ship ; and here I found a fresh renewing
2.15 of my grief, for I saw evidently that if we had kept on
3 board we had been all safe. I resolved, if possible, to get
. to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather
3-,_.;_ was hot to extremity, and took the water; but when I
3; came to the ship my difficulty was how to get on board ;
1?}. for as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I espied a small

P1800 0f rope, which I wondered I did not see at first,
21' -.,_ , ' D
hanging down by the forechains, so low that with
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got
up into the forecastle of the ship. My first work was to
search and see what was spoiled, and what was free ; and
first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and
untouched by the water; and being well disposed to eat,
I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets with
biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had
no time to lose. Now I wanted. nothing but a boat to
furnish myself with many things which I foresaw would
be very necessary to me.

We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the ship ;
I resolved to work with these, and flung as many of them
overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive away. "When
this was done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling
them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both ends
as well as I could in the form of a raft ; and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I
found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light 3
so I went to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a
spare top--mast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labour and pains ; but the hope
of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to
go beyond what I should have been able to have done
upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea :
but I was not long considering this; I first laid all the
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having con-
sidered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied,
and lowered them down upon my raft. The first of these
I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh which we lived
much upon, and a little remainder of European corn. As
for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging to
our skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and in all
about five or six gallons of arrack: these I stowed by
themselves, there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor any room for them. While I was doing this, I
found the tide began to flow, though very calm, and I
had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away 5 as
for my breeches, which' were only linen and open knce'd,
I swam on board in them, and my stockings. Of clothes
I found enough, but took no more than I wanted for
present use. After long searching I found out the car-
penter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to
me, and much more valuable than a ship-loading of gold
would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft,
even whole as it was, without losing time to look into it,
for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling--pieces in the great cabin,

and two pistols : these I secured first, with some powder- .

horns, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I
knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but
knew not where our gimner had stowed them, but with
much search I found them, two of them dry and good, the
third had taken water: those two I got to my raft with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well fieighted,
and began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and the least capful
of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements. First, A smooth and calm
sea. Secondly, The tide rising and settingin to the shore.
Thirdly, What little wind there was, blew me towards the
land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were in
the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and
with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts,
my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little
distant from the place where I had landed before, by which
I perceived there was some indraught of the water, and

D 2

r_..
consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with
my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was 3 there appeared before me a
little opening of the land. I found a strong current of
the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could,
to keep in the middle of the stream. tut here I had like
to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I
think verily would have broken my heart: for knowing
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground, at one end of it,
upon a shoal, not being aground at the other end, it wanted
but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water; I did
my utmost by setting my back against the chests, to keep
them in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with
all my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I
was in, but, holding up the chests with all my might,
stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the
rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level:
and a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the ear I had, into the
channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found my
self in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,
and a strong current of tide running up.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I guided my
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with
my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had
like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for
that shore being pretty steep, that is to say sloping, there
was no place to land, but where one end of the float, if it-
ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower,
as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that
I could do, was to wait till the tide was at the highest,
keeping the raft with my oar, like an anchor, to hold the
side. of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground,
which I expected the water would flow over ; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough I thrust her upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by
sticking my two broken oars into the ground, one on onenomxsox 011115012. 37

side near one end, and one on the other side near the other
end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left
my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen. There
was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I took
out one of the fowling--pieces, and one of the pistols, and
a horn of powder, and, thus armed, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great
labour and difficulty got up, I immediately saw my fate, to
my great affliction : viz. that I was in an island, environcd
every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some
rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small islands,
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west;

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none ; yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds, neither, when I killed
them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what not.
At my coming back I shot at a great bird, which I saw sit-
ting upon a tree, on the side of a large wood. I believe it
was the first gun fired there since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood
there arose an extraordinary number of fowls, of many sorts,
making aconfused screaming and crying, every one accord-
ing to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind
that I knew. As for that creature I killed, I took it to be
.a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but it
had no talons or claws more than common: its flesh was
carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me up the rest of the day. What to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed Where to rest.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards, that I had brought on shore,
and made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging: as for
food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except.
that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to hand, and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible ; and
as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft ; not so unwieldy as the first, nor did I load it so hard;
but yet I brought away several things very useful to me;
as first in the carpenter's store I found two or three bags
full of nails and spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets, and above all, that most useful thing called a
grindstone: all these I secured, together with several things
belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three iron
crews, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets,
and another fowling piece, with some small quantity of
powder more ; a large bag full of small shot, and a great
roll of sheet lead ; but this last was so heavy, I could not
hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

lesides these things, I took all the men's clothes that
I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock, and some
bedding ; and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them also safe on shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence from
the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
shore; but when I came back, I found no sign of any
visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one
of the chests, which, when I came towards it ran away to
a little distance, and then stood still. She sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if
she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun at her ; but as she did not understand it, she was
perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away;
upon which I tossed her a piece of biscuit, though by the
way I was not very free of it, for my store was not great.nomxsox CRUSOE. 39

However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it,
smelled of it, and eat it, and looked (as pleased) for
more ; but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she
marched ofi'.

Having got my second cargo on shore (though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks) I went
to work to make a. little tent with the sail and some poles
which I cut for that purpose ; and into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil, either with rain or
sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a
circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden
attempt, either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set on
end without, and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head. and my
gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and
slept very quietly all night, being very weary and heavy ;
for the night before I had slept little, and had laboured
very hard all day, as well to fetch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe for one man ; but I was not satisfied
still, for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get every thing out of her that I could;
so every day at low water, I went on board, and brought
away something or other. The third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all
the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of
spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder.

But that which comforted me more still, was, that at
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages, I
found a great hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum
or spirits, a box of sugar and a barrel of fine flour: this
was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions except what was spoiled by the water.
I emptied the hogehead of the bread, and wrapt it up,
parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out;

14'-40 m2: .xxn ADVEXTURES or

and in a word, I got all this safe on shore also, though at
several times.

The next day I made another voyage ; and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable, and lit to hand
out, I began with the cables 3 and cutting the great cable
into pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could get ; and
having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the inizen-yard,
and everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded it
with all those heavy goods, and came away. llut my
good luck began to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy,
and so ovcrladen, that after I was entered the little cove,
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being able
to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself,
it was no great harm, for I was near the shore ; but as to
my cargo it was great part of it lost, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great use to me.
However, when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces
of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite
labour, for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work
which fatigued me very much. After this, I went every
day on board, and brought away what I could get.

I had been new thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well' be
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily, had
the calm weather held, I should have brought away the
.whole ship, piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rise;
however, at low water, I went on board, and though I
thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that
nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker,
with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one pair of large scissors, with ten or a dozen
good knives and forks; in another, I found about thirty-
six pounds value in money, some European coin, some
Brazil, some pieces-of-eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "0
drug!" said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground.
One of those knives is worth all this heap. I have no

_ manner of use for thee. However, upon second thoughts,
I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas,
I began to think of making another raft; but I found the
sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter
of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore: and it pre-
sently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft, with the wind off shore, and that it was my
business to be gone before the tide of flood began, other-
wise I might not be able to reach the shore at all: ac-
cordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel, which lay between the ship and the
sand, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with
the weight of the things I had about me, and partly the
roughness of the water, for the wind rose very hastily, and
before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I'had got home to my little tent, where I lay with
all my wealth about me very secure :. it blew very hard
all that night; and in the morning, when I looked out,
behold, no more ship was to be seen! .

My thoughts were now wholly employed about-securing
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or
.wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and I had many
thoughts of the method how to do thisrand what kind of
dwelling to make ; whether I should, make me a cave in
the earth, or a tent : and, in short, _I-'resolved upon both;
the manner and description of which its-"may not be im-
proper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorish
ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole-
some, and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it ; so I resolved to find a more. healthy and
more convenient spot of ground. "

I consulted several things in my situation; first, health
and fresh water; secondly, shelter from the heat of the
sun 3 thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether
man or beast; fourthly, a view to the sea, that if God
sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for
my deliverance. 'u.
42 LIFE AND Anvzxrunns or

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this
little plain was as steep as a house-side, so that nothing
could come down upon me from the top. 0n the side of
this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way in,
like the entrance or door of a cave, but there was not
really any cave or way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just below this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above a
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door, and at the end of it descended
irregularly every way down to the low grounds by the sea~
side. It was on the N.N.VV. side of the hill, so that it
was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a.
W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those coun-
tries is near the setting. '

Before I set up my tent, I draw a half-circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-
diameter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter,
from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm,
like piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about
five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top 3 the two
rows did not stand above six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows one upon another, within the
circle between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them,
about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post ,- and
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
get into it, or over it. This cost me a great deal of time
and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring
them to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a short ladder, to go over the top ; which ladder,
when I was in, I lifted over after me ; and so I was com-
pletely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the
world, and consequently slept secure in the night, which-
otherwise I could not have done 3 though, as it appeared.
afterwards, there was no need of all this caution from the
enemies I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried
all my riches, all my .provisions, ammunition, and stores,.
of which you have the account above ; and I made a large-
tent also, which, to preserve me from the rains, that in:
one part of the year are very violent there, I made double,.
viz. : one. smaller tent within, and one larger tent above:
it ; and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin,
which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was in~
deed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus en-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock; and bringing all the earth and stones that I
dug down, out through my tent, I laid them up within
my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
ground within about a foot and ahalf ; and thus I made
a cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house.

It cost me much labour, and many days, before all these
things were brought to perfection ; and therefore I must
go back to some other things which took up some of my
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid
my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the
cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud,
a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that, a
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I

' was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I was

with the thought which darted into my mind as swift as
the lightning itself: 0 my powder! My very heart sunk
within me, when I thought, that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence
only, but the providing me food,'as I thought, entirely
depended : I was nothing near so anxious about my own.
danger; though, had the powder took fire, I had never
known who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate my powder, and to keep it a little and a little in
a parcel, in hopes, that whatever might come, it might
not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart, that it
should not be possible to make one part fire another. I
finished this work in about a fortnight, and I think my
powder, which was in all about 14011). weight was divided
into no less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel
that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from
that, so I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I
called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up and down in
holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it,
marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
:at least once every day with my gun, as well to divert
myself, as to see if I could kill any thing fit for food, and,
as near as I could to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out, I discovered, that
there were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction to me ; but then it was attended with this mis-
fortune to me, viz. : that they were so shy, so subtle, and
so swift of foot, that it was the ditficultest thing in the
world to come at them. I observed, if they saw me in
'the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would
run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were feeding
in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no
notice of me ; from whence I concluded, that by the
position of their optics, their sight was so directed down-
ward, that they did not readily see objects that were
.above them. So afterwards I took this method : I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then had
frequently a fair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a
she-goat which had a little kid by her, which she gave
suck to, which grieved me heartily ; but when the old
-one fell, the kid stood stock-still by her till I came and took
her up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one-
with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure 3 upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied
me with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved
my provisions (my bread especially) as much as possibly
I could. '

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn ; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full
account of it in its place : but I must first give some
little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which it may well be supposed were not a few.

And now, to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the
world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and con.
tinue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of
September, when in the manner as above said, I first set
foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to us, in
its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head ; for
I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of
9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning
of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and should
even forget the Sabbath days from the working days :
but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post in capital letters 3 and making it into a great cross I
set it up on the shore where I first landed; viz. : I came
on shore here the 30th of September, 1659. Upon the
sides of this square post I out every day a notch with my
knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the
rest, and every first day of the month as long again as that
long one ; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. -

In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things which I brought off the ship in the several
voyages, which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less useful to
me, which I omitted setting down before ,' as in particular,
pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, perspec-
tives, charts, and books of navigation, all which I hud-
dled together, whether I might want them or no ; also I
found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which I had packed up among
my things ; some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or three Popish prayer-books, and several other books,
all which I carefully secured. And I must not forget that
we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent
history I may have occasion to say something in its place ;
for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog,
he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore
to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo,
and was a trusty servant to me many years. As I observed
before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded to
the utmost ; and I shall shew, that while my ink lasted,
I kept things very exact ,- but after that was gone, I could
not ;. for I could not make any ink, by any means that I
could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together 5 and of
these, this of ink was one, as also a spade, pick-axe, and
shove], to dig or remove the earth 3 needles, pins, and
thread 3 as for linen, I soon learned to want that without
much difliculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go heavily,
andit was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded habitation: the piles, or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a
long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more
by far in bringing home ; so that I spent sometimes two
days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and
a third day in driving it into the ground ,- for which pur-
pose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last be-
thought myself of one of the iron crows, which, however,though I found it, yet made driving those posts or piles
very laborious and tedious work. But what need I have
been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to
do, seeing I had time enough to do it in?

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing ; not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me, for I was like to have but few
heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon
them, and afflicting my mind ; and as my reason began
now to master my despondency, I began to comfort myself
as well as I could, and to set the good against the evil,
that I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse ; and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and
creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, against the miseries I

suffered, thus :

EVIL.

I am cast upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.

I am singled out, and se-
parated, as it were, from all
the world to be miserable.

I am divided from man-
kind, a solitary, one banished
from human society.

I have no clothes to cover
me.

I am without any defence,
or means to resist any vio-
lence of man or beast.

GOOD.

But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.

But I am singled out too,
from all the ship's crew, to
be spared from death; and
He that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.

But I am not starved, and
perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance.

But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an is-.
land where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the coast of Africa; and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
I have no soul to speak But God wonderfully sent
to, or relieve me. the ship in near enough to
the shore, that I have gotten
out so many necessary things
as will either supply my
wants, or enable me to sup-
ply myself, even as long as
I live.

Upon the whole, there was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so miser-
able, but there was something negative, or something
positive, to be thankful for in it.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my con-
dition, and giving over looking out to sea, to see if I could
spy a ship, I began to apply myself to accommodate my
way of living, and to make things as easy to me as I
could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of
posts and cables, but I might rather call it a wall ; for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet
thick on the outside ; and after some time (I think it was
a year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to the
rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind
me ; but I must observe too, that, at first, this was a con-
fused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order, took
up all my place ,- I had no room to turn myself : so I set
myself to enlarge my cave, and worked farther into the
earth ; for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily
to the labour I bestowed on it : and so, when I found I
was pretty safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways
to the right hand into the rock 3 and, then turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to come
out on the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a
back way to my tent, and to my storehouse, but gave me
room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such neces~
sary things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair
and a table ; for without these I was not able to enjoy the
few comforts I had in the world ; I could not write or eat,
or several things, with so much pleasure without a table.

So I went to work ; and here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and original of the mathe-
matics, so by stating and squaring everything by reason,
and by making the most rational judgment of thingsyevery
man may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. Ih'ad'
never handled a tool in my life, and yet, in time, by labour,
application, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had tools:
however, I made abundance of things, even without tools,
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and that
with infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a board,
I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an
edge before me, and how it flat on either side with my
axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and
then dub it smooth with my adze.

However, I made me a table and a chair, in the first
place, and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that
I brought on my raft from the ship ; but when I had
wrought out some boards, I made large shelves of the
breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all along
one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and, in a word, to separate everything at large in
their places, that I might easily come at them ; also, I
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns,
and all things that would hang up. So that my cave
looked like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and
I had everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order, and espe-
cially to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment, of which I shall here give you
the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars

E
over again), as long as it lasted; for at last, having no
more ink, I was forced to leave it off.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30, 1659.--I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the
offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair, all the rest of the
ship's company being drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., I had
neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to fly to,
and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before
me, either that I should be devoured by wild beasts,
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food.
At the approach of night, I slept in a tree, for fear of
wild creatures ; but slept soundly, though it mined all
night.

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island, which, as it was some
comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit'upright, and not
broken in pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for
my relief), so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at
.he loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all
stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or at least
that they would not have been all drowned, as they were;
and that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat out of the ruins of the ehip,to have carried
us to some other part of the world. I spent great part of
this day in perplexing myself on these things ; but at
length seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand
as near as I could, and then swam on board. This day
also continued raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in making several voyages to get all I could
out of the ship, which I brought on shore every tide of
flood upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather; but, it seems, this
was the rainy season.

October 24. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the
tide was out.

October 25. It rained all night, and all day, with some
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces,
the wind blowing a little harder than' before, and was no
more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at
low water. I spent this day in covering and securing the
goods which I saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all day
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned
to secure myself from any attack, in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper
place under a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my
encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work,
wall, or fortification, made of double piles, lined within
with cable, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though some
part of the time it rained exceeding hard.

The Slst, in the morning, I went into the island with
my gun, to seek for some food, and discover the country;
when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home,
which I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.

November l.--I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night, making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.

November 2.--I set up all my chests and boards, and.
the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.

November 3--1 went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the.
afternoon, went to work to make me a table.

November 4. --This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion--viz, every morning I walked out with
my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain 3 then
employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then
eat what I had to live on : and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot, and then;
in the evening to work again. The working part of this
day and the next were wholly employed in making my
table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman, though
time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic
soon after, as I believe it would do any one else.

November 5.--This day I went abroad with my gun
and my dog, and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft,
but her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed I
took of the skins and preserved them. Coming back, by
the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls which I did
not understand, but was surprised and almost frighted
with two or three seals which, while I was gazing at, not
'well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped
me for that time.

November 6.----After my morning walk I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to my
liking, nor was it long before I learned to mend it.

November 7 .--Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th
was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly
up to make me a chair, and, with much ado, brought it to
a tolerable shape, but never to please me 3 and even in
the making I pulled it to pieces several times. Note : I
soon neglected keeping my Sundays 3 for, omitting my
mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

November 13.--This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accompanied
with terrible thunder and lightning, which frighted me
dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over,
I resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many
little parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.

November 14, 15, Iii--These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds at most, of powder; and"so
putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
remote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but
I knew not what to call it.

November l7.--'.l'his day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my farther conve-
niency. Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for
this work : viz., a pick-axe, a. shovel, and a wheel-barrow
or basket; so I desisted from my work, and began to
consider how to supply that want, and make me some
tools. As for the pick-axe, I made use of the iron crowsi
which were proper enough, though heavy: but the next
thing was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely
necessary that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually
without it , but what kind of one to make I knew not.

November 18.--The next day, in searching the woods,
I found a. tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the
Brazils, they call the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness :
-of this, with extreme labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I
cut a piece, and brought it home, too, with difficulty
enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive hard-
ness of the wood, and having no other way, made me a
long while upon this machine ; for I worked it efi'ectually,
by little and little, into the form of a shovel or spade, the -
handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the
broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would
not last me so long: however, it served well enough for
the uses which I had occasion to put it to : but never was
a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a
making.

I was still deficient, for want of a basket, or a wheel-
barrow: a. basket I could not make by any means, having
no such thing as twigs that would bend to make wicker-
ware, or at least none yet found out; and, as to the
wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel ;
but that I had no notion of, neither did I know how to
go about it ; besides, I had no possible way A to make iron
gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so
I gave it over. And so for carrying away the earth which
I dug out of the cave, I made a. thing like a hod,.which

the labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-.
layers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel,
and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I
made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less
than four days. ,

November 23. My other work having stood still be--
cause of my making these tools, when they were finished
I went on,- and, working every day as my srrength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening,
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods com--
modiously.

Note--During all this time I worked to make this
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a:
warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a;
cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, except that
sometimes in the wet season it mined so hard, that I could'
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover
all my place within my pale with long poles, in the form-
of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags, and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December lO.--I began now to think my cave or vault
finished, when, on a sudden (it seemed I had made it too-
large), a great quantity of earth fell down from the top
and one side, so, much that, in short, it frighted me, and
not without reason too ; for if I had been under it, I had'
never wanted a grave-digger. I had a great deal of work.
to do over again 5 for I had the Ioose earth to carry out,
and, what was of more importance, I had the ceiling to
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come
down.

December ll.--This day I went to work with it
accordingly, and got two shores, or posts, pitched upright
to the top, with two pieces of boards across over each
post. This I finished the next day; and setting more
posts up with boards, in about aweek more I had the
roof secured, and the posts, standing in rows, served me
for partitions to part off my house.

December l7.--From this day to the 20th, I placed:
shelves, and knocked up nail on the posts, to hang every

thing up that could be hung up ; and now I began to be
in some order within doors.___V.,<..-.

'<-4A-A' n~.._'.._-.-___.. . _

nomxsox causes. 55

December 20.--N ow I carried everything into the cave,
and began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of
boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon ; but
boards began to be very scarce with me. Also I made me
another table.

December 24.--Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out.

December 25,--Raiu all day.

December 26.--No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.

December 27.---Killed a young goat, and lamed another,
so that I caught it, and led it home in a string ; when I
had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was
broken.

N .B.--I took care of it that it lived, and the leg grew
well and as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long it
grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and
would not go away. This was the first time that I enter-
tained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder and shot was all
spent.

December 28, 29, 30, 31.--Great heats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening
for food. This time I spent in putting all my things in
order within doors. '

January l.--Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late, with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys, which
lay to the centre of the island, I found there was plentyof
goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come at. How-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
them down.

January 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with '
my dog, and set him upon the goats ; but I was mistaken,
for they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his
danger too well, for he would not come near them.

January 3. I began my fence or wall, which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.

[N .B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit '
what was said in the journal : it is sufficient to observe,
that I was no less time than from the 3rd of January to
14th of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this wall,
though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in
length, being a half circle, from one place in the rock, to
another place about eight yards from it, the door of the
cave being in the centre behind it]

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes, weeks together ; but I
thought I should never be perfectly secure till this wall
was finished : and it is scarce credible what inexpressible
labour every thing was done with, especially the bringing
piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground ;
for I made them much bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not perceive any thing like an habitation 2
and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter,
upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for
game every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other
to my advantage ; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeon, which build not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks : and
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up
tame, and did so ; but when they grew older, they flew
away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them,
for I had nothing to give them: however, I frequently
found their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first
it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as to some of
them it was : for instance, I could never make a cask to be
hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before,
but I could never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, though I spent many weeks about it 3 I could neither
put in the heads, or join the stares so true to one another,
as to make them hold water; so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles; so
that as soon as it was dark, which was generally about
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the lump of bees-wax, with which I made candles in my
African adventure 3 but I had none of that now : the only
remedy I had, was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a. little dish made of clay, which I
baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,
I made me a lamp, and this gave me light, though not a
clear steady light, like a candle. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that rummaging my things, I found
alittle bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with
corn : what little remainder of corn had been in the bag,
was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust ; and being willing to have the bag
for some other use I shook the husks of corn out of it, on
one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of any thing,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown any
thing there, when about a month after or thereabouts, I
saw some few stalks of something green shooting up on
the ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not.
seen ; but I was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when,
after a little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears
come out, which were perfect green barley, of the same
kind as our European, nay, as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confu-
sion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto acted
upon no religious foundation at all ; indeed I had very few
notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained any
sense of any thing that had befallen me, otherwise thanas
achancc, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God ; without
so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or His order in governing events in the world : but,
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew
was not proper for corn, and especially that I knew not
how it came there, it startled me strangely, and I began to
suggest, that God had miraculously caused this grain to
grow, without any help of seed sown, and that it was so
directed purely for my sustenance in that wild miserable
place.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support ; but, not doubting but that there
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the
island where I had been before, peering in every corner,
and under every rock, to see for more of it; but I could
not find any. At last it occurred to me, that I had shaken
the bag of chicken's meat out in that place ; and then the
'wonder began to cease ; and I must confess, my religious
thankfulness to God's providence began to abate too, upon
the discovering that all this was nothing but what was
common, though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen providence, as if it had been mira-
culous ; for it was really the work of Providence as to me,
that should order or appoint, that ten or twelve grains of
corn should remain unspoiled (when the rats had destroyed
all the rest), as if it had been dropped from heaven: as
also that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up
immediately 5 whereas, if I had thrown it any where else,
at that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June ; and
laying up every com, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to supply
me with bread : but it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its
order ; for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time, for I sowed just before the dry
season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done : of which, in its place.

- Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care.
But to return to my journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done 3 and, the 14th of April, I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall,
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder : so I went up with the
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let
it down on the inside. This was a complete enclosure to
me ; for nothing could come at me from without, unless it-
could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed, '
for all on a sudden I found the earth came tumbling down
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill
over my head, and two of the posts I had set up in the
cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared,
and got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which
I expected might roll down upon me. I no sooner stepped
upon the firm ground but I saw it was a terrible earth.
quake 3 I perceived also the very sea was put into a vim
lent motion by it, and I believe the shocks, of which there
were three, were stronger under the water than on the
island.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time I began to take coru'age, and yet I had not
heart enough to get over my wall again for fear of being
buried alive, but still sat upon the ground greatly cast
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. When
on a sudden it came into my thoughts that these winds
and rain being the consequence of the earthquake, the
earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might venture
into my cave again. With this thought my spirits began
to revive, and I went in and sat me down in my tent, but.
the rain was so violent that I was forced to go into my
cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it
should fall on my head.

It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad, but my mind
being more composed I began to think what I had best do,.
concluding that if the island was subject to these earths
quakes there would be no living for me in a cave, but I
must consider of building me some little but in an open
place, which I might surround with a wall as I had done
here, and so make myself secure from'wild beasts or men,
but concluded if I staid where I was I should certainly
'one time or other be buried alive.

With these thoughts I resolved that I would go to work
with all speed to build a wall with piles and cables, etc. .,
in a circle as before, and set my tent up in it when it was
finished. This was the 21st.

Apiil 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolv e in execution, but I was at a great
loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and abun-
dance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic
with the Indians), but with much chopping and cutting
knotty hard wood they were all full of notches and dull,
:and though I had a grindstone I could not turn it, and grind
my tools too. At length I contrived a wheel with a
string, to turn it with my foot that I might have both my
:hands at liberty. This machine cost me a full week's
work, to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29. These two whole days Itook up in grind-
ing my tools 3 my machine for turning my grindstone per-
forming very well.

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a
great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself
130 one biscuit cake a day, which made my heart very
heavy.

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side,
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore,
'bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask: when I
came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces
of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by
the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it
used to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but
it had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as
a stone, however, I rolled it farther on shore for the
present and went on upon the sands, as new as I could to
the wreck of the ship to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
rmoved ; the forecastle, which before lay buried in the sand,
was heaved up at least six feet; and the stern, which was
broken to pieces, and parted from the rest by the force of
the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed,
as it were, up, and cast on one side ; and the sand was
thrown so high on that side next the stern, that whereas
there was a great place of water before, so that I could not,
come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without-
su'imming, I could now walk quite up to her when the?
tide was out. I was surprised with this at first, but soon
concluded it must be done by the earthquake, and as by
this violence the ship was more broken open than-
formerly, so many things came daily on shore, which the>>
sea had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to the land. '

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation, and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I could make any
way into the ship 3 but I found nothing was to be expected
of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was choked up
with sand. However, as I had learnt not to despair of
any thing, I resolved to pull every thing to pieces that I
could of the ship, concluding that every thing I could get
from her would be of some use or other to me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of abeam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part, or
quarter-deck together : and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could, from the side
which lay highest 3 but the tide coming in, I was obliged
to give over for that time. .

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport, when, just going
to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a.
long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I fre-
quently caught fish enough, as much as I eared to eat, all
which I dried in the sun, and eat them dry.

May 5. W'orked on the wreck, out another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir planks ofi from the decks,
which I tied together, and made swim on shore, when the
tide of flood came on. V

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out
of her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked very hard,
and came home very much tired, and had thoughts of
giving it over.

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not
to work ; but found the weight of the wreck had broken
itself down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the
ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so
open, that I could see into it ; but almost full of water and
sand.

May 8. "rent to the wrec, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
water or sand. I wrenched open two planks, and brought
them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in
the wreck for next day.

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow, made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them
up. I felt also the roll of English lead, and could stir it 3
but it was too heavy to move.

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber, and boards or
planks, and two or three hundred weight of iron.

May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I could not cut
a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other 3 but as it lay about
a foot and a half in the water I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet. '

May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water, but
I stayed so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that
the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, two miles ofi.' me, but resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the lead, but
too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck,
and with hard labour, loosening some things so much with
the crow, that the first flowing tide several casks floated out,
and two of the seamen's chests, but the wind blowing
from the shore nothing came to land that day, but pieces

g.
of timber and a hogshead which had some Brazil pork in
it, but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I had always
appointed, during this time of my employment, to be when
tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed out;
and by this time I had gotten timber and plank, and iron
work enough to have built a good boat if I had known
how, and I also got at several times, and in several pieces,
near one hundred weight of the sheet-lead.

June 16. Going down to the sea-side I found a large
tortoise or turtle, this was the first I had seen, which it
seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place
or scarcity, for had I happened to be on the other side of
the island I might have had hundreds of them every day,
as I found afterwards, but perhaps had paid dear enough
for them.

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found inher
threescore eggs, and her flesh was to me at that time the
most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrible place.

June 18. Rained all day, and I staid within. I thought
at this time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.

June 20. N 0 rest all night, violent pains in my head,
and feverish.

June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no
help. Frayed to God for the first time since the storm ofi'

Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts
being all confused.

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness.

June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then
.a violent head-ache.

J une24. Much better.

June 25. An ague very violent, the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

1.-...n. ' ._
June 26. Better ; and having no victuals to eat took
my gun, but found myself very weak 3 however I killed a
she-goat, and with much difl'iculty got it home and broiled
some of it and eat, I would fain have stewed it and made
some broth, but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all
day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst, but so weak I had not strengthto stand up or to get
myself any water to drink ; prayed to God again, but was
light-headed, when I was not I was so ignorant that I
knew not what to say, only I lay and cried, ' Lord, look
upon me ! Lord, pity me ! Lord, have mercy upon me !' I
suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the
fit wearing 011' I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the
night. When I awoke I found myself much refreshed,
but weak and exceedingly thirsty ; however, as I had no
water in my whole habitation I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again In this second sleep I
had this terrible dream :

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the 'out-
side of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after
the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a
great black cloud in a bright flame of fire, and light upon
the ground. He was all over as bright as a flame, so that
I could but just bear to look towards him, his countenance
was most inexpressively dreadful, impossible for words to
describe ; when he stepped upon the ground with his 'feet
I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before
the earthquake, and all the air looked to my apprehension
as if it had been filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward towards me with a long spear or weapon in his
hand to kill me, and when he came to a rising ground at
some distance he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible
that it is impossible to express the terror of it, all that I
can say I understood was this: "Seeing all these things
have not brought thee to repentance, now- thou shalt die."
At which words I thought he lifted up the spear that was
in his hand to kill me.

It is not possible to describe the impression that re~
mained on my mind when I awoke from this terrible dream.
I had, alas! no Divine knowledge ; what I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn Out
by an uninterrupted series for eight years of seafaring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with none but
such as were like myself, wicked and profane to the last
degree. I do not remember that I had in all that time one
thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards
towards God, or inwards towards a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of
good or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me,
and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked
creature among our common sailors can be supposed to be,
not having the least sense either of the fear of God in
dangers, or of thankfulness to God in deliverance.

It is true when I got on shore first here and found all
my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstasy and some transports of soul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have come up
to true thankfulness, but it ended where it began, in a
mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I
was alive, without the least reflection upon the dis-
tinguished goodness of the hand which had preserved me,
and had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest
were destroyed. Even when I was afterwards made sensible
of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place,
c-ut of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief,
or prospect of redemption, these were thoughts which very.
seldom entered into my head. But I return to my journal.

June 28.--Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got
up: and though the fright and terror of my dream was
very great, yet I considered, that the fit of the ague would
return the next day ; and now was my time to get some-
thing to refresh and support myself when I should be ill:
and the first thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle
with water, and set it upon my table in reach of my bed ;
and to take off the chill or agueish disposition of the
water, I put a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
:them together; then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh,
and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little; I

F
walked about, but was very weak, and withal, very sad
and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition,
dreading the return of my distemper the next day: at
night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs,
which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it in the
shell ; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked.
God's blessing to, even, as I could remember, in my whole
ife.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk; but found my self
so weak, that I could ha1dly ca11y the gun (for I never
uent out without that) , so I went but little way, and
sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As
I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me.

"That is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? \Vheuce is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal,
whence are we?

Sure we are all made by some secret power, who formed.
the earth and sea, the air and sky : and who is that?

Then it followed most naturally: it is God that has
made it all. \Vell, but then it came 011 strongly: If
God has made all these things, he guides and governs them
all, and all things that concern them 3 for the Being that
could make all things, must certainly have power to guide
and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge and appointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition ;
and if nothing happens without his appointment, he has
appointed all this to befall me. Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me"? \Vhat have I done to be
thus used?

\Iy conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as
if I had blasphemed, and 111ethought, it spoke to me like
a voice, \Vrctch! dost then ask what thou hast done?
Look back upon a dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself
what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert
not long ago destroyed? \Vhy wert thou not drowned in
Yarmouth roads? killed in the fight, when the ship was
taken by the Salle man-of-war'l devoured by wild beasts on
the coast of Africa? or, drowned here, when all the crew
perished but thyself '! Dost thou ask, What have I done?

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one aston-
ished, and had not a word to answer to myself ; but rose
up, pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, went up
over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep ; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp,
for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of
the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc-
curred to my thoughts that the Brazilians take no physio
but their tobacco, for almost all distempers j, and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was
quite cured, and some that was green, and not quite
cured. .

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest
I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the
chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the tobacco ; and
as the few books 1 had saved lay there too, I took out one
of the Bibles which I had mentioned before, and which,
to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as incli-
nation, to look into.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my
distemper, or whether it was good for me or no 3 but I
tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it
should hit one way or another. I first took a piece of a
leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which, indeed, at first,
almost stupified my brain; the tobacco being green and
' strong, and that I had not been much used to it : then I
took some and steeped it an hour or two in rum, and re-
solved to take a dose of it when I lay down ; and lastly, I
burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close
over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as well for
the heat as the virtue of it, and I held it almost to sufi'o-
cation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible,
and began to read; but my head was too much disturbed
with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at thgt time:

F ..
only, having opened the book casually, the first words
that occurred to me were these, " Call on me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made some im-
pression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for
being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say to
me ; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that I began to say as the children of
Israel did, when they were promised flesh to eat, " Can
God spread a table in the wildemess?" So I began to
say, Can God himself deliver me from this place? And
as it was not for many years that any hope appeared, this
prevailed very often upon my thoughts. But, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco
had, as I said, dozed my head so much, that I inclined to
sleep : so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should
want anything in the night, and went to bed ; but before
I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life,
I kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to
me, that, if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer
was over, I drank the rum in which I had stepped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that
indeed, I could scarce get it down. Immediately upon
this I went to bed, and I found presently it flew up into
my head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and
waked no more till by the sun, it must necessarily be near
three o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this
hour, I am partly of the opinion that I slept all the next
day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some
years after I had done ; for if I had lost it by crossing and
recrossing the line, I should have lost more than one day;
but certainly, I lost a day in my account, and I never
knew which way.

Be that, however, one way or other, when I awaked I
found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits livelynonmsox 036802. 69

and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger than I was
the day before, and my stomach better ; for I was hungry,
and, in short, had no fit the next day, but continued much
altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed
a seafowl or two, something like a brand-goose, and
brought them home, but was not very forward to eat
them ; so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were
very good. This evening I renewed the medicine, which
I had supposed did me good the day before, viz., the
tobacco steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as
before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head
over the smoke. However, I was not so well the next
day, which was the let of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was
not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. While
I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceed-
ingly upon this Scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the
impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind,
in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging
myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that
I pored so much upon my deliverance from the main afilic-
tion, that I disregarded the deliverance I had received;
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions
as these: viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully
too, from sickness ; from the most distressed condition
that could be, and that was so frightful to me? And
what notice had 1 taken of it? Had I done my part?
God had delivered me : but I had not owned and been
thankful for that as a deliverance: and how could I ex-
pect greater deliverance. This touched my heart very
much, and immediately I kneeled down, and gave God
thanks aloud for my recovery from sickness.

July 4. In the morning, I took the Bible; and, be
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to read
it, and imposed upon myself to read a while every morn-
ing and every night, not tying myself to a number of
chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me.
It was not long arter I set seriously to this work, but I
found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with
the wickedness of my past life. The impression of my
dream revived, and the words, "All these things have not
brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts.
I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentially, the very day, that, read-
ing the Seripture, I came to these words, " He is exalted
a Prince, and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give
remission." I threw down the book, and, with my heart
as well as my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a kind of
ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance S" This was the first time that I could say, in
the true sense of the word, that I prayed in all my life ;
for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with
a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the encourage-
ment of the word of God ; and from this time, I may say,
I began to have hope that God would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
" Call on me, and I will deliver you," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for then I had no
notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in ; for though I was
indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a
prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world ;
but now I learned to take it in another sense. Now, I
looked back upcn my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of
God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down
all my comfort. As for my solitary life it was nothing ; I
did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it; it was all of no consideration in comparison with
this; and I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall
read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things,
they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing,
than deliverance from affliction.
But I return again to my journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind ; and
my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading of the
Scripture, and praying to God, to things of higher nature,
I had a great deal of comfort within, which till no w I
knew nothing of. Also, as my health and strength re-
turned, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular
as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little
and a little at a time. as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a fit of sickness : for it is hardly to be im--
agined how low I was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. I had been new in this unhappy island above ten
months; all possibility of deliverance from this condition
seemed to be entirely taken from me : and I firmly believe
that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place.
Having now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to
my mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect dis
covery of the island, and to see what other productions I
might find, which yet I knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and very fresh and good. On the
banks of this brook, I found many pleasant savannas o
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass ; and on
the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where
the water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed, I
found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a
great and very strong stalk. There were divers other
plants, which I had no notion of, or understanding about.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians make
their bread of, but could find none. I saw large plants of
aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw several
sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation, im-
perfect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back, musing with myself what course I
might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the
fruits or plants which I should discover, but could bring
it to no conclusion ; for, in short, I made so little observa-
tion while I was in the Brazils that I knew very little of
the plants of the field that might serve me to any purpose
now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again,
and after going somewhat farther than I had gone the day
before, I found the brook and the savannas began to cease,
and the country become more woody than before. In this
part I found different fruits, and particularly I found
melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes
upon the trees: the vines had spread indeed over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising dis-
covery, and I was exceeding glad of them 3 but I was
warned by experience to eat sparingly of them, remember-
ing that when I was ashore in Barbary the eating of
grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers: but. I
found an excellent use for these grapes, and that was to
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried
grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as
indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable to eat
when no grapes might be had. - '

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to
my habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as
I might sa ', I had lain from home. In the night I took
my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well, and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery,
travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of
hills on the south and north side of me.

At the end of this march, I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west ; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east ; and the
country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every
thing being in a. constant verdure or flourish of spring,
that it looked like a planted g.arden I descended a.
little on the side of that delicious valley, surveym ymg it
with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with other
afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my own ;
that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly,
and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey it,
I might have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa--
trees, orange and lemon and citron-trees; but all wild,
and few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However,
.the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to
eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
ward with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing.

I found now I bad business enough to gather and carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, aswell of grapes
as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to this, I
gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, and a lesser
heap in another place, and a great parcel of limes and.
lemons in another place ; and, taking a few of each with
me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry
the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days 111 this Journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) ,
but, before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled, the-
ricliness of theo fruit, and the weight of the juice, having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little-
or nothing . as to the limes, they were good, but I could
bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having -
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest, but I
was surprised, when coming too my heap of grapes, which
were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I found
them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged about,
some here, some there, and abundance eaten and de~
voured. By this, I concluded there were some wild.
c1eatures thereabouts, which had done this, but what,

, they were, I knew not. .
However, as I found there was no laying them upon
heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, I took another
course ; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the out-branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand
under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated,
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms
on that side of the water, and the wood ; and concluded
that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode, which
was, by far, the worst part of the country. Upon the
whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation,
and to look out for a place equally safe as where I now
'was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of
the island. This thought mu long in my head, the plea-
,santness of the place tempting me ; but when I came to
a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now by
'the sea-side, where it was at least possible that something
'might happen to my advantage, and that the same ill
fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place ; and though it was
scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen,
yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the
centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to
render such an affair not only improbable, but impossible;
.and that therefore I ought not by any means, to remove.

However, I was so enamoured with this place, that I
spent much of my time there, for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built me a little
kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a.
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could
'reach, well staked and filled between with brushwood;
.and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights -
together, always going over it with a ladder, as before,
so that I fancied now I had my country house, and my
sea-coast house ; and this work took me up to the
beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy
my labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick
close to my first habitation 3 for though I had made me a
tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it
very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into, when
the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd
of August, I found the grapes I had hung up were per-
fectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins ; so I
began to take them dOWn from the trees, and it was very
happy that I did so, for the rains which followed would
have spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my
winter food ; for I had above two hundred largo bunches
of them. No sooner had I taken them all down, and
carried most of them home to my cave, but it began to
rain; and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it
rained more or less every day, till the middle of October;
and sometimes so violently that I could not stir out of my
cave for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dead; and I heard no more tale or tidings of her,
till, to my astonishment, she came home about the end of
August, with three kittens. This was the more strange
to me, because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called
it, with my gun, yet I thought it wasva quite different
.kind from our European cats; yet the young cats were
the same kind of house-bred, like the old one ; and both
my cats being females, I thought it very strange. But
from these three cats, I afterward became to be so pestered
with cats, that'I was forced to kill them like vermin, or
wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as
possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain,
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to
be much wet. In this confinement I began to be
stmitcned for food; but venturing out twice, I one day
killed a goat; and the last day, which was the 26th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me ; and
my food was regulated thus : I eat a bunch of raisins for
my breakfast ; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle,
for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had
no vessel to boil or stew any thing) 3 and two or three of
the turtle's eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave ;
and, by degrees, worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way
out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open 3 for, as I had managed myself before, I
was in a perfect enclosure, whereas now I thought I lay
exposed ; and yet I could not perceive that there was any
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet
seen upon the island being a goat.

September 30th. I was now come to the unhappy an-
niversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my
post and found I had been on shore three hundred and
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting
it apart to religious exercise, prostrating myself on the
ground with the most serious humiliation; and having
not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even
till the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit cake
and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day
as I began it. I had all this time observed no Sabbath-
day; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my
mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish the
weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the
days were ; but now having cast up the days as above, I
found I had been there a year, so I divided it into weeks,
and set apart every day for a Sabbath ; though found at
the end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning.

A little after this, my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as
to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my
experience before I had it : and this I am going to relate,
was one of the most discouraging experimentsthat I made
at all. I have mentioned, that I had saved the few ears
of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found
spring up as I thought of themselves, and now I thought
it a proper time to sow it after the rains. Accordingly
I dug up a piece of ground, as well as I could, with my
wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts I sowed my
grain; but as l was sowing it casually occurred to me
that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it ; so I sowed about
two-thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so 3 for
not one grain of that I sowed this time came to aaything;
for the dry months following, the earth having had no
rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to assist
its growth, and never came up at all till the wet season
had come again, and then it grew as if it had been but
newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I imagined
was by the drought, I sought for a moist piece of ground
to make another trial in, and dug up a 'piece of ground
near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in
February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this,
having the rainy months of March and April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop ;
but having part of the seed left only, and not daring to
sow all that I had yet, I had but a small quantity at last,
my whole crop not amounting to above half-a-peck of
each kind. But by this experiment I was made master of
my business, and knew exactly when the proper season
was to sow, and that I might expect two seed-times and
two harvests every year.

While this corn was growing I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the
rains were over, and the weathe1 began to settle, which
was about the month of November, I made a visit 111 ) the
country to my bower, where, though I had not been1 some
months, yet I found all things just as I left them. The
circle, or double hedge, that I had made, was not only
firm and entiie, but the stakes which I had cut ofi' of
some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out, and
grown with long branches, as much as a willow-nee
usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I
could not tell what tree to call it that these stakeslwere ,
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to
see the youngtrees grow; and I pruned them, and. led
them 11p to grow as much alike as I could; and it is
scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in
three years, so that though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such
I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was acom--
plcte shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.'

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make a hedge like this, in a semicircle, round the wall of
my first dwelling, which I did 3 and placing. the trees or
stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' distance
from my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first
a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for
a defence also, as I shall observe in its orde1.

I found new that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter as in
Europe, but into the rainy season and the dry season,
which were generally thus :

Rainy, the sun being then on or near_

March, the equinox.

Half April,
Half April,

333;, i Dry, the sun being then to the north

July, , of the line.
Half August,

Half February, }
Half August, I

September Rain, the sun being then come back.
Half October, i '-

Half October,
ggzgggfl' Dry, the sun being then to the south
V J of the line.
anuary,
Half February,

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,as
the winds happened to blow; but thisD was the general
' observation I made. After I had found the mo conse-
quence of being ab1oad 111 the min, I took care to furnish
myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be
obliged to go out, and sat within doors as 8much as
possible during the w ct months.

In this time I found much suitable employment; par-
ticularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket,
but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so
brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of ex-
cellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy I
used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's,
in the towno when: my father lived, to see them make
their wicker-ware;'and being, as boys usually are, very
offieious to help, and a great observer of the manner how
they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand,
I had by this means so full knowledge of the methods of
it that I wanted nothing but the "materials:' when it
came into my mind that the twigs of that tree, from;
whence I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be
as tough as the sallows and willows and osiers in England;
and I resolved to try. Accordingly the next day I
_went into my country house, as I called it, and cutting 4
some of the smaller twigs I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire : whereupon I came the next time -
prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I
soon found, for there was great plenty of them. These
I set 11p to dry 11 ithin my circle or hedge, and when they
11 ere fit for use I carried them to my cave, and here
du] 111g the next season I employed my self in making,"
well as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth
or to carry or lay up any thing as I had occasion; and
though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I
made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and
especially I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it. -

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how
to supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold any thing
that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost
full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the common
size, and others which were ease bottles square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a
pot to boil any thing in, except a great kettle which I
saved out of the ship, and which was too big for such
uses as I desired it for, viz., to make broth and stew a bit
of meat by itself. The second thing I would fain have
had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to
make one ; however I found a contrivance for that too at
last.

I employed myself in planting my second row of stakes
or piles, and in this wicker-work all the summer or dry
season; when another business took me up more time
than it could be imagined I could spare. I mentioned
before that I had a great mind to see the whole island,
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where
I had built my bower, and where I had an opening quite
to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved
to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so
taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit '
cakes, and a great bunch of rasins in my pouch, for my
store, I began my journey. When I had passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came in view of
the sea, to the west; and it 'being a very clear day I fairly
descried land, whether an island or a continent I could
not tell; but it lay very high, extending from the
"I. to the IV. S. W. at a very great distance; by my
guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues ofl'.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that'I knew it must be part of America;
and as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish domini'ons, and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if I should have landed, I had been in a
worse condition than I was now.

After some pause upon this affair, I considered that if
this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly one
time or other see some vessels pass or repass one way or
. other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between
' the Spanish country and the Brazils, which were indeed
the worst of savages, for they are cannibals, and fail not
to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into
their hands.

With these considerations I walked leisurely forward,
and found that side of the island where I now was much
pleasanter than mine, the open or savannah fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very 'fine
woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would I
have caught one if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me, I did, after some pains-
taking, catching a young parrot; for I knocked it down
with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home,
but it was some years before I could make him speak.-

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to. be, and
foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other kinds
I had met with ; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no'need to be ven-
turous, for I had no want of food, but had plenty, even
to dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles out-
right in a day, or thereabouts ; but I took so many turns
and returns to see what discoveries I cbuld make, that I
came weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit
down for all night 5 and then'I either reposed myself ina
tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright
in the ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no
wild creature could come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was surprised to see

G
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island ; for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles ; whereas on the other side I had found
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls, of many kinds, some of which I had
seen, and some of which I had not seen before, and many
of them very good meat; but such as I knew not the
names of, except those called penguins. I could have shot
as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my powder
and shot 3 and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat
if I could, which I could better feed on. And though there
were many goats here, more than on my side of the
island, yet it was with much more difficulty that I could
come near them, the country being flat and even, and
they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hill.

I travelled along the shore of the sea, towards the east,
I suppose, about twelve miles 5 and then setting up a.
great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded to go
home again 3 and that the next journey I took I should
be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round, till I came to my post again ; of which in
its plage.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in my
view, that I could not miss finding my first dwelling, by
viewing the country; but I found myself mistaken, for
being come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley, but so snrrmmded
with hills, and those hills covered with woods, that I
could not see which was my way by any direction but
that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the Sim at that time of the day.

It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days, while I was in this
valley 3 and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
about very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find
out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back the
same way I went 3 and then, by easy journeys, I turned
homeward, the weather being exceedingly hot 3 and my
gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and I running in to take hold of it, caught
it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind
to bring it home, if I could 3 for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be all spent. I made
a collar to this little creature, and with a string, which I
made of some rope-yam, which I always carried about me,
I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came
to my bower, and there enclosed him, and left him ; for I
was impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without any settled
place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to
me compared to that ; and it rendered everything about
me so comfortable, that I resolved Iwould never go a great
way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay on the
Island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey, during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my
poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
of the poor kid, which I had pent in within my little circle,
and resolved to go and fetch it hom, or give it some food :
accordingly I went, and found it where I left it, for indeed
it could not get out, but was almost starved for want of
food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of
such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over: and hav-
ing fed it, I tied it as I did before to lead it away ; but it
was so tame with being himgry that I had no need to
have tied it, for it followed me like a dog : and as I con-
tinually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle,
and so fond, that it became from that time one of my
domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn
manner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on
the island, having now been there two years, and no more
prospect of being delivered than the first day I came there.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy the life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, abominable life I led all the past
part of my days. In this disposition of mind, I began
my third year: and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of my works 'this
year as the first ; yet in general it may be observed that I
was very seldom idle, having regularly divided my time
according to the several daily employments that were
before me ; such as, First, my duty to God, and reading
the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time for
thrice every day. Secondly, The going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three hours in
every morning when it did not rain. Thirdly, the order-
ing, curing, preserving, and cooking, what I had killed or
catched for my supply; these took up great part of the
day. Also it is to be considered that in the middle of the
day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out, so that about four hours in
the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work
in ; with this exception that sometimes I changed my
hours of hunting and working, and went to' work in the
morning and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work, the many
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill, everything that I did took up out of my time. For
example, I was full two--and-forty days making me a board
for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave ; whereas
two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit, would have
out six of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this : it was to be a large tree which was
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days a cutting down, and two more
cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log or piece of
timber. \Vith inexpressible hacking and hewing, I re-
duced both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be
light enough to move ; then I turned it, and made one
side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end;
then turning that side downwards, cut the other side, till
I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Anyone may judge the labour of
my hands in such a piece of work, but labour and patience
carried me through that and many other things. I only
observe this in particular to show the reason why so much
of my time went away with so little work, viz., that what
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a
vast labour, and required a prodigious time to do alone
and by hand. -

I was now in the months of November and December
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great ; for my seed
of each was not above the quantity of half a peck, for I had
lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season, but now
my crop promised very well, when, on a sudden, I found
I was in danger of losing it all again, by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it ; at
first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares,
who; tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day as soon as it came up, and eat it so close that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure
about it with ahedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil, and the more because it required speed, the creatures
daily spoiling my corn. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about
three weeks' time 3 and shooting some of the creatures in
the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake in the gate, where he would stand and
bark all night long ; so in a little time the enemies forsook
the place, and the corn grew very strong and well and
began to ripen apace. .

But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place to
see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it
were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them (for I always had my gun with me). I
had no sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls,
which I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
starved and never be able to raise a crop at all ; and what
to do I could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose
my corn if possible, though I should watch it night and
day. In the first place, I went among it to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a
good deal of it ; but that as it was yet too green for them,
the loss was not so great, but that the remainder was likely
to be a good crop if it could be saved. I staid by it to
load my gun, and then, coming away, I could easily see the
thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they only
waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be
so ; for as I walked off as if I was gone, 1 was no sooner
out of their sight but they dropped down, one by one,
into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could not
have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every
grain that they eat now was, as it might be said, a peck
loaf to me in the consequence ; but coming up to the
hedge I fired again, and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for ; so I took them up, and served them
as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged
them in chains for a terror to others. It is impossible to
imagine almost that this should have such an effect as it
had ; for the fowls would not only not come at the corn,
but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I
could never see a bird near the place as long as my scare-
crows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may be
sure ; and, about the end of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my crop.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe, or a sickle, to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could out of one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses, which I
saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my
crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down.
In short, I reaped it my way ; for I cut nothing ofi' but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which I had
made, and so rubbed it. out with my hands. And at the
end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peek
of seed, I had near two bushels of rice, and above two
bushels and a half of barley ; that is to say by my guess,
for I had no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me; and I
foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me
with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or
indeed how to clean it, and part it ; nor, if made into meal,
how to make bread of it ; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it. These things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a
constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop,
but to preserve it all for seed against the next season, and,
in the meantime, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing myself
with corn and bread. It might be truly said that now I
worked for my bread.

It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people
have thought much upon ; viz., the strange multitude of
little things necessary in the providing, producing, curing,
dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere. state of nature, found this
to be my daily discouragement, and was made more and
more sensible of it every hour. First, I had no plough to
turn up the earth, no spade or shovel to dig it. Well,
this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I observed
before 3 but this did my work but in a wooden manner:
and though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet
for want of iron it not only wore out the sooner, but
made my work the harder. However, this I bore with,
and was content to work it out with patience, and bear
with the badness of the performance. When the corn was
sowed, I had no harrow ; but was forced to go over it my-
self, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to
scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather than rake or
barrow it.
When it was growing and grown,I have observed already
how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or
reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh, part it from the
chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves
to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to bake it in ; and yet all these things I did without,
as shall be observed 3 and yet the corn was an inestimable
comfort and advantage to me too. All this,as I said, made
everything laborious and tedious to me, but that there was
no help for: neither was my time so much loss to me,
because as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every
day appointed to these works ; and, as I resolved to use '
none of the corn for bread, till I had greater quantity by
me, I had the next six months to apply myself wholly by
labour and invention to furnish myself with utensils proper
for the performing all the operations necessary for the
making the corn, when I had it fit for my use.

But, first, I was to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did
this, I had a week's work at least to make me a spade,
which, when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and
very heavy, and required double labour to work with it.
However, 1 went through that, and sowed my seed in two
large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could
find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood which
I had set before, which I knew would grow; so, that, in
one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or living
hedge, that would want but little repair. This work was
not so little as to take me up less than three months,
because great part of that time was of the wet season; when
I could not go abroad.

When it rained, and could not go out, I found employ-
ment on the following occasions 3 always observing, that
all the while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking
to my parrot, and teaching him to speak ; and I quickly
learned him to know his own name, at last, to speak it
out pretty loud, " Poll ;" which was the first word I ever
heard spoken in the island by any month but my own.
This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my
work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon
my hands, asfollows, viz, I had studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed
I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at them.
However, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I might botch
up some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, be
hard enough, and strong enough, to bear handling, and to-
hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept so ;;
and as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c.,.
which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some
as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars to holdi
what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me,
to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste;
what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made 3 how many of
them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being
stifi' enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked
by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too
hastily ; and how many fell to pieces with only removing,
as well before as after they were dried ; and, in a word,
how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it,
to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not
make above two large, earthen, ugly things, I cannot call
them jars, in about two months' labour. However, as the-
sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted them very
gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they
might not break; and as between the pot and the basket
there was' a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice
and barley straw ; and these two pots, being to stand
always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised. -

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large-
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success;
such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,.
and anything my hand turned to ; and the heat of the sun
baked them extremely hard. .

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get,
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the
which none of these could do. It happened after some
time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when
I went to put it out, after I had done with it, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt ashardas a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
surprised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make
it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I
had some lead to do it with ; but I placed three large
pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one upon another,
and placed my fire-wood all round it with a great heap of
embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the
inside red-hot quite through, and observed that they did
not crack at all. "men I saw them clear red, I let them
stand in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one
of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run ; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence
of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone
on 3 so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to
abate of the red colour, and watching them all night, that
I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I
had three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins,
and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be
desired 3 and one of them perfectly glazed with the
running of the sand.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
-or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no
thought of arriving to that perfection of art, with one
pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great loss ;
for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified
for a stone-cutter, as for any whatever : neither had I any
"tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to find out>>
a .a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a
mortar, and could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor
"indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient,
but were of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither
bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the
corn without filling it with sand. So, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and
resolved to look out a great block of hard wood, which I
found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet: and then, with the help of fire,
and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made
a great heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron
wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had my
next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or
rather pound, my corn into meal, to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk,
without which I did not see it possible I could have any
bread. This was a most diflicult thing, so nmch as but to
think on; for, to be sure, I had nothing like the necessary
things to make it with, I mean fine thin canvass, or stuff
to scarce the meal through. And here I was at a full stop
for many months ; nor did I really know what to do:
linen I had none left but what was mere rags. I had goat's
hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it; and
had I known 110w, here were no tools to work it with: all
the remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I did
remember I had, among the seaman's clothes, which were
saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin;
and with some pieces of these I made three small sieves,
but proper enough for the work, and thus I made shift for
some years. How I did afterwards, I shall shew in
its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn ;
for, first I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it ; but for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At -
length I found out an expedient for that also, which was
this : I made some earthen vessels about two feet diameter,
and nine inches deep ; these I burnt in the fire, as I had
done the other, and laid them by, and when I wanted to
bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had
paved with some square tiles, of my own making and
burning. -

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as
to cover it all over ; and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot: then sweeping away all the embers, I set
down my loaf or loaves, and, whelming down the earthen
pot upon them, drew the embers all round the outside of
the pot to keep in, and add to the heat ; and thus, as well
as in the best even in the world, I baked my barley-loaves,
and became in a little time a mere pastry-cook into the
bargain, for I made myself several cakes of rice and pud-
dings: indeed I made no pics, neither had I anything to
put into them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of
fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered that all these things took me
up most part of the third year of my abode here : for it is
to be observed, that, in the interval of these things, I had
my new harvest and husbandry to manage.

And now indeed my stock of com increasing, I really
wanted a place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more ; inso.
much that now I resolved to begin to use it freely, for
my bread had been quite gone a great while ; also I resolved
to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole
year, and to sow but once a year. Upon the whole, I
found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much
more than I could consume in ayear: so I resolved to sow
just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing my thoughts ran
many times upon the prospect of land, which I had seen
from the other side of the island ; and I was not without
secret wishes that I were on shore there, fancying that
seeing the main land, and an inhabited country, I might
find some way or other to convey myself farther, and
perhaps at last find some means of escape.
N ow I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat, with
the shoulder of mutton sail, with which I sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in

' vain. Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's

_ boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore
a great way in the storm when we were first cast away.
She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite ; and
was turned, by the force of the waves and the winds,
almost bottom upwards, against a high ridge of beachy
rough sand, but no water about her, as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have

, launched her into the water, the heat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils
with her easily enough: but I might have easily foreseen
that I could no more turn her, and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the island.

This at length set me upon thinking, whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as
the natives of those climates make ; even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands ; viz., of the trunk of a
great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy;
and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making
it, but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz., want
of hands to move it into the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did who had any of his senses awake, I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I
was ever able to undertake it: not but that the difficulty
of launching my boat came often into my head; but I put
a stop to my own inquiries into it by this foolish answer,
which I gave myself, " Let-me first make it, I'll warrant
I'll find some way or other to get it along, when it is
done." -

This was amost preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, and felled a
cedar-tree. I question much whether Solomon ever had
such a one for the building the temple at Jerusalem; it

> was five feet ten inches diameter, at the lower part next

L the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter, at the end
of twenty-two feet ; after which, it lessened for a while,
and then parted into branches. It was not without infi-
nite labour that I felled this tree. I was twenty days
hacking and hewing at it at the bottom : I was fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spread-
ing head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through
with my axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After
this it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a. pro-
portion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near
three months more to clear the inside, and work it out so
as to make an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without
fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard
labour, till I had brought it to be a very handsome peria~
gua, and big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
I ever saw a canoe, or periagua, that was made of one tree,
in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, and there
remained nothing but to get it into the water.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed, though
they cost me infinite labour too : it lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more 3 but the first incon~
venience was, it was uphill towards the creek. \Vell, to
take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the
surface of the earth, and so make a declivity. This I
began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains : but who
grudge pains, that have their deliverance in View? But
when this was worked through, and this difficulty man-
aged, it was still much at one ; for I could no more stir
the canoe, than I could the other boat.

This grieved me heartily , and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it.

I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or
very much wasted, and near spent. My ink had been
quite gone for some time, all but a very little, which I
eked out with water till it was so pale it scarce left anyl
l

nonmson censor. 95'.

appearance upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made
use of it to minute down the day of the month on which'
any remarkable thing happened to me: and first, by castr
ing up times past, I remember that there was a strange.
concurrence of days, in the various providences which
befel 111e,,and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had
reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order'to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was
taken by the Sallee m. n-ofavar, and made a slave. The
same day of the year that I had escaped out of the wreck'
of that ship in Yarmouth roads, that same day of the year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee inthe boat. The
same day of the year I was born on, viz., the 30th of
September, the same day I had my life so miraculously
saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in
this island.

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that of
my bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the
ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread a day, for above a year 3 and.
yet I was quite without bread for near a year, before I got
any corn of my own.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. As to linen,
I had none a good while, except some check shirts which
I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I
carefully preserved, because many times I could bear no
other clothes on but a shirt; and though it is true that
the weather was' so .violently hot that there was no need
of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked, though I had
been inclined to it, which I was not.

Upon these views I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order,
and my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me,
and with such other materials as I had 3 so I set to work
a tailoring, or rather indeed a batching, for I made most
piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two
or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a
great while.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the crea-
tures that I killed, I mean the four-footed ones. The
first thing I made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside to shoot of the rain ;'and this
I performed so well, that after this, I made me a suit of
clothes wholly of those skins.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
an umbrella. I had seen them made in the Brazils, where
they are very useful in the great heats which are there;
and I felt the heats every jot as great here and greater too,
being nearer the equinox ; besides, as I was obliged to be
much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it,
and was a great while before I could make anything likely
to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled
two or three before I had made one to my mind : but, at
last, I made one that answered indifi'erently well. The
main difliculty I found was to make it to let down. I
could make it to spread; but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it would not be portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, I made one to answer: I covered it with skins,
the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pont-
house, and kept off the sun effectually.

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extra-
ordinary thing happened -to me: but I lived on in the
same course, and in the same posture and place just as
before. The chief thing I was employed in, besides my
yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, both of which I always kept up just enough to
have sufficient stock of one year's provisions before-hand;
I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour of
going out with my gun, I had one labour to make me a
canoe, which at last I finished. So that by digging a.
canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, that
was so vastly big, as I made it without considering before-
hand, as I ought to do, how I should be able to launch it;
so never being able to bring it to the water, or bring the
water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a
memorandum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it,
and was in a place where I could not get the waterto it at
any less distance than as I have said, of near half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over;
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to
sea in at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design which
I had in view, when I made the first 3 I mean of venturing
over to the terra firma, where it was above forty miles
broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of .
it. But as I had a boat, my next design was to make a
tour round the island, for as I had been on the other side
in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast 3 and now I
had a boat I thought of nothing but sailing round the
island.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat I
found she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers or boxes at either end of my boat, to put provisions,
necessaries, and ammunition, 850. into, to be kept dry, either
from rain, or the spray of the sea, and a little long hollow
place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay
my gun, making a flap to hang down over to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun
off me like an awning; and thus I every now and then
took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went far out,
nor far from the little creek ; but at last, being eager to
view the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved
upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled my ship for the . '_
voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should-,2; " ~
rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of '
parched rice, a food I eat a great deal of, a little bottle of

E
rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more,
and two large watch-coats, of those which as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests ; these I took
one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on
this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected,
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks
lie out about two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it ; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry,
half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double that point.

\Vhen I first discovered them, I was going to give over
my enterprise, and come back, not knowing how far it
might oblige me to go out to sea, and above all, doubting
how I should get back again ; so I came to anchor, for I
had made me a kind of an anchor, with a piece of broken
grappling, which I got out of the ship. Having secured
my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore, climbing upon
a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong, and, indeed, a most furious current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point ;
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there might
be some danger, that when I came into it, I might be
carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able
to make the island again. And indeed, had I not
gotten first up upon this hill, I believe it would have been
so: for there was the same current on the other side of the
island, only that it set off at a. farther distance, and I saw
there was a strong eddy Imder the shore ; so I had nothing
to do but to get in out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.

I lay here however, two days 3 because the wind, blew-
ing pretty fresh (at E. S. E. and that being just contrary
to the said current), made a great breach of the sea upon
the point 3 so that it was not safe for me to keep too close
to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off because of
the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated
over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am
a warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots 3 for
no sooner was I come to the point, when even I was not
my boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a
great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill.
It carried my boat along with it with such violence, that
all I could do, could not keep her as much as on the edge
of it 3 but I found it hurried me farther and farther out
from the eddy, which was on the left hand. There was no
wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with my
paddles signified nothing: and now I began to give myself
over for lost : for, as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must join
again, and then I was irrecoverably gone, nor did I see any
possibility of avoiding it 3 so that I had no prospect before
me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough,
but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise
on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed
it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that
is to say, one of my earthern pots : but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where to be sure, there
was no shore, no main land or island, for a thousand
leagues at least.

It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it
appeared to me now to be) into the wide oeean, almost two
leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it
again. However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength
was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the
northward, that is, towards the side of the current which
the eddy lay on, as I possibly could. When about noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little
breeze of wind in my face, springing up from the S. S. F.
This cheered my heart a little, and especially when in about
half an hour more it blew a pretty small gentle gale.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness of the water,
some alteration of the current was near; for wherethe cur-
rent was so strong, the water was foul 3 but perceiving the

n' .
water clear, I found the current abate, and presently I
found to the east, at about half a mile, a, breach of the sea
upon some rocks : these rocks I found caused the current
to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rock, and made a strong
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, with a very
sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such-like ex-
tremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was,
and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy,
and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong
tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more towards the northwaid than the current lay, which
carried me away at first 3 so that when I came near to the
island, I found myself open to the northern shore of it,
that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that
which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way,
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent,
and served me no farther. However, I found that being
between the two great currents, viz. that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about two leagues on the other side; I say, between
these two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze
of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the
island, though not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the rocks
which occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is described
before, to the southward, and, casting off the current more
southwardly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north
and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the
way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across
this eddy, slanting northwest, and in about an hour came
within a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water,
I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees and gave God
thanks for my escape, resolving to lay aside all my thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore,
in a little cove that I had espied under some trees, and
laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour
and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out;
and what might be at the other side (I mean the west side)
I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures:
so I only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore, and to see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have
her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles, or
thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet,
or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to
a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a convenient
harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had been
in a little dock made on purpose for her : here I put in
and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore to
look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before when I travelled on foot to that shore,
so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my
umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my march.
The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I
had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening,
where I found every thing standing as I left it ; for I
always kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my
country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me dawn in the shade to
rest my limbs for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But
judge you if you can that read my story what surprise I
must be in when I was awaked out of my sleep by avoice
calling me by my name several times, "Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe ! poor Robin Crusoe ! Where are you Robin
Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been '1"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing,
or paddling as it is called, the first part of the day and
walking the latter part, that I did not awake thoroughly,
and dozing, between sleeping and waking, thought I
dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But as the voice
continued to repea " Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe!" at
last I began to awake more perfectly, and was at first
dreadfully frightened, and started up in the utmost con-
sternation. But no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw
my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me: for just in such
bemoaning language I had used to talk to him and teach
him ; and he had learned it so perfectly, that he would sit
upon my finger and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
" Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you ! \Vherc have you
been? How came you here 2" and such things as I had
taught him. ,

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither, and then how he should just keep
about the place and no where else. But as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it;
and holding out my hand and calling him by his name,
" Poll," the sociable creature came to me and sat upon my
thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me,
" Poor Robin Crusoe !" and how did I come here, and
where had I been, just as if he had been overjoyed to see
me again; and so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days to sit still, and re-
flect upon the danger I had been in. I would have been
very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the
island: but I knew not how it was practicable to get it
about; so with these thoughts I contented myself to be
without any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months' labour to make it, and of so many more to
get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained neara
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, and my thoughts
being very much composed as to my condition, and fully
comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of Pro-
vidence, I thought I lived really very happily in all
things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying my-
self to 3 and, I believe, could, upon occasion, have made
a very good carpenter, especially considering how few tools
I had. Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfec-
tion in my earthenware, and contrived well enough to
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier
and better; because I made things round and shapeable,
which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But
I think I never was more vain of my own performance, or
more joyful for any thing I found out, than for my being
able to make a tobacco-pipe 3 and though it was a very
ugly, clumsy thing, when it was done, and only burnt red
like other earthenware, yet, as it was hard and firm, and
would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with
it. In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention
showed me, though not very handsome, yet they were such
as were very handy and convenient for my laying things
up in, or fetching things home in. For example, if I killed
a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and
dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up, take
out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and
leave the rest behind me. Also large deep baskets were
my receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as
soon as it was dry and cured; and kept it in great baskets,
instead of a granary.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably,
and I began seriously to consider what I must do when I
should have no more; that is to say, how I should do to
kill any goats. I had, as I observed, kept a youngvkid,
and bred her up tame. I was in hopes of getting a he-kid;
but I could not by any means bring it to pass till my kid
grew an old goat, and I could never find in my heart to
kill her, till she died at last of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I could not catch some of them alive; and
particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young. To
this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and I do be-
lieve they were more than once taken in them; but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always found
them broken, and my bait devoured. At length, I re--
solved to try a pitfall ; so I dug several large pits in the
earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to
feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles of my own
making too, with a great weight upon them ; and several
times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the
trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone
in, and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of
their feet. At length, I set three traps in one night, and,
going the next morning, I found them all standing, and
yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging:
however, I altered my traps ; and, not to trouble you with
particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I found in
one of them a large old lie-goat 3 and, in one of the others,
three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him : he
was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him 3 that is to
say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what
I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was not my
business, nor would it answer my end 3 so I even let him
out, and he ran away as if he had been frighted out of his
wits; but I had forgot then, what I learned afterwards,
that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there
three or four days without food, and then have carried
him some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would
have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty
sagacious, tractable creatures, when they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time ; when I went to the three kids, and,
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings together,
and with some difficulty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but throw.-
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they
began to be tame. And now I found, that if I expected
to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I had no powder-
or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way,
when perhaps I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was
to have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either'
with hedge or pale, to keep them up so effectually, that
those within might not break out, or those without break
m.
This was a great Imdertaking for one pair of hands ; yet
as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my
first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of ground;
viz. where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the =
sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had,
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow
land, or savanna (as our people call it in the western
colonies), which had two or three little rills of fresh water-
in it, and at one end was very woody; I say, they will
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began my
enclosing of this piece of ground in such a manner, that
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about :2
nor was the madness of it so great as to the compass ; for
if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough
to do it in, but I did not consider that my goats would be-
as wild in so much compass, as if they had had the whole:
island; and I should have so much room to chase them
in, that I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about.
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me ; so I pro--
sently stopped short, and, for the 'first beginning, I re~
.solved to enclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty
yards in length, and one hundred yards in breadth, which,
as it would maintain as many as I should have in any
reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my cnclosru'e.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the
first piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids
in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as
possible, to make them familiar; and very often I would
.go and carry them some cars of barley, or a handful of
rice, and feed them out of my hand, so that, after my en-
closure was finished, and I let them loose, they would fol-
low me up and down, bloating after me for a handful of
-corn. This answered my end, and in about a year and
a half I had a flock of about tWelve goats, kids and all ;
and in two years more I had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food : and after that
I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I
wanted them ; and gates out of one piece of ground into
another. .

But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too ; a thing
which indeed in the beginning I did not so much as think
of, and which when it came into my thoughts, was really
an agreeable surprise: for now I set up my diary, and had
<<sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates
-even naturally how to make use of it ; so I, that never
milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw butter or cheese
made, very readily and handily, though after a great many
'essays and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese
.at last, and never wanted it afterwards.

It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner. There was my ma~
jesty, the prince and lord of the whole island. I had the
lives of all my subjects at my absolute command : I could
hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels
.among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants ! Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me:
my dog, who was now grown very old and crazy, and had
found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at
my right hand ; and two cats, one on one side of the table,
and one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from
my hand, as a mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first ; for they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hands ; but
one of them having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I had preserved tame,
whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and became in-
deed troublesome to me at last; for they would often
come into my house and plunder me too, till at last I was
obliged to shoot them, and kill a great many; at length
they left me with this attendance. And in this plentiful
manner I lived ; neither could I be said to want any thing
but society, and of that in some time after this, I was
like to have too much.

I was something impatient as I before observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more
hazards ; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways
to get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went
up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current
set, that I might see what I had to do. This inclination
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to
travel thither by land, and, following the edge of the shore
I did so : but had anyone in England been to meet such
a man as I was, it must either have frightened him, or
raised a great deal of laughter, and as I frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion
of my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my
figure as follows :

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me, as to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck, nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the
rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs, and a pair of
open knee'd breeches of the same : the breeches were made
of the skin of an old he goat, whose hair hung down such
a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached
to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had
none, but I had made a pair of something, I scarce knew
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and
lace on either side like spatterdashes, but of a most bar-
barous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles ; and, in a kind of frog, on either side of this,
instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and a
hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had another
belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under my
left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too ;
in one of which hung my powder, in the other my shot.
At my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun,
and over my head a great, clumsy, ugly, goat's skin
umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary
thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was really not so Mulatto like as one
might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and
living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My
beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about a.
quarter of a yard long 3 but as I had both scissors and
razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large
pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by
some Turks whom I saw at Sallee 3 for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did. Of these mustachios,
or whiskers, I will not say they were not long enough to
hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and

shape monstrous enough, and such as in England would
have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure, I had
few to observe me, that it was of no manner of conse-
quence, so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directlyto the
place where I first brought my boat to anchor, to get
up upon the rocks ; and, having no boat now to take care
of, I went over the land a nearer way, to the same height
I was upon before, when looking forward to the point of
the rocks which lay out, and which I was to double with
my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea
all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current
any more there than in other places.

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved
to spend some time in observing it, to see if nothing from
the sets of the tide had occasioned it. But I was pre-
sently convinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb
setting from the west, and joining with the current of
waters from some great river on the shore, must be the
occasion of this current 3 and that, according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west, or from the north, this
current came near, or went farther from the shore; for,
waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock
again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly
saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther ofi'i
being near half a league from the shore, whereas, in iny
case, it set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my
canoe, along with it, which at another time it would not
have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and
I might very easily bring my boat about the island again;
but when I began to think of putting the idea into pracu
tice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the remem-
brance of the danger I had been in, that I could not think
of it again with any patience ; but, on the contrary, I
took up another resolution, which was more safe, though
more laborious, and this was, that I would build, or
rather make another periagua, or canoe, and so have one
for one side of the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it,
two plantations in the island ; one, my little fortification
or tent, with the wall about it under the rock, with the
cave behind me, which by this time I had enlarged into
several apartments or caves, one into another. One of
these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door
out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined the rock, was all filled up with
large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores
of provision, especially my corn, some in the car out of
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my
hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or'
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this-
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn-ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed,
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season;
and whenever I had occasion for more com, I had more
land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also. For, first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair ; that is to
say, I kept the hedge which circled it in, constantly fitted
up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the
inside. I kept the trees, which at first were no more than
my stakes; but were now grown very firm and tall 3 I
kept them always so cut, that they might spread and
grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade,
which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of
this I had my tent always standing,being a piece of a sail
spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any'repair or renewing; and under this I
had made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and a
blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding
which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me :
and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that.
is to say my goats 5 and as I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground, I was so-
uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left off till with infinite labour, I
had stuck the outside of the hedges so full of small stakes,
that there was scarce room to put a hand through between-
them, which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they
all did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure strongr
like a wall--indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify that I was not idle, and that I spared
no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for
my comfortable support; for I considered the keeping up
a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand, would be a
living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me,
as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years,
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I prin-
cipally depended on for my Winter store of raisins, and
which I preserved very carefully, as the best and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet.

As this was also about half Way between my other
habitation, and the place where I had laid up my boat, I
generally staid and lay here in my way thither; for I
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order. Sometimes
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous.
voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast
or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being
hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents.

But now I come to a new scene of my life. It happened
one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceed-
ingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on
the shore, which was very plain to be seen on the sand.
I stood like one thunde'rstruck, or as if I had seen an appa-
rition. I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear
nothing nor see anything 5 I went up to a rising ground
to look farther ; I went up the shore and down the shore,
but it was all one: I could see no other impression but
that one. I went to it again to see if there were any more,
and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but there was
no room for that, for there was exactly the print of a foot
---toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it came thither
I knew not, nor could I 1n the least 1maginc , but after
innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly con-
fused and out of myself, IO came to my fortification, not
feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but te1rified to
the last degree, looking behind me at every two- or three
steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to bc a man.

When I came to my castle (for so I called it ever after
this), I fled into it like one pursued.

I slept none that night : the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were.
Sometimes I fancied it must l"be the devil, and reason; oined
in with me in this supposition, for how should any Jother
thing in human shape come into the place? 'Where was
the Vg'essel that brought them? What Imarks were there of
any other footstep 2 And how was it possible a man should
come there? I tphen considered that the devil might have
found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me
than this of the single print of a foot, that as I lived quite
on the other side of the island, he would never have been
so simple as to leave a mark 111 a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and m
the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high
wind, would have defaced entirely.

While these reflections were rolling 1n my mind, I was

very thankful 1n my thoughts that I was so happy as not
to be thereabouts at ythat time, or that they (lid not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some in-
habitants had been 111 the place, and perhaps have searched
farther for me. Then tcrlible thoughts racked my imagi-
nation about their hm 111g found my boat, and that there
were people here , and that, if so, I should certainly have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that
if it should happen that they should not find me, yet theyRoamsox 030302. 113

would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, and ca
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at
last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all religious hope, all that former
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonder-
ful experience as I had had of His goodness ; as if He that
had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by His
power, the provision which He had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that
would not sow any more com one year than would just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could inter-
vene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground 3 and this I thought so just a reproof, that I re-
solved for the future to have two or three years' corn
beforehand ; so that, whatever might come, I might not
perish for want of bread.

One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages,
I found it discomposed me very much; upon which these
words of the Scripture came into my thoughts : " Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my
bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided
and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance:
when I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening
it to read, the first words presented to me were, " Wait on
the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen
thy heart 3 wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from my boat ; this cheered me up a little, too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion ; that it was nothing
else but my own foot 3 and why might I .not come that
way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the
boat '1 .

N ow I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and

1
nights, so that I began to starve for provisions ; then I
knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of
it. Encouraging myself, therefore, with the belief that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and.
that I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I
began to go abroad again, and went to my country-house
to milk my flock : but to see with what fear I went forward,
how often I looked behind me, how I was ready, every now
and then, to lay down my basket and run for my life, it
would have made any one have thought I was haimted with
an evil conscience. However, Iwent down thus two or three
days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination ; but I could not persuade myself fully of this
till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print
of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was
any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it was my
own foot: but when I came to the place--first, it appeared
evident to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not
possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts : secondly, when
I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I f01md my
foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours
again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like
one in an ague ; and I went home again, filled with the
belief that some man or men had been ashore there ; or,
in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be
surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security I knew not.

The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down
my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then frequent
the island in prospect of the same or the like booty : then
of digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find
such a grain-there, and still be prompted to frequent the
island : then to demolish my bower and tent, that they
might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted
to look farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subjects of the first night's cogitations
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and
my head full of vapours. ' -

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night ;
hut in the morning I fell asleep 3 and having, by the excite-
ment of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits
exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked much better
composed than I had ever been before. And now I began
to think sedately; and, upon debate with myself, I con<
cluded that this island (which was so exceedingly pleasant,
fruitful, and no farther away from the main land than as
I had seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might ima-
gine ; that although there were no stated inhabitants who
lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes come
boats off from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross winds, might
come to this place ; that I had lived here fifteen years
now, and had not met with the least shadow or figure of
any people yet; and that, if at any time they should be
driven here, it was probable they went away again as soon
as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion ; that the most I could suggest any
danger from was, from any casual accidental landing of
any straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely,
if they were driven hither, were here against their wills,
so they made no stay here, but went off again with all
possible speed; seldom staying one night on shore, lest
they should not have the help of the tides and daylight
back again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but
to consider of some safe retreat, in case I should see any
savages land upon the spot.

N ow I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I
said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to the
rock : upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second fortification, in the manner of a.
semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before,
of which I made mention : these trees having been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be driven116 use AND Am'nxrusns or

between them, that they might be thicker and stronger,
and my wall would be soon finished. So that I now had
a double wall 3 and my outer wall was thickened with
pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I could think
of, to make it strong ; having in it seven little holes, about
as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this,
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continu--
ally bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the
foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the
seven holes I contrived to place the muskets, of which I
took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship ;
these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames,
that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the
seven guns in two minutes' time ; this wall I was many a
weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself
safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes or
sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow,
as they could well stand ; insomuch, that I believe I might
set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large
space between them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the
young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove ; and in
five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling,
growing so monstrously thick and strong that it was indeed;
perfectly impassable: and no men, of what kind soever,
could ever imagine that there was anything beyond it,
much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was by
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, and left room to place another
upon that 5 so that when the two ladders were taken down,
no man living could come down to me without doing him-
self mischief ; and if they had come down, they were still
on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at-
length, that they were not altogether without just reason;
though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere
fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
other afi'airs ; for I had great concern for my little herd of
goats: they were not only a ready supply to me on every
occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without the
expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue
of hunting after the wild ones 5 and I was loath to lose the
advantage of them.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think
of but two ways to preserve them ; one was, to find
another convenient place to dig a cave under ground, and
to drive them into it every night; and the other was to
enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from one-
another, and as much concealed as I could, where I might
keep about half adozen young goats in each p;lace so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I mightbe
able to raise them again with little trouble and time. and
this, though it would require a great deal of time and
labour, I thought was the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island ; and I pitched upon one, which
was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish for : itwas
a little, damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow
and thick woods, where I almost lost myself once before,
endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part
of the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near
three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure by nature; at least, it did not want near so
much labour to make it so as the other piece of ground I
had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground ;
and in less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round
that my flock were well enough secured in it; so, without
any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two
he-goats, to this piece, and, when they were there, I
continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure
aSthe other; which, however, I did at more leisure, and it
took me up more time by a great deal. All this labour I
was at the expense of purely from my apprehensions on the ._
account of the print of a man's foot ; for, as yet, I had'
never seen any human creature come near the island ; and
I had now lived two years under this uneasiness, which,
indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may be well imagined by any who know what
it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part of my little living
stock I went about the island searching for another private-
place to make such another deposit, when wandering more
to the west point of the island than I ever had done yet,
and looking out to sea I thought I saw a boat upon the
sea at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's chests which I saved out of our
ship, but I had it not about me, and this was so remote
that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked
at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer.

"Then I was come down the hill to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been before, I was pre-
sently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot.
was not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined,
and but that it was a special providence that I was cast
upon the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easily have known that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the main, when they happened to
be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of
the island for harbour 3 likewise, as they often met and
fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, ac-
cording to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them. Of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above the SJV. point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed, nor is it possible for me to express
the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread with
skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies, and
particularly I observed a place .where there had been a fire
made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where
it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their
inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it
for a long while 3 all my apprehensions were .buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and
the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which,
though I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a
view of before 5 in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle: my stomach grew sick, and I was at the
point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach, and having vomited with an imcommon
violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay
in the place a moment, so I got up the hill again, with all
the speed I could, and walked on towards my own
habitation.

I began to be much easier now as to the safety of my
circumstances than' I ever was before, for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get, perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting anything here, and having often, no doubt, been
up in the covered woody part of it without finding any-
thing to their purpose. I knew I had been here now
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of
human creature there before, and might be here eighteen
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not dis-
cover myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion
to do, it being my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort of crea-
tures than cannibals to make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of these savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
my own circle for almost two years after this.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in
no danger of being discovered by these people began to
wear off my uneasiness about them, and I began to live
just in the same composed manner as before, only with
this difi'erenee, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes
more about me than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by.any of them, and particularly I was more
cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them being on the
island should happen to hear it, and it was therefore a very
good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a.
tame breed of goats that I need not hunt any more about
the woods, or shoot at them, and if I did catch any of
them after this it was by traps and snares as I had done
before, so that for two years after this I believe I never
fired my gun once off, though I never went out without it ;
and which was more as I had saved three pistols out of
the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at least two
of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt ; I likewise
furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to put it in also, so that I
was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
abroad, if you add to the former description of myself
the particular of two pistols and a great broad-sword
hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.

As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches, and the
concern I had been in for my own preservation had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences,
and I had dropped a good design which I had once bent
my thoughts upon, and that was, to try if I could not
make some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew
myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, _
and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it; for I
presently saw there would be the want of several things
necessary to the making my beer that it would be im.
possible for me to supply 3 as first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that as I have observed already I could
never compass, no, though I spent not many days, but
weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to no purpose.
In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast
to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil ; and
yet, had not all these things intervened, I mean the frights
and terrors I was in about the savages, I had undertaken
it, and perhaps brought it to pass too, for I seldom gave
anything over without accomplishing it when I once had
it in my head enough to begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way, for night
and day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy:-
some of these monsters in their bloody entertainment, and
if possible save the victim they should bring hither to
destroy. It would take up a larger volume than this
whole work is intended to be to set down all the con.
trivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my thoughts,
for the destroying these creatures, or at least frightening
them, so as to prevent their coming hither any more, but
all was abortive, nothing could be possible to take effect,
unless I was to be there to do it myself; and what could-
onc man do among them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts, or
their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as
true to a mark as I could with my gun.

Sometimes I thought to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds
'of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire would
consequently take fire, and blow up all that was near it.
But as in the first place, I should be very loath to waste
so much powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure of its-
;going off at any certain time when it might surprise them,
and at best that it would do little more than just blow the
fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to
:make them forsake the place, so I laid it aside, and then
proposed that I would place myself in ambush in some
convenient place with my three guns, all double loaded,
and' in the middle of their bloody ceremony let fly at them,
when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot, and then falling in upon them with
my three pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt but that
if there were twenty I should kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of
it that I often dreamt of it, and sometimes that I was
.just going to let fly at them" in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination that I employed
myself several days to find out proper places to put my self
in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them, and I went
frequently to the place itself, which was now grown more
familiar to me, and especially while my mind was thus
filled with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it 3
but the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the
barbarous wretches devouring one another abated my
malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming, and might even before they would
be ready to come on shore convey myself unseen into
thickets of the trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might sit
and observe all their bloody doings, and take full aim at
their heads when they were so close together as that it
would be next to impossible that I should miss my shot,
or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the
first shot.

In this place then I resolved to fix my design, and ac-
cordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-
piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs
each, and four or five small bullets about the size of pistol
bullets 5 and the fowling--piece I loaded with near a hand--
ful of swan-shot of the largest size. I also loaded my
pistols with about four bullets each ; and in this posture,
well provided with ammunition for a second and third
charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in. '
my imagination put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as I called it, about three miles or more, to
see if I could observe any boats upon the sea coming near
the island, or standing over towards it; but I began to
tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three months
constantly kept my watch, and come always back without
any discovery, there having not in all that time been the-
last appearance, not only on or near the shore, but not on
the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach
every way.

As long as I kept up the daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my design, and
my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame
for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or

thirty naked savages for an ofi'ence which I had not at all.
entered into a discussion of in my thoughts any farther

than my'passions were at first fired by the horror I con-
ceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that

country ; who it seems, had been sufl'ered by Providence,

in his wise disposition of the world to have no other guide

than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions ;.
and consequently were left, and perhaps had been so for

some ages, to such horrid things and receive such dreadful

customs as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned of

heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy could

have run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I.
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had

made so long, and so far, every morning in vain, so my
opinion of the action itself began to alter, and I began

with cooler and calmer thoughts to consider what it was

I was going to engage in 3 what authority or call I had to

pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as
criminals, whom heaven had thought fit for so many ages,

to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the

executioner of his judgments upon one another ; also how

far these people were ofi'enders against me, and what right.
I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they-
shed promiscuously one upon another.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after-
this 5 and so far was I from desiring an occasion for fall-~
ing upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of.
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to
renew any of my contrivances against them, or be pro-
voked by any advantage which might present itself to
fall upon them ; only this I did, I went and removed my,
boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where-
I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some.
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents,
the savages durst not, at least would not, come with their,
boats, upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything I had left
'there belonging to her, viz., a mast and sail, which I had
made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed
which could not be called either anchor or grappling;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind. All
these I removed, that there might not be the least shadow
of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of
any human habitation upon the island. Besides this, I
skept myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from
my cell, other than upon my constant employment, viz.,
ito milk my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the
wood, which, as it was on the other part of the island,
was quite out of danger ; for certain it is that these savage
people never came with any thoughts of finding anything
here, and consequently never wandered off from the
coast. I believe the reader will not think it strange if I
confess that the anxieties and constant dangers I lived in,
and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to all
invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid for
my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the
care of my safety more now upon my hands, than that of
my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be
heard, much less would I fire a gun for the same reason ;
.and above all, I was very uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,-
.should betray me 5 and for this reason I removed that
part of my business which required fire, such as burning
-of pots and pipes, &c., into my new apartment in the
woods, where, after I had been some time, I found, to my
unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no
savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy

:as to venture in. ' '

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where by mere accident I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees, to make charcoal; and before I
go on I must observe the reason of my making this char-
coal, which was thus: I was afraid of making a smoke

. about my habitation, and yet I could not live there with-
out baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c.; so I con--
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in
Eng land under turf, till it became chark of dry coal, and
then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry
home, and performed the other services which fire was-
wanting for at home, without danger of smoke.

But this by the bye. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch of '
low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow
place. I was curious to look into it, and getting with
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large,
that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in, and
perhaps another with me; but I must confess to you, I
made more haste out than I did in, when looking farther
into the place, which wss perfectly dark, I saw two broad.
shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I
knew not, which twinkled like two stars ; the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the-
reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
called myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that-he
that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty
years in an island all alone, and that I durst to believe
there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful
than my self. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took.
up a great firebrand, and 1n I rushed again with the stick
flaming 1n my hand. I had not gone three step s in, but I
was almost as frightened as I was before, for I heard a
very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it
was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half ex-
pressed, and thena deep sigh again. I stepped back, and
was struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I would
not answer for it that my hair had not lifted it off. But
still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and en-
couraging myself a little, with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to
protect me, I stepped forward again, and by the light of
- the firebrand, holding it a little over my yhead, I saw,
lying on the ground, a most monstrous frightful old he-
'goat, just making his will, as we say, gasping for life, and
dying indeed of mere old age.

I stirred him a little, to see if I could get him out, and
he tried to get up, but was not able to raise himself ; -e.nd
I thought with myself he might even lie there ; for if he
had frightened me so he would certainly frighten any of
the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as to come
in there, while he had any life in him.

Iwas now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very small ;
that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no
manner of shape, either round or square, no hands having
ever been employed in making it, but those of mere
nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it, that went in farther, but was so low
that it required me to creep on my hands and knees to go
into it, and whither it went I knew not; so having no
candle I gave it over for some time, but resolved to come
again the next day, provided with candles and a tinder-
box, which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wild fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low
place I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards, which, by the way I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it might go, or what was beyond it. When I was get
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up. I
believe near twenty feet; but never was such a glorious
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The walls
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candles. But what it was in the rock, whether dia-
monds or any other precious stones, or gold, which I
naturally supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto, of its kind,
as could be expected, though perfectly dark: the floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel
upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous
creature to be seen ; neither was there any damp or wet
on the sides or roof. The only difficulty in it was the
entrance, which, however, as it was a place of secmity,
and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a
convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the dis.
covery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about, to this
place, particularly I resolved to bring hither my magazine
of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling -
pieces (for I had three 111 all), and three muskets (for of
them I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle only
five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on
my outside fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I was
obliged to op en the barrel of powder which I took up out
of the sea, and which had been wet; and I foundP that
the water had penetrated about three or four inches into
the powder on every side, which caking and growing hard,
had preserved the inside like a kernel8 m a shell, so that I
had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre
of the cask: yand this was"- an agreeable discovery to me '
at that time 5 so I carried all away thither, never keeping
above two or three pounds of powder with me in my
castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also carried
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this dis-
covery, and I found it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent
ofi'ence to my nose.

I was now in my twenty -third year of residence' in this
island, and was so naturalised to the p,1ace and to the
manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, I could have been content to have Pcapitulated for
spending 'the rest of my time there, even to the last
moment, till I had lain me down and died, like the old
goat 1n the cave. I had also arrived to some little diver-
'sions and amusements which made the time pass more-
pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before; as,
first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak,
and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and

,plain, that it was very pleasant to me 3 and he lived with

me no less than six-and-twenty years. How long he might

live afterwards I know not; though I know they have a
notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years.

.Perhaps poor Poll might be alive there still, calling after
"poor Robin Crusoe" to this day. My dog was a very

pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than

sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age.

As for my cats they multiplied, as I have observed, to that>>
degree, that I was obliged to shoot several of them at

first, to keep them from devoming me, and all I had ;
but at length, when the two old ones I brought with me

were gone, and after some time continually driving them

from me, and letting them have no provision with me,

they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three

favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young, when

they had any, I always drowned ; and these were part of
my family. Besides these, I always kept two or three

household kids about met which I taught to feed out

of my hand 3 and I had some more parrots, which talked

pretty Well, and would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none

like my first 5 nor indeed did I take the pains with any

of them that I had done with him. I began to be well'
contented with the life I led, if it might but have been

secured from the dread of the savages. But it was other--

wise directed.

It was now in the month of December, in my twenty-
third year ; and this being the southern solstice, was the
particular time of my harvest, and required my being
pretty much abroad in the fields 3 when going out pretty
early in the morning, even before it was thorough day--
light, I was surprised with seeing a light of some fire
upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
towards the end of the island where I had observed some
savages had been as before; but not on the other side,
but, to my affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might
be surprised: and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages in rambling
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or
any of my works or improvements, they would immediatey
conclude that there were people in the place, and would
then never give over till they had found me out. In this
extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up
the ladder after me, having made all things without look
as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp 5 not forgetting seriously
to commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly'
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar-
barians, and in this posture I continued about twu hours,
but began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad,
for I had no spies to send out. After sitting awhile
longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was
not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer ; so setting up
my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat
place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of
the hill: and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting
round a small fire they had made, not to warm them, for
they had no need of that, the weather being extremely hot,
but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet
of human flesh which they had brought with them.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore 3 and, as it was then'ebb of tide, they
seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away
again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight
put me into, especially seeing them come on my side of the
island, and so near to me; but when I considered their

K
coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I began
afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied
that I might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood
of tide, if they were not on shore before 3 and, as I expected,
so it proved 3 for, as soon as the tide made to the westward,
I saw them all take boat and row away. I should have
observed, that for an hour or more before they went off,
they were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glass.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and
my great sword by my side without a scabbard, and with
all the speed I was able to make went away to the hill
where I had discovered the first appearance of all ; and as
soon as I got thither, I perceived there had been three
canoes more of the savages at that place ; and looking out
farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over
for the main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially
as, going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about had
left behind it. I was so filled with indignation at the
sight, that I now began to premeditate the destruction of
the next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many
soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which
they made thus to the island were not very frequent, for -
it was above fifteen months before any more of them came
on shore there again--that is to say, I neither saw them
nor any footsteps or signals of them in all that time ; yet
all thiswhileI lived 1mcomfortably, by reason of the constant
apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise.

During all this time I was in the murdering humour,
and spent most of my hours, which should have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall
upon them the very next time Ishould see them--especially
if they should be divided, as they were the last time, into
two parties; nor did I consider at all that if I killed one
party--suppose ten or a dozen--I was still the next day or
week, or month, to kill another, even ad ivgfim'tum, till I
should be, at length, no less a murderer than they were in
being men-eaters, and perhaps much more so. I spent my
days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expect-
ing that I should one day or other fall into the hands of
these merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time venture
abroad, it was not without looking round me with the
greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found,
at my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided
a tame flock or herd of goats ; for I durst not upon any
account fire my gun, especially near that side of the island
where they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages :
and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come again with perhaps two or three hundred canoes
with them in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more before
I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found them
again, as I shall soon observe. It is true they might have
been there once or twice ; but either they made no stay,
or at least I did not see them 3 but in the month of May,
as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth
year, I had avery strange encounter with them 5 of which
in its place.

It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon,
that it blew a great storm of wind all day, with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was
after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of
it ; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with
very serious thoughts about my present condition, I was
surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at
sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a difi'erent
nature from any I had met with before, I started up in
'the greatest haste imaginable ; and, in a trice, clapped my
ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after
me ; and mounting it the second time, got to the top of a
hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for
a second gun, which, accordingly, in about halts-minute,
I heard ; and by the sound, knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven down the current in my
boat. I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these for signals of dis-
tress, and to obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at
that minute, to think, that though I could not help them,
it might be they might help me ; so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and, making a good
pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood blazed
freely ; and, though the wind blew very hard, yet it burned
fairly out, so that I was certain, if there were any such a
a thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did ; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard
another gun, and after that several others, all from the
same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till day-
break : and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up,
I saw something at a great distance at sea, full cast of the
island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish--
no, not with my glass ; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazy.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move ; so I presently concluded that
it was a ship at anchor ; and being eager, you may be
sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran
towards the south side of the island, to the rocks where I
had formerly been carried away by the current ; and getting
up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship,
cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which .
I found when I was in my boat.

I never knew whether any were saved out of that ship
or no 3 and had only the affliction some days after, to see
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the end of
the island which was next the shipwreck. He had no
clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me
so much as to guess what nation he was of. He had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of--eight and a.
tobacco-pipe--the last was to me of ten times more value
than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find
something on board that might be useful to me. But that
did not altogether press me so much, as the possibility
that there might be yet some living creature on board,
whose life I might not only save, but might, by saving
that life, comfort my own to the last degree; and this
thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet
night nor day, but I must venture out in my boat on
board this wreck ,' and cemmitting the rest to God's pro-
vidence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my
mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to
my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
' quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass
.to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of
that left), and a basket of raisins; and thus, loading
myself with everything necessary, I went down to my
boat, got the water out of her, got her afloat, loaded all
my cargo in her, and then went home again for more.
My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to
set up over my head for a shade, another large pot of
fresh water, and about two dozen of small loaves, or
barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's
milk, and a cheese; all of which, with great labour and
sweat, I carried to my boat; and praying to God to direct
my voyage, I put out, and rowing the canoe along the
shore, came at last to the utmost point of the island on
the north-east side, and hauled my boat into a little creek
on the shore.

I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first
of the tide; and, reposing myself for the night in my
canoe, under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched
.out, and having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went
at a great rate, directly for the wreck, and inless than
.two hours came up to it. It was a dismal sight: the
ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, was stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks, and all the stern and
quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and as
her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with
great violence, her mainmast and foremast were broken
short ofl' ; but her bowsprit was soun inithe head and
bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog
appeared upon her, who seeing me coming, yelped and
cried; I took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of bread,
and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow: I then gave the poor
creature some fresh water, with which, if I had let him, he
would have burst himself. After this I went on board;
but the first sight I met with was two men drowned in
the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life 3 nor any goods that
I could.see but what were spoiled by the water. There
were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew
not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to
meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed be-
longed to some of the seamen : and I got two of them into
the boat, without examining what was in them. Had the
stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off, I
am persuaded I might have made a good voyage ; for, by
what I found in these two chests, I had reason to suppose
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with
much difficulty. There were several muskets in a cabin,
and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder
in it : as for the muskets I had no occasion for them, so I
left them, but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel
and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron:
and with this cargo and the dog I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again: and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning
resolved to harbour what I had got in my new cave, not
to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I
got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the par--
ticulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum,
but not such as we had at the Brazils ; and, in a word,
not at all good. But when I came to open the chests, I
found several things which I wanted : for example, I
found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary
kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine, and very good :
the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or
sweetmeats, so fastened also on top, that the salt water had
not hurt them ; and two more of the same, which the
water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which
were very welcome to me, and about a dozen and a half of
white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the
former were also very welcome, being exceedingly refresh-
ing to wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I
came to the till in the chest, I found there three great
bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six
doubloons of gold, and some small bars of wedges of gold ;
I suppose they might all weigh near a pound. The other
chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little value.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was
of much use to me : for, as to the money, I had no manner
of occasion for it, it was to me as the dirt under my feet,
and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many years.
I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which I took off
the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw in the
wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests,
which were very welcome to me 3 but they were not like
our English shoes, either for ease or service, being rather
what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's
chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no
gold.

However, I lugged this money home to my cave, and
laid it up, as I had done that before, which I had brought
from our own ship ; but it was great pity, as I said, that
the other part of the ship had not come to my share, for
I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several times
over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to England,
would have laiu here safe enough till I might have come
again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up,
and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where
I found everything safe and quiet: so I began to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs. I lived in this condition near two years
more; but my unlucky head, that was always to let me
know it was born to make my body miserable, was all those
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were
possible, I might get away from this island 3 for sometimes
I was for making another voyage to the wreck, though my
reason told me, that there was nothing left there worth
the hazard of my voyage, sometimes for a ramble one way,
sometimes another : and I believe verily, if I had had the
boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured
to sea, bound any where, I know not whither.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle,
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up, and
secured under water as usual, and my condition restored to
what it was before. I had more wealth indeed than I had
before, but was not at all the richer, for I had no more use
for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards
came thither. It was one of the nights, in the rainy
season in March, the fonr-and-twentieth year of my first
setting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in
my bed, or hammock, awake, very well in health, had no
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any
uneasiness of mind more than ordinary ; but could by no
means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep, no, not a
wink all night long, otherwise than as follows :--

It is as impossible as needless to set down the inn-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great
thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's
time. I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature,
or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this
island; and also of that part of my life since I came to
this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case
since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs, in the first years of my
habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear, and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of a
foot in the sand. Not that I did not believe the savages
had frequented the island even all the while, and might
have been several hundreds of them at times on shore
there ; but as I had never known it, and was incapable of
any apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect,
though my danger was the same ; and I was as happy
in not knowing my (I, nger, as if I had never really
been exposed to it. After these thoughts had for some
time entertained me, I came to reflect seriously upon the
real danger I had been in for so many years in this very
island ; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquillity, even when
perhaps nothing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the
casual approach of night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction ; viz. , that of falling into the
hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on
me with the same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and
have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me, than
I did of a pigeon or a curlew.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a
fever ; nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted
with the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep.
One would have thought I should have dreamed of it;
but I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dreamed
that as I was going out in the morning, as usual, from my
castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages
coming to land, and that they brought with them another
savage, whom they were going to kill in order to eat him,
when on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill,
jumped away, and ran for his life; and then I thought in
my sleep that he came running into my little thick grove,
before my fortification, to hide himself; and that I seeing
him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him
that way, shewed myself to him, and smiling upon him
encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
pray to me to assist him; upon which I shewed my ladder,
made him go upon it, and carried him into my cave, and
he became my servant; and that as soon as I had gotten
this man, I said to myself, "Now I may certainly venture
to the main land, for this fellow will serve me as a pilot,
and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for pro-
visions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured,
what places to venture into, and what to escape." I waked
with this thought, and was under such inexpressible
impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
dream, that the disappointments, which I felt upon coming
to myself, and finding it was no more than a dream, were
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a
very great dejection of spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape, was, if
possible, to get a savage in my possession ; and, if possible,
it should be one of their prisoners, whom they had con-
demned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill ; but
these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that
it was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole
caravan of them; and killing them all 3 and this was not
only a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but,
on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness
of it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.
I need not repeat the argiunents which occurred to me-
against this, they being the same mentioned before : but
though I had other reasons to offer new, viz., that those
men were enemies to my life, and would devour me if
theycould ; that it was self-preservation in the highest
degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was
acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually
assaulting me, and the like ; I say, though these things
argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood
for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such as,
I could by no means reconcile myselfto a great while. .

About a year and a-half after I had entertained these
notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were, resolved;
them all into nothing for want of an occasion to put them

into execution, I was surprised one morning early with

seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on

my side the island, and the people who belonged to them

all landed and out of my sight. The number of them

broke all my measures ; for seeing so many, and knowing

that they always came four, or six, or sometimes more, in

a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to

take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men single--
handed ; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discom-

forted. However, I put myself into all the same postures

for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just

ready for action if anything had presented. Having

waited a good while, listening to hear if they made any
noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at

the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the

hill by my two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that

my head did not appear above the hill ; so that they could

not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the-
help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than

thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled, and that

they had Jmeat dressed: how they cooked it, that I knovr
not, or what it was ; but they were all dancing in I know
not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own

way round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my
perspective two miserable wretches dragged from the boats.
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought
out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately
fell, being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or-
wooden sword, for that was their way; and two or three
others were at work immediately cutting him open for
their cookery, while the other victim was left standing by-
himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very
moment this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty,.
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started.
away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along;
the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards that part
of the coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge),PS40 LIFE .xxn .<<Dvrxrrnm or

when I perceived him to run my way ; and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body;
and now I expected that part of my dream was coming to
pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove ;
but I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream
for the rest of it, viz., that the other savages would not
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover, when I found
that there were not above three men that followed him ;
and still more was I encouraged when I found that he
outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground of them, so that if he could but hold it out for
half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from
them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which
I mentioned often at the first part of my story, when I
landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I knew he
must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be
taken there : but when the savage escaping came thither,
he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up;
but, plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes,
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftnest. When the three pursuers came to the
creek I found that two of them could swim, but the
third could not, and that he, standing on the other side,
looked at the other but went no farther; and soon after
went softly back again, which, as it lnppencd, was very
well for him in the end.

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek, than the fellow
was that fled from them. It came now very warmly upon
my thoughts, and indeed, irresistibly, that now was my
time to get me a servant, and, perhaps, a companion or
assistant, and that I was called plainly, by Providence, to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately got down
the ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two
_.guns, for they were both at the foot of the ladders, as I
observed above'; and getting up again wit-h the same haste
to the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea : and hav-
ing a very short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself inMeeting with Friday.
the way between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing.
aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first
perhaps as much frightened at me as at them ; but I bec-
koned with my hand to him to come back, and, in the mean~
time, I slowly advanced towards the two that followed;
then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece : I was loath to fire, be>>
cause I would not have the rest hear ; though at that dis-A
tancc it would not have been easily heard ; and being out
of sight of the smoke too they would not have easily
known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow
down, the other who pursued him stopped as if he had
been frightened, and I advanced apace towards them 3 but
as I came nearer l perceived presently he had a bow and.
arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then
necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed
him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had
stepped, though he saw both his enemies fallen, and killed
(as he thought) yet was so frighted with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to fly still than to come on. I hallooed again to
him, and made signs to come forward, which he easily
understood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and
then a little farther, and stopped again ; and I could then
perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies
were. I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave
him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of;
and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps in token of acknowledgment for savinghis
life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned
to him to come still nearer. At length he came close to
me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground,
and laid his head upon the ground, and taking me by the
foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him-
up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I
could.

But there was more work to do yet 3 for I perceived the
savage whom I knocked down was not killed, but stunned
with the blow, and began to come to himself. So I pointed
to him, and shewing him the savage, that he was not dead ;
upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I could
not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I
had heard, my own excepted, for above five-and-twenty
years. But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down, recovered himself so
far as to sit up upon the ground ; and I perceived that my
savage began to be afraid: but when I saw that, I pre-
sented my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot
him ; upon this my savage, for so I called him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked
in a belt at my side 3 so I did. He no sooner had it, but
he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut ofi' his head as
cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have done it
sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one,
who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life
before, except their own wooden swords. However, it
seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that
they will cut off heads even with them, aye, and arms, and
that at one blow too. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the
sword again, and with abundance of gestures, which I did
not understand, laid it down, with the head of the savage
that he had killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know how
I had killed the other Indian so far 011'; so pointing to
him, he made signs to me to let him go to him; so I bade
him go, as well as I could. When he came to him, he
stood like one amazed, looking at him; turned him first
on one side, then on the other 3 looked at the wound the
bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his breast,
where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood
had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite
dead. Then he took up his bow and arrows, and came
back ; so I turned to go away, and beckoned to him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come
after them.
Upon this, he signed to me, that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they
followed; and so I made signs again to him to do so: he
fell to work, and in an instant he scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in, and
then dragged him into it, and covered him; and did so
also by the other. I believe he had buried them both in
a quarter of an hour; then calling him away, I carried
him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave on the
farther part of the island; so I did not let my dream
come to pass in that part; viz. that he came into my grove
for shelter.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found indeed he was in
great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go lie down and sleep, point-
ing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice straw
and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself
sometimes: so the poor creature lay down and went to
sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow ; perfectly well made,
with straight, long limbs, not too large; tall, and well
shaped, and as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
He had a very good countenance ; not a fierce and surly
aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in his
face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a
European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool 5 his forehead very high, and large, and a great
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians
and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of a
bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it something
very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His
face was round and plump, his nose small, not flat like the
Negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine,
well set, and white as ivory.

After he had slumbered about half an hour, he waked
again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking my goats which I had in the enclosure just by.
'Vhen he espied me he came running to me, laying him-
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible-
signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making many
antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot
upon his head, as he had done before; and after this, made
all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submis-
sion imaginable, to let me know how much he would serve
me as long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In
a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me ; and first, I made him know his name should
be Friday, which was the day I saved his life ; and I
called him so for the memory of the time : I likewise
taught him to say " Master," and then let him know that
was to be my name. I likewise taught him to say, "Yes,"
and " No," and to know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it
before him, and sop my bread in it ; and gave him a cake
of bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with,
and made signs that it was very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night 3 but as soon as it
was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and let him
know I would give him some clothes ; at which he seemed
very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly
to the spot, and shewed me the marks that he had made
to find them again, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again, and eat them ; at this I appeared very
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would
vomit at the thought of it, and beckoned with my hand to
him to come away, which he did immediately with great.
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to
see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I
looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been,
but no appearance of them, or of their canoes ; so that it
was plain that they were gone, and had left their two
comrades behind them, without any search after them.

But not content with this discovery, and having now
more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my
man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand,
with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found he
could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun for
me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been ; for I had a mind
now to get some fuller intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins,
and my heart sunk within me at the horror of the spectacle.
Indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it: the place was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great
pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten, mangled, and
scorched 5 and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant
feast they had been making there, aftera victory over their
enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of
three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies : and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon;
that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing
to himself, was -the fourth; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose subjects,
it seems, he had been one of ; and that they had taken a
great number of prisoners, all which were carried to several
places by those that had taken them in the fight, in order
to feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches
upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a heap,
and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes.
I found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some
of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I
discovered so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not dis-
cover it ; for I had by some means let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday. And first of
all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of
the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I found

L
in the wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well : then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin,
as well as my skill would allow, and- I was now grown a
tolerable tailor ; and I gave him a cap, which I had made
of a hare skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough ;
and thus he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well ;
and mighty well was he pleased to see himself almost as
well clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly
in these things at first : wearing the drawers was very
awkward to him; and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders and the inside of his arms ; but a little
easing where he complained they hurt him, and using
himself to them, at length he took to them very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where I should lodge him : and that I
might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I
made a little tent for him, in the vacant place between my
two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in the out-
side of the first : and as there was a door of entrance there
into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and door
to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within
the entrance ; and, causing the door to open on the inside,
I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too ; so
that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall", without making so much noise in getting
over, that it must needs awaken me 5 for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my
tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill, which was
again laid cross with small sticks instead of laths, and
then thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was strong like reeds ; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the
outside, would not have opened at all, but would have
fallen down, and made a great noise ; and as to weapons,
I took them all in to my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never man
had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me ; without passions, sullenness, or designs ; per-
fectly obliged and engaged 5 his very affections were tied
to me, like those of a child to a father 3 and I dare say
he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon
any occasion whatsoever. The many testimonies he gave
me of this, put it out of doubt ; and soon convinced me,
that I needed to use no precautions as to my safety on his
account.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my busi-
ness to teach him everything that was proper to make him
useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him
speak, and understand me when I spake. He was the
aptest scholar that ever was, and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant for me to talk to him. And now my life
began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not
if I was never to remove from the place while I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to 'my
castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a canni-
bal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh. So I
took him out with me one morning to the woods ; I went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it : but, as I was going, I saw a
she goat, lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. I catehed hold of Friday; "Hold," said
I, " stand still ;" and made signs to him not to stir ; im-
mediately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of
the kids. The poor creature who had, at a distance, in-
deed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not
know, nor could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly
surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed,
that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the kid I had shot at, nor perceive I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded;
and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill
him 3 for he came and kneelcd down to me, and embrac-
ing my knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see, that his meaning'was to pray
me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm 5 and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beck-
oned to him to run and fetch it, which he did ; and while
he was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by--and-bye I saw
a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called
him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was indeed
a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk ; I say,
pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and to the ground
1n1der the parrot, to let him see I would make him fall, I
made him understand that I would shoot and kill that
bird : accordingly I fired and bade him look, and imme-
diately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frighted
again, notwithstanding all that I had said to him ; and I
found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me
put anything into the gun 3 but thought there must be
some wonderful fimd of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or
far off; for the astonishment this created in him was such
as could not wear off for a long time 5 and, I believe, if I
would have let him, he would have worshipped me and
my gim: as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after : but would speak to it, and
talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by him- -
self, which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire
it not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird Ihad shot, which
he did, but staid some time 3 for the parrot, not being
quite dead, was fluttered a. good way off from the place
where she fell. However, he found her, and brought her
to me ; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the
gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again,
and not let him see me do it, that I might be ready for
any other mark that might present 3 but nothing more
offered at that time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as
I could 5 and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good broth :
after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man,
who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece
of the kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire on a
string, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire, and
one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday
admired very much ; but when he came to taste the flesh,
he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that
I could not but understand him : and at last he told me
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was
glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do; and he
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after
he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was
to make bread of; for after that I let him see me make
my bread, and bake it too ; and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do
it myself.

I began now to consider, that, having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used
to do, so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began
the fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday
not only worked very willingly, and very hard, but did it
very cheerfully,- and I told him what it was for, that it
was for corn to make more bread, because he was now with
me, and that I might have enough for him and myself
too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me
know that he thought I had much more labour upon me
on his account, than I had for myself, and that he would
work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do. .

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in thls
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for,
and of every place I had to send him to, and talk a great
deal to me ; so that in short, I began now to have some
use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very little
occasion for before ; that is to say, about speech. Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction
in the fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to be more and more every day, and I began really
to love the creature ; and on his side, I believe he loved
me more that it was possible for him ever to love anything
before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli-
nation to his own country again ; and having learned him
English so well, that he could answer me almost any ques-
tions, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle. At which he smiled, and said,
" Yes, yes : we always fight the better 5" that is, he meant,
always get the better in fight : and so we began the follow-
ing discourse. " You always fight the better!" said I:
" How came you to be taken prisoner then, Friday? "

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?

Friday. They more than my nation in the place where
me was: they take one, two, three, and me. My nation
over beat them in yonder place, where me no was : there
my nation take one, two, great thousand.

.Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go
in canoe ; my nation have no canoe at that time.

Ilfastcr. "'ell, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take .2 Do they carry them away, and
eat them as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eats man too, eat all up.

Illuster. Where do they carry them?

Friday. Go to other place where they think.

Master. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither : come other else
place.

Master. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W. side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
ROBINSON cnuson. 151

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages, who used to come on shore, on
the farther parts of the island, on the said manoeating oc-
casions that he was now brought for : and some time after,
when I took courage to carry him to that side, being the
same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty
men, two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty
in English, but he numbered them by laying so many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows : that, after I had had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me there
was no danger, nor canoes ever lost 3 but that, after a
little way out to sea, there was a current, and a wind
always one way in the morning, the other in the after-
noon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the
tide, as going out or coming in : but I afterward understood
it was occasioned by the great draught and reflux of the
mighty river Oroonoque 3 in the mouth of which river, as
I thought afterward, our island lay: and that this land,
which I perceived to the W. and N. W. was the great
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand qestions about the coun-
try, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations
were near : he told me all he knew, with the greatest open-
ness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other name
than Caribs ; from whence I easily understood, that these
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on that part of
America which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroo-
noque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told
me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, be-
yond the setting of the moon, which must be west from
their country, there dwelt white, bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned.
before; and that they had killed " much mans," that was
his word. By all which I understood he meant the
Spaniards, whose cruclties in America had been spread
over the whole countries, and were remembered by all the
nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island, and get among those white men ; he told me
yes, yes, I might go in " two canoe." I could not under-
stand what he meant, but supposed he meant that it must
be in a large, great boat, as big as two canoes. This part
of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well:
and from this time I entertained some hopes, that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my
escape from this place . nd that this poor savage might be
a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand
me I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind ; particularly I asked him one
time, who made him. The poor creature did not under-
stand mo at all, but thought I asked who was his father.
But I took it by another handle, and asked him who made
the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills and woods.
He told me, it was one old Bcnamuckce, that lived beyond
all. He could describe nothing of this great person, but
that he was very old; much older, he said, than the sea
or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him
then, if this old person had made all things, why did not
all things worship him? He looke dvery grave, and with
a perfect look of innocence, said, "All things said O to
him." I asked him if the people who die in his country
went away any where. He said, yes, they all went to
Benamuckee. Then I asked him, whether those they eat
up went thither too : he said, " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the know-
ledge of the true God. I told him, that the great Maker
of all things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven :
that he governs the world by the same power and provi-
dence by which he had made it: that he was omnipotent,
could do every thing for us, give every thing to us, take
everything from us: and thus by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem.
us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and
his being able to hear us, even into heaven.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in
all the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction;
and must acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find, that, in laying things open to
him, I really informed and instructed myself in many
things that either I did not know, or had not fully con-
sidercd before, so that I had great reason to be thankful
that ever this poor wild wretch came to me: my grief sat
lighter upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to me
beyond measure, and when I reflected upon these things,
a secret joy ran through me, that ever I was brought to
this place, which I had often thought the most dreadful:
of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him, and.
speak fluently, though in broken English, to me, I ac-
quainted him with my own story, or at least so much of
it as related to mycoming into the place, how I had lived
there, and how long. I let him into the mystery of gun-
powder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave-
him a knife, which he was wonderfufly delighted with,
and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as;
in England we wear daggers in ; and, in the frog, instead
of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon
many occasions. I described to him the countries of
Europe, and particularly England, which I came from ;
how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved
to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay 3 but she was all beaten in pieces
long before, and quite gone. I showed him the ruins of'
our boat which we lost when I escaped, and which I could'
not stir with my whole strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, but said nothing. I asked him what.
it was he studied upon ,- at last, says he, " Me see such
.boat come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while 3 but, at last,
when I had examined farther into it, I understood by him
'that a boat such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was
driven thither, by stress of weather. I presently imagined
that some European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive ashore;
but was so dull that I never once thought of men making
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might
.come ; so I only inquired after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough ; but brought
me better to understand him when he added, with some
warmth, "\Ve save the white mans from drown." Then
I presently asked him if there was any white mans,
.as he called them, in the boat: " Yes," he said, " the boat
full of white mans." I asked him, " How many 2 " He
told me upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then,
"' What became of them 2" He told me. " They live,
they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head again 3 for I pre-
sently imagined, that these might be the men belonging to
the ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I
now call it ,' and who, after the ship was struck on the
rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved them-
selves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. Upon this I inquired of him more
critically, what became of them : he assured me they lived
still there 5 that they had been there about four years ;
that the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals
to live. I asked him, how it came to pass that they did
not kill them, and eat them. He said, " N 0, they make
'brother with them ;" that is, as I understood him, a truce;
:and then he added, " They eat no mans, but when make
the war fight ;" that is to say, they never eat any men;
32:1: such as come to fight with them, and are taken in

ttle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being on
2the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from
ROBINSON enusos. 155

whence, as I have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent of America; Friday, the weather
being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main
land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and
dancing, and calls out to 111e, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what was the matter. " 0 joy!"
says he, " 0 glad ! There see. my country! there my
nation !"

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance
discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be
in his own country gain 3 and this observation of mine
put a great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday, as I was before,
and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back
to his own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligations to me, and would be for-
ward enough to give his countrymen an account of me,
and come back, perhaps with a hundred or two of them,
and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry
as he used to be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war. But I wronged the poor honest creature
very much, for which I was very sorry afterwards. How-
ever, as my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks,
I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and
kind to him as before, in which I was certainly in the
~wrong too, the honest grateful creature having no thought
about it, but what consisted of the best principles, both as
a 1eligious Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared
afterwards to my full satisfaction.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I
was every day pumping him to see if he would discover
any of the new thoughts, which I suspected were in him;
but I found everything he said was honest, and so inno-
cent that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion ,
and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last
entirely his own again; nor did he' 1n the least perceive, '
that Iy was uneasy , and therefore I could not suspect him
of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent,
I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not you wish your-
self in your own country, your Own nation?" " Yes," he
said, " I be much 0 glad to be at my own nation."
"What would you do there 3" said I ; " would you turn
wild again, eat man's flesh again, and be as savage as you
were before?" He looked full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, " N o, no ; Friday tell them to live good,
tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-
fiesh, milk ; no eat man again." " Why then," said I to
him, " they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and
then said, " No, they no kill me ; they willing love learn."
He added, they learned much of the bearded mans that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go back
to them. He smiled at that, and told me he could not
swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe for him.
He told me he would go if I would go with him. " I go ! "
said I, "why, they will eat me, if I come there." " No,
110," said he, " me make them no eat you ; me make them
much love you." Then he told me as well as he could,
how kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded
men, as he called them, who came on shore there in
distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over
and see if I could possibly join with these bearded men,
who I made no doubt were Spaniards or Portuguese ; not
doubting but, if I could, we might find some method to
escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a good
company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles off the shore, and alone without help. So after
some days I took Friday to work again by way of discourse,
and told him I would give him a boat to go back to his
own nation 5 and accordingly carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island; and having
cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in the water)
I brought it out, shewed it him, and we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
would make it go as swift and fast again as I could; so
when he was in, I said to him, " Well now, Friday, shall
we go to your nation ?" He looked very dull at my saying
so, which it seems was because he thought the boat too
small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger: so the
next day I went to the place were the first boat lay which
I had made, but which I could not get into the water.
He said that was big enough; but then as I had taken no
care of it, and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years
there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a
manner rotten. Friday told me that such a boat would
do very well, and would carry " much enough vittle,
drink, breac ."

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the
matter with him. He asked me again thus, " Why you
angry with Friday? What me done P" I asked him what
he meant: I told him I was not angry with him at all.
" No angry! no angry l" says he, repeating the words
several times: " why send Friday home away to my
nation '1" "Why," said I, " Friday, did you not say you
wished you were there 2" "Yes, yes," says he, wish we
both there 3 no wish Friday there, no master there." In
a word, he would not think of going there without me.
"' I go there, Friday !" said I 3 " what should I do there?"
He turned very quick upon me at this: " You do great
deal much good," says he 5 " you teach wild mans be good,
sober, tame mans: you tell them know God, pray God,
.and live new life." " Alas, Friday," said I, "thou knowest
not what thou sayest: I am only but an ignorant man
myself." " Yes, yes," says he, " you teachee me good, you
teachee them good." " N o, no, Friday," said I, "you
shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself, as
I did before." He looked confused again at that word;
and, running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear,
he takes it up hastily, and gives it me. "What must I
do with this i" said I to him. " You take kill Friday,"
says he. " What must I kill you for i" said I again. He
returns very quick, "What you send Friday away for?
Take kill Friday: No send Friday away." This he spoke15S LIFE AND .\uvI-:.\'Tum-:s on

so earnestly that. I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a
word, I so plainly diseovered the utmost atl'eetiou in him
to me, and a. firm resolution in him, that I told him then,
and often after, that. 1 would never send him away from
me if he was willing to stay with me.

Upon the. whole, as 1 found, by all his discourse, a
settled att'eetion to me. and that nothing should part him
from me, so l found all the foundation of his desire to go
to his own eonntry was laid in his ardent alleet ion to the,
people, and his hopes of my doing them good : a thing,
which as I had .no notion ot' myselt'. so I had not the. least
thought. or intention. or desire ot' undertaking it. But.
still 1 t'ound a strong inelination to my attempting an
escape. as above. founded on the supposition gathered
from the t'ormerdiseourse; \'il.. that. there were seventeen
bearded men there; and therethre. without any more delay,
I went to work with Friday, to tind out a great. treo proper
to fell. and make a large periagna, or eanoe, to undertake
the voyage. 'l'here. were trees enough in the island to have
lmilt a little tleet. not of periagnas and eanoes only. hut
even of good large vessels : hat the main thing I looked
at, was to get one so near the water. that we might- launeh
it: when it was made. to avoid the. mistake I committed
at first.

At. last Friday pitched upon a tree, t'orl t'onnd he know
much better than 1 what kind of wood was littlest. for it ;
nor can 1 tell to this day what wood to eall the tree. we
cut down. except that it was very like the tree we :alled
fustie, or between that and the Niearagna Wood. for it was
much of the same colour and smell. 'liriday was for
burning the hollow or eavity of this tree out to make it;
into a heat ; hut I shewed him how rather to eat it out;
with tools, which after I shewed him how to use, he
did it very handily 5 and in about. a month's hard lahour
we finished it, and made. it very handsome, especially
when with our axes, which 1' shewed him how to handle,
We. cut and hewed the outside into the true. shape of a boat.
Alter this, however, it cost: us near a tbrtnight's time. to
get her along, as it. \vere, ineh by inch, upon great. rollers,
into the, water: but; when she was in, she would have
carried twenty men with great ease.
\Vhen she was in the water, though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along. So I asked him, if he would, and if we might
venture over in her; " Yes," he said, " me venture over
in her very well, though great blow wind." However, I
had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a mast and a sail, and to lit her with an anchor-
and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get ;
so I' pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, and which there. was great plenty of"
in the island, and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it: but as to
the. sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old
sails, or rather pieces of old sails enough, but as I had had
them now twenty-six years by me, and not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever'
have this kind of use. for them, I did not doubt but they
were all rotten, and indeed most of them were so. How
ever, I found two pieces which appeared pretty good, and
with these 12 went to work ; and with a great deal of pains,
and awkward tedious stitching, (you may be sure), for'
want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly
thing, like what We call in England a shoulder-of--nmtton
sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit
at the top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with,
and such as l best knew how to manage, because it was
such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my
escape from Barbary,

1 was near two months performing this last work; viz.,
rigging and fitting my mast and sails, for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or fore-sail
to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward ; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to
steer with.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for
though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and
was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to-160 um axe anvl-zxruncs or

and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibbcd,
and filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed ; I say, when he saw this he stood like one
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I
made all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I could make
him understand very little. of that: on the other hand, as
there was very little cloudy weather, and Seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night,
and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons; and
then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or Sea.

I was now entered on the seven-aml--tWentictlI year of
my captivity in this place ; though the three last yea-rs that
I had this creature with me ought rat-her to be left out of
the account, my habitation being quite of another kind,
than in all the rest of the time. I kept the. anniversary
of my landing here, with the. same tlmnkt'uhn-ss to God
for his mercies as at lirst ; and it' I had such cause of
acknowledgment at first, 1 had much more. so now, having
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over
me, and the great hopes I had of being etl'eetually and
speedily delivered: orl had an invincible impression upon
my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that I
should not be another year in this place. However, I
went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing,
as usual ; I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing, as before.

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when
I kept more within doors than at other times ; so I had
stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I
landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the
shore at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a
little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to float in ; and that
when the tide was out, We made a strong dam across the
end of it to keep the water out: and so she lay dry as to
the tide from the sea ; and to keep the rain oil', we laid a
great many boughs of trees so thick that she was as well
thatched as a house: and thus we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prepar-
ing daily for the voyage 3 and the first thing I did was to
lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for
our voyage ; and intended in a week or a fortnight's time
to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morningr upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bade him go to the sea-shore and see if he
could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally
grit once a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outward wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his
feet on ; and before I had time to speak to him, he cried
out to me, " 0 master! () master! 0 sorrow ! 0 bad !"
"What's the matter, Friday '1" said I. " O yonder there,"
says he. "one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!" By
this way of speaking I concluded there were six 3 but, on
inquiry, l' found there were but three. "W'ell, Friday,"
said I, " do not be frightcd 3" so I heartened him up as
well as I could. However, I saw the poor fellow was
most terribly scared ; for nothing ran in his head but that
they were come to look for him, and would cut him in
pieces and eat him: and the peer fellow trembled so, that
.l scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as
well as i could, and told him I was in as much danger as-
he, and that they would eat me as well as him. "But,"
said I, " la'riday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you
light, Friday!" " Mo shoot," says he ,- " but there come
many great number." " No matter for that," said Iagain,
"' our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I
asked him whether if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He
srid, " Me die when you bid die, master." So I went and.
fetched a good dram of rum and gave him ; for I had been
so good a husband of my rum that I had a great deal left.
When he had drank it I made him take the two fowling--

M
pieces, which wc always carricd, aml loadod thom with
swan-shot, as hi3;r as small pistol hullcts : than I took four
muskcts. and loadcd thcm with two slugs, and tiro small
hullcts cach ; and my two pistols l loadcd with a h 'acc of
bullets each. I hung my grout. sword, as usual. nakcd by
my sidc. and garo l-'riday his hat-chat. "'hcu I had tluls
proparcd mysclt'. I took my porspoctiro glass. and wcnt up
to tho sidc of tho hill to soc what. I could discm'cr; and I
found quickly. hy my glass. that thcrc wcro nun-aud-
twcnty saragcs. thrcc prisoncrs. and thrco cauoos; and
that thcirwholo hnsincss smancd to ho tho triumphant
hanqnct. upon thcso thrcc human hodics (a. harharons t'cast
itltli'i'd 3)

l ohscrrcd. also. that thcy woro landcd, not. whoro thcy
had gonc whcn Friday inado his cscapo, lmt :icarcr to my
crcck. whcrc thc shoro was low. and whcro a thick wood
camo closc almost down to tho sca. This, with tho
ahholroncc ot' thc inhuman crrand thcsc wrctchcs camc
ahout. tillcd Inc with such indignation that. l calnc down
again to Friday. and told him I was rcsolrcd to go down
I.) thcln and kill thcm all z and askcd him if ho would
stand hy mo. llc had now got oror his fright. and his
spirits hcin';r a littlc raiscd wilh thc dram I had gircll him,
ho was \'ory chccrt'ul : and told Inc as hct'oro, " llc. would
(llt'. \\'ll('ll l hid tlh'."

In this fit ol' t'ury, I took first and diridcd tho arms
which I had chargcd. as hct'oro, ln-twcon us: I garo
.l-'riday ono pistol to stick in his girdle, and thrccguns
upon his shonldc': and I took onc. pistol and tho othcr
thrco mysclt'; and in this postnrc wo marohcd out. I
took a small hottlc ot' rum in my pocket, and gavo Friday
a largo hag with mono powdci and ballot; and as to
orders. I chargcd him to kcop closo hchiud mo, and not to
stir, or shoot.or do anything till I hid him; and in the
nu-antimo not to spcak a word. In this postur' I fetched
a compass toniy right hand of new a mile, as well to gut;
orcr thc crook as to got. into t-ho wood; so that I might:
come within shot of thcm hct'oro I should be discovered,
which 1 had sccn by my glass it was easy to do.

While I \'as making this march, my former thoughts
returning, l began to abate my resolution. I do no
mean that l, entertained any fear of their number : for as
they were naked, unarmed wrotohos, it is eortainl was
superior to them: nay, though I lnul boon alono ; but it
occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much
loss what necessity l was in, to go and dip my hands in
blood, to attack people who had neither done norinta-mlcd
me any wrong ; who, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous rust-mus were their own disaster, being in them
a token indeed of (iod's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to
such inhuman courses: but did not call mo to take upon
mo to be a judgo of their actions, much loss an executioner
ot'his justice: that whenever he. thought lit, he would
take the nose into his own hands, and by national ven-
geance, punish them for national crimes; but that in tho
meantimo. it was none of my business ; that it was true,
Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy,
and in a slate of war with those very particular people,
and it was [awful for him toattaek them ; but I. could not
say tho samo with respect to mo. Those things were so
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the. way as 1 went,
that I resolved I would only go and place myself near
them, that 1 might obsorvo their barbarous feast, and that
1 would not then as (iod should direct; but that, unless
something otl'erod that was more a call to me than yet I
know of, 1 Would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I. entered the wood, and with all
possible warinoss and silence (Friday following close at my
heels), I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on
the side which was next to them ; only that one corner of
tho wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just
at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and.
bring me word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to
me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there ; that
they were all about the fire, eating theilesh of one of their
prisoneis; and that another lay bound upon the sand, a
little way from them, whom, he said, they would kill next, 'IGI LII-"l". .~\.\'D ADVENTURI'IS 0|"

and whioh tlrod tho \'ory soul within mo. He told mo it
was not. ouo ol' thoir nation. hut. ono of tho hoardod mon
whom ho had told mo of. that. oamo to tlu'ir oonutry in tho.
hoat. l was tillod with horror at tho rory naming tho
whito. hoardod man : and. going to lhotroo. I saw plainly,
try my glass. a whito man. who lay upon tho hoaoh of tho
soa. with his hands and his l'oot tiod with tlags. or things
liko rushos : and that ho was a l'luropoan. and had clothos
on.

'l'horo was auothor troo. and a littlo thiokot. beyond it,
about lit'ty yards uoaror to tholu than tho plaro whoro I
was, which. l\_\':_;'oi1mr a littlo way ahont. I saw I might>>
oomo at tuulisoororod. and that thou I should ho within
halt'sho! ot'thout. No l withhold my passion. though l
was indood ourag'od to tho highost dogroo : and going haol;
alrout twouty paoos. I got hohiud soino hushos, which
hold all tho way till I oamo to tho othor two. and thou l
oamo to a littlo rising ground. which garo mo a lull \'iow
ot' lhotn at tho distauoo ot' ahout oigjhty yards.

I had now not a mmuout to loso ; t'or uiuotoou of tho
droadt'ul wrotolu-s sat upon tho ground. all oloso huddlod
togothor. and had just sout tho othortwo to luttohol' tho poor
t'hristi.lu_.:nul l't'ilu: him. porhapsdiuth hy lilnh.to lhoil' tiro;
and thoy woro stoopod down touutio tho hands at his t'oot.
l tnrnod to Friday: " Now. Friday." said I, "do as I hid
thoo." I'riday said ho would. "'l'hon. Friday." said I,
" do oxaotly as you soo mo do: l'ail in nothing." No l sot.
down ono ol'tho musltots. and tho l'owlingApiooo upon tho.
ground. and l'riday did tho lilu- hy his: and with tho.
othor muslu't ltool; my aim at tho sara ros. bidding him to
do tho lilu': thou askilu: him it' ho was roady, ho said,
" Yosf' " 'I'hou liro at thom." said I z and tho salno
momout I lil'od also.

Friday took his aim so muoh hottor than t. that on tho
sido that ho shot. ho liillod two ol' them, and wonndod

lu'oo moro; and. on my sido l killod ono :md wonudod
two. 'l'hoy wow. you may ho suro, in a droadl'ul oonstor-
nation: and all of thom who woro not hurt jinupod up
upon thoir l'oot iuuuodiatoly. hut did not. know which ray
to run. or whioh way to look ; t'or thoy know not from
whence their destruction 'a.me. Friday kept his eyes
close upon me that, as I' had bid hilu, he might observe
what I did : so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw
down the. piece, and took up the hurling-piece, aml Friday
did the like: he sees me cock and present; he did the
same again. " Are. you r -ady. Friday 'l" said I. "Yes,"
said he. " Let lly, then," said I, "in the name oftlod ;"
and with that l Iircd again among the amazed wrctehes,
and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden
with what l call swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we
found only two drop; but so many woro wounded that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures,
all bloody and miserably wounded, most of them ; whereof
three more l'cll quickly after, though not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged
pieces and taking up the musket, which was yet loadeu,
" follow me." said I : which he did, with a deal of
courage ; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as
l ln'rccircd they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Fridaydo so too ; and running as fast as I could,
which. by the way, was not very last, being loaded with
arms as l was, I made directly towards the poor victim,
who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or shore, between
the place where they sat, and the sea. The two butchers
who were. just groin},r to work with him, had left him, at
the surprise of our first tire, and llcd, in a. terrible fright,
to the sea side, aml had jumped into a canoe, and three
more of the rest made the same way. 1 turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards, and the at them ; he under.
stood mc immmliately, aml, running about forty yards to
be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed
them all, for I saw them all fall on a heap in the boat,
though l saw two of them up again quickly. However,
he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that he
lay down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been
dead.

\Vhile my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife, and cut the flags that bound the peer victim; and,
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked
him, in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered
in Latin, "('hristiamls;" lint was so weak and faint. that;
he eould searee stand or speak, I took my llottlo out. of
my poeket. amt gave it. hiln. making signs that he should
drink, whieh he did; aml l gave him a pieee ot' liread,
whieh he ate. 'l'heu I asked him what eonntryman ho
was. and he said " lepagnole ;" and. heing a little reeo-
vered. let me know. try all the signs he eonld possibly
make. how nun-h he was in my deht- t'or his deliveranee.
" Neignol'." said I. with as mneh Spanish as leould make
up. we will talk al'terw:u-ds. hut. we must. tight. now: it'
you have any strength let't. take this pistol and sword, and
lay almnt you." He took them very thankl'ully. and no
sooner had he the arms in his hands. hut. as il' they had
put new vigour into him. he tlew upon his nnlrder-rs like.
a fury. and had eut two of them in pieees in an instant;
tor the truth is. as the whole was a surprise to them, so the.
poor ereatnres were so mueh l'righted with the noise of our
pieees. that. they fell down for mere amazement and fear,
and had no more pow'er to attempt their own eseape. than
their tlesh had to resist onr shot : and that was the ease of
those live that Friday shot. at- in the lloal. for as three ol'
them tell with the lulrt they l'eeeived. so the other two
felt with the l'right.

I kept my pieee in my hand still, without tiring, heing
willing to keep my eharge ready. heeanse l had given the.
Spaniard my pistol and sword : so I ealled to Friday, aml
liade him run up to the tree from whenee no first tired,
and t'eteh thearms that lay there. that had heen diseharged,
whirh he did with great swil'tuess; and then giving him
my musket. I sat- down myself to load all the rest. again,
and bade them eome to me when they wanted. While I
was loading these pieees, there happened a lieree engage-
ment hetween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who
made at him with one of their great- wooden swords. the.
same weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had
not- prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as hold and as
have as eould be imagined. though weak, had fought. this
Indian :1 good while, and had eat. him too great. wounds on
his head ; but the savage, being a stout, lusty fellow, closing;
in with him, had thrown him down (lining faint), and was
wringing my sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard,
though undermost, wisoly quitting tho sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the sa. 'ago through the body,
and killed him upon tho spot, lioforo I, who vas running
to holp, could come noar him.

Friday, hoing now left at his lihorty, puisuod the tlying
"Tot-clues with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet;
and with that. ho dospatohod those three who, as i said
before, we!" \Vonndod at lirst and fallen, and all the rest
ho oonld mine up with ; and the Spaniard coming to me
for a gun, i gave him one of tho. hurling-pieces, with
which he pursnod two of tho savages, and wounded them
both ; hut as ho was not aide to run, they both got into
the wood. whoro Friday pursued them, and killed one of
them ; hat the. othor was too nimhlo. for him; and though
ho was wounded, yot. ho plungod into tho sea, and swam
with all his might, oil' to thoso. who woro loft in the canoe,
which throo in the canoe, with ono wounded, We know not
whether ho diod or no, were all that osoapml our hands, of
one-aml--twonty. 'l'h w aooount of tho rost is as follows :--

3 killed at our shot from the troo.

:3 killed at the next. shot.

:3 killed by Friday in the boat.

2 killed by ditto, of those at tirst wounded.

l killod by ditto, in the wood.

3 killed liy the Spaniard.

-t killed, hoing found dropped hero and there, of their

wounds, or killed by Friday in his eliase of them.

-t osoapod in the boat, win-roofono wounded, ifnot dead.

21 in all.

Those that wore in the eanoo worked hard to get out of
gun--shot ; and though Friday made two or three shots at
them, 1 did not liud that he hit any of them. Friday
would fain have had me take one of their canoes and
pmsuo. them, and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape, lost, carrying the news home to their people, they
should come back, perhaps, with two or three hundred of16$ Lita-2 .\.\'n .mn-tx'l'umas m"

thvir vanm's. aml ilcvum' us hy nn-rv multitmh': #0 l mu
St'lllt'll to pursue thvm hy sva ; aml, running to .mvut' tlu'ir
mum's. ljumlwil in, aml haulv Friday t'ullnw lllt' ; hut when
I was in thv vanm'. l was sm'prisvd to timl anothnr pmu'
vrvatnro llt' thvrv aliw, lmuml haml and that. as tho.
Npanianl was. t'm'tln'slmightvr. and almost (lvatl with t'val'
nut knowing what thv mattvl' was. l'orhv had not lawn
alvlv tn luuh up nn-r lhv Sltlt' of the hunt: hv was tinl so
haul Ina-h aml ln'vls, aml hml lu-vn lll'tl sn long. that lw
had wall) littlu liti- in him.

I imim-<<liat-vly cut tho twistml tlags. or l'ltsln's which
11ml lmmnl him, aml wuuhl han- hvlpml him up, hut ln'
('(Hll'l nut staml or speak. lint. gruanml must pitvunsl)',
lit-liming. it sin-ms. that hv was only unlmnml in mwlvr tn
1w lilllt'tl.

\\'hvn l"l'l\lPSl.\' ('ami- to him. l lliltlt' him sprah to him,
aml tvll him <<It his (ll'llYt'l'illlt'l': aml pulling out my
lmttlv. giw thu pmn'wrvtvh a xh'am. which, with tln- nuws
ut~ his living ulvlin-nwl. rvviwil him. aml hv sat up in Ha-
lmat: hut n'hvn l-'riulay vann' tn hvar him slu'alx. aml
lnul'ml in his t'avv. it would haw lum'ml anyone in tvars to
haw sm-n haw Finlay kissml him. vmln'avml him' huggml
him. vriml. laughml. hallmuul, jumpml almut, <<lam-ml,
sung. thm rriml again. wrung his hamls, lu'at his own
tat-v aml llt'lltl. aml thm sung and jnmlml almut again.
lilu' a (listravtml vrvaturv. It was a guml whilv ln-l'nn- l
wnhl malm him lt'll mu what was tho mattvr: lint. whvn
hv vann- a lilth' tn himsvlt', lw tnhl mv that it was~ his
fathvr.

.lt is nut vas_\' t'ur mo to vxprvss how it- mm'wl luv to sm'.
what vvstavy and tilial atll-rtiun had workml in this pour
savagv. at "in sight at his tathvr,am1 at his lwing <<luli~
wrml t'rum (lt'fllll: nnr imhwl can I <<losmilw halt'thu vx-
travagam-vs of his atl'vction after this; for he went. into
thv lmat aml out of thc hunt a gu-at. many timvs. "'hun
he wont tu him. he would sit down by him, opvn his
ln'vast. aml huhl his father's hmnl clnsu tu his husnm, half
an hour tngutlwr, to nourish it; than ho tank his arms
and ankles, which wvro numhvd and still' with the bind-
ing. and chat'cd and rubbed them with his hands 3 and l,
pereeiviug what the also was, gave him some rum out of
my hottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal
of good.

This put an end to our pursuit of the. canoe with the
other savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it
was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and het'ore. they eould he a quarter
of their way, and eontinned lilowing so hard all night,
that l eonld not suppose their boat eonld live, or that they
ever reached their own eoast.

llut to return to Friday ; he was so husy with his father
that l eonld not tind in my heart to take him oil for some
time. lint after I thought he could leave him a. little, I
called him to me, and he. came jumping and laughing, and
pleased to the highest extreme. Then 1 asked him if he
had given his father any hread. lle. shook his head, and
said. " None : ugl_v dog eat all up self." So I gave him
a eake ol' hread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose;
I also gave him a dram for himself, huthe would not taste
it, hut carried it to his father. I had in my pocket also
two or three hum-hes of raisins, so I gave. him a handful
of them for his father. He had no sooner given his father
these raisins but I saw him come. out of the boat, and mm
away as if hewitehed. He ran at such a rate that he was
out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though 1 called
amt hallooed too after him, it was all one ; away he went,
and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went, and as he came nearer I
found his paee was slacker, because he had something in
his hand.

When he eame. up to me, 1 found he had been home
for an earthen jug or pot, to bring his father some water 3
and that he had got two more ~akes or loavos of bread.
The bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his
father ; however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little
sup of it. This water revived his father more than all
the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just faint-
ing with thirst. When his father had driuik, I called to
him to know if there was any water left : he said, "Yes,"
and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in
as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very weak, aml was reposing himself upon a green
place, under the shade of a tree, and whose limbs were
also very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude
bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that upon
Friday's coming up to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to
him, and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up
in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankful-
ness that eould appear in any countenance; but was so -
weak, notwithstandingr he had so exerted himself in the
fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet ; he tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade
him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his flithcr's.

I observed the poor alli'clionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn
his head about, to see if his father was in the same place
and postura as he left him sitting; and at last he found
he was not to be seen, at which he started up, and with-
out speaking a word, llew with that swiftness to him,
that one could searee perceive. his feet to touch the ground
as he went; but when he came, he only found he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs. So Friday came
back to me presently ; and I then spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to
the boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling,
where I would take care of him; but Friday, a lusty
young fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back,
and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet
in the inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set
him close to his father, and presently stepping out again
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty
hard too; so he brought them both safe into our creek,
and leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the>>
other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked
him whither he went. He told me, " Go fetch more
boat." So away he went, like the wind; for sure never
man or horse ran like him 3 and he had the other canoe
in the creek, almost as soon as I got to it by land ; so he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests
out of the boat, which he did; but they were neither of
them able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together
upon it between us. But when we got them to the ou'b'g
side of our wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss
than before, for it was impossible to get them over; and
I was resolved not to break it down. So I set to work
again : and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made
a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above
that with boughs of trees, being in the space without our
outward fence, and between that and the grove of young
wood which I had planted ; and here we made them two
beds of such things as I had, viz., of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection which I
frequently made, how like a king I looked. As soon as I
had secured my two weak, rescued prisoners, and given
them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to
think of making some provision for them; and the first.
thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat,
betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be
killed. Then I cut ofi' the hinder quarter, and chopping:
it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and.
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you,
of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also
into the broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I
made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into
the new tent; and having set a table there for them, I sat-
down and eat my dinner also with them; and, as wellas I
'could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed to the
Spaniard too, for the Spaniard spoke the language of the
savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather suppcd, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets
and other tire-arms, which we'had left upon the place of
battle ; and the next day I ordered him to go and bury
the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun,
and would presently be ollensive ; and 1 also ordered him
to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which
I knew were pretty much, and which I. could not think of
doing myself; nay, l could not bear to see them, it' I
went that way. All which he. pnnctually perlbrmed, and
defaced the very appearance of the savages being there;
so that when 1 went again. 1 could scarce know where it
was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood, pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
"two new subjects ; and lirst 1 set Friday to enquire of his
father what he thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of them
with a power too great for us to resist. IIis lirst opinion
'was, that the savages in the boat never could live out the
storm which blew that night they went oil, but must of
.Jiecessit'y be drowned or driven south to those other
shores, wherr. they were as sure to be devoured as they
were to be drowned, if they were castaway. But as to
what they would do, it' they came safe on shore, he said,
he knew not ; but it was his' opinion that they were so
dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise and the fire, that he believed they
would tell their people they were all killed by thunder
.and lightning, and not by the hand of man ; and that the
two which appeared (viz. Friday and 1) were two heavenly
spirits or furies come down to destroy them, and not men
with weapons. This, he said, he know, because he heard
them all cry out so in their language to one another ; for
it was impossible to them to conceive that a man could
dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, with-
out lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right; for, as I understood since by
other hands, the savages of that part never attempted to
go over to the island afterwards. They were so terrified
with the accounts given by those four men (for it seems
they did escape the sea), that they believed, whoever went
to that enchanted island, would be destroyed with fire
from the gods. This, however, I knew not, and there-
fore was under continual apprehensions for a good while,
and kept alw: ys upon my guard. In a little time, how-
ever, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their coming
were off, and I began to take my former thoughts of a.
voyage to the main into consideration, being likewise
assured by Friday's father, that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would.
go. But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a, serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who having been cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace indeed
with the savages, but were very sore put to it for neceso
saries, and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars
of their Voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship,
bound from the llio de la l'lata, to the Havannah, being
directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods
they could meet with there; that they had five Portu-
guese seamen on board, whom they took out of another
wreck; that five of their own men were drowned when
first their ship was lost ; and that these escaped through
infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost starved
on the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been
devoured every moment.

He told me they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder
nor hall, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder, but a little which they used at their first landing
to provide themselves with food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He. said, they had many consultations about it;
But that having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor
provisions of any kiml, their counsels always ended in
tears and despair.

I asked him how he thought they Would receive a pro-
posal from me, which might tend towards an escape; and
whether, it they were all here, it. might. not he done. I
told him with freedom. I feared mostly their treachery
and ill-usage of me. it' I put. my life into their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man, nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they had received, so much as they did by the
mlvantages they expected. I told him it. would be very
hard. that l should he the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner
in New Spain. where an Englishman was certain to he
made. a. sacritice. what necessity or what occasion soever
brought him thither: amt that. I had rather he delivered
up to the savages, and he devoured alive, than fall into
the merciless claws ot' the priests. and he carried into the
Inquisition. I added. that otherwise I was persuaded, it'
they were all here. we might, with so many hands, build
abark large enough to carry us all away. either to the

t'azils soutlnvard, or to the islands. or Spanish coast
northward ; but. that it'. in requital. they should, when 1
had put. weapons into their hands, carry me, by t'or'e,
among their own people. I might be. ill used for my
kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was
before.

llo answered with a great deal of candour and in-
genuity, that their condition was so miserable, amt they
were. so sensihle of it. that he believed they would abhor
the thought of using any man unkindly, that should con-
tribute to their deliverance ; and that, it' t pleased, he
would go to them with the. old man, and discourse. with
them about it, aml return again, and bring me their an-
swer; that he would make conditions with them, upon
their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under
my leading, as their commandc' and captain; and they
should swear upon the holy sacraments and the Gospel, to
be true to me, and to go to such Christian country, as I
should agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly
and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely
in such country as .l intended ; and that he would bring
a contract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
'l'hen he told me, he would first swear to me himself, that
he would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I
gave him orders ; and that he would take my side to the
last drop of blood, if there should happen the least
breach of faith among,r his countrymen.

. Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the. old savage. and the
Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he had gotten
all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on the
one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that
1 could not but he very well satisfied in it ; and, by his
advice, put oil the deliverance of his comrades for at least
half a year.

The case. was thus : he had been with us now about a
month, during which time I had let him see in what
manner 1 had provided, with the assistance of Providence,
{or my support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice 1 had laid up, which, as it was more than suffi-
cient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to
number four; but much less would it he sullieient, if his
countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive,
should come over; and, least of all, would it be sufficient
to vielual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he told
me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and
the two others dig and cultivate some more land, as much
as I could spare seed to sow, and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for
his countrymen when they should come, for want might
be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into
another. " You know," says he, " the children of Israel,
though they rejoiced at first at their being delivered out

\
of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God himself that de-
livered them, when they came to want bread in the
wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to
digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were
furnished with permitted ,' and in about a month's time,
by the end of which it was seed time, we had gotten as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was,
in short, all the seed we had to spare ; nor indeed did we
leave ourselves barley sulfieient for our own food for the
six months that we had to expect our crop, that is to say,
reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing,
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground-
in that country.

Having new society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went
freely all over the island wherever we found occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the
means of it out of mine. To this purpose I marked out
several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down, and then I
caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on
that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I shewed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large
tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak,
near two feet broad, thirty-live feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick. W'hat prodigious labour it
took up any one may imagine.

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock
of tame goats as much as I could, and is? this purpose I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out (pie day, and my-
self with Friday the next day ; for we took our turns, and
by this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up
with the rest, for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock. But above all, the
season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I be-
lieve had we been at Alicant, where the rasins of, the sun
are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty barrels ;
and these, with our bread, was a great part of our food,
and very good living too, I assure you 5 for it is an ex-
ceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island,
but, however, it was enough to answer our end ; for from
our twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and
threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and
the like in proportion of the rice, which was store enough
for our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been
ready for a voyage, it would very plentiquy have vic-
tualled our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say of America. When we had thus
housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work
to make more wicker-work, viz. : great baskets, in which
we kept it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make
some things for defence of this kind of work, but I saw
no need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leaveto go over to the
main to see what he could do with those he had left be-
hind him there. I gave him a strict charge in writing
not to bring any man with him who would not first swear
in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind as to send for
them, in order to their deliverance, but that they would
stand by and defend him against all such attempts, and
wherever they went would be entirely under, and sub-
ject to his command; and that this should be put in
writing, and signed with their hands. How we were to
have this done, when I knew they had neither pen or ink,
that indeed was a question which we never asked.

N
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
savage (the father of Friday), went away in one of the
canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather
Were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured
by the savages. 1 gave each of them a musket with a
tirelock on it, and about eight charges of powder and ball,
charging them to be very good husbands of both, and not
to use either of them but upon urgent occasions. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sutlieient
for themselves for many days, and sullicient for all their
countrymen for about eight days' time ; and wishing them
a good voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a dis-
tance, before they canie on shore. They went away, with
a fair gale, ou the day that the moon was at the full; by
my awount, in the month of October: but as for the exact
reekonin,r of days, after I had onee lost it, I could never
recover it again ; nor had I even kept the number of years
so pnnetually as to be sure that l was right, though, as it
proved, when l afterwards examined my account, I found
.I had kept a true reckoning of years.

.It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when
a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the
like has not, perhaps, been heard of in histor'. I. was
fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday
caine running in to me, and called aloud, " Master, master,
they are come, they are come 3"

I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I Went out, as
soonas 1 could get my clothes on, through my little grove,
which (by the way) was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood ; I say, regardless of danger, I went without
my arms, which it was not my custom to do ; but I was
surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently
saw a boat, at about a league and a halt"s distance, standing
in for the shore, with a slroulder-otlnmtton sail, and the
wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in. Also I ob-
served presently, that they did not come from that side
which the shore lay on, but from the southermnost end of
the island. Upon this, 1 called Friday in, and bade him
lie close, for these were not the people we looked for, and
that we did not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having taken
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do, when I was apprehensive of any thing, and to
take my view the plainer, without being discovered. I
had scarce set my feet on the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues
and a half 's distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a
league and a half from the shore. By my observation, it
appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the beat ap-
peared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, through the
joy of seeing a ship, and one, which, I had reason to
believe, was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-
quently friends, was such as I cannot describe ; but yet I
had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In
the-first place, it occurred to me to consider what business
an English ship could have in that part of the world, since
it was not the way to or from any part of the world where
the English had any traffic; and I knew there had been
no storms to drive them in there, as in distress ; and that
if they were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design, and that I had better con-
tinue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of dan-
ger, which sometimes are given him, when he may think
there is no possibility of its being real. That such hints
and notices are given us, I believe few, that have made any
observations of things, can deny; that they are certain
discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits,
we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to
be to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they '
are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferidr
and subordinate is not the question), and that they are
given for our good? Had I not been made cautious by
this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I had
been undone inevitably, and in a far weise condition than
before, as you will see presently.

I had not kept myself long in this postur', when I saw
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing : however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see
the little inlet where l formerly landed my rafts, but run
their boat on shore upon the beach, at about halt'a mile
from me, which was Very happy for me ; for otherwise they
would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and, perhaps,
have plundered me of all I had.

"'hen they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were linglislnnen, at least, most of them: one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were
in all eleven men, whereof three I found were unarmed,
and (as I thought) bound : and when the first four or five
of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out
of the boat as prisoners. ()ne of the three I could perceive
using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, alllietion,
and despair, even to a kind of extravagance ; the other
two 1 could perceive lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appear \d concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as
the. first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to
me, in English, as Well as he could, "0 master, you see.
English mans eat prisoners as Well as savage mans."
" Why," said I, " Friday, do you think they are going to
eat them then?" " Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them."
" No, no," said I, "Friday ; I am afraid they will murder
them indeed ; but you may he sure they will not eat
them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment, when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift
up his arm, with a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one of the poor men ; and I expected to
see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in my
body seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him ; or that I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have
rescued the three men; for I saw no fire-arms they had
among them: but it fell out to my mind another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men, by the insolcnt seamen, I observed the fellows went
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country. I observed also, that the three other men had
liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat downall
three upon the ground, and looked like men in despair.

It was just at the top of high-water when these people
came on shore, and while they rambled about to see what
kind of place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till
the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep. Howuver, one of them waking sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true sea-
men, who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to
forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about
the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to
another (calling them off from the boat), "Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float next tide." By which
I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry, of what conn-
trymen they were.

All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to
.stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill 3 and very glad I was
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less
than ten hours before the boat could be afloat again, and
by that time it would be dark, and I might be more at '
liberty to see. their motions, and to hear their discourse,
it' they had any.

In the meantime, I titted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more eaution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered.
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself
two tbwliug--pieees, amt I' gave him three muskets. My
tigure indeed was very tieree ; I had my formidable. goat-
skin mat on. with the great eap l' have mentioned, a
naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as l said above, not to have. made
any attempt till it, was dark : but. about. two o'eloek, being
the heat- of the day, I found that, in short, they were all
gone straggling into the woods, and as I thought were
laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too
anxious for their eouditiou to get any sleep, where, how-
ever, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at. about
a quarter of a mile from me, amt, as I thought, out of
sight of any of the rest.

l'pou this [ resolved to diseorer myself to them, and
learn something of their eoudition. Immediately I
marehed, in the figure above: my man Friday at a good
distanee behind me, as formidable for his arms as l, but;
not making quite so staring a spectre-like tigure as 1' did.
I came as near them uudiseovered as I could, and then,
before any of them saw me, I 'alled aloud to them in
Spanish, "\Vhat- are ye, gentlemen."

They started up at the noise, but were. ten times more
eout'ounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure I
had made. They made no answer at all, but I thought; I
pereeired them just going to fly from me, when I spoke
to them in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be
surprised at me : perhaps you may have a friend near you,
when you do not expeet it." " He must be sent directly
from heaven then," said one of them very gravely to me,
and pulling off his hat at the same time ; " for our condi-
tion is past the help of man." " All help is from heaven,
sir," said .1. " But can you put aLstrangerin the way how
to help you; for you seem to me to be in some distress?
I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to make
application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one
of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, tookcd like one astonished, returned, "Am I
talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel '1 "
" Be in no fear about that, sir," said I. " If God had
sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed and armed after another manner than you see me.
1"ay lay aside you fears: I am a man, an Englishman,
and disposed to assist you, you see. I have one servant
only ; we have arms and ammunition. Tell us freely,
can we serve you? "That is your case '1"

" Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are so near ; but in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship; my men having mutiued against
me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder
me, and, at last, have set me on shore in this desolate
place, with these two men near me, one my mate, the
other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing
the place to be uninhabited, and know not .yet what to
think of it."

" Where are these brutes, your enemies? " said I. " Do
you know where they are gone 'I " " There they are, sir,"
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. "My heart
trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak ;
if they have, they will certainly murder us all."

" Have they any tire-arms?" said I. He answered they
had only two pieces, and one which they left in the boat.
" \Vcll then," said I, " leave the rest to me. I see they
are all asleep. It is an easy thing to kill them all ;. but
shall we rather take them prisoners? He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce
safe to shew any mercy to ; but if they were secured, he
believed all the rest would return to their duty. I asked
him which they were. He told me he could not at that
distance describe them; but he would obey my orders in
anything I would direct. " Well," said I, "let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake ; and we will
resolve farther," so they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, " if I venture upon your de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions with
me '2" He anticipated my proposals, by telling me that
both he and the ship, if recovered, would be totally
directed and commanded by me in everything; and if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me, in
what part of the world soever I would send him; and
the two other men said the same.

f' "'ell," said I, "my conditions are but two: first,
That while. you stay on this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here ; and if I put arms into
your hands, you will, upon all other occasions, give them
up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this
island ; and in the meantime. be governed by my orders.
Secondly, That if the ship is or may be recovered, you
will carry me and my man to England passage-free."

He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
faith of man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands ; and besides, Would owe
his life to me, and aelmowledge it as long as he lived.
"\Vell, then," said I, " here. are three musket-s for you,
with powder and ball. Tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the testimony of his
gratitude that he was able, but oli'ered to be wholly
guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard ven-
turing anything, but the best method I could think of was
to tire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any were
not killed at the first volley, and altered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly that he was loth to kill them, if
he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible
villians, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the
ship; and if they escaped, we should be undone still;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all. "\Vell then," said I,
" necessity legitimates my advice ; for it is the only way
to save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of
shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves, and
manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse, we heard some of them
awake, and soon after We saw two of them on their feet.
I asked him if either of them were the men who he had
said were the heads of the mutiny. He said, " N 0."
"Well then," said I, " you may let them escape, and
Providence seems to have wakcned them" on purpose to
save themselves." " Now," said I, "if the rest escape
you it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men, who were with him, going first, made some
noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest ; but
it was too late then, for the moment he cried out, they
fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving
his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the
men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot,
the other very much wounded ; but not being dead, he
started up upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to
the other 3 but the captain, stepping to him, told him it
was too late to cry for help: he should call upon God to
forgive his villany, and, with that word, knocked him
down with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more. There were three more in the company, and one of
them was also slightly wounded. By this time I came;
and when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain
to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them
he would spare their lives, if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all
the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired,
and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against; only I obliged him to keep
them bound, hand and foot, while they were upon the
island.
\Vhile this was doing, I sent Friday, with the captain's
mate, to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the ears and sail, which they did ; and, by-and-by,
three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted
from the rest, came back, upon hearing the guns tired, and
seeing their :aptain, who was before their prisoner, now
their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also, and so
our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire.
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and told
him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
even to amazement, and pm'ticnlarly at the wonderful
manner of my being furnished with provisions and am-
munition; aml indeed, as my story is a whole collection
of wonders, it all'ected him deeply ; but when he. reflected
from thence upon himself, aml how 1 seemed to have. been
preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran
down his face, aml he could not speak a word more.

After this conuuunieation was at an end, I carried him,
and his two men, into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz. at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and shewed
them all the eontrivauces 1' had made, during my long,
long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my fertili-
cation, and how perfectly l had concealed my retreat with
a grove of tr'es, which having been now planted near
twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in
England, was become a little wood, and so thick that it
was impassable in any part of it, but at the one side where
I had reserved my little winding passage into it. This I
told him was my castle, and my residence: but that I had
a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I
could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that
another time ; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. II! agreed with me. as to that ;
but told me he was perfectly at a less what measures to
take, for that there were. still six-aml-twenty hands on
board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by
which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would'
be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it-
on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should be
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England,
or to any of the English colonies 5 and that therefore
there would be no attacking them with so small a num~
her as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and-
found it was a very rational conclusion ; and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well
to draw the men on board into some snare for their sur-
prise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying
us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that, in a little
while, the ship's crew, wondering what was become of
their comrades, and of their boat, would certainly come
onshore in their other heat, to see for them; and that
then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong
for us : this, he allowed, was rational.

Upon this I told him the first thing we had to do was
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they
might not carry her ofi' ; and take every thing out of her,
leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim. Accord-
ingly, we went on board, took the arms which were left
on boanl out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few
biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of
sugar, in a piece of canvass; the sugar was five or six
pounds: all which was very welcome to me, especially the
brandy and sugar, of which I had none left for many
years.

\Vhen we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudders of the boat, were carried away
before), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if.
they had come strong enough to master us, yet they could
not carry oil' the boat.

Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we could
be capable to recover the ship 3 but my view was, that if
they went away without the boat, I did not much question
to make her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward
Islands, and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, in my
way; for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the
beach, so high that the tide would not float her off at
high-water mark 3 and, besides, had broken a hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun,
and saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for
the boat to come on board: but no boat stirred, and they
fired several times, making other signals for the boat. At
last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the
.help of my glasses) hoist another boat out, and row
towards the shore ; and we found, as they approached,
that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight of
the men, even of their faces ; because the tide having set
them a little to the cast of the other boat, they rowed up
under shore, to come to the same place where the other
had landed, and where the boat lay. The captain knew
the persons and- characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom he said that there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the
113st, being overpowered and frighted. But that as for
the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among
them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of
the ship's crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate in
their new enterprise 5 and terribly apprehensive he was,
that they would be too powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operations of fear: that seeing almost
every condition that could be, was better than that which
'we were supposed to be in, we. ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circum-
stances of my life ; and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for. " And where, sir," said I, " is your
.belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your
Jife, which elevated you a little while ago 1 For my part,"
said I, "there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the
prospect ofhi " "What's that '4" said he. "Why," said
I, " 'tis that, as you say, there are three or four honest-
fellows among them, which should be spared ; had they
been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have
thought God's providence had singled them out, to deliver
them into your hands 5 for, depend upon it, every man
that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live, as
they behave to us." .

As I spake this with a raised voice and cheerful couno
tenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set
vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first
appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, considered
of separating our prisoners, and had indeed secured them
effectually.

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men to my cave, where they were remote enough,
and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of
finding their way out of the woods, if they could have
delivered themselves. Here they left them bound, but
gave them provisions, and promised them, if they con-
tinued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience, and
were very thankful that they had such good usage, as to
have provisions and a light left them 3 for Friday gave
them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their com-
fort: and they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were
kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them 3 but the other two were taken into my service,
upon their captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us 3 so, with them
and the three honest men, we were seven men, well
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were coming, considering
that the captain had said there were three or four honest
men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they run their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hauling the beat up after them, which I was glad
to see ; for I was afraid they would rather have left the
boat at an anchor, some. distance from the shore, with
some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be

able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to

the other boat; and it was easy to see they were under
great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that
was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.

After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might,
to try if they could make their companions hear ; but it
was all to no purpose : then they came all close in a ring,
and tired a volley of their small arms, which indeed we
heard and the echoes made the woods ring : but it was all
one ; those in the cave we were sure could not hear, and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
,yet dnrst give no answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as
they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know there that the men
were all murdered and the long-boat staved : accordingly,
they immediately launched their boat again, and got all of
them on board. .

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded
at this believing they would go on board the ship again,
and set sail, giving their comrades up for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should
have recovered : but he was quickly as much frighted the
other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we
perceived them all coming on shore again 3 but with this
new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they cen-
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country,
to look for their fellows. This was a great disappointment
to us ; for now we were at a less what to do, for our seizing
these seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if
we let the boat escape, because they would then row away
to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure
to weigh, and set sail, and so our hope of recovering the
ship would be lost.

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them, so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation
lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive us. \Ve could have been very glad they
would have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired
at them, or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might have come abroad.

But when they won: come to the brow of the hill where
they could see a great way into the valleys and woods,
which lay towards the north-east part, and where the
island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary ; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together
under a. tree to consider of it. Had they thought fit to
have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had
done, they had done the job for us : but they were too
full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they had
to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me uponthis
consultation of theirs, viz, that perhaps they would all
fire a volley again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear,
and that We should all sally upon them, just at the junc-
ture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would
certainly yield, and we should have them without blood-
shed. I liked the proposal, provided it was done while
we were near enough to come up to them, before they
could lead their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take : at length I told
them there would be nothing to be done in my opinion .
till night; and then, if they did not return to the boat,
perhaps we might find a way to get between them and the
shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore.

\Ve waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing, and were very uneasy; when, after long
consultations, we saw them start all up, and mamh down
towards the sea. It seems, they had such dreadful appre-
hensions upon them of the danger of the place, that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their eom~
panions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship. As soon as I perceived them go
towards the shore, I imagined it to be as it really was, that
they had given over their search, and were for going back
again ; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts,
was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it : but .1 pre-
sently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again,
and which answewd my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the little creek westward
towards the place where the savages came on shore when
Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a little
rising ground, at about half a mile's distance, [bade them
halloo as loud as they eould, and wait till they found the
seamen heard them ; that as soon as ever they heard the
seamen answer them, they should return it again, and then
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when
the other hallooed, to draw them as far into the island and
among the weeds as possible, and then wheel about again
to me by such ways as l directed.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, and an--
swering, run along the shore westward towards the voice
they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek,
where the water being up, they could not get over, and
called for the boat to come up, and set them over, as
indeed I expected.

\Vhen they had set themselves over, I observed that the
boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and, as it
wore, in a harbour within the land, they took one of the
three men out of her to go along with them, and left only
two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a
little tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to
their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the
creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before
they were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other
being in the boat: the fellow on shore was between
sleeping and waking, and going to start up, the captain,
who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down, and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or
he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to
persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men
upon him, and his comrade knocked down ; besides, this
was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in
the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterward to join
very sincerely with us.

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew them,
by halleeing and answering, from one hill to another, and
from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired
them, but left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back before it was dark: and indeed they were
heartily tired themselves also by the time they came back
to us. ' '

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work
with them. It was several hours after Friday came back to
me, before they came back to their boat, and we could hear
the foremost of them long before they came quite up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also hear
them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not able to come any faster, which was very welcome
news to us. At length they came up to the boat; but it
is impossible to express their confusion when they found
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out,
and their two men gone ; we could hear them call to one
another, in the most lamentable manner, telling one

another they were gotten into an enchanted island; that
o
either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in it, and
they should be all carried away and devoured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times, but no answer. After
some time, we could see them by the little light there was,
run about wringing their hands, like men in despair ; and
that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to
rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about
again, and so the same thing over again.

My men would faiu have had me given them leave to
fall upon them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill
as few of them as I could : and especially [ was unwilling
to hazard the killing any of our own men, knowing the
others were very well armed. I resolved to wait to see if
they did not separate, and therefore, to make sure of them,
I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the
captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered,
and get as near them as they possibly could, before they
offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny,
and had now shown himself the most dejected and dis-
pirited of all the rest, came walking towards them, with
two more of their crew. The captain was so eager at
having the principal rogue so much in his power, that he
could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to
be sure of him ; for he only heard his tongue before : but
when they came nearer, the captain and Friday starting
up on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed
upon the spot : the next man was shot in the body, and
fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or
two after, and the third ran for it. At the noise of the
fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army, which
was now eight men ; viz., myself, generalissimo ; Friday,
my lieutenant-general ; the captain, and his two men, and
the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with
arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they
could not see our number, and I made the man they had.
left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so
might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just
as we desired: for indeed it was easy to think as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu-
late. So he calls out as loud as 11c could to one of them,
" Tom Smith ! Tom Smith 1 " Tom Smith answered
iimncdiately, "Who's that? Robinson l" for it seems he
knew his voice. The other answered, " Aye, aye ; for
God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield,
or you are all dead men this moment l" '

" Who must we yield to? Where are they? " says
Smith again.

"Here they are," says he, "Here is our captain, and
fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two hours.
The boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am
a prisoner ; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."

" \Vill they give us quarter, then 2 " says Tom Smith,
"and we will yield." " I'll go and ask, if you promise to
yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the
captain himself then calls out, " You Smith, you know
my voice 3 if you lay down your arms immediately, and
submit, you shall have your lives, all but \Vill Atkins."

Upon this, \Vill Atkins cried out, "For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter! What have I done? They
have been all as bad as I! " \Vhich, by the way, was not
true neither ; for it seems this \Vill Atkins was the first
man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving
him injurious language. However, the captain told him
he must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the
Governor's mercy, by which he meant me, for they all
called me governor. In a word, they all laid down their
arms, and begged their lives : and I sent the man that had '
parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all';
and then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, were all but eight, came up and seized

o2
upon them all, and upon their boat, only that I kept
myself, and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of
seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them he expostulated with them
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at length,
upon the farther wickedness of their design; and how
certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the
end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives. As for that, he told them they were none of
his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thought that they had set him on shore in a barren un-
inhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct them
that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was
an linglislnnan : that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased : but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed
he would send them to England, to be dealt with there as
justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death: for that
he would be hanged- in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect : Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the cap-
tain to interccde with the governor for his life; and all
the rest begged him, for God's sake, that they might not
be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in, to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship. So I retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called. the
captain to me. \Vhen I called, as at a good distance, one
of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you;" and
presently the captain replied, "Tell his exeellcney I am
just a coming." This more perfectly astonished them;
and they all believed that the commander was just by
with his fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project
for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But in
order to execute it with more art, and to be secure of suc-
cess, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he
should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of
them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday, and the two
men who came on shore with the captain. They conveyed
them to the cave as to a prison ; and it was indeed a dis-
mal place: especially to men in their condition.

The others, I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description ; and as it was fenced
in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, conf
sidering they were upon their behaviour.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parlcy with them ; in a word, to try them,
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or
no, to go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to
them of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to ; and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives, as to the present action, yet if they
were sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains
to be sure; but that if they would join in so just an
attempt, as to recover the ship, he would have the go-
vernor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted by men in their condition ; they fell down on
their knees to the captain, and promised with the deepest
imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the
last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and
would go with him all over the world; and they would
own him for a father to them as long as they lived.
"lVell," says the captain, "I must go and tell the go-
vernor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him
to consent to it." So he brought me an account of the
temper he found them in; and that he verily believed
they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again, and choose out five of them, and
tell them that they should see that they did not want
men; but he would take out those five to be assistants,
and that the governor would keep the other two, and the
three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive upon the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them that the go-
vernor was in earnest. However, they had no way left
them but to accept it 3 and it was now the business of the
prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition ;
First, The captain, his mate, and passenger. Second,
Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom having
their characters from the captain, I had given their liberty,
and trusted them with arms. Third, The other two whom
I had kept till now in my bower pinioned ; but upon the
captain's motion, had now released. Fourth, These five
released at last: so that there were twelve in all, beside
five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
those hands on board the ship ; for as for me and my man
Friday, I (lid not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind: and it was employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals.

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast;
but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries ; and I made the other two carry provisions to
a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.

\Vhen I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the go-
vernor had ordered to look after them, and that it was the
governor's pleasure they should not stir any where, but
by my direction : that if they did, they should be fetched
in the castle and be laid in irons : so that as we never suf-
fered them to see me as governor, so I now appeared as
another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison,
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The' captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four
other men ; and himself, and his mate, and five more went
in the other. And they contrived their business very well;
for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as
they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail
them, and tell them he had brought 011' the men and the
boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like ; holding them in a chat till they came
to the ship's side : when the captain and the mate, entering
first with their arms, immediately knocked down the
second mate and carpenter with the buttend of their mus<<

'kets, being very faithfully seconded by their men. They

secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down
who were below, when the other boat, and their men
entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the
ship, and the skuttle which went down into the cook-room,
making three men they found there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, the
captain ordered the mate, with the three men to break
into the round-house where the new rebel captain lay, and
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men
and a boy had fire-arms in their hands ; and when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.

The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at
his mouth, and came out gain behind one of his ears, so
that he never spoke a word, upon whichthe rest yielded,
and the ship was taken effectually without any more lives
lost. As soon as the ship was thus secured the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the
clock in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid down, and

, it having been a day of great fatigue to me I slept very
sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a
gim 3 and presently starting up, I heard a man call me by _
the name of " Governor, governor," and presently I knew
the captain's voice, when climbing up to the top of the
hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced
me in his arms. " My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
" there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we,
and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship,
and there she rode within little more than half a mile of
the shore, for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and the weather being fair, had
brought her to anchor just against the mouth of a little
creek, and the tide being up, the captain had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I first landed my rafts,
and so landed just at my door.

I was, at first, ready to sink down with the surprise ;
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away, whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time I
was not able to answer one word ; but as he had taken me
in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to
the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle
out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which
he had brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I
sat down upon the ground, and though it brought me to
myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a word
to him.

All this while, the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise, as I was ; and he said a
thousand kind, tender things to me, to compose and bring
me to myself ; but such was the flood of joy in my breast,
that it put all my spirits into confusion. At last, it broke
out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered m
speech. -

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer;
and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him
as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the
whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders, that
such things as these were the testimonies we had of a
secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an
evidence that 'the eyes of an infinite Powar could search
into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased,

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who
had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in
such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but
from whom every deliverance must always be acknow
ledged to proceed?

\Vhen we had talked a while, the captain told me
he had brought me some little refreshment, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had been so
long his masters, had not plundered him of. Upon this
he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the
things ashore 'that were for the governor; and indeed it
was a present, as if I had been one, not that was to be
carried away along with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still, and they were to go without
me.

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excel-
lent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine, the
bottles held two quarts a piece, two pounds of excellent
tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and
six pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and about a huno
dred weight of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abtmdance of other things. But besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me
six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings,
and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had
been wom but very little. In a word, he clothed me'from
head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present,
as anyone may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but.
never was anything in the world of that kind so unplea-
sant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such
clothes at their first putting on.

After these ceremonies past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult
what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it
was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, whom
we knew to be incorrigible and refractory, to the last
degree 3 and the captain said that he knew they were such
rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at ; and I found that the captain himself was very
anxious about it. Upon this, I told him, that if he desired
it, I durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to
make it their own request that he should leave them
upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says
the captain, " with all my heart."

" Well," said I, " I will send for them, and talk with
them for you." So I caused Friday and the two hostages,
for they were now discharged, their comrades having
performed their promise; I say I caused them to go to the
cave, and bring up the five men pinioned as they were,
to the bower, and keep them there till I came.

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought to me, and I told them I had had a full account of
their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they
had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit
further robberies ; but that Providence had ensnared them
in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit
which they had digged for others.

I let them know that, by my direction, the ship had
been seized ; that she lay now in the road ; and they
might see by-and-by that their new captain had received
the reward of his villany, for they might see him hanging
at the yard-arm. _

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in
the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had
authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to show them ; for, as for myself, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had taken
passage with the captain to go for England: and as for
the captain, he could not carry them to England, other than
as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny and running
away with the ship ; the consequence of which, they must
needs know, would be the gallows : so that I could not
tell which was best for them, unless they had a mind to
take their fate in the island 3 if they desired that, I did
not care, as I had liberty to leave it. I had some inclina-
tion to give them their lives, if they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it ; said they would much
rather venture to stay there, than to be carried to England
to be hanged ; so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of
it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him that
they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing that I
had offered them so much favour, I would he as good as
my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
I would set them at liberty as I found them: and if he
did not like that, he might take them gain, if he could
catch them.

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accord-
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods, to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some direc-
tions how they should live very well, if they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship ; but told
the captain that I would stay that night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
the next day for me; ordering him in the mean time to
cause the new captain who was killed to be hanged at the
yard-arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to
me in my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse
with them of their circumstances. I told them I thought
they had made a right choice ; that if the captain carried
them away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed
them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy for them. Accordingly I gave them the whole his-
tory of the place, and of my coming to it ; showed them
the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the sixteen
Spaniards that were to be expected; for whom I left a
letter, and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.

1 left them my fire-arms, viz, five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel
and a half of powder left ; for after the first year or two I
used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a descrip-
tion of the way I managed the goats, and direction to
milk and fatten them, to make both butter and cheese.

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to leave
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-
seeds which I told them I would have been very glad of 3
also I gave them the bag of pease which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. \Ve prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's
sake, for they should be mu1dered; and begged the cap-
tain to takey them on board, though he hanged them
immediately.

Up on fills, the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difficulty, and after theirLeaving the Island.
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and was
very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by telling

them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to take
them in I would not forget them.

When I took my leave of this island I carried on
board, for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also, I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by
me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished,
and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little
rubbed and handled 3 and also the money I found in the
wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island the nineteenth of December,
as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I
had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and
nineteen days ; being delivered from the second cap-
tivity the same day of the month that I first made my
escape in the barco-longo, from among the Moors of
Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 1687, having been
thirty-and-five years absent.

\Yhen I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
to all the world, as if I had never been known there.
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I left in trust
with my money, was alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the world, was become a widow the second time, and
very low in the world. I made her easy as to what she
owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble : but
on the contrary, in gratitude to her former care, and
faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would
afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to do
but little for her ; but I assured her I would never forget
her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when I
had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its place.
I went down afterward into Yorkshire ; but my father
was dead, and my mother, and all the family extinct,
except that I found two sisters, and two of the children of
one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago given
over for dead, there had been no provision made for me, so
that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me ;
and that the little money I had would not do much for
me, as to settling in the world. I met with one piece of
gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect; and this was,
the master of the ship, whom I had so happily delivered,
and, by the same means, saved the ship and cargo, having
given a very handsome accormt to the owners of the
manner how I had saved the lives of the men and the
ship, they invited me to meet them, and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all together made me a very hand-
some compliment upon the subject, and a present of about
two hundred pounds sterling.

But, after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go to-
wards settling me in the world, I resolved to go to
Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some information
of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what
was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose,
had some years now given me over for dead. With this
view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April '
following 3 my man Friday accompanying me in all these
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by enquiry and to
my particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of
the ship, who first took me up at sea, off the shore of
Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off the sea,'
having put his son, who was far from a young man, into
his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man
did not know me, and indeed I hardly knew him ; but I
soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told him
who I was.

Alter some passionate expressions of our old acquain--
tance, I enquired after my plantation and my partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for
about nine years; but that he could assure me, that when
he came away my partner was living, but the trustees
whom I hadjoined with him to take cognizance of my
part, were both dead; that, however, he behaved that I
would have a very good account of the improvement of my
plantation, for that, in the general belief of my being
cast away and drowned, my trustees had given in the ac-
count of the produce of my part of the plantation, to the
procurator-fiseal, who had appropriated it, in case I never
came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds to
the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the
benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians
to the Catholic faith ; but that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored;
only that the improvement, or annual production being
distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored ;
but he assured me that the steward of the king's revenue
(from lands), and the provedore, or steward of the mo-
nastery, had taken great care all along, and the incum-
bent, that is to say my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce of which they received duly my
moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height of im-
provement he had brought the plantation, and whether he
thought it might be worth looking after; or whether on
my going thither I should meet with any obstruction to
my possessing my just right in the moiety.

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the
plantation was improved ; but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one half of it, and that, to the best of his remembrance,
he had heard that the king's third of my part, which was
it seems granted away to some other monastery, or re-
ligious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a
year; that as to my being restored to a quiet possession
of it, there was no question to be made of that, my partner
being alive to witness my title, and my name being also
enrolled in the register of the country: Also he told me
that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair
honest people, and very wealthy; and he behaved I
would not only have their assistance for putting me in
possession, but would find a. very considerable sum of
money in their hands, for my account being the produce
of the farm, while their fathers held the trust, and before
it was given up, as above, which as he remembered was
for about twelve years.

I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and inquired of the old captain how it came to
pass that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects,
when he knew that I had made my will, and had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.

He told me that was true, but as there was no proof of
my being dead he could not act as executor, until some
certain account should come of my death ; and that,
besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so
remote ; that it was true he had registered my will, and
put in his claim, and could he have given any account of
my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procum--
tiou, and taken possession of the ingenio (so they called
the sugar--house), and had given his son, who was now at
the Brazils, order to do it.

" But," says the old man, " I have one piece of 110' s to
tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you
astbe rest ; and that is, that, believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did offer to accomit to me, in your name, for six or eight
of the first years of profits, which I received; but there
being at that time great disbursements for increasing the
works, building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not
amount to near so much as afterwards it produced. How-
ever, I shall give you a true account of what I have re-
ceived in all, and how I have disposed of it."

After a few days farther conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the first six years' in-
come of my plantation, signed by my partner, and the
merchants' trustees, being always delivered in goods ; viz.,
tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
&c., which is the consequence of a sugar-work ; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income con-
siderably increased. But, as above, the disbursement
being large, the sum at first was small. However, the old
man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and
seventy moidorcs of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and
fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship,
he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he
had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his
losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. "However,
my old friend," says he, " you shall not want a supply in
your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall
be fully satisfied."

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one
hundred-and-sixty Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving
me the writings of his title to the ship which his son was
gone to the Brazils in, of which he was a, quarter-part
owner, and his son another, he puts them both into my
hands for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea,
and how generously he had used me on all occasions, and
particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could
hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me. Therefore,
first I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would not
straiten him. He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little: but, however, it was my money, and
I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and
I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In
short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for
a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them 3 then I re-
turned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had possession
of the plantation, I would return the other to him also,
as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, as to the bill of
sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that, if I wanted the money, I found he
was honest enough to pay me ; and if I did not, but came
to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never
have a penny more from him.

P
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me,
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to my
plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it myself.
He said, I might do so, if I pleased 3 but that if I did not,
there were ways enough to secure my right, and immedi-
ately to appropriate the profits to my use : and as there-
wcrc ships in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away to
Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register,
with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive,
and that I was the same person, who took up the land
for the planting the said plantation at first. This being'
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed,
he directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a
merchant of his acquaintance at the place 3 and then pro-
posed my staying with him till an account came of the
return.

Never any thing was more honourable than the proceed--
ings upon this procuration ; for in less than seven months
I received alarge packet from the survivors of my trustees,
the merchants for whose account I went to sea, in which
were the following particular letters and papers enclosed :

Fiist--There was the account cm'rent of the produce of
my farm, or plantation, from the year when their fathers
had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six
years ; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hun-
dred and seventy-four moidores in my favour.

Secondly There was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the gov-
ernment claimed the administration, as being the effects of
a person not to be found, which they call civil death 3 and
the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing,
was to an amount in crusadocs, which make three thousand
two hundred and forty one moidores.

Thirdly--There was the prior of the Augustines' account,
who had received the profits for above fourteen years 3 but
not being able to account for what was disposed to the
hospital, very honestly declared he had eight hundred and
seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he acknow-
ledged to my account. As to the king's part, that refunded
nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an
account how the state was improved, and what it produced
a year, with a particular of the number of squares or acres
that it contained; how planted; how many slaves there
were upon it ; and, making two--and--twenty crosses for
blessings, told me he had said so many " Ave Marias," to
thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive 3 inviting me
very passionately to come over and take possession of my
own ; and, in the mean time, to give him orders to whom
he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself;
concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that
of his family ; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leo-
pards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa,
by some other ship, which he had sent thither, and who,
it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent me
also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
twelve hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart, when I looked
over these letters, and especially when I found all my
wealth about me ; for as the Brazil ships come all in
fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought
my goods 3 and the efi'ects were safe in the Tagus before
the letters came to my hand.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand
pounds sterling, and had an estate, as I might well call it,
in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, sure as
an estate of lands in England ; and, in aword, I was in a
condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how
to compose myself for the enjoyment of. '

The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, the good old captain. I shewed him all that
was sent me. I told him that, next to the providence of
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him 3
and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would
do ahundredfold. So I first returned to him the hundred
moidores I had received of him ; then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release, or discharge,
for the four lnmdred and seventy moidores, which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest man-
ner possible. : after which, I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual
profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to ac-
count to him, and make the returns by the usual fleets to
him in my name. And a clause in the end, being a grant
of one hundred moidorcs a year to him, during his life,
out of the effects ; and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life ; and thus I rcquitcd the old man.

In the next place, I began to think of my poor widow,
whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she,
while it was in her power, my faithful steward and in-
structor. So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in
Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only
to pay a bill, but to find her out, and ca 'ry her in money a
hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her and comfort
her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived,
have a farther supply. At the same time, I sent my two
sisters in the country, each of them, a hundred pounds,
they being, though not in want, yet not in very good cir-
cumstances 3 one having been married, and left a widow,
and the other having a husband, not so kind to her as he
should be. ' -

But among all my relations or acquaintances I could
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst commit the gross
of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and
leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly perplexed
me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have
settled myself there ; but that really I did not know with
whom to leave my eil'ects behind me ; so I resolved at last
to go to England with them, where, if I arrived, I con-
cluded I should make some acquaintance, or find some
relations that would be faithful to me : and accordingly I
prepared to go to England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to give
answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things
I had from thence. And first to the prior of St. Augus-
tine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings,
and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moi-
dores, which was undisposed of, which I desired might be
given, five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred
and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should direct ;
desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty
called for. -

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in-
dustry in the improving the plantation, and his integrity
in increasing the stock of the works, giving him instruc-
tions for his future government of my part, according to
the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I
desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he
should hear from me more particularly ; assuring him that
it was my intention not only to come to him, but to settle
myself there for the remainder of my life: to this I added
a very handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife
and two daughters, for such the captain's son informed
me he had ; with two pieces of fine English broad--cloth,
the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black baize,
and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next
difficulty was, which way to go to England. I had been
accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and though
I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my
bagg are in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that
not once, but two or three times.

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be one of the reasons: but let no man slight the
strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such
moment. Two of the ships which I had singled out to
go in miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and
all the people drowned except three: so that in either of
these vessels I had been made miserable, and in which
most, it was hard to say. Having been thus harassed in
my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I communicated every
thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea: but either
to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the bay of
Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through
France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against my
going by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I re-
solved to travel all the way by land, which, as I was not
in haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way ; and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in
Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me : after which
we picked up two more, who were English, and merchants
also, and two young l'ortuguese gentlemen, the last going
to Paris only 3 so that we were in all six of us, and five
servants : the two merchants, and the two Portuguese,
contenting themselves with one servant between two, to
swe the charge 5 and as for me, I got an English sailor to
travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who
was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the
place of a servant upon the road.

In this manner I set out from London: and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call me
Captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as because
I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original of the
whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so
shall I trouble you with none of my land journal; but
some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey, I must not omit.

\Vhen we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court
of Spain, and to see what was worth observing; but it
being the latter part of the summer, we hastened away,
and set out from Madrid about the middle of October.
But when we came to the edge of N avarre,' we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that
so much snow had fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains, that several travellers were obliged to come back to
Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard,
to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
indeed ; and to me, that had been always used to ahot cli-
mate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was insufferable. Nor indeed was
it more painful than it was surprising to come but ten
days before out of the Old Castile, where the weather was
not only warm, but very hot; and immediately to feel a
wind from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so
severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
:nnmbing and perishing of our fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. ,

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna, it
continued snowing with so much violence, and so long,
that the people said winter was come before its time, and
the roads, which were difficult before, were now quite im-
passable ; in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick
for us to travel; and being not hard frozen, as is the case
in the northern countries, there was no going without
being in danger of being buried alive every step. We
stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna, when (see-
ing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being
better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe that

_ had been known in many years) I proposed that we should
all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for
Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage.

But while we were considering this, there came in four
'P'rench gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes as we were on the Spanish, had
found out a guide, who traversing the country near the
head of Langnedoc, had brought them over the mountains
'by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with
the snow: and where. they met with snow in any qumrtity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and
their horses.

"'e sent for this guide, who told us he would under-
take to earry us the same way, with no hazard from the
snow. provided we were. armed snllieiently to protect. us
from wihl heasts: for he said. upon these great snows it
was frequent. for some wolves to show themselves at the
foot. of the mountains, heiug )uade 'areuous for want of
food. the ground heing eorered with snow. \Ve told him
we were. well enough prepared for sueh ereatures as they
were. if he would ensure us from a kind of bro-legged
wolves, whieh we were told we were in most. danger from.
('Slll't'l'lllV on the Freueh side of the mountains. lle
satislied us there was no danger of that kind in the way
we were to go. So we readin agreed to follow him ; as
did also twelve. other gentlemen, with their servants, some
l"reneh and some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted
to go. and were ollliged to eome haek again.

Aeeordiugly u" all set out from 'l'auipeluua, with our
guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed, I was
suprised when instead of going forward, he tame. direetl)r
haek with us, on the same road that we. :amo from
Madrid. ahore. twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and eome into the plain eountry, we found our--
selves in a warm climate again, where. the country was
pleasant, and no snow to he seen ; lint on a sudden, turn-
ing to the left, he approached the mountainsanother way ;
and though it is true, the hills and the preeipiees looked
dreadful, yet he made so many tours, sueh meanders, and
led us by sueh winding ways, we were insensibly passed
the height of the. mountains without being much en-
cmnhered with the snov ; and, all on a sudden, he showed
us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
eoigne, all grain and flourishing; though indeed they
were at a great distanee, and we had some rough way to
pass yet.

\V e were a little uneasy, however, when we found it;
snowed one whole day, and at night so fast that we could
not t and; but he bade us be easy, we should soon be.
past it all. We found, indeed, that we began to descend
every day, and to come more north than before ; and
so depending upon our guide we went on

J t was about two hours before night, when our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out
of a hollow adjoining a thick wood. Two of the wolves
llew upon the guide, and had he been half a mile before
us he had been devoured indeed, before we could have
helped him. One of them fastened upon his horse, and
the other attacked the man with that violence, that he
had not time or not presence of mind enough to draw his
pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My
man Friday being next to me, I bade him ride up and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight
of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, " 0 master!
0 master l" but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to
the man, and with a pistol shot the wolf that attacked
him into the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it wasmy man
Friday ; for he, having been used to that kind of creature.
in his country, had no fear upon him, but went close up
to him, and shot him as above ; whereas any of us would
hare tired at a farther distance, and have, perhaps, either-
missed the wolf or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder than I;
and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with the
noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most
dismal howling of wolves, and the noise redoubled by the-
eeho of the mountains, that it was to us as if there had
been aprodigious multitude of them; and perhaps there
were not such a few as that we had no cause of apprehen--
sions. However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had fastened upon the horse, left him immediately,
and fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where the.
bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that he had.
not done him much hurt. The man indeed was most
hurt, for the raging creature had bit him twice, once an
the arm, and the other time a little above his knee 3 and
he was just, as it were, tumbling down by the disorder of '
his horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the
way (which was very difficult) would give us leave, to see
what was the matter. As Soon as we came clear of the
trees, which blinded us before, We. saw plainly what had
been the. ease, and how Friday had disengaged the poor
guide. ; though we did not presently discern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.

But never was a light managed so hardily, and in such
a surprising manner, as that whieh followed between
Friday and the bear, whieh gave us all (though at first we
were. surprised and afraid for him) the greatest diversion
imaginable. .-\s the bear is a heavy, elumsy ereature, and
does not gallop as the wolf does, which is swift and light,
so he has two particular qualities, which generally are the
rule of his aetions. First, as to men, who are. not his
proper prey, heeause, though I cannot. say what excessive.
hunger might do, whieh was now their ease, the ground
being all covered with snow ; yet as to men, he does not
usually attempt them, unless they lirst attaek him; on
the contrary. if you meet himin the woods, though if you
do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with you;
yet then you must take care to he very eivil to him, and
give him the road ; for he is a very nice gentleman, he
will not go a step out of his way for a prince ; nay, if you
are really afraid, your best way is to look another way,
and keep going on ; for sometimes if you stop and stand
still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for an affront ;
but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it hits him,
though it were but a bit of stick as hig as your linger, he
takes it for an all'ront, and sets all other business aside to
pursue his revenge. ; for he will have satisfaction in point
of honour : and this is his first quality. The next is, that
if he he once all'ronted, he will never leave you, night or
day, till he has his revenge, but follow, at a good round
mte, till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up to him, he was helping him all from his horse 3
for the man was both hurt and frightcd, and indeed the
last more than the first ; when, on a sudden, we spied the
hear come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it
was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. \Ve were all a
little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw .
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance. " O ! O l O !" says Friday, three times
pointing to him; "0 master, you give me to leave, me
shakco to hand with him, me makee you good laugh."

1 was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. "You
fool you," said 1', " he will eat you up !" Eatee me up 5
catce me up '1" says Friday, twice over again. " Me eatee
him up: me make you good laugh. You all stay here:
me show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets his
boots oil' in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we
call the Hat shoes they wear), and which he had in his
pocket, gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun,
away he flew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle
with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him,
as if the bear could understand him, " Hark ye, hark ye,"
says Friday, "me speakee wit you." "'0 followed at a
distance ; for now being come down to the Gascoigne side
of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country \ 'as plain and pretty open, though many
trees in it scattered here and there.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came
up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone, and
throws it at him, and hit him just on the head ; but did
him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a
wall : but it answered Friday's end ; for the rogue was so
void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow
him, and "shew us some laugh," as he called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would
put a horse to a middling gallop. Away runs Friday, and
takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help ; so we
all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man 5 though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the
hear back upon us, when he was going about his own
business another way; and especially I was angry that he
had turned the bear upon us, and then run away ; and I
called out, "You dog," said I, "is this your making us
laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." He hears me, and cries out, " N o
shoot, no shoot ! Stand still : you get much laugh." And
as tho nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one, he
turned, on 11 sudden, on one side of us, 11nd seeing a great
011k tree, lit for his purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and
doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his
gun down upon the ground, at about live or six yards from
the bottom of the 111111.

The bear soon 111111111 lo the tree, and we followed at a.
distance. The liist thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
smelt to it, but let it lie, 111111 11p he scrambles into the
tree, climbing like :1 11111., though so monstrously heavy. [
was amazed at the fully, as I thought it, of my man, and
could not l'o11n1y lil'e s111 anythiu1r to l11u1_,rh at yet, till,
seeing the b11111 f't'l- 11p the 1111111, 1111 all rode neare1 to him.

\Vhen \1 1111:1111111 to the two, there was 11111l1y 1.1;ot out to
the small 111111 111 a l: 1111.511 limli ol lh11t,11111111n1l ill: b111u1 got
about half way to him; as soon as the how 11111, outh to
that part 11111111111 the limb of the tree was 111111k11r, " Ila,"

s1ys he to 11s,"11o\\ you see me teaehee the boar dance 1"
so he ialls a jumpingr , and shakim,r the 1111111111, at "hich
the bear began to tot11,t11 but St11111l:till, 111111 began to look
behind him to see how he should get back ; then indeed
we did I11u1.1;h h111u1lily. .llut Friday had not done with him
by a 11r111t deal: when he sees him stand still, he calls out
to him again, as it" he had supposed the bear could speak
English, " What, you no come farther? 1' av you come
farther." So he l1-t'1. jumping and shaking the bough :
and the bear, just as if he had undemtood what he said,
did come a little farther: then 1111 fell a jumping again,
and the bear stopped again.

\Ve thought now was 11 good time to knock him on the
head, and i called to Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot the bear 3 but he cried out earnestly, " 0 pray! 0
pray ! no shot ! Me shoot by and then." He would
have said, " By and by." However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish,
that we had laughing enough indeed, but still could not
imagine what the fellow would do; for first we thought
he depended upon shaking the bear off, and we found the
bear was too cunning for that too ; for he would not go
out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine
what would be the end of it, and where the jest would
be at last.

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for seeing the.
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be
persuaded to come any farther. " Well, well," says Friday,
" you no come farther, me go, me go ; you no come to me,
me come to you." And upon this, he goes out to the
smallest end of the bough, where it should bend with his
his Weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to jump down
on his feet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and
stands still.

" \Vell," said I to him, " Friday, what will you do new?
\Vhy don't you shoot him 2" " No shoot," says Friday,
" not yet, me shoot now, me no kill : me stay ; give you
one more laugh." And indeed so he did, as you will see
presently ; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he
comes back from the bough where he stood 3 looking be-
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the
body of the tree. Then with the same hinder end foremost,
he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and
moving one feet at a time, very leisurely : at this juncture,
and just before he could set his hind feet upon the ground,

"riday stepped close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece into his car, and shot him dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh ;
and when he saw we were pleased by our looks, he falls a
laughing himself very loud. " So we kill bear in my
country," says Friday. ." So you kill them 1" said I;
"why you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun;
but shoot great, much, long arrow."

This was indeed a good diversion to us 3 but we were
still in a wild place, and our guide much hurt, and what
to do we hardly knew : the howling of wolves ran much in22

L3

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01'

my head ,- and indeed, except the noise I once heard on the
shore of Africa, of which I have said something already,
I never heard anything that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or-
else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
was worth saving : but we had three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us ; so we left him, and went forward
on our journey. The ground was still covered with snow,
though not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains ;
and the ravenous creatiu'es, as we heard afterward, were
come down into the forest and plain countr ', pressed by
hunger to seek for food; and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country
people, killed a. great many of their sheep and horses, and
some people too.

we had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide
told us, if there were any more wolves in the country, we
should find them there ; and this was a small plain, sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long, narrow
defile or lane, which we were to pass, to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we
were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset, when we entered
the first wood; and a little after sunset, when we came
into the plain. "'e met with nothing in the first wood
except that, in a little plain, within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves
cross the road, full speed, one after another, as if they had
been in chase of some prey, and had it in view. They
took no notice of us, and wore gone, and out of our sight
in a few moments.

Upon this, our guide, who, by the wa , was a wretched
faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a ready posture ; for
he believed there were more wolves a coming.

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but
we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a league, and entered the plain. As
soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to.
look about us. The first object we met with was a dead
horse ; that is to say, a poor horse which tne wolves had
killed, and at least a dozen of them at work ; we could not.
say, eating of him, but picking of his bones rather, for,
they had eaten up all the flesh before.

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would.
have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any
means: for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. \V0 were not
gone half over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves
howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner ; and,
presently, after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly
towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line as
regular as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I
scarce knew in what manner to receive them, but found to
draw ourselves in a close line was the only way. So we
formed in a moment. But that we might not have too
much interval, 1 ordered that only every other man should
fire, and that the others, who had not fired, should stand
ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they
continued to advance upon us ; and that then those who
had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusils
again, but stand ready with every one a pistol ; for We
were all armed with a fusil, and a pair of pistols each man:
so we were by this method able to fire six volleys, half of
us at a time. However, at present, we had no necessity;
for, upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full
stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire,
four of them being shot into the head, dropped; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could
see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not
immediately retreat ; whereupon remembering that I had
been told, that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the
voice of aman, I caused all our company to halloo as loud.
as we could : and I found the notion not altogether mis-
taken, for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn
about ; then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their
rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they went
to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces
again, and that we might lose 'no time, we kept going ;
but we had but little more than loaded our fusils, and
put ourselves into a r aadiness, when we. heard a terrible
noise in the. same wood on our left; only that it was
farther onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was eoming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it the worse on our side ; but the noise
increasing, we wouhl alsily poreeive that it was the
bowling and yelling of those hellish er'atures ; and, on a,
sudden, we pereeired two or three troops of Wolves, one,
on our left, one behind us, and one on our front: so that
we seemed to be surrounded with them. However, as
they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward as last
as we. eould make our horses go, which, the way being
very rough, was only a good large trot, and in this manner
we only came. in View of the entranee ol' the wood, through
which we were to pass, at the fart-her side of the. plain :
but we were greatly surprisml, when, coming near the. lane.
01' pass, we. saw a eonl'used number of wolves :'stamlingr
just at the entrain-e.

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard
the noise of a gun ; and, looking that way, out rushed '
horse with a saddle. and bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen \rolres al'l-ei him, full
speed. lndeed, the. horse. had thelu-els of them ; but, as
we supposed, that he could not hold it at that rate, we.
doubted not but they would get up with him at last, and
no question but they did.

llere we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to
the entrance. where. the horse came out, we found the
carcase of another horse, and of two men devoured by the.
ravenous creatures, and one of the men was no doubt the.
same whom we. heard lire the gun, for there lay a gun just
by him tired oll'; but, as to the man, his head, and the.
upper part of his body were eaten up. This lilled us
with horror, and we knew not what course to take; but
the Creatures soon resolved us, for they gathered about us,
in hopes of prey ; and Iverily believe there. were hundreds
of them. It happened very much to our :ulrantage, that
at the entrain-e into the wood, but a little. way from it,
there lay some large timber trees, which had been outFight with the Wolves.
down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for

carriage,I I d1ew my little troop in among these trees, and
placing ourselves in a line, behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and, keeping that two Dbefere us, for a
breastwork, to stand 111 a triangle or three fronts s, enclosing
our horses in the centre.

We did so; and it was well we did, for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in
this place : they came e11 us with a growling kind of noise,
and mounted the piece of timber (which, as I said, was
our breastwer c), as if they were only rushing upon their
prey: and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which
was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire as
before, way other man ; and they took their aim so sure,
that indeed they killed several of the wolves at the first
volley; but there was a necessity to keep a continual
firing, for they came 011 like devils, those behind pushing
on these before.

\Vhen we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for others came
forward again : so we fired two volleys of our pistols, and
I believe in these four firings, we killed seventeen er
eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many: yet they
came 011 again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better
employ ed: for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he
charged my fusil and his own, while we were engaged;
but, as I said, I called my other 111011 , and giving him a
a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the
piece of timber, and let it be a. large train. He did so,
and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came
up to it, and some we re got upon it, when I, snapping an
uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it 011 fire. Those
that We re upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or
seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with
the form and fright of the fire. "'0 dispatched these in
an instant, and the rest were so frighted with the light

Q
which the night, for now it was very dark, made more
terrible, that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fire off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near
twenty lame ones, which we found struggling on the
ground, and fell a cutting them with our swords, which
answered our expectation; for the crying and howling
they made were better understood by their fellows, so that
they all fled, and left us.

\Ve had, first and last, killed about threescore of them;
and had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again,
for we had still near a league to go. \Ve heard the
ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we
went, several times; and sometimes we fancied we saw
some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were
not certain : so in about an hour or more, we came to the
town, where we were to lodge, which we found in a ter-
rible fright, and all in arms 5 for it seems that, the night
before, the wolves and some bears had broken into the
village, and put them in a terrible fright ; and they were
obliged to keep guard, night and day, but especially
in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed their
people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he-
could go no farther 5 so we were obliged to take another
guide there, and go to Thoulousc, where we found a warm
climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, or anything like them. But when we told our
story at Thoulousc, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest, at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground. But
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten,
that would venture to bring us that way in such a severe.
season; and told us it was very much we were not all
devoured ; when we told them how we had placed ourselves,
and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly,
and told us it was fifty to one we had been all destroyed ;for it was the sight of the horses that made the wolves so
furious, seeing their prey, and that at other times they
are really afraid of a gun 3 but they being excessive
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to
come at the horses had made them senseless of danger 3
and that if we had not by the continued fire, and at last
by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them,
it had been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces,
whereas had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own, when men were on
their backs, as otherwise 3 and, withal, they told us, that
at last, if we had stood all together, and left our horses,
they would have been so eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come off safe, especially having our
firearms in our hands, and being so many in number.

For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my
life3 for seeing above three hundred devils come roaring
and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to
shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost 3 and,
as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those mouni
tains again : I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm
once a-week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my pas-
sage through France 3 nothing but what other travellers
have given an account of, with much more advantage than
I can. I travelled from Thoulouse to Paris, and, without
any considerable stay, came to Calias, and landed safe at
Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having had a severe
cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had,
in a little time, all my new-discovered estate safe about
me 3 the bills of exchange which I brought with me having
been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy-counsellor was my good,
ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had
sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to
employ for me 3 and I trusted her so entirely with every-
thing, that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my
eti'ects : and indeed l' was very happy from my beginning,
and now to the. end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
gentlmvoman.

And now I began to think of leaving my ell'eets with
this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the
lirazils. But now another seruple. came in my way, and
that was religion; for as I had entertained some doubts
about the Roman religion, even while .l was abroad, espe-
eially in my state of solitude: so I knew there. was no
going to the li 'azils for me, much less going to settle there,
unless I resolved to embrace. the Roman ('atholie religion,
without any reserve ; exeept on the other hand, I resolved
to be a. saeriliee to my principles, be. a martyr for religion,
and die in the lmplisition : so I resolved to stay at home,
and it' I could find means for it, to dispose of my planta-
t-ion.

To this purpose l wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who, in return, gave me notice, that he. could easily dis-
pose of it there; but that, it' I thought lit to give him
leave to otl'er it in my name to the two merchants, the sur-
vivors of my trustees, who lived in the lh'azils, Who must
fully understand the value of it, who lived just upon the
spot, and whom I' knew to be very rich, so that he be-
lieved they would be fond of buyinsr it ; he did not doubt,
but I should make four or five thousand pieces of eight
the more of it. -

.-\eeordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did so 5 and in about eight months more, the
ship being then returned, he sent me an account, that they
had aceepted the oller, and had remitted thirty-three.
thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at
Itisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the. instrument of sale in the form
which they sent me from Lisbon, and sent it to my old
man, who sent me bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand
eight hundred pieces of eight, for the estate, reserving the
payment of one. hundred moidores a year to him, the old
man, during his life, and fifty moidores afterward to his
son for his life, which I had promised them ; and which
the plantation was to make good as rent charge.
And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune
and adventure, a life of Providence's checker-work, and
of a variety which the world will seldom be able to show
the like 01'. Beginning foolishly, but closing much more
happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as
to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards ; and
so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had occurred:
but I was inured to a wandering life, had no family, nor
many relations, nor however rich, had I contracted much
acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the
Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out of my head,
and had a great mind to be upon the wing again; espe-
cially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to
see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in
being there, and how the rogues I had left there had used
them.

My true friend the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven
years she prevented my running abroad: during which
time I took my two nephews, the children of one of my
brothers into my care. The eldest having something of
his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settle-
ment of some addition to his estate after my decease : the
other 1 put out to a captain of a ship ; and after five years,
finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea. And this
young fellow afterward drew me in, as old as I was, to
farther adventures myself.

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here : for first
of all I married, and that not either to my disadvantage
or dissatisfaction; and had three children, two sons and
one daughter. But my wife dying, and my nephew coming
home, with good success, from a voyage to Spain, my in-
clination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed,
and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader, to
the East Indies. This was in the year 1694.

In this voyage, I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors, the Spaniards ; had the whole story of
their lives, and of the. villains I left there; how at first
they insulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards where, obliged to use violence with them ; how
they were sulrieeted to the Spaniards; how honestly the
Spaniards used them ; a histor ', if it were entered into, as
full of variety and wonderful accidents, as my own part :
particularly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans,
who landed several times upon the island itself : and how
three of them made an attempt upon the main land, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by
which, at my coming, I found about twenty young children
on the. island.

lIere. l stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot,
clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought from
ll'lngland with me, viz. a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respectiVely as they agreed on ; and having
settled all things with them, and engaged them not to
leave the place, 1 left them there.

From thence. I touched at the lh'azils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people to the
island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the English-
men, l promised to send them some women from England,
with a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply them-
selves to planting, which I afterwards could not perform.
The fellows proved very honest and diligent, after they
were mastered, and had their properties set apart for them
I sent them also from the Brazils five cows, three of them
being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which,
when I came again, were considerably increased.

All these things, with some ver ' surprising incidents, in
some new adventures, of my own, for ten years more, I
may, perhaps, give a further account of hereafter.ran
SECON D PART
or

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

THAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions in Eng-
land, viz., that " What is bred in the bone will not go
out of the flesh," was never more verified than in the story
of my life. After thirty-five years affliction, and a variety
of unhappy circumstances, which few men ever went
through before, and after nearly seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the fulness of all things, anyone would
think that my native propensity to rambling, which I gave
an account of in my first setting out into the world,
would be worn out, and I might at sixty-one years of age
have been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done
venturing life and fortune any more.

The common motive of foreign adventures was taken
away in me; I had no fortune to make, I had nothing to
seek. Yet this had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad
again, which hung about me like a chronic distemper:
particularly the desire of seeing my new plantation in the

island, and the colony I left there, run in my,head contis
nually.

We set out the fifth of February, and had a very fair

gale of wind for some days. I should trouble nobody
with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c.,

on our voyage ; but, shall observe that I came to my old
habitation, the island, on the 10th of April, 1695.

As soon as I saw the place I called for Friday, and
asked him if he knew where he was. He looked about a
little, and presently, clapping his hands, cried, " O yeS!
0 there! 0 yes! 0 there .1" pointing to our old habita-
tion, and fell a dancing and a eapering like a mad fellow ;
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the-
sea to swim ashore to the place.

"\Vell, Friday, " said I, "do you think we shall find'
anybody l1e1e or no? And what do you think, shall we
see. 111111 father ?" 'lhe fellow stood mute as a stock a
wood 11 hile, 1 but when I named his father, the poor alloc-
tion: 11.11 cieature looked dejected ; and I could see the tears
run down his face very plentifully. "What is the, matter,
Friday ?" said I. " Are you troubled because you may
see. your father?" " N o, no," says he, shaking his head,
" no see him more ; no ever more see again !" " Why so,"
said I, " Friday, how do you know that l" " 0 no, 110,"
'says l1'riday; "he long ago die, long ago; he much old
man." "\Vell, well," said 1, "Friday, you don't know.
But shall we see anyone else then P" The fellow, it seems,
had better eyes than I, and he points just to the hill
above my old house ; and though we lay half a league 011',
he cries out, " Me see! me see! yes, yes ; me see much
men there, and there, and there !" I looked, but I could
see nobody, no, not with a perspective glaSs, which was, I
suppose, because I could not hit the place ; for the fellow
was right, as Ifound upon inquiry the next day: and
there new live 01 six men altogether stood to look at the
ship, not kno11 1111r "hat to think of us.

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused
the English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns to
give them not-ice 110 were friends , and about half a
quarter of an hour after we perceived a smoke rise fiom
the side of the creek. So I innnediately ordered a be 1t
out, taking Friday with me; and hanging out a white
flag, or flag of truce, I went directly 011 shore, taking with
me the young friar mentioned, to whom I had told the
old story of my living there, and the manner of it, and
every particular both of myself ' and those that I left there ;
and who was, on that account, extremely desirous to go
with me. We had, besides, about sixteen men very well
armed if we had found any new guests there which we
did not know of ; but we had no need of weapons.

As we went 011 shore upon the tide of flood, near high
water, we rowed directly into the creek ; and the first
man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I
had saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly well ;
as to his habit I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered
nobody to go on shore at- first but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat; for the affectionate crea'
ture had spied his father at a distance a good way off of
the Spaniards, where, indeed, I saw nothing of him; and
if they had not let him go on shore he would have jumped
into the sea. He was no sooner on shore but he flew'
away to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him,.
stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down
under a tree, and lay down by. him ; then stood and'
looked at him as anyone would look at a strange picture
for a quarter of an hour together; then lay down upon:
the ground and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and
then got up again and stared at him: one would have
thought the fellow bewitched.

It would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The
first Spaniard whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he
whose life 1 had saved 5 he came towards the boat, at-
tended by one more, carrying a flag of truce also ; and he
did not only not know me at first, but he had no thoughts,
no notion, of its being me that was come till I spoke to
him, " Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know
me '1" At which he spoke not a word; but giving his
musket to the man that was with him, he threw his arms
abroad, and saying something in Spanish that I did not
perfectly hear, came forward and embraced me, telling me
that he was inexcusable not to know that face again that
he had once seen, as of an angel from heaven sent to save
his life. He said abiuidance of very handsome things, as
a well-bred Spaniard always knows how, and then
beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go
and call out his comrades. He then asked me if I would
walk to my old habitation, where he would give me pos~
session of my own house again, and where I should see
there had been but mean improvements. So I walked
along with him; but, alas! I could no more find the2'34 Lll-'E asp anvnxrunns or

place again than if I had never been there: for they had
planted so many trees, and placed them in such a pasture
so thick and close to one another ; and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was in-
accessible, except by such windings and blind ways, as
they themselves only who made them could find.

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications.
He told me 1 would say there was need enough of it,
when they had given me an account how they had passed
their time since their arriving in the island, especially after
they had the misfortune to tind I was gone. lle told me
he could not but have some satistaction in my good for.
tune when he heard that l was gone in a good ship, and
to my satisfaction ; aml that he had oftentimes a strong
persuasion that one time or other he should see me again.
But nothing that eVer befel him in his life, he said, was
so surprising and atllicting to him at first as the disap-
pointment he was under when he came back to the island
and found I was not there.

As to the three barlmrians (so he called them) that were
left behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to
tell me, the Spaniards all thought themselves much better
.among the savages, only that their number was so small.
"And," says he, " had they been strong enough we had
been all long ago in purgatory ;" and with that he crossed
himself upon the breast. But, sir," says he, " I hope you
will not be displeased when 1 shall tell you how, forced
by necessity, we Were obliged, for our own preservation, to
disarm them and make them our subjects, who would not
be content with being nnnleratcly our masters, but would
be our murderers." I answered, I was heartily afraid of
it when I left them there ; and nothing troubled me at
my parting from the island, but that they were not come
back that I might have put them in possession of ever -
thing first, and left the other in a state of subjection as
they deserved. Ilut if they had reduced them to it I was
very glad, and should be very far from finding any fault
with it; for I knew they were a parcel of refractor , un-
;governable villains, and were fit for any manner of
mischief.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has so
many incidents which the former part of my relation will
help to understand, that I cannot but commit them with
great delight to the reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the
first poison, but shall collect the facts historically, as near
as I can gather them out of my 1nemo1y, from what they
related to 111e, and (10111 what I met with 1n my conversing
with them, and with the place.

It 1s necess'n y to lepeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued
from the savages ; I say, I had sent them away, in a large
canoe, to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the
Spaniards companions whom he had left behind him, in
order to save them from the like calamity that he had been
in ; and in order to succour them for the present, and
that, if possible, we might together find some way for our
deliverance afterward.

\Vhen I sent them away, I had no visible appearance
of, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance any
moie than I had twenty years before, and it could not but
be a vo1 y g1eat su1piise to them, when they came back,
not only to lind that I uas gone, but to find three strangers
left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behindo me,
which would otherwise In re been their own.

The first thing, however, I desired the Spaniard would
give me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them
ove1. lie told me that nothing rc111a1kablc happened to
them 011 the way, they having very calm weather, and a
smooth sea. F or his countrymen, it would not be doubted,
he said, but that they u em or erjoyed to see him. ' (it
seems, he was the principal man among them, the captain
of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in, having been
dead some time.) They were, he said, the more surprised
to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of savages, who, theywere satisfied, would devour
him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners: that when
he told them the story of his deliverance, and in what236 IJl-'B axe avvexrunes or

manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was
like a dream to them ; and their astonishment, they said,
was something like that of Joseph's brethren, when he
told them who he was, and told them' the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court. But when he shewed them
the arms, the powder, the hall, and the provisions, that he
brought them for their journey, or voyage, they were re-
stored to themselves, took a just share of the joy of their
deliverance, and immediately prepared to come away with
him. Their lirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part of it, hut to trespass upon their friendly savages, and
to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of
going out a fishing, or for pleasure.

In these they came. away the next. morning. It seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had
no baggage, neither clothes, nor provisions, nor any thing
in the world, but what they had on them, and a few roots
to eat, of which they used to make their brvad.

They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time,
nnluckily for them, I had the occasion oll'ered for my
escape, as l mentioned in my other part, and to get oll'
from the island, leaving three of the most impudent,
hardened, nngovernahle, disagreeable villains hehind me,
that any man could desire to meet with ; to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you may be
sure.

The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when the
Spaniards came on shore they gave my letter to them, and
gave them provisions, and other r rliel', as I had ordered
them to do. Also they gave them the long paper of direc-
tions, which I had left with them, containing the particu-
lar methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there, the way I baked my bread, bred up my tame
goats, and planted my corn ; how I cured my g apes, made
my pets, and, in a word, every thing I did. All this being
written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom
understood English well enough. Nor did they refuse to
accommodate the Spaniards with any thing else, for they
agreed very well for some time : they gave them an equal
admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live
Very sociably ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty
much of my methods, and Friday's father together,
managed all their affairs ; for, as for the Englishmen, they
did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and
catch tortoises ; and when they came home at night, the
Spaniards provided their suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would
the others but have let them alone, which, however, they
could not find in their hearts to do long : but, like the dog
in the m. nger, they would not eat themselves, and would
not let others eat neither. The differences, nevertheless,
were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth rela-
ting ; but at last it broke out into open war, and it began
with all the rudeness and insolencc that can be imagined,
without reason, without provocation, contrary to nature,
and indeed, to common sense 3 and though it is true, the
first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves,
whom I may call the accuscrs, yet when I came to examine
the fellows, they could not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation 3 and this was, that
I forgot to set down among the rest, that, just as we were
weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a little
quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid once would
turn to a second mutiny ; nor was it appeased, till the
captain rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his
assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons;
_' and as they had been active in' the former disorders, and
'. let fall some ugly, dangerousavords the second time, he
threatened to carry them in irons to England, and have
" them hanged there for mutiny and running away with the
I ship.
: This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do
it, frighted some other menin the ship; and some of them
: had put it into the heads of the rest, that the captain only

gave them good words for the present, till they should
come to some English port ; and that then they should all
be put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate. got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it ; upon which it was desired, that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down with
the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them, that they
might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the
voyage, all they had done in the past should be pardoned.
So ] went, and, after passing " my honour's word " to
them, they appearml easy, and the more so, when I caused.
the two men, who were in irons, to be released aml
forgiven.

lint this mutiny had brought us to anchor for that night,
the wind also falling ealm. Next morning we found that
our two men, who had been laid in irons, had stole each of
them a musket, and some. other weapons : what powder or
shot they had, we. knew not ; and had taken the ship's
pinnaee, which was not yet hauled up, and run away with
her to their companions in roguery on shore.

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues ; but they could neither find
them, nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was
once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed
their plantations, burnt all their household stuff and furni-
tur>>, and left them to shift without it : but having no
order, he let all alone, left every thing as he found it, and
bringing the, pinnaee away, came on board without them.

These two men made their number five ; but the other
three villains were so much wickeder than these, that,
after they had been two or three days together, they turned
their two new comers out of doors to shift for themselves,
and would have nothing to do with them, nor could they,
for a good while, be persuaded to give them any food ; as
for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

\Vhen the Spaniards came first on shore, the business
began to go forward : the Spaniards would have persuaded
the three English brutes to have taken in their two coun-
trymen again, that, as they said, they might be all one
family ; but they would not hear of it. So the two poor-
fellows lived by themselves, and, finding nothing but
industry and application would make them live comfortably,
they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island,
but a little more to the west, to be out of the danger of

the savages, who always landed on the cast parts of the
island.

Here they built them two huts ; one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their magazines and stores in: and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and
especially some of the peas which I had left them, they
dug, they planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well. The first
crop of corn was on the ground 3 and though it was but a
little hit of land which they had dug up at first, having
had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them,
and find them with bread, and other catables : and one of
the fellows, being the cook's mate of the ship, was very
ready at making soup, puddings, and such other prepara-
tions as the rice, and the milk, and such little flesh as-
thcy had got, furnished him to do.

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in
mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them,
and told them the island was theirs ; that the governor,
meaning me, had given them possession of it, and nobody
else had any right to it : and that they should build no
houses upon their ground, unless they would pay them
rent for them.

The two men thought they jested at first, and asked
them to come and sit down, and see what fine houses they
were that they had built, and tell them what rent they
demanded. And one of them merrily told them, if they
'. were ground landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements
1 upon the land, and made improvements, they would,
according to the custom of all landlords, grant them along
lease; and bade them go fetch a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the three told them, they should see
they were not in jest ; and going to a little place at a dis--
tance, where the honest men had made afire to dress their
victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps .it to the out side
of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire 3 and it would
have been all burnt down in a few minutes, if one of the
two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod
the fire out with his feet, and that not without some
difficulty too.

The. fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand 5 and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they were
both in, ran in after him, and innnediately they came both
out with their muskcts ; and the man that was lirst struck
at with the pole, knocked the fellow down who began
the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that before.
the other two could come. to help him ; and then seeing
the rest come at them, they stood together, and presenting
the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them stand
off.

The others had firearms with them too ; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they altered to move
hand or foot, they were all dead men ; and boldly com-
manded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms 3 but seeing him so resolute,
it brought them to a parley, and they consented to take
their wounded man with them, and be gone : and, indeed, /
it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the
blow. However, they were much in the wrong, since they
had the advantage, that they did not disarm them
effectually, as they might have done, and have gone
immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an account
how the rogues had treated them ; for the three villains
studied nothing but revenge.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser g;
part of their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, :
shooting three young kids, and a she-goat, which the poor 3
men had got to breed up tame for their store ; and, in a
word, plaguing them night and day in this manner: it
forced the two men to such a desperation, that they -
resolved to fight them all three the first time they had a .i
fair opportunity. In order to do this, they resolved to en g:
i

D
 

ROBINSON causes. 241

to the castle, as they called it, that was my old dwelling,
where the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together
at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the
Spaniards should stand by to see fair play. So they got
up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and
called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard
that answered, that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two English-
men, whom, 'for distinction, I call the honest men; and
he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of the bar-
barous usage they had met with from their three country-
men, and ohow they had ruined their plantation, and
destroyed their corn, that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance ;
and that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did
not assist them again, they should be starved. \Vhen the

Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at supper,

he took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in gentle and manner-1y terms, and asked them,
110w they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive
fellows ; and that they were putting themselves in a way
to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a
great deal of pains to bring things to such a perfection as
they had.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, what had

' dthey to do them: that they came on shore without leave,
,- and that they should not plant or build upon the island,

3} it was none of their ground. "W'hy," says the Spaniard
very calmly, " Seignior Inglese, they must not starve."
; The Englishman replied, like a true rough-- hewn tarpaulin,
; they might starve, but they should not build nor plant in
j that place. "But what must they do then, seignior 2"

says the Spaniard. Another of the brutes 1eturned, D0. 1

'j curse them, they should be ser,vants and work for them.
1. " Lut how can you expect that of them? They are not
bought with your money : you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered, the island
was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and no man

R
had any thing to do there but themselves 3 and with that
swore by his Maker, that they would go and burn all their
new huts : they should build none upon their land.

" \Vhy, seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule,
we must be your servants too." " Aye," says the hold
dog, "and so you shall too, before we hare done with
you." The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him
no answer. However, this little discourse had heated
them ; and starting up, one says to the other, 1 think it
was he they called Will Atkins, " Come, Jack, let us go
and have t'other brush with them; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you 5 they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."

Upon this, they went all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, of what they \vould do
to the Spaniards too, when opportunity offered. llut the
Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them,
as to know all the particulars ; only that, in general, they
threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmcn's
part.

\Vhither they went, or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said they did not know ; but
it seems they wandered about the countr , part of the
night, and then lying down in the place which I used to
call my bower, they were weary, and over-slept themselves.
The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight,
and so take the poor men when they were asleep ; and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set tire to their
hats, while they were in them, and either burn them in
them, or murder them as they came out.

However, as the two men had also a design upon them,
as l have said, though a much fairer one than that of
burning and nnn'dering, it happened, and very luckily for
them all, that they were up and gone abroad, before the
bloody-minded rogues came to their huts. ~When they
eame thither, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades,
" lla ! Jack, here's the nest ; but, curse them, the birds
are flown." They mused awhile to think what should be
the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and sug-
gested presently that the Spaniards had given them notice
of it 3 and with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another, that they would be revenged on the Spaniards.
As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell
to work with the poor men's habitation. They did not
indeed set fire to any thing, but they pulled down both
their houses ; and pulled them so limb from limb that
they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on
the ground where they stood. They tore all their little
collected household stuff in pieces, and threw every thing
about in such a manner, that the poor men found, after-
wards, some of their things a mile elf from their habitation.
\Vhen they had done this, they pulled up all the young
trees which the poor men had planted: pulled up the
enclosure they had made to secure their cattle and corn ;
and, in a word, sacked and plundered every thing as com-
pletely as a horde of Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them
out, and had resolved to fight them wherever they had
been, though they were but two to three: so that, had
they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed
among them ; for they were all very stout, resolute fellows,
to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder
than they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they
had dogged one another, when the three were gone thither,
the two were here 5 and afterwards when the two went
back to find them, the three were come to the old habita-
tion again ; we shall see their difi'ering conduct presently.
\Vhen the three came back, like furious creatures, flushed
with the rage which the work they had been about had
put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done by way of scoff and bravado ;
and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as
if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of
his hat, as it was upon his head ; and giving it a twirl
about, flooring in his face, says he to him, "And you,
seignior J aek Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you
do 11111 mond you manners." The Spaniard, who, though.
:1 qui11, 1:11 il in: 111, was as h avc as a man could he desired
to ho, 111111 11' 1111: 11 :1 show; 11111111111111: man, lookod sto 1d1ly
:11 hiin, l'or :1 good while. ;. and thou, ha1ing no 11' 1apon in
his hand. s1oppod gravoly 11p to him, and, with one. hlow
(11' his list. 11111111111111 him down, :s :111 ox is t'ellod with a.
poloaxo ; at which one. of tho rogues, insolont as the first,
tired his pistol at the Spaniard ilmnediatoly. He missed
his 111-111'. indeed, l'or tho hullots went through his hair ;
but one ol' them touohod the tip of his oar, and he hlod
p1-1111_1'1nu1-h. '_l'l1o 111110111111111111111' Spaniard holio1'o. he
was more hnrl than he really was, :11111 that put him into
some 111-:11, l'or 111-fore. ho aotod all in :1 porl'oot 11111111 ; hut,
now resolving to 1111 through with his work, he s11,1opod
and 1111111 tho 1'1llo11"s musket 111111111 ho had 11111111111111101111,
:11111 was just going to shoot the man who had tired at
him. when tho rest ot' the Spaniards being in tho 1-a1'e,
oamo out. and, oalling to him not 1.11 shoot, they stopped
in, soourod tho other two, and took thoi ' arms from them.

"'hen they were thus disarmod, and found they had
made all tho Spaniards their enomior, as well as their own
oounlrynion, they hogan to cool, :11111 giving tho Spaniards
hotter words, would have had their arms again ; hut tho
Spaniards, oonsidoring tho 1'1-1111 that was between them.
and 1111- other two linglislnnen. and that it would he tho
host method they oould take, to keep them from one
another. told them 1.11111'11'11111111111 them harm ; and it' they
would live poaooahly, they would he Very willing to assist
:11111 assooiato with them, as tho1' did before; hat that
they 1onld not think ot giving them 1111 11 anus again,
11hilo 11111 ap poaled so resol11d to do mis1hi1t' with them

In tho 1r 111111 11111111111111111, and had e1 e11 llueatoned them
all to 111111111 them their servants.

'l'ho rogues were not more oapahlo to hear reason, than
to :11-1 reason : and, hoing rol'usod their arms, they went
raving away, and raging like, madmon. threatening what
they would do, though they had no lire-arms. But the
Spaniards. dospising their threatening. told them, they
should 1al1o oare. how they ottered any injury to their
plantation or oattlo; for it' they did, they would shoot.
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they
found them : and if they fell into their hands alive, they
would certainly be hanged. However, this was far from
cooling them ; but away they went raging and swearing,
like furies of hell. As soon as they were gone, came back
the two men in a passion and rage enough also, though of
another kind: for having been at their plantation, and
'linding it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it will
easily be supposed they had provocation enough; they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards
were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find, that three men should thus bully nineteen,
and receive no punishment at all.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and, especially
having thus dis: rmed them, made light of their threaten-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out.

.But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them,
that as they were already disarmed, they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with lire-arms,
and perhaps kill them. " lint," said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, " we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for as
there is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a full satisfaction for you 3 and,
upon this condition, we hOpe you will promise to use no
violence with them other than in your own defence."

The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance ; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last : " for," said they, " we are not so
many of us: here is room enough for us all, and it is great
.pity we should not be all good friends." At length they
did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living
for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.

In about five days' time, the three vagrants, tired with
wandering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly
lived on turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the
grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as I have said,
was the governor, and two more with them, walking by
the side of the creek : they came up in a very submissive,
humble manner, and begged to be received again into the
family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them,
they had acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and
SO very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that they could
not come to any conclusion without consulting the two
Englishmen, and the rest. But, however, they would go
to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in
half an hour. It may be guessed, that they were very
hard put to it; for, it seems, as they were to wait this
half hour for an answer, they begged they would send
them out some bread in the meantime : which they did,
and sent them at the same time, a large piece of goat's
flesh, and a broiled parrot, which they eat very heartily,
for they were hungry enough.

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in,
and a long debate had . bout them, their two countrymen
charging them with the ruin of all their labour, and a
design to murder them : all which they owned before,
and therefor" could not deny now. Upon the whole, the
Spaniards acted the moderators between them; and as
they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the
three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts,
one to be of the same dimensions, and the other larger
than before ; also to fence their ground again, where they
had pulled up the fences, plant trees in the room of those
pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where
they had spoiled it 3 and, in a word, to restore everything
in the same state as they found it as near as they could ;
for entirely it could not be, the season for the corn,
and the growth of the trees and hedges not being possible
to be recovered.

\l'ell, they submitted to all this ; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they grew
very orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly
and agreeably together again: only that these three
fellows could never be persuaded to work 3 I mean, for
themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased. However, the Spaniards told them plainly, that
if they would but live sociably and friendly together, and
study, in the whole, the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased: and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the
Spaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them
liberty to go abroad with them as before.

It was not above a week after they had these arms and
went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be
insolent and troublesome as before. But, however, an
accident happening presently upon this, which endangered
the safety of them all, they were obliged to lay by all
private rcsentmcnts, and look to the preservation of
their lives.

It happened one night that two Spaniards went out to
go to the top of the hill, where I used to go: but they,
being strong, and in good company, not alone as I was,
used none of my cautions, to go by the ladder, and then
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the
top, but were going round their grove, unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised at seeing a light, as of
fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing the voices
of men, not of one or two, but of a great number.

'Vc need not doubt, but that the Spaniards surprised
with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their
fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger
they were all in; and they again as readily took the
alarm ; but it was impossible to persuade them to stay
close within where they were, but that they must run all
out to see how things stood.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at the
sight; and as they found that the fellows ran straggling all
over the shore, they made no doubt, but, first or last, some
of them would chop in upon their habitation, or upon
some other place, where they would see the tokens of in-
habitants ; and they were in great perplexity also for fear
of their fleck of goats, which would have been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed ;
so the first thing they resolved upon was to despateh three
men away, before it was light, viz. two Spaniards and one
Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great
valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to drive
them into the very cave itself.

After having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
present circumstances, they resolved at last, while it was
dark, to send the old savage (Friday's father) out as a
spy, to learn, if possible, something concerning them, as
what they came for, and what they intended to do and
the like. The old man readily undertook it, and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he
went. After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings
word, that he had been among them undiscovered, that he
found they were two parties, and of two several nations,
who had war with one another, and had had a great battle
in their own country, and that both sides having had sc-
veral prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by more
chance, landed in the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners, and making merry: but their coming so by
chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth 3 that
they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near
that he believed they would fight again, as soon as day-
light began to appear : but he did not perceive that they
had any notion of any body's being on the island but
themselves. lie had hardly made an end of telling the
story of all he had seen, when they could perceive by the
the unusual noise they made, that the two little armies
had actually connnenced hostilities, and were engaged in a
bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the argiunents he could to per-
suade our people to lie close, and not be seen. He told
them their safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing
to do but to lie still, and the savages -would kill one
another to their hands, and then the rest would go away.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the En-
glishmen 3 their curiosity was so great that they must run
out and see the battle. However, they used some caution
too, viz. they did not go openly, just by their own dwel-
ling, but went farther into the woods, and placed them-
selves to advantage where they might securely see them
manage the fight, and, as they thought, not to be seen by
them 5 but, it seems, the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said, he could perceive that some
of them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits,
and of great policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they
said, held two hours, before they could guess which party
would be beaten ; but then that party which was nearest
our people's habitation began to appear weakest, and, after
some time more, some of them began to fly; and this put
our men again into a great consternation, lest any of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling,
for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place ;
.and that, by consequence, the pursuers should do the like
in search for them. Upon this, they resolved that they
would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove they should sally out over the wall, and
kill them ; so that, if possible, not one should return to
give an account of it : they ordered also, that it should be
done with their swords, or by knocking them down with
the stock of the musket, not by shooting them, for fear of
raising an alarm by the noise.

As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army
fled for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the
place, not in the least knowing whither they went, but
running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout they
kept to look abroad, gave notice of this within, with this
addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz., that the
conquerors had not pursued them, nor seen which way
they were gone. Upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man
of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the three fugi-
tives ; but, sending three men out by the top of the hill,
ordered them to go round, and come in behind them, sur-
prise, and take them prisoners, which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and
got oil' to sea; the victors retired, and made no pursuit,
or very little, but drawing themselves into a body
together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they
supposed was by way of triumph ; and so the fight ended.
And the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon,
they also marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards
had their island again free to themselves 2 their fright was
over, and they saw no savages in several years after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and viewing the field of battle, they found
about two-aml-thirty dead men upon the spot : some were
killed with great long arrows, several of which were found
sticking in their bodies; but most of them were killed
with their great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of
which they found in the field of battle, and as many
bows, with a great. many arrows. These swords were
great unwieldy things, and they must be very strong men
that used them. Most of those men that were killed
with them had their heads smashed to pieces, as we may
say 5 or, as we call it in English, their brains knocked
out, and several of their arms and legs broken : so that it
is evident they light with inexpressible rage and fury.
They found not one wounded man that was not stone dead;
for either they stay by their enemy till they have quite
killed him, or they carry all their wounded men, that are
not quite dead, away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
while; the sight had filled them with horror, and the
consequences appeared terrible to the last degree, eSpeeially
upon supposing that some time or other they should fall
into the hands of these creatures, who would not only
kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill
our cattle.

This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I
have been speaking of ; and, for a great while after, they
were very tractable, and went about the common business
of the whole society well enough ; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalized to the country : but some-
time after this they fell all into such measures again as.
brought them into a great deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I have observed ;:
and these three being lusty, stout, young fellows, they
made them servants, and taught them to work for them ;.
and as slaves, they did well enough. But they did not-
' take their measures with them, as I did by my man Fri-
day ; viz., to begin with them upon the principle of having
saved their lives, and then instruct them 1n the rational
principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing and
reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguings::
. but, as they gave ythem their 0food every day, so they gave
, them their work too, and kept them fully employed in
e drudaei y enough: but they failed 111 this by it, that they
' never had them to assist them and fight for them, as I
had my man Friday, who was as true to me as the very'
flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family part: being all now good
, friends (for common danger, as I said above, had effectually
reconciled them), they began to consider their general
circumstances. And the first thing that came under their-
consideration was, whether, seeing the savages particularly
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more
' remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
- of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should
_ not rather remove their habitation, and plant in some
. more proper place for their safety, and especially for the
, security of their cattle and corn.

3 Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded, that-
3, they 1would not remove their habitation, because that some
Etime or other they thought they might hear from their

 

govern01 again, meaning me , and if I should send any
one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on that
side, where, if they should find the place demolished, they
' would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were'
gone , and so our sup ply would go away too.
_ But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley where my cave was, where the land
' was as proper for both, and where indeed there was land
enough. However, upon second thoughts, they altered,
one part of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove
part of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn.-
there ; and so, if one part was destroyed, the other might
be saved. And one piece of prudence they used, which
was very well they did ; viz., that they never trusted those .
three savages, which they had taken prisoners, with know- .
ing any thing of the plantation they had made in that '
valley, or of any cattle they had there; much less of the "
-cavc there, which they kept in case of necessity, as a safe 1
retreat ; and whither they carried also the two barrels of '
powder which I had sent them at my coming away. 3,

But, however, they resolved not to change their habita. i
tion 3 yet they agreed that, as I had carefully covered it i
first with a wall or fortification, and then with a grove of 1
trees 5 so, seeing their safety consisted entirely in their
being concealed, of which they were now fully convinced, .
they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more i;
effectually than before. To this purpose, as I had planted l
trees (or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew to i
be trees) for some good distance before the entrance into
my apartment, they went on in the same manner, and
filled up the rest of that whole space of ground, from the
trees I had set, quite down to the side of the creek, where,
as I said, I landed my floats, and even in the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place
to land, or any sign that there had been any landing there-
.about. These stakes also being of a wood very forward
to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to_ have
:.generally very much larger and taller than those which I
had planted, and placed them so very thick and. close, that
.when they had been three or four years grown, there was
no piercing with the eye any considerable way into the
plantation. As for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh 3 and among
.them they placed so many other short ones, and so thick, '
that, in a word, it stood like a palisado, aquartcr of a mile
.thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but
with a little army, to cut it all down ; for a little dog
could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all the
. ground to the right hand and to the left, and round even
.to the top of the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for
themselves to come out, but by the ladder placed 11p to
the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again,
from the first stage up to the top, which ladder, when it
was taken down, nothing but what had wings or witch--
craft to assist it could come at them.

This was excellently well contrived, nor was it less
than what they afterwards found occasion for. They lived
two years after this in perfect retirement, and had no more
visits from the savages. They had, indeed, an alarm
given them one morning, which put them into a great
consternation 3 for some of the Spaniards being out early
one morning, on the west side, or rather end, of the
island, which, by the way was that end where I never-
went for fear of being discovered, they were surprised
with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians just coming
on shore. They made the best of their way home 3 and
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all
that day and the next, going out only at night, to make
observation. But they had the good luck to be mistaken;
for wherever the savages went, they did not land at that
time, in the island, but pursued some other design.

And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen, one of which, a most turbulent fellow, being in
a rage at one of the three slaves which I mentioned they
had taken, because the fellow had not done something
right which he bade him do, and seemed a little untract--
able in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog belt
in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor
savage, not to coriect him, but to kill him. One of the
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a bar;
barons cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had
cut the poor cieat 110' s arm oil", ran to him, and, entreat-
ing him not to murder the poor man, clapped 111 between
him and the savage to prevent the mischief.

The fellow, eniagcd the more at this, struck at the-
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he 11 ould serve him
as he intended to se1vc the savage, which the Spaniard
pelceiving, avoided the blon, and, with a shovel, I)which
he had 111 his hand (for they were working in the field
about their corn land), knocked the brute down. Another
of the Englishmen running at the same time to help his
comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ; and then two
Spaniards came to help their man, and a third English-
man fell upon them. They had none of them any fire-
arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and other tools,
except this third Englishmen: he had one of my old
rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the last Spaniards
.and wounded them both. This fray set the whole family
in an uproar, and more help coming in, they took the
three Englishmen prisoners. The next question was,
what should be done with them. They had been so often
mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle
withal, that they knew not what course to take with
them; for they were mischievous to the highest degree,
and valued not what hurt they did to any man ; so that,
in short, it was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard, who was governor, told them in so
many words that if they had been his own countrymen he
would have hanged them all ; for all laws and all gover-
nors were to preserve society; and those who were
dangerous to society ought to be expelled out of it: but
as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up and said
they desired it might not be left to them; "For," says
he, " I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows."
And with that he gives an account how "Tilliam Atkins,
one of the three, had proposed to have all the five Eng-
lishmen join together and murder all the Spaniards when
they were in their sleep.

When the Spaniard governor heard this, he calls to
'Will Atkins, " How, seignior Atkins," says he, "would
you murder us all? What have. you to say to that 2"
That hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he
said it was true 3 and G--d d--n him, they would do it
still before they had done with them. "Well, but seig-
nior Atkins," said the Spaniard, "what have we done to
you that you would kill us? and what would you get by
killing us? and what must we do to prevent your killing
us? Must we kill you, or you will kill us? Why will
you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins 1"
says the Spaniard very calmly and smiling.

Seignoir Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was thought
he would have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in
the middle of all the company.

This harebrained carriage obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen
and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of
the opinion that they should hang one of the three for an
example to the rest; and that particularly it should be
he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his
hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received that it was
thought he could not live.

But the governor Spaniard still said, N o, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them : nay, he said, if he had been
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to
speak, it should be that they would pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor
Spaniard that there was no gainsaying it : and as merci-
ful counsels are most apt to prevail where they are so
earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it
was to be considered what should be done to keep them
from doing the mischief they designed, for all agreed,
governor and all, that means were to be used for preserv-
ing the society from danger. After a long debate it was
agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, and not per-
mitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword,
or any weapon 3 and should be turned out of the society
and left to live where they would and how they could, by
themselves: but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or
English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have anything to do with them 5 that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the rest dwelt: and that if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of
the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonging
to the society, that they should die without mercy, and
they should shoot them wherever they could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon
the sentence, considered a little upon it, and turning to
the two honest Englishmen, said, " Hold, you must reflect
that it will be long ere they can raise cattle and corn of
their own, and they must starve : we must, therefore,
allow them provisions." So he caused to be added that
they should have a proportion of corn given them to last
them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time
they might be supposed to raise some of their own 5 that
they should have six milch-goats, four lie-goats, and six
kids given them, as well for present subsistence as for a.
store ; and that they should have tools given them for
their work in the fields ; such as six hatchets, an axe, a
saw, and the like: but they should have none of these
tools, or provisions, unless they would swear solemnly
that they would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards
with them, or of their fellow-Englishmen.

Thus they were dismissed, and turned out to shift for
themselves. Four or five days after, they came for some
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habita-
tion and plantation. It was a very convenient place in-
deed, on the remotest part of the island, NE. much about
the place where I providentially landed in my first voyage
when I was driven out to sea.

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my first habitation,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already on three sides of it, so that by planting
others it would be very easily covered from the sight, un-
less narrowly searched for. They desired some dry goat-
skins for beds and covering, which were given them ; and
upon giving their words that they would not disturb the
rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave them
hatchets, and what other tools they could spare, some
peas, barley, and rice for sowing, and, in a word, anything
they Wanted but arms and ammunition. .

They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had gotten in their first harvest, though the quantity
was but small, the parcel of land they had planted being
-..but little; for, indeed, having all their plantation to
form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands ;
and when they came to make boards, and pots, and such
things, they were quite out of their element, and could
make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came on,
for want of a cave in the earth they could not keep their
grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling. And
this humbled them much ; so they came and begged the
Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did ; and
in four days worked a great hole in the side of a hill for
them, big enough to secure their corn, and other things,
from the rain. But it was but a poor place at best, com-
pared to mine 3 and especially as mine was then, for the
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made several new
apartments in it.

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a
new frolic took these rogues, which, together with the
former villany they had committed, brought mischief
enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of
the whole colony. The three new associates began, it
seems, to' be weary of the laborious life they led, and that
without hope of bettering their circumstances 3 and a
whim took them that they would make a voyage to the
continent from whence the savages came, and would try if
they could not seize upon some prisoners among the
'natives there, and bring them home, so as to make them
do the laborious part of their work for them. The pro-
ject was not so preposterous if they had gone no farther;
but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had
either mischief in the design or mischief in the event.

The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one
morning, and, in very humble terms, desired to be per-

s
mitted to speak with them. The Spaniards very readily
heard what they had to say, which was this : that they
were tired of living in the manner they did; that they
were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted, and that, having no help, they found they should
be starved: but if the Spaniards would give them leave
to take one of the canoes which they came over in, and:
give them arms and ammunition proportioned for their
defence, they would go over to the main, and seek their-
fortune and so deliver them from the trouble of supply-
ing them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them, but
yet very honestly represented to them the certain destruc-
tion they were running into 3 told them they had suffered.
such hardships upon that very spot, that they could,
without any spirit of prophecy, tell them that they would
be starved or murdered ; and bade them consider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if
they stayed here, for they could not work, and would not
work ; that they could but be starved abroad; and if
they were murdered, there was an end of them, they had
no wives nor children to cry after them; and, in short,
insisted importunately upon their demand, declaring that-
they would go, whether they would give them any arms
or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if
they were resolved to go, they should not go naked men,
and be in no condition to defend themselves; and that,
though they could ill spare their fire-arms, having not E
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two :
muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet,
which they thought was sufficient for them.

In a word, they accepted the offer, and having baked
them bread enough to serv e them a month, and given
them as much goat's flesh as they could eat while it was -
sweet, and a g1eat basket full of dried grapes, a pot full of g
fresh w ater, and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly set
out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at
least forty miles bread.

The boat was, indeed, a large one, and would have very

 

i
a
well carried fifteen or twenty men ; and therefore, was
rather too big for them to manage : but as they had a fair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well enough.
They had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four
large goats' skins dried, which they had sewed or laced
together ; and away they went merrily enough. The
Spaniards called after them, " Bon veyajo 3" and no man
ever thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards would often say one to another, and the
two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly
and comfortably they lived, now those three turbulent
fellows were gone. As for their ever coming again, that
was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be
imagined ; when behold, aft-er twenty-two days' absence,
one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his planting
work, sees three strange men coming towards him, at a
distance, two of them with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, and
came frighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and
tells him they were all undone ; for there were strangers
landed upon the island, he could not tell who. The
Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him, " How do you
mean, you cannot tell who? They are savages to be sure."
" N o, no," say the Englishman, " they are men in clothes,
with arms." " Nay then," says the Spaniards, " why are
you concerned? If they are not. savages, they must be
friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth' but
will do us good, rather than harm."

While they were debating thus, came the three English-
men, and, standing without the wood, which was new
planted, hallooed to them. They presently knew their
voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased. But
now the admiration was turned upon another question ;
viz. what could be the matter, and what made them come
back again.

It was not long before they brought the men in, and
inquiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing, they gave them a full accmmt of their voyage in a
few words ; viz. that they reached the land in two days, or
something less 3 but, finding the people alarmed at their
coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to fight
them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the
northward, six or seven hours, till they came to a great
opening, by which they perceived that the land they saw
from our island was not the main, but an island: that,
entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island
on the right hand, north, and several more west : and,
being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one
of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore 3
that they found the people very courteous and friendly to
them, and they gave them several roots, and some dried
fish, and appeared very sociable 3 and the women as well
as the men, were very forward to supply them with any-
thing they could get for them to eat, and brought it to
them a great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days, and inquired as wellas
they could of them, by signs, what nations were this way,
and that way 3 and were told of several fierce and terrible
people, that lived almost every way, who, as they made
known by signs to them, used to eat men 3 but as for
themselves, they said that they never eat men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars 3 and then they
owned that they made a great feast and eat their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that
kind, and they told them two moons ago, pointing to the
moon, and then to two fingers 3 and that their great king
had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in
his war 3 and they were feeding them to make them fat for
the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous
to see those prisoners 3 but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them, to carry
away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them,
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising,
which was to signify that the next morning at sunrising
they would bring some of them 3 and accordingly the next
morning they brought down five women and eleven men,
and gave. them to the Englishmen to carry with them on
their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and
oxen down to a seaport town to victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do : to refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that offered them;
and what to do with them they knew not. However,
upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them 3 and
in return they gave the savages that brought them one of
their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven bullets,
which, though they did not understand, they seemed ex-
tremely pleased with z and then tying the poor creatures'
hands behind them, they (the pleople) dragged the pri-
soners into the boat for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the
donors to dinner.

But, having taken their leave, with all the respects and
thanks that could well pass between people, where, on
either side, they understood not one word the)r could say,
they put off with their boat, and came back towards the
first island, where, when they arrived, they set eight of
their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them'
for their occasion.

. In their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
mimieation with their prisoners, but it was impossible to
make them understand any thing: nothing they could say
to them, or give them, or do for them, but was looked
upon as going about to murder them. They first of all
unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at
their threats 3 for they immediately concluded they were
unbound on purpose to be killed.

If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the same
thing; then they concluded, it was for fear they should
sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was
fattest and fittest to kill first 3 nay, after they had brought
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat
them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.

\Vhen the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history, or journal, of their voyage, the Spaniards
asked them where their new family was ; and, being told
that they had brought them on shore, and put them into
one of their huts, and were come to beg some victuals for
them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen,
that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go down to

the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's father
with them.

7

W hen they came to the hut, there they sat all bound,
and all of them stark naked. First, there were three
men, lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair
limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty, two .
more not above twenty-four or twenty-five, and the fifth a
tall, comely maiden about sixteen or seventeen. The
women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in
shape and features, only tawney; and two of them, had
they been perfect white, would have passed for handsome
women, even in London itself; having very pleasant,
agreeable eountenances, and of a very modest behaviour,
especially when they came afterward to be clothed and
dressed, as they called it, though that dress was very in--
different, it must he confessed 3 of which hereafter.

The sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men
and five naked women all together bound, and in the most
miserable circumstances that human nature could be sup-
posed to be 5 viz. to be expecting every moment to be
dragged out, and have their brains knocked out, and then
be eaten up, like a calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's father, to go in and see if he knew any of them ;
and then, if he understood any of their speech. As soon
as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them, but
he knew none of them: neither could any of them under-
stand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one
of the women.

However, this was enough to answer the end, which
i was to satisfy them, that the men into whose hands they

i were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a joy, and by such awkward and several
ways as is hard to describe ; for it seems they were of
several nations.

The governor, who found that the having women among
them would presently be attended with some inconvenience,
and might occasion strife and perhaps blood, asked the
three men, what they intended to do with these women,
and how they intended to use them, whether as servants
or as women. One of the Englishmen answered very
boldly and readily, that they would use them as both.
To which the governor said, "I am not going to restrain
you from it : you are your own masters as to that; but
this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels
among you, and I desire it of you for that reason only,
that you will all engage, if any of you take any of these
women as a woman, or a wife, he shall take but one ; for
though we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reason-
able, that while you stay here, the woman any of you
takes should be maintained by the man that takes her,
and should be his wife.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they
designed to take any of them; but every one answered
" N 0." Some of them said, they had wives in Spain, and
the others did not like women that were not Christians;
and altogether declared, that they would not touch one of
them, which was an instance of such virtue as I have not
met with in all my travels. On the other hand, to be
short, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife;
that is to say a temporary wife : and so they set up a new
form of living, for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived .
in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceed-
ingly within: the three servants which were taken in the
late battle of the savages, lived with them, and these
carried on the main part of the colony, supplying all the
rest with food, and assisting them in anything as they
could, or as they found necessity required.
But the wonder of this story was how five such refrac--
tory, ill-matched fellows should agree about these women,
and that two of them should not pitch upon the same
woman, especially seeing two or three of them were,
without comparison, more agreeable than the others. But
they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling among
themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut,
and drew lots among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first, went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched
out her he chose : and it was worth observing, that he
that chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest,
and the oldest of the five, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it.
But the fellow considered better than any of them, that it
was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as anything else, and she proved
the best wife in the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row
thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their
condition returned upon them again, and they firmly be-
lieved that they were now going to be devoured. Ac-
cordingly, when the English sailor came in, and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
and hung about her and took their leave of her with such.
agonics, and such affection, as would have grieved the
hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for the
Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be-
immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man,
Friday's father, who instantly let them know that the five

men, who had fetched them out, one by one, had chosen
them for their wives.

When they had done this, and the fright the women-
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and the
Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a few hours,
they had built every one a new hut or tent, for their
lodging apart : for those they had already were crowded
with their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two.Z

 

ROBINSON causes. 265

. honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the
' island; so they continued separate as before. And thus

my island was peopled in three places, and, as I might

. say, three towns were begun to be built.

But now I come to a scene different from all that had

happened before, either to them or to me ; and the original
of the story was this:

Early one morning there came on shore five or six

. canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you please;

and there is no room to doubt that they came upon the.
old errand of feeding upon their slaves. But that part
was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did :
but having been made sensible, by their experience, that
their only business was to lie concealed, and that, if they
were not seen by any of the savages, they would go off
again quietly when their business was done, having as yet
not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in the
island; they had nothing to do but to give notice to all
the three plantations to keep within doors, and not shew
themselves, only placing a scout in a proper place to give
notice when the boats went off to sea again.

After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the
curiosity to go to the place where there had been, to see
what they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise,
they found three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep
upon the ground 3 it was supposed they had either been
so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they
were asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or
they were wandered into the woods, and did not come

3 back in time to be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a less what to do. The Spaniard governor, as
it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked ;
but he professed he knew not what to do : as for slaves,
they had enough already : and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclined to that. The Spaniard go-
vernor told me they could not think of shedding innocent
blood: for, as to them, the poor creatures had done no
wrong, invaded none of their property, and they thought
they had no just quarrel against them to take away
their lives. ~

Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to awaken them,
and take them prisoners, and they did so. The poor
fellows were strangely frighted when they were seized
.upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that they
.should be murdered and eaten; for, it seems, those people
think all the world do as they do, eating men's flesh;
but they were soon made easy as to that, and away they
carried them.

It was very happy for them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean, to my palace under
the hill: but they carried them first to the bower, where
was the chief of their country work 5 such as the keeping
the goats, the planting the corn, &c., and afterward they
rearried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much they
had for them to do : and, whether it was by negligence in
guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not
mend themselves, I know not, but one of them ran away,
and, taking into the woods, they could never hear of
.him more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again
.soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages, who
came on shore three or four weeks afterward, and who,
carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in two
'days' time. This thought terrified them exceedingly; for
they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed,
that if this fellow got safe home among his comrades, he
would certame give them an account that there were
people in the island, as also how weak and few they were;
'for this savage, as I observed before, had never been told,
.and it was very happy he had not, how many there were,
or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the
.fire of any of their guns, much less had they shewn him
.any of their other retired places, such as the cave in the
valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishman had
:made, and the like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this,
six canoes of savages, with about seven or eight, or ten
men in a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the
island, where they never used to come before, and landed
about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a
mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where
this escaped man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor
said, " Had they been all there, the damage would not
have been so much, for not a man of them would have
escaped." But the case differed now very much; for two
men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the
happiness to discover them about a league off, so that it
was about an hour before they landed; and, as they landed
about a mile from their huts, it was some time before they

a could come at them. N ow having great reason to believe
that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to
bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the
three men whom they brought with the women, who, it
seems, proved very faithful to them, to lead them with
their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with
them, to their retired place in the woods, which I have
spoken of above, and there to bind the two fellows, hand
and foot, till they heard farther.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on
shore, and that they bent their course directly that way,
they opened the fences where the milchogoats were kept,
and drove them all out, leaving their goats to straggle into
the wood whither they pleased, that the savages might
think they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came
with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for they went directly to the place.

When the two poor frighted men had secured their wives '
and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three
who came with the women, and who was at their place by
accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give
them the alarm, and desire speedy help ; and, in the mean
time, they took their arms, and what ammunition they
had, and retreated towards the place in the wood, where
their wives were sent, keeping at a distance, yet so that
they might see, if possible, which way the savages
took.

They had not gone far, but that, from a rising ground,
they could see the little army of their enemies come on
directly to their habitation, and, in a moment more, could
see all their huts and household stuff flaming up together,
to their great grief and mortification; for they had a very
great loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some time.
They kept their station for a while, till they found the
savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the
place, rummaging every way and every place they could
think of, in search for prey; and, in particular, for the
people, of whom it now plainly appeared they had intel-
ligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, so they
might come too many together, thought it proper to make
another retreat, about half a mile farther, believing, as it
afterward happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together.

The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree
stood, which was hollow and vastly large 3 and, in this
tree they both took their standing, resolving to see there
what might offer.

They had not stood there long, but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
had notice where they stood, and were coming up to
attack them ; and, a little way farther, they spied three
more coming after them, and five more beyond them, all
coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven or
eight more at a distance, running another way, like sports-
men heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand and keep their posture, or fly. But,
after a very short debate with themselves, they considered,
that if the savages ranged the country thus, before help
came, they might perhaps find out their retreat in the
woods, and then all would be lost; so they resolved to
stand them there; and if there were too many to deal
with, then they would get up to the top of the tree, from
whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire ex-
cepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though all the
savages that were landed, which were near firty, were to
attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whe-
ther they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three,
and so take the middle party, by which the two and the
five that followed would be separated. At length, they
resolved to let the first two pass by, unless they should
spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. The first
two savages also confirmed them in this resolution by
turning a little from them towards another part of the
wood ; but the three, and the five after them, came forwards
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen
were there.

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved
to take them in a line as they came; and as they resolved
to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three 3 to which purpose the man who was to fire
put three or four bullets into his piece, and, having a fair
loophole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, so
that he could not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on,
they plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway
savage that had escaped from them, and they both knew
him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should
not escape, though they should both fire; so the other
stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a. second.

But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim;
for, as the savages kept near one another, a little behind
in a line, in a word, he fired, and hit two of them directly.
'The foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head ;
the second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot
through the body and fell, but was not quite dead: and the
third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the
same ball that went through the body of the second, and,
being dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt, sat down
upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous
manner.

The five that were behind, more frighted with the noise
than sensible of their danger, stood still at first. However,
all being silent again, they not knowing what the matter
was, came on unconcerned, till they came to that place
where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough. And here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood all

. of a huddle over the wounded man, talking, and, as may
be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt,
and who, it; is very natural to believe, told them that a
flash of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from
their gods, had killed those two, and wounded him.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures,
who, at the same time, had no notion of their danger 3 yet
having them all thus in their power, and the first having
loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both together
among them; and, singling out, by agreement, which to
aim at, they shot together, and killed or very much
wounded, four of them ; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest 3 so that our men,
seeing them all fall together, thought that they had killed
them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged
their guns again, which was a wrong step, and they were
under some surprise when they came to the place, and
found no less than four of the men alive, and of them,
two very little hurt, and one not at all. This obliged
them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets ;
and, fiist, they made sure of the runaway savage, that had
been the cause of all the mischief, and of another that
was hurt in his knee, and put them out of their pain.
Then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled
down to them, and with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by gestures and signs, for his life,
but could not say one word to them that they could
understand.
However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of '
a tree thereby ; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece
of rope-twine, which he had, by great chance, in his-
poeket, tied his feet fast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him : and, with what speed they
could, made after the other two, which were gone before,
fearing they, or any more of them, should find the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in
sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance.
However, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over
a valley towards the sea, the quite contrary way from that
which led to their retreat which they were afraid of ; and,
being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where-
they left the prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered
by his comrades 3 for he was gone, and the two pieces of '
rope-yarn with which they had bound him, lay just at the
foot of the tree.

They were new in as great concern as before, not.
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy

might be, or in what numbers: so they resolved to go
away to the place where their wives were, to see if all
was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough to be sure 3 for though the savages were their own
country-folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of them,
and, perhaps, the more for the knowledge they had of
them.

'When they came thither, they found the savages had;
been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not-
found it ; for, indeed, it was inaccessible, by the trees-
standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking it.
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were.
not. They found, therefore, every thing very safe, only
the women in a terrible fright. While they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance, the other ten, with their servants, and
old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone in a body
to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that were
kept there, in case the savages should have roved over to
that side of the country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages,
who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with
them also came the savage, whom the Englishmen had
left bound hand and foot at the tree ; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them:
where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as
they had done the two others who were left when the
third ran away.

The prisoners began now to be a burden to them ; and
they were so afraid of their escaping that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it; but ordered that they should
be sent out of the way to my old cave in the valley, and
'-be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them, and
give them food, which was done ; and they were bormd
there hand and foot for that night.

"Then the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to
stay any longer; but taking five of the Spaniards, and
themselves, with four muskets and a pistol among them,
and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of
the savages. And first, they came to the tree where the
men lay that had been killed : but it was easy to see, that
some more of the savages had been there; for they had
attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged
two of them a good way, but had given it over. From
thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where
they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where
they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke;
but neither could they here see any of the savages. They
then resolved, though with all possible caution, to go
forward towards their mined plantation. But a little
before they came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore,
they saw plainly the savages all embarking again in their
canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry at first
that there was no way to come at them, to give them a

parting blow : but, upon the whole, were very well satisfied
to be rid of them.
The poor Englishmen, being now twice ruined, and all
their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come
and help them to rebuild, and to assist them with needful
supplies. Their three countrymen who were not yet
noted for having the least inclination to do anyg wood, yet,
as soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote east-
ward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly
work, for several days, to restore their habitations, and
make necessaries for them 3 and thus, in a little time,
they were set upon their legs again.

About two days after this, they had the farther satis-
faction of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving
on shore; and, at some distance from them, with two
drowned men, by which they had reason to believe, that
they had met with a stbrm at sea, which had overset some
of them: for it had blown very hard the night after they
went off.

It was five or six months after this before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men were in
hopes that they had not forgot their former bad luck, or
had given over the hopes of better; when, 011 a sudden,
they were invaded witha most formidable fleet, of not less
than twenty-eight canoes full of savages, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such like
engines of war 3 and they brought such numbers with
them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost
consternation. .

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
easternmost side of the island, our men had that night to
consult and consider what to do, and, 1n the first place,
knowing that their being entirely concealed was their only

safety before, and would much more be so now, when the
number of their enemies was so great; they therefore
1esolv ed, first of all, to take down the two huts which
were built for the Englishmen, and drive away their goats
to the old cave; because they supposed the savages would
go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old
game over again, though they did not now land 11 ithin
two leagues of it.

I
In the. next place, they drove~ away all the flock of
goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards: and, in short, left as little
appearanee of inhabitants any where as possible ; and the
next morning early they posted themselves, with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their
coming. As they guessed, so it happened: these new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island,
came ranging along the shore directly towards the place,
ta the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our
men could judge. Our army was small indeed ; but that
which was worse, they had not arms for all their number
neither The whole account it seems, stood thus : first as
to men 17 Spaniards, 5 Englishmen, 1 Old Friday, or
Friday's father; 3 slaves taken with the women, who
proved very faithful ; 3 other slaves who lived with the
Spaniards To arm these they had--ll muskets, 5
pistols, 3 fowling-pieees, 5 muskets, or fowling-pieees,
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen, whom
I reduced ; 2 swords, and 3 old halbcrts.

To their slaves they neither gave musket er fusil, but
they had every one a halbert, or a long stafl', like a quarter-
statf, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of
it, and by his side a hatchet : also every one of our men
had hatehets. Two of the women could not be prevailed
upon, but they would come into the tight ; and they had
bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from
the savages when the fiist action happened, which I have
Spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another;
and the women had hatchcts too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so often,
connnanded the whole ; and "Tilliani Atkins, who, though
a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold
fellow, commanded under him. The savages came forward
like lions, and our men, which was the worst of their
fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that \Vill
Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six .
men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes,
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them
pass by, and then fire into the middle of them; and, as
soon as he had fired, to make his retreat as nimbly as he
could, round a part of the wood, and so come in behind
the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket of trees
all before them.

"Then the savages came on, they ran straggling about
every way all in heaps, out of all manner of order : and
"fill Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him : then
seeing the rest come on in a very thick throng, he orders
three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets with
six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol
bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they knew
not ; but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible
among the savages, who were frighted to the last degree,
to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed,
and others hurt, but see nobody that did it 3 when, in the
middle of their fright, Will Atkins and his other three,
let fly again among the thickest of them 5 and, in less than
a minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them
a third volley.

Had \Vill Atkins and his men retired immediately, as
soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to. do; or had
the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured in their
shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed ;
for the terror that was among them came principally from
this, viz., that they were killed by the gods with thunder
and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them ; but
\Vill Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat.

Some of the savages, who were at a distance, spying
them, came upon them behind g, and though Atkins and
his men fired at them also, two or three times, and killed
about twenty, yet they wormded Atkins himself, and
killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as
they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian
slaves who came with the women: this slave was a most
gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five
of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of
the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and
two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the
wood 3 and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon
them, retreated also : for their number was so great, and
they Were so desperate, that though above fifty of them
were killed, and more than so many of them wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, and shot. their arrows like a cloud; and it was
observed, that their wounded men, who were not quite
disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and
fought. like madmen.

\Vhen our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman that were killed behind them: and the
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and
heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like true
savages. llut finding our men were gone, they did not
seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kind
of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom: and shouted
twice, in token of their victory. After which, they had
the. mortifieation to see several of their wounded men fall,
dying with the mere loss of blood.

The. Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was
wounded, would have had him march, and charge them
altogether at once. But the Spaniard r iplied, "Seignior
Atkins, you see how their wounded men tight: let them
alone till morning; all these wounded men will be stiff
and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of
blood, and so we shall have the fewer to engage." The
advice was good ; but W'ill Atkin replied merrily, " That's
true, seignior, and so shall I too 3 and that's the reason I
would go on while I am warm."--"W'ell, seignior Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, " you have behaved gallantly, and done
your part : we will fight for you, if you cannot come on ;
but I think it best to stay till morning." So they waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found
the savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded
men, and a great hurry and noise among them Where they
lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon them during the
night, especially if they could come to give them but one
volley before they were discovered. This they had a fair
opportiuiity to do; for one of the two Englishmen in
whose quarter it was where the fight began, led them
round between the woods and the sea side, westward, and
turning short south, they came so near where the thickest
of them lay, that, before they were seen or heard, eight of
them fired in among them, and did dreadful execution
upon them. In half a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pouring in their small shot in such a. quantity,
that abundance were killed and wounded; and all this
while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which
way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedi-
tion, and then divided themselves into three bodies, and
resolved to fall in among them altogether. They had in
each body eight persons ; that is to say twenty-four,
whereof were twenty -two men, and the two women, who,
by the way, fought despe1.n1tely

They dividedo the file-anus equally in each party, and
so of the halberts and staves. They would have had the
women keep back ; but they said, they were resolved to
die with their husbands. Having thus formed their little
army, they marched out from among the trees, and came
up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as
loud as they could. The savages stood all together, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our
men shouting from three quartms together. They would
'ha\ 0 fought, Oif they had seen 11s: and as soon as we came
near enough to be seen, some arrows we1e shot, and poor
old F1iday was 11 ounded though not dangerously. But
our men gave them no time. , but, 1unnin<r 11p to them,
ii1ed among them three ways and then fell 1n with the
butt end of their muskets, their swords, armed staves,
and hatchets; and laid about them so well, that, in a
word, they set 11p a dismal screaming and howling, flying
to save their lives which way soever 0they could.

Our men were tn ed with the execution , and killed, or
mortally wounded, in the tuo fights, about one hundred
and eighty of them , the rest, being fmghted out of their
wits, scoured through the woods, and over the hills, with
all the speed and fear that nimble feet could help them to
do , and as our men did not trouble themselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the sea side where
they landed, and where their canoes lay. But their
disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible
storm of wind that evening from the seaward, so that it
was impossible for them to put 011'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes
were most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high
upon the shore, that it required inlinite toil to get them
off; and some of them were even dashed to pieces against
the beach, or against one another.

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet get little
rest that night : but having refreshed themselves as well
as they eonld, they resolved to march to that part of the
island where the savages w re fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them overthe place
were the fight had been, and where they found several of
the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering
life : a sight disagreeable enough to generous minds ; for
a. truly great man, though obliged by the law of battle to
destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.

However, there was no need to give any order in this
case, for their own savages, who were their servants, dis-
patched those poor creatures with their hatehets.

At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where
they appeared about one hundred still : their posture was
generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up
towards their mouth, and the head put between the hands,
leaning down upon the knees.

When our men came within two musket-shot of them,
the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired,
without ball, to alarm them: this he did, that, by their
countenance, he might know what to expect ; viz/u, whether
they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily beaten,
as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might
manage accordingly. This stratagem took ; for, as soon as
the savages heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the
second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest
consternation imaginable : and, as our men advanced
swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and yawling
away, with a kind of a howling noise, which our men did
not understand, and had never heard before; and thus
they run up the hills into the country.

At first, our men had much rather the weather had
been cahn, and they had all gone away to sea ; but they
did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as
not to be resisted, or at least, to come so many, and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them.
W'ill Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this
case ; his advice was, to take the advantage that offered,
and clap in between them and their boats, and so deprive
them of the capacity of ever returning any more to plague
the island.

They consulted long about this, and some were agains'
it, for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods,
and live there desperate 5 and so they should have them
to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their
business, and have their plantations continually rifled, all
their tame goats destroyed, and, in short be reduced to a
life of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do
with one hundred men, than with one hundred nations;
that as they must destroy their boats, so they must de-
stroy the men, or be all of them destroyed themselves.
In a word, he shewed them the necessity of it so plainly,
that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-.
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood to-
gether from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them
on fire 3 but they were so wet they would not burn.
However, the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon
made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats.
"Then the Indians saw what they were about, some of
them came running out of the woods, and coming as near
as they could to our men, kneeled down and cried, " 0a.!
03. ! waramokoa !" and some other words of their language,
which-none of the others understood anything of ; but as
they made pitiful gestures, and strange noises, it was easy
to understand, they begged to have their boats spared,
and that they would be gone, and never come thither
again.

But. our men were now satisfied that they had no other
way to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but
effectually to prevent any of these people from ever going
home again ; depending upon this, that if ever so much as
one of them got back into their country to tell the story,
the colony was undone : so that, letting them know that
they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed them every one, that the
storm had not destroyed before. At the sight of which
the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our
people heard plain enough; after which they run about
the island like distracted men ; so that, in a word,
our men did not really know at first what to do with.
them.

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, con--
sider that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; for though it is true, they had
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find out
their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor
the cave in the valley ; yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the
fences and planting about it ; trod all the corn under foot ;
tore up the vines, the grapes being just then almost ripe ;
and did our men an inestimable damage, though to them-
selves not one farthing's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occa-
sions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down ; for as they were too nimble of
foot for our men, when they found them single, so our
men durst not go about single, for fear of being surrounded
with their numbers.

It was some time before any of them could be taken ;
but being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised, and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first,
and would neither eat nor drink 5 but, finding himself
kindly used, and vietuals given him, and no violence
offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked orten
with him, and told him how kind the others would be to
them all 3 that they would not only save their lives, but
would give them a part of the island to live in, provided
they would give satisfaction that they would keep in their
own bounds, and not come beyond them to injure or
prejudice others 3 and that they should have corn given
them, to plant and make it grow for their bread, and some
bread given them for their present subsistence 3 and old
Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his
countrymen, and see what they said to it, assuring them,r
that if they did not agree immediately they should all be
destroyed.

The poor wretchcs, thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal
at the first offer, and begged to have some food given
them 3 upon which twelve Spaniards, and two Englishmen,
well armed, and three Indian slaves, and old Friday,
marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and some
rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the sun, and three
live goats 3 and they were ordered to go to the side of a
hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions very thank--
fully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words
that could be thought of 3 for, except when they came to.
beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their
bounds 3 and there they lived when I came to the island,
and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread,
breed tame goats, and milk them. They wanted nothing
but wives, and they would soon have been a nation. They
were confined to a neck of land, surrounded with high
rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea. before
them, on the south-east corner of the island. They had
land enough, and it was. very good and fruitful; for they
had a piece of land about a mile and a half broad, and
three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden Spades, such as
I made for myself 3 and gave them among them twelve-
hatchets, and three or four knives 3 and there they lived.-
'the most subjected, innocent creatures that ever were
heard of.

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquility with
respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which
was in about two years : not but that now and then some
canoes of savages came on shore for their triumphal un-
natural feasts ; but as they were of several nations, and,
perhaps, had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been
very hard for them to have found them out.

Thus, I think, I have given a. full account of all that
happened to them, to my return, at least, that was worth
notice. The. Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civil-
ized by them, and they frequently went among then: ;
but, forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians coming
to them, because they would not have their settlement
betrayed again.

One thing was very remarkable, vi7.., that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets : but they
soon outdid their masters 3 for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly all
sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c. ; as also
chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches. and abundance of
other things, being very ingenious at such work, when
they were once put in the way of it. My coming was a
particular relief to these people, because we furnished
them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and
all things of that kind which they could want.

Having thus given a view of the state of things, as I
found them, 1 must relate the heads of what I did for
these people, and the condition in which I left them. It
was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled no more with the savages ; or that if they were,
they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as
many as before : so that they had no concern about that.

We appointed a day to dine altogether; and, indeed,
we made a splendid feast. After this feast, at which we
were very merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein,
that there might be no dispute about dividinnr I shewcd

O,
them there was sufficient for them all 3 and desired that
they might all take an equal quantity of the goods that
were for wearing; that is to say, equal when made up.
At first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one
of them four shirts; and, at the Spaniards' request, after-
ward made them up six. These were exceedingly comfort~
able to them, having been what, as I may say, they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.

I allotted the thin English stuffs which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock, which
1 judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose ;
and ordered, that, whenever they decayed, they should
make more, as they thought fit : the like for pumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care 1 had taken of them, and how well I had
furnished them. They told me, I was a father to them,
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so
remote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place. And they all
voluntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place without
my consent.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought
with me, p:rtieularly the tailor, the smith, and the two
carpenters, all of them most necessary people ; but, above
all, my general artificer, than whom they could not name
any thing that was more useful to them. And the tailor,
to show his concern for them, went to work immediately,
and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt the first
thing he did ; and, which was still more, he taught the
women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle,
but made them assist to make the shirts for their husbands,
and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful
they were ; for they took in pieces all my clumsy, unhandy
things, and made them clever, convenient tables, stools,
bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every thing
they wanted of that kind.

But, to let them see how nature made artificcrs at first,
I carried the carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-
house, as I called it ; and they both owned they never
saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before : nor
any thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of its
kind. And one of them, when he saw it, after musing a
good while, turning about to me, said " I am sure that
man has no need of us : you need do nothing but give
him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a mke, for we
had no harrows or ploughs 3 and to every separate place a
pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw, always appointing,
that as often as any were broken or worn out, they should
be supplied, without grudging, out of the general stores
that I left behind them. a,

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors,
and all sorts of tools and iron work, they had without
tale, as they required : for no man would care to take
more than he wanted 3 and he must be a feel that would
waste or spoil them, on any account whatever. And, for
the use of the smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron
for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms, which I had brought
them, was such, even to profusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them ; for now they could march, as I used
to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there was
occasion, and were able to fight a thousand savages, if they
had but some little advantages of situation, which also
they could not miss if they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man, whose
mother was starved to death, and the maid also. She was a
sober, well educated, religious young woman, and behaved
so inofi'ensively, that every one gave her a good word.
She had, indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being no
woman in the ship with her ; but she bore it with patience.
After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so
fine a way of thriving upon my island, and considering
that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the
East Indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage ; I say,
considering all this, both of them come to me, and desired
I would give them leave to remain upon the island, and
be entered among my family as they called it.

I agreed to it readily: and they had a little plat of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents, or
houses, set up, surrounded with a basket work, palh'sadoed
like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantation. Their
tents were contrived so, that they had each of them a
room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great
storehouse, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink
in. And now the other two Englishmen removed their
habitation to the same place: and so the island was
divided into three colonies, and no more; via, the
Spaniards, and old Friday, and the first servants, at my
old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the
capital city, and where they had so enlarged and extended
their works, as well under, as on the outside of the hill,
that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full at
large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, and
so hid, I believe, in any part of the world: for I verily
believe, a thousand men might have ranged the island a
month, and, if they had not known there was such .a
thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would not have
found it; for the trees stood so thick, and so close, and
grew so fast matted into one another, that nothing but
cutting them down first, could discover the place : except
the two narrow entrances, where they went in and out,
could be found, which was not very easy: one of them
was just down at the water's edge, on the side of the
creek, and it was afterwards about two hunred yards to
the place; and the other was up the ladder at twice, as I
have already formally described it ; and they had a large
wood, thick planted also, on the top of the hill, which
contained above an acre, which grew apace, and covered
the place from all discovery there, with only one narrow
place between two trees, not easy to be discovered, to
enter on that side. -

The other colony was that of Will Atkins's, where there
were four families of Englishmen, I mean those I, had
left there, with their wives and children: three savages

, ~t
that were slaves: the Widow and children of the Enghs -
men that was killed ; the young man and the maid, and,
by the way, we made a wife of her also, before we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor,
whom I brought with me for them: also the smith, who
was a very necessary man to them, especially as a gun-
smith, to take care of their arms: and my other man,
whom I ealled _" Jack of all trades," who was in himself
as good almost as twenty men : for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow ; and, before I
went away, we married him to the honest maid that came
with the youth in the ship I mentioned before.

Having brought the atfairs of the island to a narrow
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when
the young man whom I had taken out of the famished
ship's company, came to me, and told me, he understood
I had a clergyman with me, and that I had caused the
Englishman to be married to the savages, whom they
called wives : that he had a match too, which he desired
might be finished before I went, between two Christians,
which, he hoped, would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mothers servant ; for there was no other (Thristian woman
on the island : so I began to persuade him not to do any
thing of that kind rashly, or because he found himself in
this solitary circumstance. I was going to say more, but
he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal
of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses, that he had
nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present circum-
stances being melancholy and diseonsolate enough, and he
was very glad to hear that I had thoughts of putting them
in a way to see their own country again ; and that nothing
should have set him upon staying there, but that the
voyage I was going was so exceedingly long and ha-
zardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all
his friends 3 that he had nothing to desire of me, but that
I would settle him in some little property in the island
where he was, give him a servant or two, and some few
necessaries, and he would settle himself here like a planter,
waiting the good time when, if ever I returned to Eng-
land, I would redeem him, and hoped I would not be un--
mindful of him when I came to England ; that he would
give me some letters to his friends in London, to let them
know how good I had been to him, and what part of the
world, and what circumstance, I had left him in; that he
promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the planta-
tion, and all the improvements he made upon it, let the
value be what it would, should be wholly mine.

I-Iis discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth ; and was the more agreeable to me, because he
told me postively the match was not for himself. I gave-
him all possible assurance that if I lived to come safe to
England, I would deliver his letters, and do his business
effectually, and that he might depend I would never for-
get the circumstance I left him in. But still I was im-
patient to know who were the persons to be married ;
upon which he told me it was my J aek of all trades, and
his maid Susan. '

I was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match, for indeed I thought it very suitable. The cha-
racter of that man I have given already; and as for the
maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious
young woman ; had a very good share of sense, was agree--
able enough in her person, spoke very handsomely, and to
the purpose, always with decency and good manner, and
not backward to speak when anything required it, 01' im-
pertinently forward to speak when it was not her business ;
very handy and housewifely in any thing that was before
her; an excellent manager, and fit indeed, to have been
governess to the whole island.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married
them the same day ; and as I was father at the altar, as I
may say, and gave her away, so I gave her aportion, for I
appointed her and her husband, a handsome large piece of'
space for their plantation 5 and indeed this match, and
the proposal the young gentleman made to me, to give
him a small property in the island, put me upon parcel~
ling it out among them, that they might not quarrel after-
ward about their situation. This sharing out the land to
them I left to 'Will Atkins, who indeed was now grown a
most sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed,
exceedingly pious and religious ; and, as far as I may be
allowed to speak postively in such a case, I verily believe,
was a true, sincere pcnitcnt. He divided things so justly,
and so much to every one's satisfaction, that they only
desired one general writing under my hand for the whole ;
which I caused to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to
them, setting out the bounds and situation of every man's
plantation, and. testifying that I gave them thereby seve-
rally a right to the whole possession and inheritance of
the respective plantations or farms, with their improve.-
ments, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation, after eleven years, if I, or any
one from me, or in my name, came to demand it, produc-
ing an attested copy of the same writing.

As to the government and laws among them, I told
them I was not capable of giving better rules than they
were . ble to give themselves, only made them promise
me to live in love and good neighbourhood with one
:another. And so I prepared to leave them.

One thing I must not omit: and this is, that being
new settled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves,
and having much business in hand, it was but odd to
have seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island,
independent, and indeed unemployed ; for, excepting the
providing themselves food, which they had difficulty
enough in too sometimes, they had no manner of business
or property to manage. I proposed, therefore, to the
governor Spaniard that he should go to them, with
Friday's father, and propose to them to remove, and either
plant for themselves, or take them into their several
families as servants to be maintained for their labom', but
without being absolute slaves; for I would not admit
them to make them slaves by force by any means, because
they had their liberty given them by capitulation, and, as
it were, articles of surrender, which they ought not to
break.

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheerfully along with him. So we allotted them
land and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several families we had settled. And thus my colony was
in a manner settled, as follows : the Spaniards possessed
my original habitation, which was the capital city, and
extended their plantation all along the side of the brook,
which made the creek which I have so often described, as
far as my bower; and as they increased their culture, it
went away eastward. The English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward, and south-west, towards the back
part of the Spaniards; and every plantation had a great
addition of land to take in, if they found occasion, so that
they need not jostle one another for want of room.

All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there,
only for their usual, customary barbarities, they might
come and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would
disturb them ; and no doubt but that they were often
ashore, and went away again, for I never heard that the
planters were attacked or disturbed any more.

I have now done with the island. I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again the fifth day of May, having
been five-and-twenty days among them.

The next day giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived in the bay of All Saints,
in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing
remarkable in our passage but this, that about three days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a bay or
gulf, on the land side, we were driven something out of
our course; and once or twice our men cried " Land to
the westward ;" but whether it was the continent, or
islands, we could not tell by any means.

But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth,
and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered,
towards the land, with something very black, not being
able to discover what it was; but after some time, our
chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way, and
looking at them with a perspective glass, cried out, it was

' U
an army. I could not imagine What he meant by an
army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool,
or some such word. "Nay sir," said he, "do not be
angry; for it is an army, and a fleet too: for, I believe
there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, and they are coming towards us too apace, and full
of men."

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew, the captain : for he had heard terrible stories of
them in the island, and, having never been in those seas
before, he could not tell what to think of it, but said, two
or three times, we shall all be devoured. I must confess,
considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong
towards the shore, I liked it the worse. However, I bade
him not to be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor,
as soon as we came so near as to know that we must
engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apaee
towards us 3 so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and
furl all our sails. As for the savages, I told them they
had nothing to fear but fire; and therefore they should
get their beats out, and fasten them, one close by the
head, and the other by the stern, and man them both
well, and wait the issue in that posture. This I did that
the men in the boats might be ready, with sheets and
buckets, to put out any fire these savages might endeavour
to fix upon the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and, in a little
while, they came up with us 3 but never was such a
horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was much
mistaken in his calculation of their number, I mean of a
thousand canoes 3 the most we could make of them when
they came up, being about a hundred and six-and-twenty,
and a great many of them too; for some of them had
sixteen or seventeen men in them, some more 3 and the
least 'six or seven.

"When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck
with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight, which they
had, doubtless, never seen before 3 nor could they at first,
as we afterwards understood, know what to make of us.
They came boldly up, however, very near to us, and
seemed to go about, to row round us: but we called to
our men in the boats, not to let them come too near them.

This very order brought 11s to an engagement with
them, without our designing it; for five or six of their
large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back, which they
understood very well, and went back : but, at their retreat,
about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded.

However, I called to them not to fire by any means ;
but we handed down some deal boards into the boat, and
the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste
boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if
they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a
body astern of us, and pretty near, so near that we could
easily discern what they were, though we could not tell
their design. I easily found they were some of my old
friends, the same sort of savages that I had been used
to engage with: and, in a little time more, they rowed
somewhat farther out to sea, till they came directly broad-
side to us, and then rowed straight down upon us, till
they came so near, that they could hear us speak. Upon
this, I ordered all our men to keep close, lest they should
shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns ready 3 but,
being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go
out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his
language to know what they meant, which accordingly he
did. NVhether they understood him or not, it would
be rather difficult for me to determine 3 but as soon as he
had called to them, six of them, who were in the
foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from
us, and then ostooping down shewed us their naked
backs. "'hether this was a defiance, or- challenge, we
knew not , or whether it was done in mere contempt,
or as a signal to the rest, but immediately Friday cried
out, they were going to shoot, and unhappily for him,
poor fellow. ' they let fly about three hundred of their
arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor
Friday, no other man being in their sight. The poor
fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and
about three more fell very nigh him 3 such unlucky
marksmen they were.

I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the
companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I imme-
diately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot,
and four with great, and gave them such a broadside as
they had never heard in their lives before, to be sure.

They were not above half a cable's length off when we
fired 3 and our gunners took their aim so well, that three
or four of their canoes were overset, as we had reason to
believe, by one shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare backs to us,
gave us no great offence; neither did I know for cer-
tain whether that which would pass for the greatest con-
tempt among us, might be understood so by them, or not:
therefore, in return, I had only resolved to have fired four
or five guns, with powder only, which I knew would
frighten them sufficiently. But when they shot at us,
with all the fury they were capable of, and especially as
they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved
and valued, and who indeed so well deserved it 3 I not
only had been justified before God and man, but would
have been very glad, if I could, to have overset every
canoe there, and drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many
we wounded at this broadside 3 but sure such a fright and
hurry never was seen among such amultitude: there were
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split, and overset, in
all, and the men all set a swimming 3 the rest, frightened
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were split
or spoiled with our shot. So I suppose that there were
many of them lost.

"Te weighed, and set sail for Brazil 3 and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five
degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost land
of all that part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight
of the shore four days, when we made the cape Saint
Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor ofl" the
bay of All-Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from
whence came both my good and evil fate.

Never ship came to this part that had less business
than I had, and yet it was with great difficulty that we
were admitted to hold the least correspondence on shore.
Not my partner himself, who was alive, and made a great
figure among them; not my two merchant-trustees, nor
the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island,
could obtain me that favour: but my partner, remember-
ing that I had given five hundred moidores to the prior of
the monastery of the Augustines, and three hundred and
seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery, and
obliged the prior that then was, to go to the governor,
and get leave for me presently, with the captain, and one
more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more : and this upon condition, absolutely capitulated for,
that we should not offer] to land any goods out of the
ship, or to carry any person away without licence.

They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore
three bales of English goods, such as fine broadcloths,
stuff, and some linen, which I had brought for a present
to my partner. He was a very generous, broad-hearted
man, though (like me) he came from little at first; and
though he knew not that I had the least design of giving
him any thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh
provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty
moidOres, including some tobacco, and three or four fine
medals in gold. But I was even with him in my presents,
which, as Ihave said, consisted of fine broadcloth, English
stufi's, lace, and fine hollands. Also I delivered him
about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in the
same goods, for other uses ; and I obliged him to set up
the sloop which I had brought with me from England, as
I have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the
refreshments I intended for my plantation.

Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sloop in a
very few days, for she was already framed, and I gave the
master of her such instructions he could not miss the
111111111 ; nor did he miss it, as I had an account from my
partner afterward. I got him soon loaded with the. cargo
] had sent them ; and one of our seamen, that had been
on shore. with me there, 11111111111 to go with the sloop, and
settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to
1111111. him :1 with ieut quantity of land for 11 plantation.

and 11i1' in;1 him some 1lothes, and tools 1"111 his plantin11-
1111111, 11111111 he said 1111. uudeistood,11:11i1111 been an old
plante1 in \1111111111111, a11dahuec1111e111 into the bargain.

l eneouraged the. 11111111131111 granting all he desired;
and, as 1111 addition, 1 gave. him the savage. which we. had
taken prisoner of war to be his slave 1 and ordered the
governor Spaniard to give him his share of everything he
wanted with the rest.

\Vhen we 111111111 to lit this man out, 1111' old partner
told me. there was 11 certain very honest. fellow, a. lirazil
planter of his 11111111aintauee, who had fallen into the dis-
pleasure of the eluu'eh, "I know 1.111. what the matter
is with him," says he, "11111.,1111 my eouscieuee, 1 think
he is :1 11111111111 in his heart ; and he has been obliged to
111111111111l himself for fear of the Inquisition ; that he would
he Very glad of sneh an opportunity to make his escape,
with his wife and two daughters : and if 1 would let them
go to my island, and allot them 11 plantation, he would
"ire them a small stoetk to 111111.;111 with; for the otliccrs of
the Inquisition had seized all his 11111111; and estate, and he
had nothing left but a little household stull', and L110
slaves. " And," adds he, " though 1 hate his principles,
yet I would not.- have him fall into their hands; for he
assuredly will be burnt alive if he does."

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman
with them: and we concealed the man, and his wife and
1111111111111rs, on 11011111 our ship, till the sloop put out to go
to sea , and then (11111" 11111 put 1111 their 11011115 on bomd the
sloop some time before) We put them on 11011111 the sloop,
after she was got out of the bay.

Our seamen were mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock indeed was much alike rich in
tools, in preparations, and a farm, but nothin" to begin
with, but as above. However, they carried0 over with
them (which was worth all the rest) some materials for
planting sugar canes, with some plants of canes, which he,
1 mean the Portugal man, understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the
island, I sent them, by this sloop, three milch cows, and
iive calves, about twenty-two hogs among them, three
sows, two mares, and a horse.

For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go 3 and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but I remembered that the poor
persecuted man had two daughters, and there were but five
of the Spaniards who wanted : the rest had wives of their
own, though in another country.

All the cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily sup-
pose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now
(with this addition) between sixty and seventy people,
besides little children, of which there were a great many.
1 found letters at London from them, all by way of
Lisbon, when I came back to England, being sent back to
to the Brazils by this sloop: of which I shall take some
notice in its place.

I have now done with my island, and all manner of
discourse about it : and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums would do well to turn his thoughts entirely
from it, and expect to read only of the follies of an old
man, not warned by his own harms, much less by those
of other men, to beware of the like : not cooled by almost
forty years of misery and disappointment ; nor satisfied
with prosperity beyond expectation 3 nor made cautious
by aflliction and distress beyond imitation.

I had no more'business to go to the East Indies than a
man at full liberty, and having committed no crime, has
to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock
him up among the prisoners there, and starve him, Had
I taken a small vessel from England, and went directly to
the island ; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel,
with all the necessaries for the plantation, and, for my
people, took a patent from the government here, to have
secured my property, in subjection only to that of Eng-
land, which, to be sure, I might have obtained; had 11
carried over cannon and ammunition, servants, and people-
to plant, and, taking possession of the place, fortified and
strengthened it, in the name of England, and increased it
with people, as I might easily have done; had I then
settled myself there, and sent the ship back, loaded with
good rice, as I might also have done in six months' time,
and ordered my friends to have again fitted her out for
our supply: had I done this, and stayed there myself, I
had, at least, acted like a man of common sense: but I
was possessed of a. wandering spirit, scorned all advan-
tages, pleased myself with being the patron of these people-
I placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty,
majestic way, like an old patriarchial monarch ; providing
for them, as if I had been the father of the whole family,
as well as of the plantation. But I never so much as
pretended to plant in the name of any government or
nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people-
subjects to any one nation more than another; nay, I
never so much as gave the place a name, but left it as I
found it, belonging to no man, and the people under no-
disciplinc or government but my own, who, although I
had an influence over them as a father and benefactor,
had no power to act or command, one way or other,
farther than voluntary consent moved them to comply:
yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well?
enough: but as I rambled from them, and came thither
no more, the last letters I had from any of them were by
my partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to
the place, and who sent me word, though I had not the
letter till five years after it was written, that they went on-
but poorly ; were malcontent with their long stay there ;
that \Vill Atkins was dead 5. that five of the Spaniards had
come away; and that though they had not been much
molested by savages, yet they had had some skirmishes
with them 3 that they begged of him to write to me, to
think of the promise I had made to fetch them away, that
they might see their own country again before they died.

But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed, and they
who will have any more of me, must be content to follow
me through a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild
adventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be
duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can
gorge us with our own desires, make the strongest of our
wishes to be our affliction, and punish us most severely
with those very things which we think it would be our
utmost happiness to be allowed in.

From the Brazils we made directly away over the
Atlantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope ; and had a tolerable good
voyage, our course generally south-east: now and then a
storm, and some contrary winds. But my disasters at
sea were at an end: my future rubs and cross events
were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land
was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea, when
Heaven, who directs the circumstances of things, pleases
to appoint it to be so.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super.
cargo on board who was to direct all her motions after
she arrived at the Cape; only being limited to certain
number of days for stay, by charterparty, at the several
ports she was to go to. This was none of my business,
neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew, the
captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things
between the] - as they thought fit.

We made Eb stay at the Cape, longer than was needful
to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way for
the coast of Coromandel: we were indeed informed that a
French man of war, of fifty guns, and two large merchant
ships, were gone for the Indies 3 and as I knew we were
at war with France, I had some apprehensions of them ;
but they went their own way, and we heard no - more of
them.

We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the people are fierce and treacherous, and, in par-
ticular, very well armed with lances and bows, which
they use with inconceivable dexterity 3 yet we fared very
well with them a while : they treated us very civily, and,
for some trifles which we gave them, such as knives,
scissors, 850., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks 3.
middling in size, but very good in flesh, which we took
in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

\Ve were obliged to stay here for some time after we
had furnished ourselves with provisions : and I, that was
always too curious to look into every nook of the world
wherever I came, was for going on shore as often as I
could. It was on the east side of the island that we went
on shore one evening, and the people, who, by the way,
are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood
gazing at us, at a distance. As we had traded freely
with them, and had been kindly used, we thought our-
selves in no danger; but when we saw the people, we out
three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up a distance
from us, which, it seems, is a mark in that country, not
only of truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the
other side set up three poles, or boughs also ; which is a
signal that they accept the truce too ; but then this a
known condition of the truce, that you are not to pass
beyond their three poles towards them, nor they come
past your three poles, or boughs, towards you ; so that
,you are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all
the space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a.
market, for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When
you go thither, you must not carry your weapons with
you ; and if they come into that space, they stick up their
javelins and lances all at the first poles, and come en. un-
armed ; but if any violence is offered them, and the truce
thereby broken, away they run to the poles, and lay
hold of their weapons, and then the truce is at an end.

It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that
a greater number of their people came down than usual,
but were all very friendly and civil. They brought with
them several kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied
them with such toys as we had : their women also brought
us milk and roots, and several things very acceptable to
us ; and all was quiet. And we made us a little tent, or
hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all that

night : the boat lying at an anchor, about a stone's cast
from the land.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our
men making a terrible noise on shore, calling out, for
God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and help them,
for they were all like to be murdered: at the same time I
heard the firing of five muskets, which was the number of
the guns they had, and three times over 3 for, it seems, the
natives here were not so easily frightened with guns as the
savages were in America, where I had to do with them.

All this while I knew not what was the matter, but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused
the boat to be thrust in, and resolved with three fusils we
had on board, to land, and assist our men.

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in
too much haste; for being come to the shore, they plunged
into the water, to get to the boat with all the expedition
they could, being pursued by between three and four hun-
dred men. Our men were but nine in all, and only five
of them had fusils with them : the rest indeed had pistols
and swords, but they were of small use to them.

We took up seven of our men and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger as
they were in on shore, for they poured their arrows in
upon us so thick, that we. were fain to barricade the side
of the boat up with the benches, and two or three loose
boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by mere
accident, or Providence rather, in the boat.

And yet had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such
exact markSmen, that if they could have seen but the
least part of any of us, they would have been sure of us.
We had, by the light of the moon, a little sight of them,
as they stood pelting us from the shore with darts and
arrows ; and having got ready our fire-arms, we gave them
a volley, and we could hear by the cries of some of them
that we had wounded several. However they stood thus
in battle array on the shore till break of day, which we
suppose was, that they might see the better to take their
aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to
weigh anchor, or set up our sail, because we needs must
stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as
we wore to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We
made signals of distress to the ship, which though she
rode a league off, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our
firing, and, byg glasses, perceiving the posture we lay 1n,
and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well under-
stood as , and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as
near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent
another boat, with ten hands in her, to assist 11s ; but we
called to them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in. However, they stood in nearer to
us : and one of the men, taking the end of a tow-line in
his hand, and keeping our boat between him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on
board us, and made fast the line to the boat, upon which
we slipped our little cable ; and leaving our anchor behind
they towed us out of the reach of the arrows, we all the
while lying close behind the barricado we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the
shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we ran
along just by them, and we poured in a broadside among
them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets
and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a ter--
rible havoc among them.

'Vhen we were got on board, and out of danger, we had
time to examine into the occasion of this fray : and indeed
our super-cargo, who had often been in those parts, put me
upon it; for he said he was sure the inhabitants would
not have touched us, after we had made a truce, if we had
not done something to provoke them to it. At length it
came out, viz. that an old woman, who had come to sell
us some milk, had brought it within our poles, with a
young woman with her, who also brought some roots or
herbs ; and while the old woman (whether she was mother
to the yomig woman or no, they could not tell) was sel-
ling us the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to
the wench that was with her, at which the old woman
made a great noise. However the seaman would not quit
his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark; the old woman
went away without her, and as we suppose, made an out-
cry among the people she came from, who, upon notice,
raised this great army upon us, in three or four hours:
and it was great odds but we had been all destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown
at him, just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied
out of the tent we had made; the rest came off free, all
but the fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief,
who paid dear enough for his black mistress, for we could
not hear what became of him a great while. We lay upon
the shore two days after, though the wind presented, and
made signals for him 3 made our boat sail up shore, and
down shore, several leagues, but in vain. So we were
obliged to give him over 3 and if he alone had suffered for
it, the loss had been the less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing
on shore once more to try if I could learn anything of
him or them. It was the third night after the action that
I had a great mind to learn, if I could, by any means, what
mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the
Indian side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we
should be attacked again : but I ought indeed to have
been sure, that the men I went with had been under my
command, before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and
mischievous, as I was brought into it without my know-
ledge or design.

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and myself 3 and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the same place where the _
Indians stood drawn up the evening before. I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see
if they had quitted the field, and if they had left any
marks behind them, or of the mischief we had done them;
and I thought, if we could surprise one or two of them,
perhaps we might get our man again, by way of exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our 'men into
two companies, whereof the boatswain commanded one,
and I the other. We neither could hear nor see anybody
stir, when we landed 3 so we marched 'up, one body at a
distance from the other, to the field of battle. At first we
could see nothing, it being very dark; but, by and bye,
our boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled, and fell
over a dead body. This made them halt awhile ; for,
knowing by the circumstance that they were at the place
where the Indians had stood, they waited for my coming
up. Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to
rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour ; and
then we could easily discern the havoc we had made among
them. \Ve told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground,
whereof two were not quite dead. Some had an arm, and
some a leg shot off, and one his head. Those that were
wounded, we supposed they had carried away.

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of
all, I was for going on board again; but the boatswain and
his party often sent me word, that they were resolved to
make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt 3 and desired me to go along with
them: and if they could find them, as they still fancied
they should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a good
booty 3 and it might be, they might find Thomas J efi'rys
there 3 that was the man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them, for I would have
commanded them instantly on board, knowing it was not
a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship, and ship's load-
ing, in our charge, and a voyage to make, which depended
very much upon the lives of the men ; but as they sent
me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me and
my company to go along with them, I positively refused
it : and rose up (for I was sitting on the ground) in order
to go to the beat. One or two of the men began to im-
portune me to go, and, when I still refused positively,
began to grumble, and say they were not under my com-
mand, and they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of
the men, " will you go with me? I'll go for one." Jack
said he would, and another followed, and then another,
and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difficulty too, I persuaded to stay ; so the supercarge and
I, with the third man, went back to the boat, where I told
them we would stay for them, and take care to take in as-
many of them as should be left 3 for I told them it was a
mad thing they were going about, and supposed most of
them would run the fate of Thomas J efi'rys.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they
would come off again, and they would take care, &c. So
away they went. I entreatcd them to consider the ship,
and the voyage 3 that their lives were not their own, and

that they were entrusted with the voyage, in some mea-
' sure 3 that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for
want of their help, and that they could not answer it to
God and man. I said a great deal more to them on that
head, but I might as well have talked to the main-mast
of the ship 3 they were mad upon their journey, only they
gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry;
said they would be very cautious, and that they did not
doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at
farthest 3 for the Indian town, they said, was not above
half a mile off : though they found it above two miles
before they got to it.

"Tell, they all went away as above; and though the
attempt was desperate,. and such as none but madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they
went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
gallantly armed, that is true, for they had every man a
fusil, or musket, a bayonet, and every man a pistol. Some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers 3 and
the boatswain, and two more, had poleaxes: besides all
which, they had among them thirteen hand-grenadoes.
Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world.

IVhen they came to the town, which, as they reported,
consisted of above two hundred houses, or huts, they
found all silent, as profoundly secure as sleep, and
a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind,
could make them. Upon this they called another council,
to consider what they had to do, and in a word, they
resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three houses on fire, in three parts of the town 3 and as
the men came out, to seize and bind them 3 if any resisted,
they need not be asked what to do then : and so to search
the rest of the houses for phmder.

While they were animating one another to the work,
three of them that were a little before the rest, called out
aloud, and told them that they had found Thomas J efl'rys.
They all ran up to the place, and so it was indeed ; for
there they found the poor fellow hanged up by one arm,
and his throat cut.

The sight of this poor, mangled comrade so enraged
them, as before, that they swore to one another they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter : and to work they
went immediately. So they presently made some wildfire,
as we call it, by wetting a little powder, in the palms of
their hands, and, in a quarter of an hour, they set the
town on fire, in four or five places 3 and particularly that
house where the Indians were not gone to bed. As soon
as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began
to rush out to save their lives ; but met with their fate in
the attempt.

\Vhile this was doing, I must confess I was very ruieasy,
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which,
,it being night, seemed to be just by me.

The people were amazed and surprised, and so frighted,
that, I believe, a hundred of them would have fled at the
sight of but five of our men. Nor in all this terrible
action was there a man who made any considerable defence ;
they were so surprised between the terror of the fire, and
the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they knew
not which way to turn themselves ; for if they fled one
way, they were met by one party, if back again, by another,
so that they were every where knocked down. Our men,
returning early the next morning, did not receive the least
hurt, except one who strained his foot, and another had
one of his hands very much burned.

W'e were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat 3 but the
chief of the supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal,
where, if he missed of the business outward bound he was
to go to China, and return to the coast as he came home.
ROBINSON causon. 305

The first disaster that befel us was in the Gulf of 'Persia,
where five of our men venturing on shore, on the Arabian
side of the Gulf, were surrounded by the Arabs, and either
all killed, or carried away into slavery: the rest of the
boat's crew were not able to rescue them, and had but just
time to get off their boat.

We were at this time in the road at Bengal ; and, being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the super-
cargo, in the ship's boat,. to divert myself, and towards
evening was preparing to go on board, when one of the
men came to me, and told me, he would not have me
trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had
orders not to carry me on board. Any one may guess
what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message 3 and I
asked the man who bade him deliver that errand to me.
He told me the cockswain. I said no more to the fellow,
but bade him let them know he had delivered his message, .
and that I had given him no answer to it.

I immediately went, and found out the supercargo, and
told him the story, adding what I presently foresaw, viz.,
that there would certainly be a mutiny in the ship, and
entreated him to go immediately on board the ship, in an
Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it. But I might
have spared this intelligence; for, before I had spoken to
him on shore, the matter was efiected on board. The
boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all
the inferior oficers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat,
came up to the quarter-deck, and desired to speak with
the captain ; and there the boatswain, making a long
harangue (for the fellow talked very well), and repeating
. all he had said to me, told the captain, in few words, that
as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were loath to
use any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on
shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to
have gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, that
as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship, under
his command, they would perform it faithfully : but if I
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit
it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with
him. And at that word, " all," he turned his face about,

X
towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them; at which all the seamen being
got together, they cried orit, " One and all! One and all! "

Myo nephew, the captain, used some arguments with
them, but it was all 1n vain, they swore that they would
go all on show unless he would engage not to suffer me
to come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obliga-
tion to me, and did not know how I might take it. How-
ever, he said he would go on shore, and talk with me, and
invited the boatswain to go with him, and said, perhaps
they might accommodate the matter with me.

I was very glad to see my nephew, who told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and shook
hands, that they would, one and all, leave the ship, if I
was suffered to come on board. I told him he should not
be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I only
desired he woulil take care and send me all my necessary
things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money,
and I would find my way to England as well as I could.

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew 3 but
there was no way to help it, but to comply with it. So,
in short, he went on board the ship again, and satisfied
the men that his uncle had yielded to their importunity,
and had sent for his goods from on board the ship.

I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, as I
think I may call it ; for I was near three thousand leagues
by sea farther off from England, than I was at my island.

My nephew left me two servants, or rather one com-
panion and one servant: the first was clerk to the purser,
vhom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his
own servant. I took me also a good lodging in the house
of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged,
some French, two Italians, and one Englishman.

I quickly disposed of my English goods, and to advan-
tage: and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things, was the
most proper for me in my circumstances, because I might
always carry my whole estate about me.

After along stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to England, but none falling out to my mind,
the English merchant, who lodged with me, and with
Whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to
me one morning : "Countryman," said he, "if you will put
a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire
a ship hcrc ; you shall be captain, I will be merchant, and
we will go a trading voyage to China."

I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it
seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and in so
friendly a manner. It was, however, some time before we
could get a ship to our mind, and when we had got a
vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors. After some
time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English ,-
a Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men ;
with these we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.

We made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
first ; and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some
of our wares for opium, and for some arrack ; the first, a
commodity which bears a high price among the Chinese,
and which, at that time, was very much wanted there. In
a word, we went up to Shusham, made a very great voy-
age, were eight months out, and returned to Bengal 5 and
I was very well satisfied with my adventure.

Having picked up some English seamen here after this,
and some Dutch, we now resolved for a voyage to the
Philippine and Malacca isles : and, in short, not to fill
this part of my story with trifles, when what is yet to come
is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six years in
this country, trading from port to port, backward and for--
ward, and with very good succcess, and was now the last
year, with my partner, going in the ship above mentioned,
on a voyage to China.

Atter a tedious and irregular course, and very much
straitened for provisions, we came within sight of a. little
port, called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission
usually landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the
Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European
ships ever put in. I was joyful, and, I may say, thank
ful, when I set my foot safe again on shore.
The fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time: however, we found that there were three
or four junks in the river, and two Japanese, I mean ships
from Japan, with goods which they had bought in China,
and were not gone .way, having Japanese merchants on
shore.

The first thing our old Portugese pilot did for us was,
to bring us acquainted with three missionary Romish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time, converting the people to Christianity; but we
thought they made but poor work of it, and made them
but sorry Christians when they had done. However, that
was not our business. One of these, a Frenchman,
whom they called Father Simon, was appointed, it seems,
by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin,
the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited only
for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him: and we scarce ever met
together, but he was inviting me to go that journey with
him, telling me how he would shew me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and, among the rest, the
greatest city in the world ; "a city," said he, "that your
London and our Paris, put together, cannot be equal to."
This was the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great,
and infinitely full of people.

He never left off soliciting us to go with him; and,
after much consideration, I and my partner, with
the old Portuguese pilot, prepared for our journey. We
set out with very good advantage, as to finding the way ;
for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of Viceroy, or principal magistrate, in
the province where they reside.

In five-and-twenty days we arrived at Pekin. I had
nobody with me but the youth whom my nephew, the
captain, had given me to attend me as a servant, and who
proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had
nobody with him but one servant, who was a kinsman.
As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the
court, we gave him a passage, that is to say, bore his
charges, for his company, and to use him as an inter-
preter, for he understood the language of the country, and
spoke good French, and a little English ; and indeed this
old man was a most useful implement to us every where ;
for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing, "Ah, seignior Inglese," said he, " I have
something to tell you, will make your heart glad."

He told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and
Polish merchants in the city, and they were preparing to
set out on their journey, by land, to Muscovy, within four
or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the oppor-
tunity to go with them, and leave him behind to go back
all alone. I confess I was surprised with his news: a.
secret joy spread itself over my whole soul, which I cannot
describe, and never felt before or since. \Ve then went to
consulting together what was to be done; and I asked
my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and
whether it would suit with his afi'airs. He told me he
would do just as I would, for he had settled all his affairs
so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands,
that as we had made a good voyage here, if he could vest
it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be
worth the carriage, he would be content to go to England,
and then make his voyage back to Bengal by the Com-
pany's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Por-
gal pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, if he pleased. He received the
proposal like a man transported, and told us, he would go
with us over the whole world; and so, in short, we all
prepared ourselves for the journey. However, as it was
with us, so it was with the other merchants, they had
many things to do; and instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was four months and some odd days before all
things were got ready.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
set out from Pekin. The company was very great, and
consisted of peoples of various nations, with between three
and four hundred horses and camels. In a few days we
passed the great China wall, made for a fortification
against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in an endless traelc. where the
roeks are impassahle. and the, preeipiees sneh as no enemy
eould enter. or indeed elimh up, or where, it they did. no
wall eonld hinder them. They tell us its length is near
a thousand tinglish miles, but that. the eountry is live.
hundred in a straight. measured line. whit-h the wall
hounds. without. measuring the windings and turnings it.
takes: it is ahoul. t'our fathom high. and is many thiek in
some ptuees,

\\'e travelled near a month al'ler this still in the domi-
nions ol' the emperor of China. and arrived within ahout
two dzrvs' journey ol' this eitv. when messengers were sent
express to ererv part of the road, to tell all travellers and
caravans to halt. till they had a guard sent to them, for
that an unusual hodv ol' 'l'artars, making ten thousand in.
all. had appeared in the wa_v, athoul thirty "lillS hl')'ond
the city.

This was very had news to travellers: however. it. was
carefully done of the governor, and we were very glad to
hear we should have a guard. _>>\eeonlingl_v. two days
:Il'ter. we had two hundred soldiers sent- us from a garrison
ot' the ('hinese. on our lel'I, and three hundred more of
the eil'v ol' Nauru. and with those we advaneed holdly.
The three hundred soldiers from Nauru marehed in our
front. the two hundred in our rear, and our men on eaeh
side of our eamels, with enr baggage. and the whole
earavan in the eentre. ln this order. and well prepared
for haltle. we thought ourselves a mateh l'or the whole ten
thousand Mogul 'lartars. it they had appeared : lint, tho
Next day. when they did appear. it was quite another
thing. The t'hinese. our guard in the front. who had
talked so lnig the day before, hegan to stagger, and the,
soldiers Frequently looked hehind them, whieh is a certain
sign in a soldier that he is just. ready to run a 'f:l_\'.

In a word, the 'l'artars eame on, and an inmnnerablo
company they were : how many, we eould not tell ; but;
ten thousand we thought, was the least. .\ party of them
came on lirst, and viewed our posture. traversing the
ground in the front of our line ; and as we found them
within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings toV'--

_

2.

M_

a

x

5

1

\

I

.\

r. 'ull
. \W

w '

in?>>
., Q

9..
g

/

_

4

4,

K

.,,,//

1......>> (a... V
' \<<\\\\\\$\ . .

   

....
a.
'_

    

5 .1V

/./

fly

,/
/

ll.

./

K

n
..

fl/

 

' ,
6/7

III.

With the Tartan.

E ncountel.
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with
their shot, which was done 3 but they went elf, and I
suppose went back to give an account of the reception they
were like to meet with: and, indeed, that salute clogged
their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile
to consider of it, and, wheeling 011' to the left, they gave
over the design.

'l'wo days after this we came to the city of Naunm, or
N aum. \Vc thanked the governor for his care for us, and
collected to the value of one hundred crowns, or there
abouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us 3
and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here 5 but the
reason of it was that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay
nearer to them than they do now, the Museovites having
abandoned that part of the country (which lies from the
city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate and
unfit for use : and more especially, being so very remote,
and so diliieult to send troops thither for its defence,
for we had yet above two thousand miles to )Iuscov ',
properly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing
over, and which, as I said, was to be called "No Man's
Land 3" and on the thirteenth of April we came to the
frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the first
city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being
on the west side of the river Argun.

"'0 now entered into the Museovitc dominions, and
advanced from the river Arguna, by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the czar
of Museovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as
many places as it is possible to place them, where his
soldiers keep garrison, something like the stationary
soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries
of their empire, some of which I had read, were particu-
larly placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and
for the lodging of travellers: and thus it was here: for
wherever we came, though at these towns and stations the
garrisons and governor were Russians, and professed
Christians, yet the inhabitants of the country were mere
pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun,
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven ; and not only
so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
met with, the most barbarous.

In a village, near the last of those places, I had the
curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most
brutish and insufferable. They had, I suppose, a great
sacrifice that day 3 for there stood out, upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol, made of wood, frightful as the devil, at
least as anything we can think of to represent the devil,
can be made. It had a head certainly not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw ; ears as
big as goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown
piece : a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and a mouth ex-
tended four cornered, like that of a lion, with horrible
teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill. It was dressed
up in the filthiost manner that you can suppose: its upper
garment was of sheep-skin, with the wool outward ; a
great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing
through it. It was about eight feet high, yet had no feet,
or legs, or any other proportion of parts.

This scarecrow was set up at the outside of the village ;
and when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seven-
teen creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, for
they make no distinction by their habits, either of body
or head : these lay all flat on the ground, round this
formidable block of shapeless wood. I saw no motion
among them any more than if they had been logs of wood
like their idol. At first, I really thought they had been
_ so ; but when I came a little nearer, they started up upon
their feet, and raised a howling cry, as if it had been so
many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away as if they
were displeased at our disturbing them. I rode up to the
image or monster, call it what you will, and, with my
sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the
middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns ; and
one of our men that was with me took hold of the sheep-
skin that covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a
most hideous outcry and howling ran through the village,
and two or three hundred people came about my ears, so
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows
and arrows: but I resolved, from that moment, to visit
them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they
wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded.
with the badness of the way, and our long march over the
last desert; so we had some leisure here to put my design
in execution. I communicated my project to the Scots
merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had had sufiioient
testimony, as above. I told him what I had seen, and with
what indignation I had since thought that human nature
could be so degenerate. I told him, I was resolved, if I ,
could but get four or five men, well armed, to go with me,
to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol ; to let them
see that it had no power to help itself, and consequently
could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, ,
much less help them that offered sacrifices to it.

He laughed at me, but finding me resolute, told me I
should not go alone, but he would go with me: but he
would go first, and bring a stout follow, one of his country-
men, to go also with us ; " and one," said he, " as famous
for his zeal as you can desire any one to be against such
devilish things as these." In a word, he brought me his
comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain Richardson,
and I gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
also of what I intended ; and he told me readily he would.
go with me, if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go,
only we three.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being to.
set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor-
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us.
when we were out of his power.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some com-
bustible matter with aquavitae, gunpowder, and such other
materials as we could get; and, having a good quantity of
, tar in a little pot, about an hour after night, we set out
upon our expedition. \Ve came to the place about eleven
vo'clock at night, and found that the people had not the
least jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night
'was cloudy, yet the moon gave us light enough to see that
the idol stood just 111 the same postme and place it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest, only
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we
saw the three priests, whom we mistook fer butchers, we
saw a light, and, going up close to the door, we heard_
people talking, as it9 there we re five or six of them. "We
concluded, theietorc, that it we set wild--lire to the. idol,
these men would come out immtxliately, and run up to the
place to rescue it from the destruction that we intended
for it : and what to do with them we knew not ; 011cc we
thought of carrying it away, and setting the to it at a
distance ; but when we came to handle it, we found it too
bulky for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The
.second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent, or hut,
.and knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out : but I could not join with that ; I
was against killing them, if it was possible to be avoided.
"Well, then," said the Scots merchant, " I'll tell you what
we will do 3 we will try to take them prisoners, tie their
hands, and make them stand still and see their idol
destroyed."

As it happened, we had twine or pack thread enough
.about us, which was used to tie our fireworks together
with ; so we resolved to attack these people first, and with
.as little noise as we could. The first thing we did, we
knocked at the door, when one of the priests coming to
the door, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the
idol, where we gagged him, that he might not make a
noise. "'0 tied his feet also together and left him on the
ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another
would come out to see what the matter was ; but he waited
:so long till the third man came back to us ; and then,
nobody coming out, we knocked again gently, and imme-
diately out came two more, and we served them just in

e
the same manner, and lay them down by the idol some
distance from one another ; when, going back, we found
two more were come out to the door, and a third stood
behind them within the door. We seized the two, and
immediately tied them ; when the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and
taking out a composition we had made, that would only
smoke and stink, he set fire to it, and threw it in among
them. By that time the other Scotsman, and my man,
taking charge of the two men already bound, and tied
together also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and
left them there, to see if their idol would relieve them,
making haste back to us.

When the fuse we had thrown in had filled the but
with so much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we
then threw in a small leather bag of another kind, which
flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we found there
were but four people left, who, it seems, were two men
and two women, and, as we supposed. had been about
some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short, frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling
and stupid, and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
others, and all without any noise. I should have said, we
brought them out of the house, or hut, first 3 for indeed
we were not able to bear the smoke, any more than they
were. \Vhen we had done this, we carried them all
together to the idol. \Vhen we came there, we fell to
work with him 3 and first, we daubed him all over, and
his robes also, with tar, and such other stuff as we had,
which was tallow mixed with brimstone ; then we stopped
his eyes, and cars, and mouth, full of gunpowder; then
we wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet ;
and then, sticking all the combustibles we had brought
with us upon him, we looked about to see if we could find
any thing else to help to burn him, when my man remem-
bered, that by the tent, or hut, where the men where,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I
do not remember: away he and one of the Scotsmenran,
and fetched their arms full of that. When we had done

1.316 ers AND snmunas or

this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having
untied their feet, and ungagged their mouths, and made
them stand up, and set them just before their monstrous
idol, and then set fire to the whole.

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol blew up, and as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it: and, in a word, till we saw it
burn into a mere block, or log of wood ; and then setting
the dry forage to it, we found it would be soon quite con-
sumed, so we began to think of going away : but the
Scotsman said, " N 0, we must not go ; for these poor
deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the fire,
and burn themselves with the idol." So we resolved to
stay till the forage was burned down too, and then we
came away, and left them.

In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers,
exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey: nor
could any man suggest that we had been any where but
in our beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to fit
themselves for the fatigues of that day' s journey.

But it did not end so; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this village,
but of a hundred more, for aught I know, to the town
gates, and, in a most outrageous manner, demanded satis-
faction of the Russian governor, for the insulting their
priests, and burning their great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, such
a hard name they gave the monstrous creature they wor-
shipped. The people of N ortzinskoy were at first in a

great consternation; for they said the Tartars were no
' less than thirty thousand, and that, in a few days more
they would be one hundred thousand strong.

The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable. . He
assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there had
not a soul of his garrison been abroad; that it could not
be from any body there; and if they would let him know
who it was, they should be exemplarily punished. They
returned, haughtily, that all the country reverenced the
great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and 90

3'35! '11:":Q

0 . . . . ...
. . : 3 ; ... a
. >>. I

7/??? ....... .0._.....0.0, .0 ...

0...

. .. . ., _ _ . ., <<...-"...x ...,,.. , 0. J, ., .... @ mew]. .
00. 0 p 0 0, .u... 0 .00 ., _ . a ..x. nu: I . ... ... %// 0%. Nu} m, .00'
;...n.c..... ....>>v .. . . ... .. .... .... ... 0.. ..n n H ,0/.../.%. fig? 0"

 

Demolishing the Idol.
mortal would have dared to offer violence to his image,
but some Christian miscreants, so they called them, it
seems ; and they therefore denounced war against him
and all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and
Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or to have any cause of war alleged to be given
by him, the czar having strictly charged him to treat the
conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave them
still all the good words he could: at last, he told them,
there was a caravan gone towards Russia that morning,
and, perhaps, it was some of them who had done them
this injury, and that, if they would be satisfied with that,
he would send after them to inquire into it. This seemed
to appease them a little, and accordingly the governor
sent after us, and gave us a particular account how the
thing was, intimating withal, that if any in our caravan
had done it, they should make their escape ; but that,
whether they had done it or no, we should make all the
haste forward that was possible 3 and that, in the meantime,
he would keep them in play as long as he could.

This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew any
thing of the matter; and, as for us that were guilty, we
were the least of all suspected: none so much as asked us
the question. We hastened on towards the city of Jars.-
wena, where there was a garrison of Muscovites 3 and there
we rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly fatigued
with the last day's march, and with want of rest in the
night.

l3From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us
three-andtwenty days' march. We furnished ourselves
with some tents here, for the better accommodating our-
selves in the night 3 and the leader of the caravan procured
sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country, for carrying
our water and provisions ; and these carriages were our
defence every night round our little camp: so that had
the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very numerous
indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us.

After we were out of the desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or station on
the great river J anezay. This river, they told us, parted
Europe from Asia, though our map-makers, as I am told,
do not agree to it. However, it is certainly the eastern
boundary of the ancient Siberia, which now makes a pro-
vince only of the vast Muscovite empire, but is itself equal
in bigness to the whole empire of Germany.

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a
wild, uncultivated country: I cannot say, it is a barren
soil: it is only barren of people, and good management;
otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and
agreeable country.

.1 have nothing material to say of my particular all'airs,
till I came to 'I'obolski, the capital of Siberia, where 1 con-
tinued some time, on the following occasion.

"'e had been now almost seven months on our journey,
and winter began to come on apaee ; whereupon my part-
ne' and 1 called a council about our particular all'airs, in
which we found it proper, considering that we were bound
for England, and not for Moscow, to consider how to dis-
pose of ourselves. 'l'hey told us of sledges and rein-deer
to carry us over the snow in the winter time ; and indeed
they have such things as it would be incredible to relate
the particulars of, by which means the Russians travel
more in the winter than they can in summer 5 because in
these sledges they are able to run night and day ; the
snow, being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by
which the hills and vales, the rivers, the lakes are all
smOoth, and hard as a stone ; and they run upon the sur-
face, without any regard to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of
this kind ; I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and
my route lay two ways: either I must go on as the caravan
went, till 1 came to Jeroslow, and then go 011' west for
Narva, and the Gulf of Finland, and so either by sea or
land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China.
cargo to good advantage ; or I must leave the caravan at
a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six
days, by water to Archangel, and from thence might be
sure of shipping, either to England, Holland, 01- Hamburg.
N ow to go any of these journeys in the winter would
have been preposterous ; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic
would be frozen up, and I could not get passage, and to
go up by land in those countries, was far less safe than
among the Mogul Tartars : likewise to go to Archangel in
October, all the ships would be gone from thence, and
even the merchants, who dwell there in summer, retire
south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone ;
so that I should have nothing but extremity of cold to
encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie there
in an empty town all the winter. So that, upon the
whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
go, and to make provision to winter where I was, viz., at
'I'ebolski, in Siberia, in the latitude of sixty degrees, where
I was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
viz., plenty of provision, such as the country afforded, a
warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent company;
of all which I shall give a full account in its place.

I was new in a quite different climate from my beloved
island, where [never felt cold except when I had my ag'ue ;
on the contrary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on
my back, and never made any fire but without doors, and
for my necessity in dressing my food, &c. Now I made
me three good vests, with large robes or gowns over them,
to hang down to the feet, and button close to the-wrists,
and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dislike
our way in England, of making fires in every room in the
house, in open chimneys, which, when the fire was out,
always kept the air in the room cold as the climate.
But taking an apartment in a good house in the town, I
order a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove, the funnel to carry the
smoke went up one way, the door to come at the fire went
in another, and all the rooms were kept equally warm,
but no fire seen : just as they heat the bagnois in
England.

By this means we had always the same climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how,
'cold soever it was without, it was always warm within:
.and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with
any smoke.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with good company here, in a country so
barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of Europe,
near the frozen ocean, and within but a few degrees of
Nova Zembla.

But this being the country where the state criminals
of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished ; this
city was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, colonels,
and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry, soldiery,
rand courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the famous prince
Galilofken, or Galofl'ken, and his son, the old general
Robostisky, and several other persons of note, and some
ladies.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful
winter I thought it to be ; the cold was so intense, that I
could not so much as look abroad, without being wrapped
in furs, and a mask of furs before my face, or rather a
.hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight,
The little daylight we had, was as we reckoned, for
three months, not above five hours a day, and six at
most, only that the snow lying upon the ground con-
tinually, and the weather clear, it was never quite dark.
Our horses were kept (or rather starved) under ground;
and, as for our servants (for we hired servants here to
look after our horses and ourselves), we had every now
and then their fingers and toes to thaw and take care of,
least they should mortify and fall off.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being
close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all
double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried,
and cured in the season; good bread enough, but baked
as biscuits 3 dried fish, of several sorts, and some flesh of
mutton, and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good beef.
All the stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in
the summer, and well cured. Our drink was water, mixed
with aquavitze, instead of brandy ; and, for a treat, mead,
instead of wine, which, however, they have excellent good.
The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, frequently
brought us in fresh venison, very fat and good; and some-
times bears' flesh, but we did not much care for the last.
We had a good stock of tea, with which we treated our
friends as above ; and, in a word, we lived very cheerfully
and well, all things considered.

It was now March, and the days grown considerably
longer and the weather at least tolerable; so the other
travellers began to prepare sleds to carry them over the
snow, and to get things ready to be going ; but my mea-
sures being fixed, as l have said, for Archangel, and not
for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no motion, knowing
very well, that the ships from the south do not set out
for that part of the world till May or June ; and that if I
was there by the beginning of August, it would be as soon
as any ships would be ready to go away; and therefore, I
say, I made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers go away
before me. It seems, every year they go from thence to
Moscow for trade, viz., to carry furs, and buy necessaries
with them, which they bring back to furnish their shops ;
also others went on the some errand to Archangel, but
then they also, being to come back again above eight
hundred miles, went all out before me.

In short, about the latter end of May, I began to make
all ready to pack up ; and as I was doing this, it occurred
to me, that seeing all these people were banished by the
czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when they came
there, were left at liberty to go whither they would, why
did they not then go away to any part of the world, where-
ever they thought fit : and I began to examine what
should hinder them from making such an attempt.

But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that
subject with the person I have mentioned, who answered
me thus: " Consider, first, sir," said he, " the place where
we are 3 and, secondly, the condition we are in, especially,"
said he, " the generality of the people who are banished
hither. We are surrounded," said he, " with stronger
things than bars and bolts : on the north side is an
unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat never

. Y
swam; neither, if we had both, could we know whither
to go with them. Every other way," said he, " we have
ahovo one thousand miles to pass through the czar's own
dominions, and by ways utterly unpassablo, except by the
roads made by the government, and through the towns
garrisonod by its troops; so that We could neither pass
undiscovered by tho road, nor subsist any other way, so
that it is in vain to attempt it."

1 was silenced indeed at once, and found that they were
in a prison, every jot as secure as if they had been locked
11p in tho 11stlo of Moscow. .llowevor, it came into my
thoughts, that I might certainly be made an instrument to
procure tho escape of this excellent person, and that it was
very \asy for mo to carry him away, there being no guard
orcr him in tho country; and, as l was not going to Mos-
cow, but to Archangel, and that I went in tho natln'o of
a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in thostation-
ary towns in tho dosort. but could oncamp every night
where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted t1)-
Archangol, whore [ would iunno1liatcly secure him on"
board an English or .llutch ship. and carry him 011' safe
alou-I with mo ; and, as to his subsistoneo, and other par-
ticulars, that should be my care, till he could better supply
himsoli.

lle hoard me vo1y attentively, and looked earnestly on
me all the while I spoke , nay, 1 could see in his very face,
that what I said put his spilits into an e\1o1,1hu1r ferment:
his colour f'.'11-1pionily changed, his 1yes looked red, and
his hea1t llnttoied that it might be even perceived 111 his
conntenxmco ; nor could he inunodiately answer me, when
1 had done, and, as it were, expected what he would say
to it, and after he had paused a little, he mubraced me,
and said, " How unhappy are we, unguided creatures as
We are, that even our greatest acts of friendship are made
snares to 11s, and we are made the tempters of one another !
My dear friend," said he, "your ofl'er is so sincere, has
such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so
calculated for my advantage, that I nmst have very little
knowledge of the world, if I did not both wonder at it,
and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you
for it. But did you believe I was sincere in what I have
so often said to you of my contempt of the world? Did
you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I had
really attained that degree of felicity here, that had placed
me above all that the world could give me, or do for me?
Did you believe I was sincere, when [told you I would
not go back, if 1' was recalled even to be all that once I
was in the court, and with the favour of the czar, my
master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest
man, or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite? "
illere he stopped, as if he would hear what I would say ;
but indeed I soon after perceived that he stopped because
his spirits were in motion, his heart was full of struggles,
and he could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at
the thing, as well as at the man, and I used some argu-
ments with him to urge him to set himself free; that he
ought to look upon this as a door opened by Heaven for
his delivoranee, and a summons by Providence, who has
the care and good disposition of all events, to do himself
good, and to render himself useful in the world.

He had by this time recovered himself. " How do you
know, sir," said he, warmly, " but that instead of a sum-
mons from Heaven, it may be a feint of another instrument,
representing, in all the alluring colours tome, the show
of felicity as a deliverance, which may in itself be my
snare, and tend directly to my ruin? Here I am, free
from the temptation of returning to my former miserable
greatness ; there I am not sure but that all the seeds of
pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain
in nature, may revive and take root, and, in a word, again
overwhelm mo, and then the happy prisoner, whom you
see new master of his soul's liberty, shall be the miserable
slave of his own senses, in the full of all personal liberty.
Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement, banished
from the crimes of life, rather than purchase a show of
freedom at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at
the expense of the future happiness which I now have in
my view, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of ; for
I am but flesh, a man, a more men, have passions and
alfections as likely to possess and overthrow me as any
man. 0 be not my friend and my tempter both together ! "
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him, and indeed admired what I
saw : the struggle in his soul was so great, that, though
the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a most
violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give vent to his
mind 3 so I said a word or two, that I would leave him
to consider of it and wait on him again, and then I with-
drew to my own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at, or near,
the door of my room, aml I was going to open the door;
but he had opened it and came in. "My dear friem ,"
said he, " you had almost OVCI'Set me, but I am recovered.
Do not take it ill that I do not close with your offer. I
assure you, it is not for want of a sense of the kindness of
it in you, and I came to make the most sincere acknow-
ledgment of it to you ; but I hope I have got the victory
over myself."

" My lord," said I, " I hope you are fully satisfied that
you do not resist the call of I'Ieaven."--" Sir," said he,
if it had been from Heaven, the same power would have
influenced me to accept it ; but 1 hope, and am fully
satisfied that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and I
have an infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you shall
leave me an honest man still, though not a free man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make profes-
sions to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere desire
to serve him. lle embraced me very passionately, and
assured me he was sensible of that, and should always ac--
knowledge it; and with that he offered me a very fine
present of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from
a man in his circumstances ; and I would have avoided
'thcm, but he would not be refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship
with a small present of tea, two pieces of China damask,
and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did not weigh
above six ounces, or thereabout ; but were far short of the
value of his sables, which indeed, when I came to England,
I found worth near two hundred pounds. He accepted
the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the pieces
of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but
would not take any more ; and he sent word, by my sets
rant, that he desired to speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had
passed between us, and hoped I would not move him any
more in that allair; but that since I had made such a
generous olfer to him, he asked me, if I had kindness
enough to offer the same to another person that he would
name to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I
told him, that I could not say I inclined to do so much
for any one but himself, for whom I had a particular value,
and should have been glad to have been the instrument of
his deliverance. However, if he would please to name the
person to me, I would give him my answer, and hoped he
would not be displeased with me, if he was with my an-
swer. He told me, it was his only son, who, though I had
not seen him, yet was in the same condition with himself,
and above two hundred miles from him, on the other side
fif the Oby; but that, if I consented, he would send for

1111.

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand, that it was
wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not prevail
on him, I would shew my respect to him by my concern
for his son : but these things are too tedious to repeat here.
He sent away the next day for his son, and in about twenty
days he came back with the messenger, bringing six or
seven horses loaded with very rich furs, and which in the
whole amounted to a very great value.

His servants brought the horses into the town, but left
the young lord at a distance till night, when he came
incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him
to me ; and, in short, we concerted there the manner of
our travelling, and every thing proper for the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermines, and such other furs that are very
rich ; I had bought them in that city in exchange for
some of the goods I brought from China: in particular,
for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest326 I.II-II-z .IsII .IIII'Izu'rum-zs oI-I

part. hIIIIII, :IIIIl thII rIIst. :It'tIIIIII'aIIIl ut- AIIIIhaIIgIIl. t'oI :I much
lIIIttIIII IIIIiI II than I could haIIII IIIIIIII at London; and my
I'IaIItIIIIII who was sIIIIsilIlII of tho profit. and II lloso husiIIoss
IIIoIIII partiII III: IIIIlII th: IIII IuiIIII was lllt'l't'lltllllllSI', was mightily
IIlIIasIIII with our staI'. IIII account. of thII tIIatliII. wII IIIIIIlII
lII'l'I'.
it. was tho lIIIgiIIIIiIIg ot' .lIIIIII IIIlIIIII l lIIt't. this IIIIIIIolo
IIlaIIII : a city, I lIIIliIII'II. littlII lIII:II'Il of in tho IIIIIIIlIl : :IIIIl
iIIIlIIIIIl it- is so far IIIItIIIl' tho road of IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII. that. I know
not. how itshonhl lIII IIIIIIIh talkIIIl ot'. \VIIIIIIIIIII now IIIIIIIII
to :I IIIIIIII small IIaraIIaII, lIIIiIIg only thirty--tIIIII horsIIs I.IIIIl
II:IIIIIIls in all: and all of thIIuI IIassIIIl t'IIII IIIiIIII, though
IIII' IIIIIII IIIIIIst was IIIIIIIIIIiIItor ol IIlIII'IIII IIl thIIIII. lt was
most natural also that I should takII IIIIIrII sIIIII IIaIIts with
IIIII than I had lIII tow and tho yultll" lIIrIl IIassIIIl tor my
stIIw.aIIIl . IIhat "l't' It maul IIassIIIl tor lll\\tll I know III,It
IIII 'll-llt'l' did it IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII to iIIIIIIiI'II. \\ II had lIIIIIII tho
worst- and "III lal'gIIsl- IlIIsIIIIt.t.II pass IIIIIIII that. \\'l' IIIIIl. with in
all thII jIIIIIIIIIIy : iIIIlIIIIIl i call it. tho worst, lIIIIIaIIsII tho way
was \'III'y IlIIIIII in soIIIII plaI'IIs, and may nIIIIIIIIII in IIl-lIIII's :
t-hII lIIIst. wII had to say for it. was. that. IIIII thought. Wt'.
haIl IIII troops of 'l'artars :IIIIl rolIlIIIIIs to liar. and that.
"my IIIIIIIIII :IIIIIIII IIII this siIlII of tho l'l\'t'l' Uh)", or, at
lIIast. lIIIt I'IIIIy sIIlIlIIIII _: lIut II II found it othIIIIIIIisII.
\\ II IIIIIIIII just IIIItIIrIIIl .lI.IIIIIIIIII. having IIassIIIl tho I'iI'III'
Kama, which, in "mm parts is t-hII. lIouIIIlaI'y lIIItonIII
IIIIIIIIIIII and Asia: and tho lirst IIitI', IIII thII lIiIIropIIun
side, was II:IllIIIl Solov l\:IIII:Isl<II_I', which Is as IIIIIIIh as to
say, thII grout city IIII thII IIiIIIIII l\anIa.: and how \I'II
thought. to haIIII sIIIIII soIIIII. III'iIlIIIIt. alteration in "W III-oplc,
t.hIIir IIIIIIIIIIII's. tlIIIir halIits, religion, and t.hIIiII lIIIsiIIIIss ;
but we won: IIIistaluIII, for as wo lIaIl II \'astI. IlIIsoIIt. to pass,
wlIiI-h, lIII III-lation, is IIIIIII' sIII'IIII lquIlrIIIl milIIs long in
some places, but. not. above lv\\'(| thIIlrIIIl InilIIs IIVIIII where
we passIIIl it; so, tIill II'II. IIIIIIIII past. that horrihlo place,
we found \'('1'\' littlo Ilitl'IIIIIIIIIIII bCth'l'll that, IIIIIIIItry and
the Naval 'l'artary, and the III-oplo mostly 1mg, ans, and
littlII hotter than the savuIIIIs ot II'\IIIeIic:I , thIIiI-houscs and
towns toll of idols, and their way of living wholly
barbarous, except. in the cities as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call them-
selves, of the (ireek church; but even those have their
religion mingled with so many relics of superstition, that
it is scarce to be known in some places from more sorcery
and witchcraft.

in passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must, after
all our dangers \vere, in our imagination, escaped, as be-
fore, have been plundered and robbed, and perhaps, mur-
dered, by a troop ol' thieVes: of what country they were,
whether the roving bands of the (istiaehy, a kind of
'l'arlars, or wild people on the bank of the ()by, and
ranged thus far, or whether they were the sable-hunters of
Siberia, i am yet at a loss to know; but they Were
all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were
at first about live-and-forty in number : they came so
near to 11s as within about two-musket shot, and asking
no questions, they surrounded us with theirhorse, and
looked very earnestly upon as twice. At length they
plaeed themselves just in our way, upon which we drew
up a little line before our eamels, being not above sixteen
men in all, and sent out the Siberian servant who attended
his lord to see who they were. Ilis master was the more
willing to let him go because he was not a little apprehen-
sive that they were a Siberian troop sent out after him.
The man came up near them, with a flag of trace, and
called to them, but though he spoke several of their
languages, or dialects of languages rather, he could not
understand a word they said. However, after some signs
to him, not to come nearer them at his peril, so he said
he understood them to mean ; oll'ering to shoot at him if
be advanced, the fellow came baek no wiser than he went ;
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be
some'l'artars or Kalmuck, or of the Uircassian hordes, and
that there must be more of them on the great desert,
though he never hmrd that ever any of them Were seen so
far north before.

This was small comfort to us. However, we had no
remedy. There was, on our left hand, at about a quarter
of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of trees,
which stood close together, and very near the road. I
immediately resolved we would advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for first, I con-
sidered that the trees would, in a great measure, cover us
from their arrows, and in the next place, they could not
come to charge us in a body. It was, indeed, my old
Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this ex-
eellency attending him, namely, that he was always rcadiest
and most apt to direct and encourage us, in cases of the
most danger. \V'e advanced immediately with what
speed we could, and gained a little wood, the Tartars or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping their
stand, and not attempting to hinder us. \Vhen we came
thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a
swampy, springy piece of ground, and on the one side a
very great spring of water, which running out in a little
rill or brook, was a little farther joined by another of the
like bigness, and was, in short, the head or source, of a
considerable river, called afterwards the \Virtska. The
trees which grew about this spring were not in all above
two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick;
so that as soon as we got in we saw ourselves perfectly
safe from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us
on foot. But to make this difficult our Portuguese, with
indefatigable application cut down great arms of the trees,
and laid them hanging, not quite cut off, from one tree to
another, so that he made a continued fence almost
around us.

We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any offer to stir,
when about two hours before night, they came directly
upon us ; and though we had not perceived it, we found
they had been joined by some more of the same, so that
they were near fourscore horse; whereof we fancied some
were women. They came on till they were within a half
a shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket,
without ball, and called to them in the Russian tongue, to
know what they wanted, and bade them keep off ; but, as
if they knew nothing of what we said they came on with
a double fury, directly up to the wood side, not imagining
we were so barricadoed, that they could not break in. Our
old pilot was our captain, as well as he had been our
engineer, and desired of us not to fire upon them till they
came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to kill ;
and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take good
aim. \Ve bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were, some of them, Within
two pikes' length of us when we fired.

\Ve aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so
sure), that we killed fourteen of them at the first volley,
and wounded several others, as also several of their horses 3
for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets apiece, at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from us, in which
time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep at
a distance, we sallied out, and caught four or five of their
horses, whose riders, we supposed, were killed; and com-
ing up to the dead, we could easily perceive they were
Tartars, but knew not from what country, or how they
came to make an excursion of such an unusual length.

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most
part of the night in strengthening our situation, and barrio
cading the entrances into the wood 3 and, keeping a strict
watch, we waited for daylight, and, when it came, it gave us
a very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enemy, who
we thought were discouraged with the reception they had
met with, were now increased to no less than three hun-
dred, and had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as
if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little camp
they had pitched was upon the open plain, at about three
quarters of a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at
this discovery, and now, I confess, I gave myself over for
lost, and all that I had. The loss of my effects did not
lie so near me (though they were very considerable), as
the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians,
at the latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties
and hazards as I had gone through ; and even in sight of
our port, where we exPected safety and deliverance. As
for my partner, he was raging: he declared that to lose

his goods would be hisruin, and he would rather die than
be starved, and he was for fighting to the last drop.
The young 10111, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself,
was for fighting to the last also 3 and my old pilot was of
opinion that we were able to resist them all, in the situa-
tion we then were in : and thus we spent the day in
debates of what we should do ; but towards evening we
found that the number of our enemies still increased.
Perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for prey,
the first had sent out scouts to call for help, and to ac-
quaint them of the booty 3 and we did not know but by
the morning they might still be a greater number; so I
began to inquire of those people we had brought from
Tobolski, if there was no other, or more private ways, by
which we might avoid them in the night, and, perhaps,
either retreat to some town, or get help to guard us over
the desert.

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told
us, if we designed to avoid them, and not light, he would
engage to carry us 011' in the night, to a way that went
north, towards the river l'etraz, by which he made no
question but we might get away, and the Tartars never the
wiser ; but he said his lord had told him, he would not
retreat, but would rather choose to light. I told him he
mistook his lord, for that he was too wise a man to love
fighting for the sake of it ; that I knew his lord was brave
enough, by what he had showed already; but that his
lord knew better, than to desire to have seventeen or
eighteen men fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable
necessity forced them to it: and that, if he thought it pos-
sible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to
do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lord gave him
such an order, he would lose his life, if he did not per-
form it. We soon brought his lord to give that order,
though privately, and we immediately prepared for the
putting it in practice.

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a
fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and pre-
pared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars
might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was
dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars (for our
guide would not stir before), having all our horses and
camels ready loaden, we followed our new guide, who I
soon found, steered himself by the pole, or north star, all
the country being level for a long way.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to
be lighter still 3 not that it was quite dark all night, but
the moon began to rise, so that in short it was rather
lighter than we wished it to be ; but by six o'clock, next
morning, we were gotten near forty miles, though the
truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we found a.
Russian village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we rested,
and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day.
About two hours before night we set out again, and tras-
vellcd till eight the next morning, though not quite so
hastily as before 3 and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river called Kirtza, and came to a good large town, in-
habitcd by Russians, and very populous, called Ozomoys.
There we heard, that several troops or hordes of Kalmucks
had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now
completely out of danger of them, which was to our great
satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were obliged to
get some fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we
stayed five days ; and my partner and I agreed to give
the honest Siberian, who brought us thither, the value of
ten pistoles, for his conducting us.

In ten days more we came to Veussima, upon the river
Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina, we were-
there very happily near the end of our travels by land,
that river being navigable in seven days' passage to Arch-
angel. From hence we came to Lawrenskoy, where the
river joins, the third of July, and provided ourselves with
two luggage boats, and a barge, for our convenience. We
embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe at Archangel
the eighteenth, having been a year, five months and three
days, on the journey, including our stay at Tobolski.

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not
a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of
the English ships; when after some consideration, that
the city of Hamburgh might be as good a market for our
goods as London, we all took freight with him 3 and having
put our goods on board, it was most natural for me to put
my steward on board to take care of them, by which
means my young lord had a sufi'icient opportunity to com
ceal himself, never coming on shore again in all the time
we stayed there; and this he did, that he might not be
seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants
would eertamly have seen and discovered him.

We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August, the
same year, and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived
in the Elbe, the thirteenth of September. Here my partner
and I found a very good sale for our goods, as well those
of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia ; and dividing the
produce oi our effects, my share amounted to three thou-
sand four hundred and seventy--five pounds, seventeen shil-
lings and three pence, notwithstanding so many losses we
had sustained and charges we had been at, only remem-
bering that I had included in this about six hundred
pound's worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at
Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up
the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection, and where he could correspond
with those of his father's friends who were left alive. He
did not part without all the testimonies he could give me
of gratitude for the service I had done for him, and his
sense of my kindness to the prince his father.

To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence over land to the Hague, where
I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the
tenth of January, 1705, having been gone from England
ten years and nine months.

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am pre-
paring for a longer journey than all these, having lived
seventy-two years, a life of infinite variety, and learned
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the bles-
sing of ending our days in peace.

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BY w. Bownnx, '23 mo LION STREET xzoLsoRN.