.,l _:.'x.,.

 

I WAS VERA-151' UP IN conrnmrm'nom AND OFTEN LIFTBD

up MY HANDS, WITH :r'HE PROFOUNDEST HUMILITY, TO

THE 0mm: pownas, FOR sumo MY LIFE, warm THE
xssr or MY commmpns wean ALL DROWNED.

' 7 - ---- ' . seepage'IS.

WMfigwfiafi'Qfii 3" <<'Jfimms'mm _ W..-, THE. , A
L I "F E'
ANDMOST-

SURPRISING ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUS'OEz
' OF YORK, MARINER. '

WHO LIvED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS IN AN '
UNINHAEITED ISLAND; ON THE COAST OF. ' '
AMERICA, NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE
,OREA'T' RIVER OROONOQUE,
. _ Including An Account Of'
HIS .DELIVERANOE THENCE, AND His AFTER.
" SURPRISING ADVENTURES. . '
WITH

' HIS VISION OF THE ANGELIO WORLD.

 

 

AN IMPROVED EDIT'ION, ,
Illzutrated twitb eigbt Engraving, from Or'zginal desigm. .

w ' -
To'which is annexcd, ' '

 

 

-THE REMARKABLE HISTORY OF

'. ALEXflNDER SELKIRK;

Who lived four years and four months in a statg. of Solgtudc,
on the Island of 3m Fernandez, in the Pathc Ocean.

. . Dunbar: _
'~ PRINTED BY AND FOR G. MILLER~

I

I801.; . . ' .. . .
. ' . . I
. . ' . . .
. \ . . . . v .
. ~ .
\ . . . .
. . ~ .
x \
. .1. n . . x ' .
.. . . . . .
\ x . . . , .
. c . . \ . .
' . . , I . . .f .
I I l v
.
. \ . I \ I
. .
. . V .s ..
. . . . .. '7 .
. 'e '
.\
. ; Quail.
. u . . .
.
. . /
.
. .
.
.,
. . z .
. . ...
v > f . .
fi . y
. .
v \ ~ 4 AA
. a . .;
I .
y . . . A .
. c . 1
. . \
n \ I
l- / .
. ' 1 . . .
I v .| l . .. . I I . x . . . ..
I . . .LP RE FA C E.

F eyer the 110151 of any private 1'11an's ad-- -
176111111168 in. the world were .Worth mak-
ing public and were acceptable when p.111).-

' lifhed, the Editor of 1111s account thmkmthis

'Vill .be {0. , .-'. .' .. '5 (J; lihfirfi

The Wonders of this man's lifeleizceed'all
. that (he thinks) is to _be found extant; the
life of one man being {came capable of a~

.greater variety.

_ The fiory is told with rhodef'ty, with feri--
oufnefls, and with ahreligions application of
events to the 11fes to which wife "men always
apply them, viz. to the infirufiicm of others -
by this example, and to jufiify and honour
the 1171de11; of Providencein all the variety
of our circuInfiances, let them happen how
-'they Will.

13' ~ heV PREFACE

The editor believes this narrative to be a
jufi hif'tory of fact; neither IS their any ap-
pearance of fiction 1n it: and though he 18 well
aware there are many, who on account of
the very fingular prefervations the author
met with, will give it the name of romance;
yet in which ever of thefe lights it {hall be
viewed, he imagines, that the improvement ..
of 1t, as well as the diverfion, as .to. the m--

flruehon of the reader, will be the fame; and
asfuch, he thinks, without farther. compli- _
ment to the world, he does them a great
few-ice in the publication. .

Tm:'1' H E
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
- I o F

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

 

I was hem at York, in theyear 1632, of a reputable family~
, My father was a native of Bremen, who by merchandizing .
at Hull for ionic time, gained a very plentiful fortune. He mar-
ried my'rhother at York, who'received her firlt breath in that
country : and as her maiden name was Robinfon, I was called
Robinfim Kr'ewz'naer: which not being ealily pronounced in the
Englllh tongue, we are commonly known by the name ofCrufoe.

I was the youngell: of three brothers. The eldelt was a lieu- '
tenant colonel in Lochart's regiment, but flain by the Spaniards:
what became of the other, I could never learn.

. N 0 charge or pains were wanting in my education.----My fa-
ther defigned me for the law; yet nothing would ferve me but I
mull; 'go to fea, both againlt the will of my father, the tears of

. my mother, and the entreaties of triends. 'One morning my fa-
ther expottuhted very warmly with me: What reafon, fayahe,
have you to leave your natiVe country, where there mull: be\a
more certain profpeet of contentand happinefs, to enter intoa
wandering condition of unealinel's and unce'rtainty ? He recom-
mended to me Augur's will-1, " Neither to defire poverty nor
richesz" that a middle Rate of life was the molt happy, and that

. the high towering thoughts of railing our condition by wander-
ing abroad, were furrounded- with mifery and danger, and often
ended with confulion and diiappointment. I entreat you, nay,
I command you, (fays he) to delifl: from th'efe-intentiOi-18.- Con-
lidcr your elder brother, who laid down his life for his honour,

' or rather loft it for his dif'bedience to my will. ' If you will go
(added he) my prayersjhall however be ofi'ered for'your p referv--
ation; but a time may come, when, defolate, opprefl'ed, or for.
faken, you may with you had taken your poor defpifed father's
couril'e'.- He pronounced thefe words wrth inch 2. $ oving and
paternal eloquence, while fl :d3 of tears ran down" his aged- '
cheeks, that it feemed to flemB the torrent of my refo'lutiggis.
z. ' ut
But this icon wore oh, and a little. after I informed my mother,

' that Ieonld not fettle to any businefs, my rei'alutionh were 1'0

fimng to ice the world ; and begged the would gain my father's
ctgnfent only to go qne'voyage ;which. if I did not prcye pro-
t'perous, I would never attempt a tecnnd. ,.But my dc lire was as
vain as mylfo'llyin aiking. Mymdther. palliana'telly exprefl'ed

' her dillike ofthze propotal, telling me, " That as'lhe' faw I was

" bent uoon my own de'firuction, contrary to their will and my

- " duty, the would fay up more,"but leave me to do whatever

4}

" I pleafed." _ '
{'waszthen; I think, nineteen years old, when one time being

at ,Hnll', ,Ifmet a fchocl-felldw of mine, going along (with his fa-

ther, who was matter of "a lhip, to London; and acquainted
him with my wandering delires ; he amlred me of a free pafi'age,
and a plentiful lhaie of what was neceffary. Thus, without im-
ploring a blelfing, (or taking farewell of my parents, I took (hip?
ping (m the firit of September 165:. We fet fail foon after, and'
our {hip had 'l'carce left the Humber a-ttern', when there aroi'e to
violent a ftorm, that, being extremely Tea-lick, I, concluded the
judgment of Goddefervedly followed me'forjmy dil'obedience
tom'y'dear parents. It was then I called to' mind the good ad-
vice'ol'my father {how eafy and comffirtab'c was a middle {fate
'o'flit'e; andI lirmly refolved, if it pleafed.God,'to fit me on,dry
laud once more, I would return to my parents, implore"'their
forgivehefs, and bid a final adieu to my wandering.inclinations. _
5 "Such were my thoughts while'thc {torm continued: but thefe
good. ,rcfalutions decreafed with the ; danger; more el'pecially.
when my companion came to. me, clapping me on the fhoulder:
" 'What, Bob!" faid. he, "lure you 'was not frightenedlaft night
"with'tcttrce a cap-Fill of wind ?,"---" and doyou" cr'ed I, "call
"fuchaviolcntftorma cnpful'of wind?" "A.lt_orm,yon fool you,"
{aid be, "this is nothing; a good ih'ip and {ea-room always baffles
"' inch 3 'foolilh fquall of wind as that: But you're, a t'reih water
"tailor: Come by, turn out, {'ee what the weather we have -
."',.now, and a good bowl of punch will dro'wn'all your- pa't '
."forrows." In lhnrt, the punch was made,.I was drunk, and
in one night 8 time drowned both my repentance and my good
refolutioniz, forgetting entirely the vows and prcmifee lmade in
my dilirefs: and Whenever any refleetions would return on me,
what by company.'and what hydrinlzing, I foon mattered 'thol'e
fits, as I deridingly called them, But thisonly made way for
another trial, whereby I could not but fee how much I was be-
holden tO'klfid Providence. , _ _
Upon" the lixth day we came to an anchor in Harwich road,

'where'We lav wind bound with fame Newcame ihips; and

there being and anchorage, and our'cab'es found, the feamen .
for ' ,ietfieir ate toil and danger, and lpenbthe time as merry as

' ' if t ey'had been on more But on the eight day there nrofe a

b'riik'galc of wind, which prevented our tidingitupthe river; inc}
1* a. , ell

J ' "_. 11'O'F"'ROBIN'S'ON'5 C'K'fl'S'O'E. _ 7r

hill increa'ling, our {hip rode forecaf'tle in, and {hipped feveral
large feas. . ' ' '

It~was not long before horror feized the {eamen themfelves,
and I heard the malt:r exprefs this melancholy ejaculation,
5' Lord have mercy upon us, we {hall be all. loft and' undone!"
For my part, lick unto d-eath,.I kept my cabin till the univerfal
and terribly dreaiful apprehe-ifi- ms of our fpeady fate made me ,
get upon deck; and there I was afi'rightzd' indeed. :he Ea '
went mountains high: Icould fee nothing but dilirefs around ;
us; two (hips had cut their malts on board, and another wax
foundered _; two more that, had loft their anchors, were forced
out ro.the mercy of the ocean ; and to fave our lives we were

_ forced to cut our foremal'r and mainmatt quite away. '

Who i< their fo ignorant as not to judge of my dreadful con-
dition ? I was but a frelhgwater failor, and therefore it feemed'
more terrible. Our fliip was very good, but owr--loaded; which
made the failors often ery'out, "She would founder!" Words I
then was ignorant of All this while the itorm continuing, and"
rather increaling, the matter and the molt fober part of his men-- '
went to prayers, expeeling death eve moment. In the middle
of the night- one cried out, "We ha fprung-a leak ;" another,
"That there was four feet water in the hold." I was j'uft ready

- to expire with fear, when immediately all hands werevcalled-to,
the pump; and the men fOrced me alro in that-"extremity. to
ihare with them in their labour. While thus employed, the
mailer. ef ying fome light colliers, fired a gun as-a final of dif-'
trefs ; an I, not underltanding what it meant, and,__thinkin '

- that either the {hip broke, or fome'dreadful thing happened, fe E

into a flVOOl'l Even in thatcommon con lition of woe, nobody
minded me, excepting to thrult me slide with their feet, think-
ing me dead, and it was a great while before I recovered ?

Happy it was for us. when, upon the fignal given, they ven-
tured out their boats to fave our lives. All our pumping had .
been in vain, and vain had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our {hip's' fide, and our men calt them a rope over the

item with a buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold
of, and we hauling them up to usgot into their b at, and lefit
our fhip, which ,we perceived link within lets than a quirter of '
an hour; and thus I learnecl wnat was meant by jbundering at-

fea. 'And now the men incefl'antly laboured to recover their
own {hip is but the feat- ran {0 high, and the wind blew fo hard,
that they thought it convenient to hale within more; which,
with great difficulty and danger, at lalt- we happily effected-
landvng at a place called Cromer, not far from Winterton light-3
bou fe ; from whence we all walked to Yarmouth, where, as ob-
jects of pity, many good people furnilhed us with necefl'aries to
carry us either to Hull .or London. '
Strange, after all this, like the prodigal fon, Indid' not return
to my father; who heating of the {hip's calamity, for a long
' B 3. am e,V ya} .- - - ' _ I
1,. . . ' . . ,
'. \ s .

8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES

time thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt but I fhould
have/[Jared on bisfatted talf,__.as the fcnpture exprefl'cth it;
but my ill fate (till puth; ,3 oil, in than: of the powerful cor.-
vielinun of rcafon and, inencr. ' ' ~ A
'When we had beefiht .Xsarmcuth three days, I met my old _

_ companion, who had giv'e'n'me the invitation to go on boardw-

long with his father. His behaviour and {pet-ch. were .al-
tet ed, and in a melancholy manner afked me how I did, telling
his father who I was, 5: how I had made this voyage only for a
trial to pr; ceed further abroad. Upon which the old gentleman
turning to me gravely, laid, "Young man, you ought neverto
" go to fea any more, but to' take this for. a certain fign that
"you never will,profper in a lieu-faring conditmnAL "Sir" an-
fwered I, "will you take the fame refolution f" "It is_a different
" cafe," l'aidvhe', "it is my calling, and confequentlvmy duty;
" but as you have made this voyage fer a trial, you lee what 331
" fuccefs heaven has let before v: ur eyes ; amt perhaps onr mif-
" cries have been on'yeur account, like 707mb in- the l'nip of
" 721M257>>. 'But pray, what are you, and on what account did
" you go to 1'33. 6" Upon_ which I very freely declared my

,whole ltory: at the end of which he made this exclamation:

'1

5' Ye facred powers: what had I comm'tted, that 'fuch a
" wretch {hould enter into my {hip to heap upon me l'uch 'a
" deluge ofmil'eries 2" But foon recolleeling 'his pallion, " Young
man" laid he, ,f'il" you do not go back, depend upon it,
" wherever you go,'you will meet with difafiers and dilapp-r int-
" ments till your father's words are fulfilled upon you." And
{o'We parted.

. . Ithought at firfi to return home; but fiaame oppofed that good

-motion, as thinking i fhould he laughed at bv mv neighbz-urs'and

acquaintance. So {trange is the nature of youth, who are not
a'fliamed to fin, but yet aihamed to repent ,and to far from being
afharhed of thole actions for which they may be acounted fools,
they think it telly to return to their duty, which is the princi-
pal mark of wtl'dcm. . in fh..;rt I travelled up to London, refol-
ving upon a voyage, and a voyage 1 {non heard of, by my ac-
quaintance with a captain w 20 100k a tam-y to me, to go to the
coali: ot Guinea. Having 1} me money, and appearing like a germ-
tleman, I wenton heard, not as a comm-n fairer or i'creriaalt
man 5 nay, the c- mmauder agreed I ihcu'd go that voyage with
him without any expence; that I {hould be his melllnttte'aad
companion, aud'l was very n-elcome to carry any thing with
me, and mane the bell merchandsf l c ~u'd. / .

I biefi'ed my happy tortune, uzid humbly thanked my captain
for this ifer; and acquauzt'ing my friends in Yorhfhire, forty
p."lll':d3 were fent me, the grateft cart of which my dear father
and mother contributed to, with which I bought toys and
trifles,' 'as the capzain direele'd me. My captain alfd taught me
navigation, how to hecp'an account of the {hip's court}, take an

.3 obfenvation,0F.Roer's0N-CRUsoE 9

obferyation, and led me into the knnwledge cf feveral ufei'nl
branches of the mathefnatics. ,And indeed his my ige made me
both a fail~r anda merchant; for {whiting-ht horn five pounds
nine ounces of hold-dull for my adventure. which prc-duced. at

my return to London. almoft three .huntlredp tends. llutin
this voyage] Was extremely fic't. being thrown mtc-a virrlent
Calenture through the exeefsive teat, trading up..n the coal! from
thelatitude of fifteen degrees north, even to live line itt'ei-fi'.

But alas! my dear friend the captain l'orn dtparted this life
after his arrival. This was a l'enfible grief to me 5 yet I refolved
to go another-voyage with his mate, who had now got. command
of the "lip. ' his prcvcd a very untuccelet'ul one; for though I
did not carry quite a hundred pounds 01 my late acquired wealth,
(to/that I had ,two' hundred pounds lelr, which I repoled with
the captain's ,widow. who was an-honel't gentlewoman)yet my
misfortunes in this unhappy ytyaee were new great. For our
{hip failing towards the Canary illands. we w:re chalet! by a
Saiee rover; and in lpite oi"- ali the trade We coud make by
crowding as much canvas as our yards c-'ud vpread, .ur our
malls carry, the pirate gained upon us, '0 that we, pa'epai-ed
enriches to light. . They had eighteen guns, and we had but
twelve. About three in. the afternoon there was a delpeiate
engagement. wherein many were killed and w" nude-d on bz-'th
fides; but finding'ourfeives overpowered With numbers, our Qiip
disabled and ourl'elves too impotent to have the leaf: hopes of
incgefs, we ivere forced to furrender ; and accordingly were all
carried priloners into the put (it 351k e. Our men were lent to
the Emperor's Cieurt to be to ld there, but the pi: ate captain
taking notice of me, kept me t>> be his' own llave. : .
' In this condition, I thought myfeif the moi't miserable crea-
ture vn earth, and the prophecy of my father came at'rclh into
myth ugnte. However, my Condition was bet ter 1h. n Ithougiit
it to be, as will {0.2: appear. Soi'ne hopes indeed I read that my
new patron would g to tea again, where he might be t'alct-n' by
a Spanilh or l'ortnguele man of war, and then I lhoiud be {'et at
liberty. Ilnt in this i wax miflaken ; for he new: tool; me with;

him, but left mu to look after his-little gar-Ann, and do the di uti-
gery' or his honfe, and when ' e returned from lea, w-'>>-..ld'make .
' 2 lie in the cabin, and look attentne (hip. i had no one tuat'I
cruld communicate m>> thou hie to, which were 0 ntinuaily
meditating thy-leaps; no E"g'ilhman, Ir {it ran, or Scr-tchman
here but 'myfi t'; and for two \'r a'rs I could let;- nothing practic-
able, but only pzeaied m, leil'vit'a the imagination. ' . '

Afterl'ome lengdi of time, my part-.n, as I tound, grew f0
pocr that he could not tit out his lhip as nfual ; an - tl'."n he ut-
ed contiantly, once or twice a. week, ifthe weather was fair, to

,go'x'nt'a tithing, taking me and a young M icfco ilov tc row
the boat; and to much piraftd wan he with l"; tor my dexterity
in catching the hill, that he would often lend me With a Moor,

, ' ' who'IO Liraartn anvanrqnas

who was one of his kinlemen, and the MorefCO youth, to catch
a dilh of fill: for him. -

One morning, as we were at the fport, there arofe 'uch'a thicl:
fcg that we lofi fight '-f the fhore ; and rowing we knew not
whsch way, we laboured all the night, an.l in the morningfound
cur'elves in the ceeana two leagues from land. H wever. we
attained there at length, and made the greater hafle," ecaufe our
Romachs were exceedingly {harp and hungry. In order to pre-
vent inch dil'af'ters tor the fut::re,-my patron ordered a car nt-
t'er to build a little it ate room or cabi in the middle of the ong-

. 'boat, with a place behind it to iteer and hale home the main-

' theet, with other conveniences to kee him from the weather,
as alfo lockers to put in all manner 0 provrfiona. with a hand>>
fume lhoulder .'F mutton fail, gibing over the cabin.

In this he fr qucntly took us cut a filhing: and one time in-
viting two or three perform at dihine'tian to gowith him,made- ,
provilion extraordinary, providing alfo three fufees with pow-
der and (hot, that they might have 1? 'me l'port at "owling along
the {ea-coatl. The next morning the boat was made clean, her
ancient and pendants ou , and every thing ready : but their -
minds altering, my path" :1 ordered 11K to go a tithing, for that '
his guefis would certainly fup With him that night.

And now I began to think - f my deliverance indedegd. In or-
der to t is I perfuaded the M. or to get' tome plOViiiOn'l on
board, as not daring to meddle with our patron's: and he taking,
my advice, we ftored ourt'elv s with rulkbil'euit, 'and three jars
of water. Befides, I privately conveyed mto the boat a bottle
of brandy, fome twine, thread, a hammer, hatchet, and.a faw ;
and, in particu ar, fome bees wax, which was a great comfort to
me, and {crved to make candles. I then per funded Muley (for
fo was the Moor called) to procure l'ome powder -nd fhot,
pretending to- kill fea curlues,.wfiich he innvcer tly and readily
agreed tr~.In fhort, being provided with all things necefi'ary, we
failed out, refiilving for my own part to m.-.l:e my efcape,
though it lhould colt me my life; . . ' '

When we had palTed- the caftie, we fell. a filhing ; but though.
I knew there was a bite, I dili'embled the matter, in order to put

' out further to fea. Accordingly we ran a league further : when
. giving the boy the helm, and pretending to ltoop for fomething,
{eized Muley by lurprite and threw him overboard. As he
was-an excellent fwimmer, he foon arol'e..and made towards the '
boat; upon which Ita'ok out afufee, and prel'ented at him :. --
" Muley" faid I, " I never yet deli .ned to do you any harm,
." and feel: nothing now but my redemption. I know york are
" able enough to fwim to more, and fave your lite: but if you.
."a' are rel'olved, to, follow- me to the endangering of mine,

_ '" the Very moment you proceed, I will (boot you through the-
" head." The harmlels creature at thefe words, turned-\himl'elf
from me, and I make Ito-doubt got late to land. Then turning-

. _. ' to'OF R.OBINS-'ON cR'Urso'E. '- It

to the boy Xury, I perceived, 'he trembled at the action : but I
put him out of All fear, telling'himl that if he wouldst true and
faithful to me, I would do'weil by him. "And therefore," "
{aid I, " you mnit {troke your face to be faithful: and,as the
" Turks have learned you, fwear by Mahomet, and the heard of
" your father, or elfe I will throw you into the tea alfo." .So
innocent did the child then look, and with fuc'n an obliging
iiaile confented, that-I readily believed him, and from that day
Forward began to love himentireiy.' _ '

We then purfued our voyage : and leait they fltonld think me-
gone to the Straits' mcuth,1 kept to the fouthward to the truly
Barbarian coai'c ; but in the dufk of the evening, .i changed my'
ccnri'e, and fteering direelly'S. and by E. that I might keep near '
the ihore: and having a frelh gale of Wind, with a pleafant
{month rea,by three o'clock next day I was one hundred and
fifty miles beyond theEmperor cf Morocco's dominions. 3t
{till having the dreadful apprehenlions of, being retaken, I con- \
tinued failing for five days fucceflively, till inch time as-'the
wind {hitting to the fonth'w-ard, made me conclude, that if any
vefl'el was in the chafe of me, they woufd proceed no farther.
Affer to much fatigue and thought, I anchored at themo'uth of
a little river, I knew not what. or where : nei'her did I then fee
any people; What I principally Wanted was freih water ; and I
Was refolved about dull: to i'wim afhore. But no {oonsr did the
gloomy clouds of night begin to fuccee--'l the deelininq day,
when we heard fuch barking, retiring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, that one might have thought the very {trongeit monflers
ot'nature, or internal i'pirits had their rcfieicncef there. P00r
Xu'ry, glznoft dead with fear, entreated me notto'go on {hole
that night. -' " Suppoling I don t, Kitty," 1' id i, " and- in the
" morning we thank! fee men who are worie than tizoi'e we fear,
" what then ?" " O den we may give Clem de ihoot gm," --re-
plied Xury, laughing, " and tie gun maize (tern all run. away."
The wit and broken Engliih which the boy had learned a nong
the captives or" our nation, pleated me entirely :' a213, to add to
his checr'u'nefs, I gave hinta dram of the bottle : we Could. get -
but little fleep all the night for thofc terrible howiings they
made ; and, indeed, we were both very-much aifrig'zted, when,
by the railings of the water, and other tokens, we juit y c m-'
eludet'l one of thei'e moniters made towards our boat. I quid
not fee till it came within two oars length, when taking my fu-
i'ee, Ilet fiv. at him. "Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell ;
but lze'made towards the More, and the node of my gun. in-
creafed the fiznpendious noise of the m :nfters. , _ _

The next morning I was refolved to go on more to get frefh
.water, and venture my lifcamong the beails or lavage-s fir-mid
either attack me. any'faid, he'would take one of the jars and
'bring me fome. I aiked h'm why he would go and not I i'
The poor boy anhwred, " Ifwiid man's Come'thcy eat me, you

,_ _, _ go .I ~- ,'1 ' 7 I.

12 LIFE ANDADVENTURES

go away." A mind {carcely now to be imitated, fo contrary to
felf-prefervation, tlze molt powerful law of Nature. This in-
deed increated mv affection to the child. "Well, dear Xur'y, "
faid I, " "C will, both go afhore, both kill wild mans, andthey
" fliall eat neither of us." So giving Xury a piece of refle-
bread to eat, and adram, we waded aihore, carrying nothing
with us but our arms, and two jars for. water. I did not go out
pf light of the boat, as dreadin the favages coming down the
river in their canoes; but the lgaoy feeing a low dc {cent or vale
about a mile in the country, he wandered to it: and then run-
ning back to me with great precipitation, I thought he waspur-
iued by i'ome favage or Wilt; beafi; upon which I approached,
refolving to gperilh or proteet him from danger. Ashe came.
nearertome, 1 law fomething hanging'over his fhoulders, which
was a creature he had that like a bare, but different in colour,
and longer legs; however, we were glad of it, for it proved '
wholeiume. and nouriihing meat : but what added to our joy
was, my boy afl'ured' me there was plenty of water, and that he.
fee at; wild mam. And greater fiill was our comfort when we
found freth water in the Creek wherewe were when the tide
was out, without going to far up into the country. -

In this place I began to confider that the Canary and_Cape de
Verde ifiands lay not far-off : but having no infirument, I knew
not what latitude, or when to fiand off to fea for them ; yet my
hopes were, I lhoulo meet i'om'e of the'Englifh trading vefl'els,
who would relieve and take us in.

'The place I was in was no doubt thatwiid ccuntr ', inhab-
ited only, by a few, that lies between the Emperor o .Mornc-

. ~ co's domin'ions arid the Negroes It isfilled with Wild beafis

and the Moors ufe it for hunting chiefly.---Fron_1 this place I
- th'oughtl faw the top of the mountain Tenerifl" in' the Canaries :
which made me try twice to attain it: .but as often was I
drove back, and lo forced to purfne my fortune along ihore.
Early one morning. we came to an anchcr under a little
point of land, but pretty high ; and the tide beginning to How,
we lay ready to go turther in- But Xuly,,whofe youthful and
penetrating eyes were iharper then tune, in a left-tone, delir-
ed me to keep far from land, leit we {heuld he devoured}.
" For look yonder, mayter," {aid he,' "and fee de dreadful
" mcnfler' tall, afleep n de tide of de hill. Accordingly IOCk-,
ing Where. he pointed, I efpwd a fearful mcnfier indeed. "it
was a terrible great lion that lay on more, covered as it were by
.a ihade ot. a piece of the hill. " Xurv," {aid 1, '-you~fhall go
" on ihore and kill him." Bu: the bay looked amazed;
"Me kill him!" fays he. "he eat me at one month."
meaning on-- mouthful.' Up. n>> w"-ch I- bid ltian lie fiill, and
chanting my biggei't gun wit two flugs, and a g od cha ge of
' powder, I tor-.1; t' e belt aim I- come.. to ihoot. im through-
the head, but his leg lying over his nofe, the [lug bfokf his
'nee-or ROBINSON cnvsoE. ' 13

knee-bone. The lion awaiting with the pain, got up, but
{can fell down, giving the molt hideous groan [ ever heard: but
taking my fecond piece, I {hot him through the head, and then
he lay. Itruggling for life. Upon this Xury took heart and delir-
~ed my leave to go on there. " Go then," faid._l. Upon which .
taking a little gun in one hand, he fwam. to there with the other,

and coming clofe to the lion, put a period to his life, by {beating
him again "through the head. .

But this was {pending our'ammunitien in vain, the llefh not
being good to eat. Xury was like a champion, and comes on
board for a hatchet, to cut of the head of his enemy : but not
having firength to perform it, he cut off and brought me a foot.
I bethought me, however; that his lkin would. b: ofi-u'l'e. '1 his '
work colt Xury and me a whole-day :, when {preading'it on the
top of our cabin, the hot beams of the fun effeetually dried it in
two days time, and it afterwards ferved me for a bed to'lie
on a. a = .' ' '

And'now we failed foutherly, living fparingly on our provi-
flons, and went no oftener on fhore than we were obliged for

'frelh water. My defign was to make the river Gambia or Sene-

' g'al,':or any .where about the Cape dc Verde, in hopes to' meet
fomeEuro, ean fhip. -- If Providence did not fo favour me, my
neat eourf: was to feek. for' the iflands, or lofe my life; among
the Negroes. And in a word, I put my whole flrefs upon this,
'i Either that I muft meet with fome fillp or certainly perifli."

One day as we were failing along, we {aw people fland on the
Ihorc looking at us: we could alfo perceive they were black and
itark naked. I was inclined to go on more, but rXury cried,
" No, no :',' however, I approached nearer, andI found they
run along the there by me a good way. They had no weapons
in their hands, except one, who held along fich, which Xury
told me was a lance, with which they could kill at a great dill-
ancc. I- talked to them by figns and made them fenfible'] want-
ed fomething to eat : they ' beckoned to me to {top my boat,
while two of them ran up into the country, and m let's than
half an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of
dried flelh, and tome corn, which weliindly accepted; and to
prevent any fears on either fide, they brought the food to the
there, laid it down, then went and flood a great way off till
we fetched it on board, and then came clofe to us again.

But while we were returning thanks to them; being all we
could afford, two-mighty creatures came from the mountains: . '
one as it were purfuing the other with great fury, which we

' were the rat-her inclined to believe as they feldom appear but.
in the night: and both thefe- fwiftly pulling by the Negr'oesz
jumped into the flea, wantonly fwimming about, as tho' the di-
'ver-'lion'of the waters had put a 110 to their fiercencfs. At lalt
one of them coming-nearer to my oat than I expeeted or defir-s
ed, Iihot him direetly through the head; upon which he'funk

. ' ' . immediately
immedi'atly, and yet rif'ing again, would have willingly made .
the there: but between the wound and the lirangling of'thc .
water,'he died before he could reach it. '

It is ir'np' {Title to expreis'the conflernation the poor Negroes
were in at t? e filing of my gun ; muchlel's can Imentian their
furpril'e, when t? ey perceived the creature to be {lain by it. I
made figua to them to draw near it with a rope, and then gave
it them to hale on there. It was abeautiful leopard, which
made me defire its {kin r and the Negroes feeming'to cover the
cal-cafe, I freely-gave itto them. As forathe other leopard, it'
made to more, and ran with prodigious fwiftnefs out of fight.
The Negroes having kindly furnifhed me with water, and
with what roots and grains their country .alfordedJ took my
leave, 'andyal'ter eleven days-fail,;came in fight of the Cape de
Verde, and thof'e iflands called byrits-name But the great difl-' -
ance l was from it, and ,t'earingeontrary winds~would prevent
my reaching them; I began to grow melancholy and dejected,

. whemgupou a-fiadclen, Xur cried out, "Matter! Mafier'la {hip
- ." with a fail !"'and looke as afii-ight-ed as if it was his.mafiet"s
gflfip fen't infearch of us. But I Icon difcovered the was az'Por-
,tuguefe fliip, as I thoughtboundto the coafl: of Guinea for. Ne-
- groes. Upon which I firove for life to come up'tothem'. :But
'vain had it been, if-through their perfpec't'ive gla-fi'es they had-not
, erceived 'meand'ihcrtened their failrto let me come up.
'ncouragedai this, Ifct up my patron's ancient, and fired a
- gun, bothas fignals of diflrefs grup'on which-they very. kindly
lay to, 1'0 that-in three hr'urs't'm'e Icame up with them. They
{poke to me in Portu'guci'e, Spanilh, and French, but neither
"cf tltel'e did 1 underliaud; till at length a Scots failor called,
and then ltold him I was an Englifliman, who'lzad efcaped
from tlze Moors at tallee : upon which they tool: me'kiudly on
board, with alimy efl'ee'ts. ' ' . . -' - 1 '-

Surely none can exprel's the inconceivable jhyI felt at this
happy deliverance! who from being 'a late mitferable and for-

lorn creature. ,was not only relieved, but in thvoilr with the
mailer, of thefhip, to whom, in returnfor my deliverance, 'I
offered all 1 had, " God forbid," {aid ire/"that! lhould
" take any thing from you. Everything :lhnll be delivered to
"you when you come to Brazil. It I'haye fav'ed your life it
" ls no more than I lbould expect to receive'myt'elf from any ,

\ " other, when in the fame circumflanceg 'Iifhould happen to.
" meet ti'c like deliverance.' And ihzt'uld I take from you what
" you have, and leave you at Brazilflwhy, itbis would be only '
". taking away :1 Mel had given: My charity teaches 'me ret- .
" tcr. Thule directs you have. will V fuppo you there, and
" provide you a pafl'age home again. --~An , indeed, he aeted
.with the flrie'tes'i juflzceinwhathe did,;ta ng my things into
his pofl's-llion, and giving me an. exact in. ento , even to my
earthen jars. ,He bought my boatgof me for .t e ihip's. ul'e'
. ,_ . -' ' . givmgor nonrNs'ON causes. 15 -'

giving me 'a note of eighty pieces of. eight, payable at Brazil ;.
.and if any body ofi'ered more, he would make it up. file alfa
. gave me 60 pieces for my boy Xfiry. It was with great reluctance

I was prevailed upon to fell the child's liberty, who had ferved
me f9 faithfully; but the boy was willing himfelf; and it was
agreed, that after ten years he lhould be made free, upon his. . :
renouncing Mahometanifm, and embracing Chriltianity. ' ' .

Havin apleafant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived in the
Bay de ,odos lo_s Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in tw enty-two-days
after. And here I cannot forget the generous-treatment 'of the
captain. He would takenothing 'for my pall'age, gave me twen-
ty ducats for the leopard's ikin, and thirty for the lion's. Every
thing he caufed to be delivered, and what I would'fell he bought.
In ihort I made about 210 pieces of my cargo'; and with this
fiock I entered once more, as I may fay into the feeneof life.

Being recommended to an honefi planter, I lived with him
till fuch time as Iivas informed of the manner of their; planting
and making fugar; and feeling how well they lived, and how
fuddenly they grew 'rich, I was filled with a defire to fettle '
among them,and refoived t9 get my money remitted to me, and
to purchafe a plantation. ' . '

To be briefll bought a fettlement next door to an honelt and
kind neighbour, born at Liflmn, ofEriglilh parents, whore plan-
tation joining to mine, we improved it very amicably together.
Beth cur ficcks were low, and for two years we'planted only
for food :' but the third year we planted fame tobacco, and-each
of us drell'ed a large piece of ground the enfuing year for plant-
ing canes. But now I found how much I wanted afliitance, and
repented the lofs of my de'ar boy Xury. '

Having none to, aflil'c me, my father's words came into my
mind ; and lured to afk myfelf, if what I fought'was only a
"middle ftation of life, why could it not as well 'be obtained in
England as here? When I pondered on this with regret, the
thoughts of my late deliverance forfook me. I had noneto con-
ve'rfe with but my neighbour ; ' noworkite be dene but bly' my
own hands ; it often made me fayymy'condition was like to
that of a man cafliupon a--del'olate Illand, So unhappy are we
in our reflections, fo forgetful of-what-goo'd things we receive
ourfelves, and fo unthankful for our deliverance from thoi'e
calamities that others endure. ~- g
' . I'was in fom'e meal'ure-' lErtled,-3b'efore the captainwho took

'me up departed from'thel'll'r-azild. One day I went to him, and
'told him' What {took I bird in Louder), defining his alliltan'ce' in
getting it remitted; to which the good'g'e'ntleman'readilycon-
'fented, bgt Would only-have m: fend for-halt" my money, lez't it
'flmuld nnf'carry ; which, if it did, I might {till-have the remain-
der'to {rapport rne : and in taking letters of procuration ot'me,

bid me tronble'myfelf no farther about it. .
. And indeed wonderful was his hindnel's'towards me; for he
not only procured the money [had drawn {orpp'on my captain's
- " ' . ' widow16 . LIFE AND anva'rnaEs'

widow, but frn't me over a fervant witha cargo proportionable
to my condition. He all'o fent me over tools of all forts, iron-
work, and utenfils' necefl'ary for my plantation, which proved
"be of the greatcft we to me in my bulinefs. .
- I'Ve'alth now accumulating on me, and uncommon fuccel's
crowning my profperous labours, I might have relied happy in
that middle Rate of life my father had to often recommended,
yet nothing would content me, limb was my evil genius, but
I mufl; leave this happy Ration, fora foolilh ambition in
riling; and thus, once more, I cai't myfelf into the greateil:
gu'ph of mifery that ever poor creature fell into. Having lived
four years in Brazil,I had not only learned the language, but
contraeleil acquaintance with the molt eminent planters, and
even the merchants of St. Salvadore; to'whom, once, by way
of dil'courfe, having given ace unto!" my two voyages to the
coafl: ( f Guinea and the' manner of trading there i'or mere trifles,
by which we furniih .our plantations with Negroes, they gave
Inch-attention to what I faid, that three of them came one mor-
. ning to me, and told me they had a fecr:t propofal tomake.
After enjoining me to fecrecy (it being an infringement on the
powers of the Kings of Portugal and Spain) they told me hey
had a mind to fit, out'a {hip to go to Guinea, in order to
~fiOCk the plantation with Negroes, [which as they could not
be publicly fold, they would divide among them: and if I
would go their fupercargo in the ihip, to manage the trading
part, I ihould have an equal {hate or the Negroes, without
- roviding any, Rock. The thing indeed was fair enough, had
i'becn in another condition. But I, born to be my own de-
flroyer, could not'refilt the prop'ofal, but accepted the offer.
upon condition of their looking after my plantation. S-T mak-
ing a formal will, I bequeathed my effects to my good iriend
the captain, as my univerfal heir; but obliged him to diipofe
of m efi'eets as directed, one half of the produce to himl'elf,
and t e other to be {hipped to England . '

' ' T he {hip being, fitted out, and all things ready, we {ct fail
the firfi ofSeptember, 1659, being the time day eight years I
'left my, father and mother in Yoikfhere. we failed northward
upon the coaft,:in order,to gain AfriCa, till we made Cape
Augufline ; from whence going farther into the ocean, cut of
fight of land, we fleered as though we ,were bound for, the
ifle Fernand de Norenba; lea-Ping the illands on "the call: ; and
'then it was that we met with agterrib'l: tempeftywhich continu-
ed for twelve days fucc-rfiively, to that the winds carried us
' -Wherefoev:r they pleafed. In this perplexity one of our men
died, .and one man and a boy were-waihed ovm'board. , When
-the weather cleared up a little, we found ourfelves eleven de-
grees north latitude, upon the mail: of Guinea. Upon this the
captain gave reafons for returning; which-I oppoi'ed, counfel-
-liug'him to hand away for Barb'adoes, which, as 1 {up ofed,
; mihgt be attained in fifteen days. So altering our com e, weor ROBINso.N_cRUSOE-. 1'7'

failed north-welt and by weft, in order to reach the Leeward
Illands; but a {econd ltorm lucceeding, drove-us to the weft-
ward; to that we were juttiy afraid of fa ling into the hands
'of cruel favages, or the paws of devouring bealts of prey. .
In tits great. dime-1's, one of our men, earlyviu the morning
cried out, Land, land! which he had no fooner cried out,
but our {hip {truck upon a, {and bank, and 'in a moment the
tea broke over her in that: a'rr-zanner that we cxpeeted .we
' ihomd all have perilhed immediately. \Ve knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land we were driven ; whether
an lffand or the main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we
could not to much as hope that the'fhip would hold out many
minutes, without breaking in pieces, txc?'pt the wind by a tn:-
- racie theuld turn about immediately While we flood looking
at one another, expeeting death every moment, the mate lays
hold of the boat, and with the help of the reii got her flung 0v--
er the'fhip's litle, and getting all into her, being elee'eu of us,
'eommitted curfeiveo to-God's mercy and the'wild fea. And
now we faw that this lait effort would not be a iiiflicient pro-g
ts-e'tion fem death; to high did the [EA rife, that it waa impair
fibee the boat fhould live. As to making fail, we had none ;'
neither if we had, ,could .we make me of any. 80 that when.
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league and 1
haif, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain, came rolling a--ltem:
of us, and took us with l'uch fury, that at once it ovnfct. the
boat. Thus being iwallewed up in a moment, we had hardly
time to call upgn the tremendous-name of Grid; much let's to
i-r.pl:~.re, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive cur '
departing 'fcuis. '

Men are generally counted infenfible, when ittuggling in the
mg: of death; but while I was overwhelmed with water, I -
.ad the molt dreadful apprehenfions imaginable. For the joys

of heaven and the torments of hell, leemed to prefent them-
felves b-for'e me in thefe dying agonies, an-i even-{mail inace ct?
time, as'it were, betn'eenlife and death. I was 3 ing I thought
knew not whither, into adifmal gulf unknown, and as yet
unperceivtd, new: to behold my friends, nor the light of this
world any more 1 Could I even have thought of annihilati- n,
or a total dill'oiution of foul as well as body, the gloomy
thcughts ct having no further being, no knowledge of what
we iopcd f. r, 'but an eternal quieter,- without i-t'e or li--ufe :
e'=en that, I Lay, would have been enough to firike me with
lmrre-I and coufufion! l firove, haz'tsver, t-r the iaft extrem-
ity. with: eri my companions were overpower --d and emomhed

in the deep 1 and it was With great (lvFfieulty I kept my breath .
till the we. *e {pent ittelt', and tetiruzg back, left me on the {here
hai:r dead. with the water I ha": tilitll in. As food as ' Lg. t.
on my feet, 1 ran as l'zifi as l con-ti, left another wave {houed
.purfnc me, and carry me back again. But for all the halts I
C a made.5--. _ _..r-- . _- ,

:3 LIFE ANDADVENTURES

made, 'I could not avoid it: for the Tea came after me like a
high mountain, ore-furious enemy; to that my bufinefs was to
hold my breath, and by raifing myfelf on the water, prefer-ve
it by fwimming. The next dreadful wave buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep, but at the fame time carried me
With avmighty force and fwrftnefs toward the lhone: when rail?-
ing myfel', I held out as well as pctlible, till at length the water
having {pent itfelf, began to return, at 'which I {truck forward,
and feeling ground with my feet. Itoolt to my heels again.
Thu,- heing ferved twice more, I was at length dalhed and"?! 3'
piece or arock, in inch a manner as left me fenfelets; but re-.
Covering a little before the return of the Wave, which, 119
doubt, would then have overwhelrried me, i held felt by the
rock till thofe fucceeding waves abated; and then l'etching'an-

other run, waspvertaken by a final! wave, which was foon con- -

quered.' But before any more could overtakeKme, I reached
the main land, where clambering up the clifts of the {ht-Ste, ti-
red and almott {pent 1 fat down on the grafaflree from the'dam
gets of'the foaming ocean. , ' ' '4 . t
No tongue can eitprefs the ecftafies and tr'anf'ports that my
final felt at the happy deliverance. It was :ike a reprieve to a

dying malefae'tor, with a halter abt ut his neck, and ready to be'
_'turned off. Iwas wrapt up in contemplation: and otter. lifted

up my hands, with the profoundelt humility, to the Divine
Powers, for faving, my life, when the ref}. of my cempanions

w: re all- dmwned. And howl began to cait my eyes around, '

to behold what place I was in, and what lhadtnext tn do. I could
fee no houfe nor people; I was wet, yet had no clothes to drift
me; hungry and thirfly, yet had nothzng to eat or drink ; no
weapon to deflroy any creature for my fnt'cenance,' nor defend
myfelf againtt devouring beafis; in than, 1' had nothing but a.
knife, a tobaecnopipe, and a box half filled- with tobacco. The
darkfome night coming on upon me, inereafed my fears of'being
devoured by wild creatures; my mind was plunged in defpair,
and having no proi'pe'tt, aslthought, of life before rre,1prepared
for another kind of death then what 1 had lately e Ezaped. I walk-,

' ed about a furlong to fee if leould find any fi-elh water, which

.' ' l-did, to my greatjoy: and taking a quid of tobacco 'to prevent

hunger, ! got up into a thick bulhy tree, and Rating ntlyfelt'fo
that I could not fall, a deep Heep overtook me, and for that
night buried my forrows in a quiet repcofe. ' , '

It was broadsiday 'the next morning before t-atvaked ; when I
not only. perCeived the tempefl: was ceafed, but law the thip

- driven alm'olt as far as the rock before-mentioned, which the
_waves had daihed me agamft, and which was about a mile from

the place where Iwas. When I came down from my apartment
in the tree, I perceived the lhip's boat two miles diltant 'zn my
right-hand, lying on lhore, as the waves had out her. I thought

19 have got, to her; but there Being an inlet of water of about -

half

/.. 'idpn-QBINsONexusoz'.""' 19 -

lialf a mile's breadth hetWeen it and me, I returned again t'owarde '
the (hip, as hoping to find fomething for my more immediate
fu'efifteece. ' Ab..nt noon, \th en the fee. was calm, that I could

same within a 'qnarrer .ot' a mile of her, it was to. my grief-I . ,

percriyez'l,' that, if 'we had 1:: pt on beard all our live-shad been
fated; ;Thefe thoughtsband myfo'litazde drew tears from my-
e'yes,:though all in vain. So refiolviog to get to the ihip, I farin-
.ped; and leapt into the Water, when l'wimrning round her, I
was afraid I lhould not get'an'y thing'to lay. hold of; but it
was my good fortune to" efpy a {mall piece of rope hang down
by thefore chains, to low that, by the help of it, the-ugh with
~ 'cat d'flicultxl, I got into the for-eafllecf the fhip. Here I
ound that the {hip was bulged, and had a great. deal. of. water.
in her'ho'd: herifiern' was lifted up agamft-a bapk, And her_

head alrnmft to the water. All h:-r quarter and what was there, '
[Was free and dry. The provifions I feund in good order,
With which I, crammed my pockets, and lcfi-zg no time, ate ' ._
while-I was-doing other things: Ialfo found 'fome rum, of. ,.
which Itockj'a'he'arty dram: and now I wanted for nothing? '

excent a\b 'at,' which'mdeed was all, to carry away what was '

meat-m For me .

'tNiceffify "93%" quicknefsof thought. We had feverala
Ppare yards, a fpare topmafi: or two,.an.l. two or three large .

'i'para of wood, With theft- I fell to work, and flung as_ many
of them' over board as-I could manage, tying every one of them

with a'rope, that they might not drive away. This done, I ,-

went down to the {hip's fide, and' tyed fnur of them fall to'eethq
er at both ends, in form of 'a raft, and laying two or three 'ihdrt
iecss of plank upon them croffivife, I found it would bear me,
_ut not any confiderable weight. Upon which I .went to work

_ again, cuttinga {pare topmalt .into three lengths,'adding'thcm '
to 'my raft with: a great deal of labour and pains. I then

confidered what '.I {honld load it w.th, it being not'able to. '

bear a ponderous hurden.. And this I -foon thought of, lit-[t lay-
ing upon'it all the planks 'and boards I conid get; next I
lowered down three of the fenmen's chefls, after I had filled
"them with' bread, rice, three Dutch cheefes, five pieces of
dried goat's flefh, and fome European corn, what little the-
rate 'had' {pared : and for liquors, It fcund i'everal cafes of bot-,-
tles belonging to dnrlkip er, in v'vhich were fome cordeal-wat-
ters, and four. or five ga'fo

my coat, wa'ltcoat, and fhirt. -fwim awa'y, which'I- had left on.
the more ; a as.for my linen'brieches and "flockings', I fwam
With them to the {hip ; but I {one found clothes enfugh,
_ then-5,}; I took no more than I wanted for the prefent- ;My
eyes Were chiefly'on, tools 8 .work with; and after a' long-
fearch','I found out the carpenter's cheft, which I got (at..- down.

on my raft. I then looked-for aims a:d"ammunition, and in.-
' - ' ' .2 . . the

v s
' .

\

y . _ nszof rack, which I flowed by them-
{eh/es. By "116, time the tide beginning to Howe I perceived, -2,0. ernann reinvent-vans

t .
he great'cabin found two' good to wling pieces, two piltols, fever-at _
powder horns- filled, almall bag of fhot, and two old rulty
1'word8. I likewil'e found three barrels of powder, two of which
were good, but the third had taken water, alfi) two or three
broken oars, two fawa,.an' at, and a hammer. I then put to lea,
and in getting to'fhore had three encouragements. 'r._A fmeoth
calm lea. 2. The tide rifing and fetting in: to lhore. 3. The
little wind there was blew towards the land. After I had failed: '
about a mile, I fhnnd the raft to drive a littledifl'ance from the
place where I firlt landed ; and then I perceived a little opening
of the land, with altrong current of the tide running into it;
upon which I kept the middle of the {ti-cam. But great was my-
concern, when 'ona fuddeh the fore part of my raft ran a
ground, To that had I not", nith great difficulty, for near half
an hour, kept my back {training againft the chelts to keep my
'efl'ee'ts in theirplaces, all Iliad would have gone into the tea.
But after {ome time, the tiling ofthewater canfed the raft to
float again, and coming up a-little river with land on both
'fid'es, I landed in a little cove, as near the mouth as poflihle,
tie'hetter to dilcover a fail, if any finch provrdentially pafifed
t at wa . '
Not fir off, I efpie'd a hill of ftupendons height, furounded'
with lefl'er hills about it, and thitherlwas reeolved to go and
'vi'ew the country. that I might fee what part was hell, to fix, my"
hal~itation.. Accordingly, arming myl'eif witha piltol afowling-
"piece, powder and ball, I afcend'ed' the'monntain. There I per~
eeived I was in an illand, encompafl'ed by the fea; no din-ant
lands to be feen but l'cattering rocks that lay to the well : that it '
feemed to be a barren place, and, as I thought, inhabited only '
by wild beafts. I perceived abundance of fowls,' bu' ignorant
of what kizzd, or whether good'for noztrii'hment; I that one of
them at my return, whicn occalioned a' confined fcreaming
among the other birds, and I found it, by its colours and bealt', ro-
be- a kind _of a hawk, but Its {Hh was perfect carriun. .
When] came to my raft, I brought my' effects on fliore, which: '
work lpent that day entire'y ; am: fearin-t thattn-ne cruel bealts-
might devour me in the night" time while I' lie t, I m-'de a kind of
but or barricade, with the chelts and [3011113 1 had bmuglt on-
ihore. That nightl llept very c'o fortably; and the next morn-
. m ing my'thoughts were employe to make a further attempt cm
the ihip, and bring away what 'necefi'aries I c nid. find, before
_ another ,ftorm. {hi wd break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on
board as before, and prepared a fecond ratt far more nice then
. the firli.,.npon which I brought away the carpentc r's'liores, two
4 or three bags full of nails, ,ae'great jack-icrew, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and a grind-hone. I'aifo took away feveral things that
belonged to the gamer, particularly two nr-three iron Crows,
two barrels ot' mufket-hullets, another fowling-p'ece, a {mill
quantity of powder, and aiarge bagt'ul of {mall lhot. Beard? _
- , tie e0-?!>>9fiiNS'ON'CKU-SOE. '2:

thefe, I took' all the men's clothes I- could find, a {pare fore topo'
fail, a hammock, and fame-bedding; and thus compecting. my
fecond' cargo, I made all the haI'ce to ihore I could. fearing
fame wild beafi; might deQroy' what I'had there already. But
I only found a little wild cat fitting on nneof the chef'ts, which
feeming not to fear me or the gun ,that I prefcnted at her, I '
\ threw her a piece of bifc-uit, which {he infiantly ate, . and , -
departed. '>> ~
, When I had gotten thefe effeets on ihore, I went to work in-
order to make me a little tent with the fail and fotne po es~
which- I had cut for that porpofe; and having linifhcd it, what
things might be damaged by- the weather [brought in, piling>>
all the empty chefls and. caflts in a circie, the better to fortify
it againft- any fudden. attempt of man or bea'ft. After this, I
blocked up the doors' with tome boards, and an empty chett,
turned- the long way "out. I then charged my gun and pifioi,
and laying my bed on the ground, flept as comfortably, till
next morning, as though I had been in a chriflian eountry.
Now, though~I had enough to fubfiif me a long time, yet de'
{pairing ofafu'dden deliverance, or that both ammunition and
provil'ion might be {pent before {uch a thing. happened, l (30--
areted- as much as I could ; andfu long as the {hip remained in-
.' that condition, Idaily- brought away one neceifary or other; .
particularly the rigging, fails, and cerdage, fome twine, a bar-
tel of wet powder, fome fugar, a-barre! of meal, 3 dates of rum, 3:,-
Whatindeed wasmoftsvelcome to me, a whole hogihead ofbread \ '
The next time- I "rent I- cut the cables in pieces, carried off a
hawfer'whole, with a-great- deai of iron work, and made an--
other raft with the mizen and l'prit-fail-yard ; but this being {'0'
unweildy, by the too heavy- burden I had upon it, and not
being able to deXtronfly- to guide it, as the former, both my
cargo and I- were overturned. For? my part, all the damage I
fultained-was a wet {kin ;' and,.at low water, after much labour
in- diving, 1 'got moft ot' the cables, and fome pieces of iron.
_ Thirteen days I had now been in the inane-g and e'even times
on board, bringing away a}: that was poflibleg'and, I believe, had
the weather been calm,I-fhouid. have brought away the whole {hip
piece by piece. As I ivas gozne t'hetwelfthtime, the wind began
to rife; however, I=thured at low water, and rummaging the
- cabin, in a locker! found several, razors, fcifliors,-and fome dozens
of knives and. forks ; and in ano'her thirtyJix pounds in pieces-
of eight, (river and geld. Ab Ifrmple <<vaniry, Said I flu/20m this
world [a much dole; on, tw/zere i: now 1/); virtue, 1/);- exec/[errata
me? Tau cannot proud-e me one wing needjizl. nor remome me
from rbi: deft/late jfland roa piace of plenty. 0m: of Ike/i: Imi'ves,
jb mmnb warmer}, 2': :'a me more preferable than all I/gi: lamp, E'm
Mei-(fore remain eta/Jere Harm art, to flu]: in the deep}: unre-
parded, mm: m a creature (who/2' Iifie iJ not wag/.5 prifirrving.
Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt it up in a piece of cauvae',
an

~l

in a ci; cle between the piles up to their tops, whic . .
than, [it's twet mat nfthe earth, an lal'ter drove another rciw of.

22 LIFE AND: ADVENIIU'RES 8m.

and began to think if making another raft; but I hon perceiv-

ed the wind begin to itrife, a. 'rclh gale blowing frt m t 'e mare,
an! the lkj.' overs-alt W? h clmtrls and'dn-knefe; fo thinking a

a raft to h; in var-5, I let millflf into the waterwet'i what things _

I'had about me, and it was with much diflicuity I got'alhare,
when to m. after it blew a fearful florm. - '

That night I llept very contentedlv in my little tent, furiound-
ediwith all my effect: ; but when I l 0de out in the running
no more {hip me tr.) b? 'een'. 'I'hia much l'urpi'il'ed ms for the

_ pryl'e'nt; yet, when I conlidered 1 had lolt no time, aba'ed np

pains, and had not every thing ul'efiil out of fer, I camfarted"
mvfeh in the bat manner, and entirely f.;bmitted to the will of
Provident c. - _.

My next thoughts were, how I flmnld deFend and l'c=cur:- my- .
felt from t'avag'es and wild bsalts. if any Incl: were in the ill-ind,
At onetime I thought offliggmg a c-avr, at another I was "or
erefitinga tent; and, at length, I ral'olved to do both : The.
manner or form of which Will not, I hope. be .unplealing to
defcr'ibe. - "

When I confidercd the ground where I way that it was-
mOurith, and had no trelh water near it,- my ru'ulntions were

to fearch for a foil hral'ihy and wel: watered. where I might.

not "niy be lheltered from the luu's f'corching heat, b-f-r be more
conveniently lituated, as well to be' 'ecured from wild rfien
and 591% of prey, ".3 more eal'ily to dil'cover any diltant 1311!;
fliould it ever f~ hanpen. ,

And, indeed, it was not long before I had my deflre. .I found
a little plain near 3 firms hill, the front towards which being-as-

liteep as a home fide, rotlii'ng could d'fqerld on me from the top.
.03 the lid: of this rock was a little hollow .hlnce, rt-femhling ~

the entrance or door of a ca've. ant.'before this place;
on' the (312'le of tne green, Iret'olved my t;nt fhould (tend.
This: plain did not much exceed a hundred yardt bread, and a-

abcut twice .as lung, iike a desiglttful green, bei'ore my door, '

with a_'ple2fing, tlmueh an irregular deicent every way to the lrw
grmmds by the {ea-lid",

thatflkwas flit-Iteredirorn' the ex:eflive heat of the inn. ' fiftet:
this, Ida-w a term-Circe, caritaimng'ten yards in a lemi~dzameo

ter. 311d twenty Yards in ,thc whc'e, driving-down 1W0 rows, '
of firong flakes, not 6 inches lrorn each other. 'l'hen wth tne

pieces of cable which I had. cut on board, 1 regu'firzy lr--iid the'm
were more

pilgs' [oviting wit='--in fide again't them, betiveen two or three

ice! high, which nude me conclude it a. littze impreguable came
againi'. men-and beans. And for my better iecurityl would
have no door, but entered ,in and came out by the help ofa.~
- ladder, which I 2.150 made. C

Here

\

.lying on the'NL W. .lide. ot the hill, f0.. ' ROBINSON CRUSOE building 111302151216.

 

D1359, Enggbj 51. Game, EdithI .0 ~,
I

LIFE'AND ADVENTURES

Here was my fence and fortrefs, into which Icerried all my ',
riches, ammunition, and (toms. After 'which, 'w. rlzing on the,
(rock, what with dirt and [tones] dug out; I'- not unlytgifld. .
my grwnd two f;et, but made a litt'e cellar'to my manfi-'in- .
houie; and this'cofl; n e many days lab:;ur azid pains. one
day inparticnlar a flnwer of 'rain'fitlvling, thunde'rgqnd light-f
hing eni'u d, which put me in ten-or left my poW.-2cr-i_bould .
take tie, and not rnly hinder my <<neeeinry IubfifienCe, by
.'kiliing me food, but even bicw,.up me and my'habi'aiim.
"To" prevent which, I feil to m.;king boxes and baggin order,
to lepr--zrate it, hailing by me near 1501b. weight. And thus
being eflabiiflied as king of the ifland,'every7'~day ,1 went out. -
With my gun to fee what I_could kil that was fit to eat. I. '
foon perce'vcd numbers of goats, but very {hp'yet havifigl
watched them nan'owly, and feeing I could' better "100;
off the rocks than when in 'theiow grou'flds: I happens-titty
ihoot a she-goat i'uckling .a. young kid ; which not thinking itq ,-

;dam Iia'in, itood by .her unconcerned',' ~ and when I tooktije'
.dead creature up, the young one followed'm? even to the-in. -
clofnre. l lrfted the kid over the pales, and wduld-wdiingly. _
have kept it alive ; 'b'it finding it coilld .notabe brought "to,
eat, I was forced to flay' it ali'o for my- i'ubiii'teree. ' t '- { ,

Thus entered into as ftrange a fcene of iif;> as tier aty'man-

' was iii-,1 had molt melancho!y apprelzenficna esnccmirsg my'de-g
fiiorable' condition: and.- nianytimestite teats "70.1111de entifuilly;
run down my face, wZ'en I Coniidereci how I was debajgted inform

Uaii commtm cation with {111.333. kind.. yet while theiegiiibondf t
ingmositations wouid..fccm to'ma'ke' m': aeciiiE'Providef'iice,
other good thoughts.- wonlfl intetppfe- and reprove me 'atter this"

' manner; 'V-fi", i'u'; cling you are def'ciatev, is it not better to be .
f0 than totailyt peri ?~ Vbe, were You. fingied out to be fined, - !
and~the rei'tr dei'croyed? 'Wizy .ihouxd you; complhing'wfien-not-;.
only. ycur life is pr.~fe,rved, but the ihi -:C/riven'eyeri>into'yonr ',

each, in order to take wi-at wr-t'e nee: .a'ry outcf her 'for your

'fu'ciifience ? But toproceed.' it who,. by? tbe'eecountlkcpt,' t e. 1
30:11 of September, wh'cn l fi'rfl; iauded on thisiflznd. About;

'twefve (gays :1'tcr,_fear:s-g, rei'. I fit tfid 'nf: my redeeming cf'time,

.' nay. even'forget ch; Sabbath days; for want of pen, Emma-id

{papcn [carved xvi": a knit: noon 3 'archoftJn'greztiert:3r~;'and

31's: it up; in the fim'iitnde cf a crofa, on the fea--fh. me warm}.
la ded, I CAME 0N SHORE, 83?". 30 1659. five y'dayi'cutii
notch with my knit or: Z": [idea of tin iqnare pofi, andthxt
on the Sabbath was 9.5-! .ng again as rhc nit ; and everyfirfi day }
of the month' as lung again am that lung'mie. In this manner!
kept my calendar, weekly, monthly: "1' y ariy reckoning of

time. lint had I made a more {hi-51' iearci "(as afterwazd-s I did) -I
Ineeded not have fet up tais'm-zrkytE-r'arnkwg the pat-roan

_ bei- ngwg to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mats-Li found

thole very things I wanted ;' particularly pens, ink, and pzf'peii;

at o'.

all?) I found two or three compafi'cs, fome mathematical infini-
mrnte, dials, peifpeeiive glaffes, books of navigation, three
Ehglilh Bibi. s, and feveral other good backs, which I carefully
put mpg-Here I cannot but call to mind our havinar a dog anl ,
two cats on boaid, ,whoml made inhabitants with me in my
cattle, 'I'hlrugh one might thizzkl had all the n-cc (links that
were defirabie, yet fiill I found feveral things wanting. My ink
was daily walling; I wanted needlc's, pins, and thread It >> mend
or keep my clothes together; and particularly a l'pade, nickax,
' or lhovel, to remove the earth. It was a year bcfofe I fizzilhed
my-littlebulwaro'c ; andhaving lame intervals of- relaxatiun, after
my daily _ wandering, abroad for provifi an, I drew up this plan,
alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind'me of the mil'eries
and bleffings of my life, under {0 many various circumftances; .

EVIL. -~ GVOOD..

I am cafl upon a defolafe -f,'l- B'tt jet I am prcfirwea', rw/Jile
and, ba-w'ng no bop", min-Mm? my eompaniom are pen/7nd in Me
of a rule/Mme deliverance. raging oeean,

77m: nil/halal} am I jingled Tet/2t apart to befimred from
out from the enjoyment or com- deat/J. And beau/)0 leaf/o prefer-
pan} of all man/(ind. ' wed me, can deliver me from this

, -' . ' condition.

' Like an bermit (rallyer flould However, I bave find to eat,
'I [try a lonely ant/write) an: I and e'veiza leafy); pro/I'm? effica-
for'red from barman concerfa.'z:on' fiflence wlrilfl life endunuC

(My, clot/5e: afler/bme time will At pref/en] I enjy cleat [1 a6-
be worn out; and tben I j/Jall ba've jblulel} need/u] ; and {be-climate 1':
none- to eow'er me. jb bot, [bat bad I newer/b man},

_ ' _ . I Mould hardly. rwear t/Jem.

'W'ben my ammunition zit qua/led, Tet {fit dam, I fl'e no danger of
..tl.en flmll I remain without any any laurt to me, (a: in Africa:And
.defi'nee again/Z 'rwz'l'd 'men and what ifI had been cafl arwa},
eugflae - upon that coo/l. -
. I lea've no creature, 120%;sz to "It there not God to eon'ver/e to,
fleak to ; none 'to bag (5 : mre and 7': not be able to relieve h' ee .9
j_'ron1._Some comforl <<would it be to Already bru be afforded ibeeflzfr
g-re/bnna' my twee: {id/Jere I am 102- rename, and put it in {by [Jo-war
flag/2.29:1, and beg afliflamewbere to [bromide fir tog/'Ilftill Infernal:
' Ifnzigbt/Joge for relief. #1:: a delrveranee.

5,-Ancl new eating my mind a litt'e by thcfe nth alone, I began
to render my life as eafy as pvflible.

.J-mufl here add, to the defcription I have given of my hab'ta-
trlon. that having raifed a tnrfi wall againft the outfide of it, I
"thatched it fo'clofe as might keep it from the inclemency of
the weather; I all'o improved it within, enlaxged my cfim, an i
made a {wattage and door in the rock, w'fich came out "b yond
the pale of my fortification. Inext'proceeded t4 make a chair
and a table, and fo began to Rudy fgch mechanical 'arm a;
' . eem
feemed to me praeiicable. When I wanted a plank or board, I
hewed down :1 tree with my hatchet, making it as thin" with '
my ax as pclfible, and then fmooth enough with an adz to an-e ~
lwer my deligns : yet though I could make no more this way

. than one board out ofa tree, in length of-time I got boards
enough to llrelter all my times, may thing being regularly
placed, and my guns fecnrely hanging againit the 'fide of the
rock. T his made it a very pieafant fight to me, as bsing the
r-efult of Vail labour and diligence; which leaving for a while,
and me to the enjoyment of it, I lhall give thereader an ac- '-
count of my Journal from the day of my landing, till the fix-'
ing and fettling/of my habitation, as heretofore fhown. '

 

_ IOURNAL

Se tembe'r 3o, 16 59. I unhappy Robinfon Crufoe, havingfuf.
fere fiiipwreck. was driven on this defolate Illand, which I
named the Dajblate .171sz of Defimir, my companions being
fwallowed up in the tempeltous ocean. The next day I fpent
in confideration of my unhappy circumftances, having no pro--
fp;et but of death, either to be Itarved with hunger, or-de'vour-
ed with beads or merciiefs favages. "

05!. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I beheld the {hip
drove alliore. Some hepes I had, that when the fiorm was a? '
bated 1 might be able to get fome food andnecefl'ariee out- '
of her, which 'I conceived were not damaged, becaul'ethe {hip
did Rand upright. At this time I lamented the lofe of my com.
panions, and. our misfortune in leaving the vefl'el. then Iner-
ceived the {hip as it were lie dry, IWadCd through the fands,
then {warn aboard, the weather being very rainy, and with
fcarcely any wind. ' ' i _

To the mm of this month, my time was employed in making
voyagee, every tide getting what I could out of the'lhip. The
weather very wet and uncertain. ' -

06?. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon were overfet; yet
I recovered molt again. at low water. ' '

'08. 2,5. It blew hard, and rained night and day, when the
{hip' went in pieces, in that nothing was feen of her but the
wreck. at low water. This day I fecured my good: from the
inclemency of the weather. '

Ofi' 26. I wandered to fee where I could find aplace conven-
ient for my abode. I fixed upon a rock in the evening, mark>>
ed onta halfimoon, intending to erect a wall, fortified with
piles, lined Within with pieces of cables, and covered with
tu'rt'. . '

Navy. 1. I erected my tent. under a rock, and>> took up_my
. iodgingsxeny contentcdiy, inra hammock thatnight. ' _
j . ' . ' 'NWQ
b Nov. 2. This day I fenced myfelf in with timber, chelts, and
cards. .

New. 3. I lhot two Wildfowl, refembling ducks, which were
good to eat, and in the afternoon made me a table.

Now 4. I began to live regularly. In the morning I allowed
myfelf two or three hours to walk Out with my gun; Ithea
worked till near eleven o'clock, and afterwards refrelhed myfcu,
with what I had to eat. . From twelve to two I would lie down
to Deep. Extremely fultry weather. In the evening go to

. work again. '

' Nov. 5. \Vent out with my gun and dog, .fliota wild ca
with a felt flein, but her liefh .was good for nothing. The helm;-c
of thofe I killed, I preferved. In my return, I perceived many
w"? birds, [and was terrified by fome feals which made of
to ca. ' -

Nova. 6 Completed my table. "'

.'Nom. 7. Fair weather. I-worked till the 12th, but omitted
the nth, which, according to my calculation, I fuppofed to
be Sunday. .

Now. I 3. Rain in abundance, which, however, much cooled
the air; with thunder and lightening, caufed in me a._terrible
furprife: The weather clearing. I fecured my powder in fepa-
rate parcels. - ' . '

Nov.'r4-16. I made little boxes for my powder, lodging
them in feveralnplaces. I alfodliot a large fowl, which proved

.excellent meat." ' . .

Noam} 7. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obliged to defiit
for want of a pick~ax, fliovel, and wheel-barrow. IroncrOws I
caufed to fuppiy the place of the firlt; but'with all my art I
Could not make a wheel-barrow.

Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, refembling what
Brazilians call an iron tree. I had like to have? fpoiled my
ax with cuttingjt, being very hard and exceedingly heavy 5 yet
with much labour 6c indultry, I made a fort of a fpade out of it.

New. 23 Thel'e tools being made, I daily carried on my buli-
nefs; eighteen days Iallowed for enlarging my cave, that it.
might ferve me, not only for a warehoufe, but kitchen, parlour,'

- and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unlefs the weather was
rainy. that I Could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain
feal'ons, that] was obliged to cover all within the pale ywith
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning againit the rock, and
loaded them with flags and large leaves of trees, refembling a

thatch. .'
Dec. 'Ic. No former didI think my habitation finilhed, but

fiiddenly a great deal of the top broke in, lo that it was a mercy .
I- was not buried in the ruins. This occafioned a great deal of
pains. and trouble to me, before I could make it firm and

durable. .
" - B . . Dec.
Dec. 17. I nailed up fome lbelves and drove nails and (triples
in the. wall and po'fis to hang things out of the way. i

Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then made a, fort of a
drefl'er, and another table. -'

' Dec. 24. 2;. Rain in abundance.
, Dec. 26. Verv lair weather. , ' .

Dec. 27. I chanced to light-on fome goats. {hot one and
wounded another. I led it home in a firing, bound up' its leg.
and cured it in a little time ; at lengthit became fo tame and ta-
miliar as to feed before the door, and .follow me where I pleat;-
ed. ' Thia- put me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order "
to fupply me with food after my ammunition was fpent.

Dec. 28, e 29, 30. The weather being exceflively hot, With lit-
tle air, obliged me for the molt part, to keep within doors.

ya>>. I. Still fultr y, however, obliged bynecefiity, I went out
Mith'miy gun, and found a great {tore of goats in the valleys;
they were exceedingly fhxr, nor' could my dog hunt them down.

{7mm 3 to 14. My employment this time was to tinilh the
wall before defcribed, and feareh the illand. I difcovered a kind
of'pigeons like our houfe-pigeons in a nett among'the rocks. I
brought them home, nurl'ed tl'em till they could fly, and then . .
they left me. After this, I that fame, which proved excellent
-food. Some time I fpent vainly in contriving to inalrea'ca'flc;
I may well fay it was- vain, hecaufe l could .neilher joint the
[fiaveg nor fix the heads, to as to. make it tight: So; leaving
that, took {omegoat's tallow I had about me, and a little okum
for the wick, 'and provided myi'elf with-a lainp, which ferved .
meinflead otcandles, . e , . "

"But now a-ve-ry ftrange event happened. For being in the
height of my fear-eh, what {hould come into my hand, but a
bag, which was' u'ed to hold corn" (as I fuppoled" for the
iowls; {0 immediately refolving to putgun--powder in it, I'
ihook all the huflts and dirt upon one tide of the roc-k,-little
' ' expecting what the confequenee would be. The rain had fa].-
Ien plentifull-y a-few dayebeforc ; and about a month after, to
gmy great amazement, {omething began to look out every green-
and flourifhing -; and when I can e to view it more nicely, every
(day as it grew, I found about ten or twelve earsof green bar-
1ieyaappeared in the yer-y fame lhape and make as that in Eng.-
an . . a . _

I'can fcarce exprefs the agitations of my mind at this fight.
Hither-to I had looked upon the ac-"tions of this life no other-
wife than only as the events of blind chance and fortune. But
now the appearance of thisbarley, flourifhing --in a barren fril,
ahd my ignorance in not conceiving how it Ihohid come there,-
made me conclude that miracle: were not'yer ceafede: nay,] even
thought that God had appointed it togrow there without any
feed, purely for my {uttenaace in this miferable and defolate
iflarid. And indeed Inch great (feet this had upon me, that

. It

\
it often made me melt into tears, through a grateful fcnfe of
God's mercses ; and the greater {till was my thankfulnefr, when'
I perceived about this little field of barley fome rice fialhs, alfo
Wonderfully fl 'uriihing. ,

W hile thus ,p'eafed in mind, I concluded there mutt be more
earn in the iflmd; and therefore made a diligent fcarch nar-
rowiy'among the rocks; but not'heing'able to find aim-on a
{ridden it came'into my mind, how I had Ihaken the hllikfl. of
corn out of the bag, and then my'adr'niration ceafed, within

. gratitude to the Divine Being, a: thinking it <<was but namm ,~
and not to be conceived. a miracle; though even the manner
of its pref rvation might have made me own it as a wonderi'ui
event of ch's kind providence. . , _

. It was about the latter end of June when the ears of this
com. ripened, which I laid up very carefully together with no or
'30 {talks of rice, expecting one day I fhonld reap the fruit, of
my laboufl; yet four years were expired before I could allow
myfelf to eat. any barley-bread, and much longer time before I
had any rice. After thtt, with indefatigable pains and indullzry
for three or fem" month, at 13?: I finifhed my wall on the 14th,
.rf Apri', having no way to go into it, but by a. ladder agamfi:
'the wall. ' >>- ' '

Aprilvle. I finifhed my ladder, and afcended it; afterwards.
pulled it up, then let it down on the other fidc, and defeEnded
.rn'to my new habitation, Where I had {pace enough, and f9
fortified that .nothing could attack me, without hating the
we 3. -

But" what dnes all' human pains and induflry avail, if the
-biefliug of God (if-CS not crown our labours? Or who can hand
'before the Almighty, when he firetcheth forth his arm ? For one
time .as I was at the entrance of my care, there happened incha

. dreadful earthquake, that not only, the roof c-fthe cave came
mumbling about my (are, but the polls feemed to crack terribly'
at the fame time. This put me in great amazemement; and
running'to the ladder, and getting over the wall, I then plainly
knew it was an earthquake, the place I ftocd on {attaining three
terrible ihocks in lefs than three minutes. But judge of my
terror when I faw the top ofa great rock roll into the tea; I~

. then expected the ifland would beiwallowed up every moment:
And what made the icene {till more dreadful, was to 'ee the fee
thrown into the moit violent agitations and diforders by this
tremendous accident. '

.., For my part I {tit-0d like'a criminal at'the place of execution
ready to expire. - At the moving of the earth, Iwas, as it were,
fez-tick; and very much afraid left the rock, under which was
my fence and habit-anon, iii-:{uld overwhelm 1t and 'mytelf in a
latting tomb. ' A" -

.' . 'hen the third dreadful {hock had fpmt itfelf, my fpiri'ts
began to revive; yet mill wou'd not ventureto' afcend the
' D 2 . ladder' 'l

3:). "LIFE ANB.A19VENT..URES

ladder, but continued fitting, not knowing what I lhonld do. 30
little grace had Ithen, as only to fay Lord brave mercy upon me .'
and no {cover 'was the earthquake over, but that pathetic pray-
crleft me. ' . >> \

It was not long' after, when a horrible tempeft arofe, at the' '
fame time attended with a hnricane of wind. The 1223. feemed
mountains high, and the waves rolled to impetoully, that nothing
could be perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
{lorm continue, and in to violent a manner, as to tear the very
'trees up by the roots, which was i'ucceeded by abundance of
rain. 'When the rempeft was over I went to my tent : but the
rain coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged to take fhel- .
ter in the cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to-let'the water out. It continued raining all
that night, and fome time the next day. Thef: accidents made
'me rcfolve, "as form as the weather cleared up, to build tn": a lit-
'tle hut in fome open place, walled round to defend' me from
wild creatures and l'avagee; not doubting but at the next earth-
quake, the mountain would falllupon my habitation and me,
and lwallow up all in its bowels. . '

April 16-20. Thei'e daysl fpcnt in contriving haw and in '
what manner I lhonld fix my place of abode: All this while I
was under the molt dreadful apprehenfions; . When I looked
round my habitation, every thing} found in its proper place.
I had i'everal refointions whether I 'fhould move or not ; but at
length refolvcd to flay where I was, till I found out a conve-
, nient'plaee where I might pitch my tent.

- - Jpn? 22'. When I began to put my rcfolutions- in practice,
I was {topt for want of tools and infiru-ments to work with.
Mott of my axes and hatchets were ufelefs, occafioned by cut-
ting the hard timber that grew on the ifland. It took me up
a full week to maize my grind-{tone of me to me, and at laft I
' lound out. a way to turn it about with my foot, .by help of a
wheel and attrinrr. . a '

April 28' 29. 'I'hel'e days were {pent in grinding my tools.

' April go. My bread falling ihort, I allowedmyt'eit' but one
bifcuit avday'. _ '

May-I. As I walked along the fea fhore, I found a barrel or?
gunpowder, and {ex-era! pieces of the wreck, th: {ea had flung-
up. Having {ecu-r 'd thofe. 1 made to the lhip,' whoi'e item was
torn off', and waihed a great diflance alhore; but the refi lay
in the fands. T nis l fupp ~fe wv-s 'l-Ccafi-'t-llc'd by the earthquake,
I now re'olved to keep my old place of abude; and aifo to go
to the flnp that day, but then {'1' und it imp"flib'EUR. - .

May a. This day I went on bmrd, and With my faw fawed
- off one of the beams, which kept her quantendeek. I then clear-.-
ed the {and till flood. f

May 4. Iranght tome hill, but they were not wholefome, 4
The tame day 1211ch catchecl a. young dolphin, ' '

. ' . Ma}
a

May 5.- This day I alfo repaired to the Wreck, and fawed' :-

, nothcr piece 01" timber, and when the flood came, I madca-
floiat. of three great pranks, which were driven aihore by the
ti e. w * -

. Mayo. 7, 8, 9. There davs I b' ought off the iron bolts, opener}
the d:ck with the iron crow, and carried two planks, to land,'
having made a way into the very middie of the wreck. ' -

May 1:7, 11, 12. '13, '14.'Al1 this time l-fpsnt in bringing of
great qu'antitiesofimn- and timber. A .' ,. -

. Ma} 15. "Cool: with me t v0 hat,.-hets on purpnfe to cut 03'
{O ne ieadfrom the' rol-, but all in vain, for it lay too low under

..water. . .. i -

' Ma} 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day, foremployd

Eng myi'eif in looking in pigeons, I outflaidrmy time.'
May :7. I perceived feveral pieces of the wreck driven alhore, ~
which 1 found beltn-ed to the head of the "rip. -
May 24. Tn-tlzis day i worked on the wreck, and with great
diflicunv lo: fined fzme things to much with the crown-that."
the firf't fl-fnving' tide feveral calks- floated out, and many of the
ieamen's chefts,"yet that day nothing came to land but pieces
of timber, and a hz-gflread ,wh'ch had' fomefirazit park [in it.
I continued working to the 15th of June; (except necefl'zry-
time's For fo'odand ref'r) and had ! known how to have built a a
boat, I'had timber and planks enough '. Iliad alto near me:
weight of . fheet leach ' ,

. ya,>> 16 As I was wandering towards the fea-fide, I found a
large tortoife or turtl~, being the firft l had 'feen on the ifland,
ghougei, as} afterwards found, there were many on the other

he 0 it. ' ~ -

jam :7. This day I {pent in cooking it, found in her three-
{core eggs, and'her fielh the molt tavnury and pleafant I ever
tailed in my life. . _ - ' ~ .
' yum 18. I fluid, within this day, there being a continual rain;
audit was [omewhat more chilly and coid'than ufual.
my"? 1-9. Exceedilngly bac,,b:ing ta-hcn With a trembling and -
wenrzg ' - - .
f fund; 20. Awake alL night, myhead racked with pain and
: EVCQI i - "
{71mg 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the difmal ap--
@rehmfi ms of my condition. Prayed to God more frequently,
- but: very Conl'wfed-'y. ', - a, g
. yum 22. S-.=methi-ug better, but {till nneafy in: my mind
.1 firm: 23. Again reiapfed much as before.
- 7m: 24. Mended a-fscondrime. - _

3.11:}: 2;. A violentayzu: for {even hours, 'cold- and hot fits
PSucc:-eded with faint fink-am. . ' -

7101:: :6. Better, but very wealg'yet Lf'crambled out, {hot

a_ ih: -goat, brought it home an 5 broiled f:-me of 1'. ;- I \voul
. willingly have flawed it, and ma c'i'ome broth, but had no post
~ . D 3 - . jun:
{7102: 2-7 All this day I was afilified with an ague'; thirtLy,
yet "Leonid not help myfelf to water : Frayed to God in time,
words: Lord, in fifty look upon me .deg Lord. Ina-v: mercy upon me:
barbie mercy upon me! After. this I fell afleep, which I found:
had much retreihed 'me when _I awaked. I' fell fail: afieep a
fie'cond 'time, and fell into this firznge and terrible fort of

ream. - _

Methought I was fitting on the fame fpot of ground at the.
sutlide of the wall where I fat when the ftorm blew after the
earthquake ; and that I faw a man defcending from a great black
cloud, and alight upon the ground. He was all over as bright .
-as a Bath of fire that a little before furrounded him ;. his counq.
tenance inconceivably terrible ; the earth as it were trembled
when he tie-pt upon the ground, and flames. of fire feemed to:
fill all the air. No fooner I thought him lauded upon the
' earth, but with a long fpear, or 'bthar weapon, he made towards
me 5 but firit afcen'ding a rifing ground, his voice added to my
amazerrient, when I thought I heard him pronounce theie dread-
ful words, Unbap/zy curate/J! fleing ail tbeje thing: brave not
brought the to repenlame, thou jbalt immediately die. In pro-'
enouncing'this dreadful fentence, I thought he went to kill me
with the l'pear that was in his hand. . ,

Any body may think it impoflible for me to exprefs the hor-
rors of my mind at this vifion : and even wnen I awaked, this
very dream made a deep imprefiion upon my mind. The little
' divine knowledge I had, I received from- my father's infiruet'ions,
and that was worn out by an uninterrupted {cries of {ea-faring
impiety for eight years fpace. Except what {icknels .t'.:rced
from me, _I do not remember I had one, thought of lifting up
my heart towards God, but rather had a certain itupidity of,~
foul, not having the leafi: tenfe or- tear of the'OmnipoLent Be-,
ing when in dittrei's, nor of gratitude to him for. his deliver.
ances. Nay, when I was on the dei'pdegrate expedition on the
delert African ihore, Icannot remember 1 had one thaught of
what would become of me, or to beg his conlblation and afliit-
ance in my fufi'erings and dii'trei's. When the Portugal captain"
tool: me up, and .honcurably utEd me, nay, farther, when 1 was
even delivered from drowning by cicaping to this ill'and, I never '
looked upon it as a judgment,'but only laid I was an unfortu-
nate dog, and that's all. Indeed, fome l'ecret trant'p'orts of
foul I had, which was not through grace, but only a common
flight of joy, thatI was yet aliVe, when my companims weie all
drowned, and no other joy could I conceive but ivhat is com-
. men with the failors Met a bowl of punch,- utter they have ef-
caped the greateft dangers. - - -

The likenhood of Wanting for neither food nor conveniences, :
might haye called upon me for athanlit'uiacknowiedgment to
Providence. Indeed, the growth of my corn touched me with
tome t'cnt'e; but that than were off again. The terribLe eartsu.

qua 'e
. But what is that Po'xer E _

or: aoernsen canson. 33

Quake pointed to me, as it were, the finger of God; but my
dreadful amazement continnad no longer than its duration. But
now, when my-l'pirits began to link under the burden of a ltrong
diitemper, andl could leifnrely view the nineties ot death pre-
fent themt'elves before my eyes, then my aWakened conl'cience
began to reproach me with my paft life, in wuich Ihad f0
wickedly provoked the jnltice of God to pour down his ven-
geance upon me. _

Snch reflections as thefe oppreli'ed me even in the violence of
diitemper; SOme prayersl utter-:d, which only proceeded from
the fear of death. But when I-confidered my father's advice and

prdphncy, I Cullid not fiubt'ai' weeping ; for he told me, That if

Ldid paf/ifl in my fol] , I flrould noton'ly be deprived of God's' '
bleflng, but baa": time enough to reflee? 12pm my day/Mg lair in-
jraeliom, and Ibis, in a <<wretched time. when uczze could help me.
And now concluding it to be fulfilled , havrng no foul in the ifland
to adminiiter any comfort to me, I prayed earneitiy to the Lord,
that he won'zd hetp me in this my great calamity. And this, I
think, waa tine firft time I prayed in finc-erity for many years

But now I muft return to~myj.:urr:al. _ '-
. 71m: 28. Something refrefli:.-d with fleep,'and the fit quite ofi',
ngot up. My dream flill occafioned in me a great conf'ternation;
and; fearing that the ague' might return the-lucceeding day, I

. concluded it time to get fomething to comfort me. "Med a

cafe bottle with water, and let it Within reach of my beo ; and, '
to make it more nourllhing and lets chilly, I put l'nme rum in it.
The next thing I did was to brr il me a piece of goat's flelh, of
which] ate but little. I was very weak; however, Walked about,
dreading the return of my.d-ttemper ;,and at night lfupped on
three of the turtle's eggs, whichl roafted and ate, begging God's

bit-fling therewrth.

' After I had eaten, I attemped to walk again out of doors with
my gun; but was to weak, that 1 lat down, and looked at the
fee, which was {mmt'n and calm. While I- continued here, thefc
thoughts came into my mind. \

-In what manner is the productionot the earth and fea, of
which 1 have fern to much? ' From whence Cdmc myl'elf, and all

' other creatures living, and r f what are they made?

Our beings were affurediy created by tome almighty invifiblc
Powu, who framed the earth the lea, and air, and all therein.
' Cert'ainzy it man: follow that God has created it all. Yet, laid I,
it God has made all this he "mutt be the Ruier of them all, and
what is relating thereto; fer certainly the Power tl-at snakes,

. mult and'l'putahly have a power to guide and direct them. And

it th s bei'o. (as certa-nly It mutt) nothing can h:'ppen' With: at
his- knmvieclg.~ and apoointment Then, furezy, it nothing hap-
pens witnom God's appo'ntment, certainly God has app intrd
their: 'my iilfi'et'illg's to befal me. .And here I fixed my li'rm be-

lief
34, LIFE ANDA'DVENT'U'RES'

lief that it 'was his will that it fhoul-d be to; and then pmceedecf
to enquire, why fhou'ld God deal with me in this manner? 01'
what have I done 'hus to deferve his Indignatiun . f
- Herc csnl'cience tolew m my face, tepreheuding me as a blafl
phemer ; crying with a loud and piercing voice, Unworf/Jy-
twretcb ! Irocw (far: 3014 (5/1 qubat you ba've done :9 .L'ooFon your
_ pafl life. and fee <<wlmt you bard? left undone .9 141/}: fbj/eif, rw/J]
thou cw>>! no! long ago in {be merrily: band: a; deal/J 5" W721!
320! drowned m Tarmoutb fond." or kill-d in the fight, .avbm
dye jbip <<0a.. taken by Me Sal/e: man of war? W72} not mmmb- '
ed in the bowel: qf wild beg/l! on 1/): Ilfritan coq/l, or dracon-
'c(l [Jere wbm all fly companion: flfirzd flip-wreck in we
ocean. .- ' . , a
- Struck dumb with tl'e'e refieelions,l rofe up in a penfive
manner, being f0 thought'ul that I cohld not go to fleep ; and _
fearing the dreadful return oE my dillempex, it cauied meoto
remember, that the Brazilians ufe tobacco for amoil all diieao
fes. 1 then went to my chcll in order to find fume, where Hea-
ven, .no doubt, direfted me to find a curefor both ioul and
body; for there 1 found one of the ,Bilres, which, till this time,
I had neither leifure nor inclination to 102.1: into, I tool:
both the tobacco and that out of the chelt, and laid them on .
theta'ole. Several cx criments did I try Will the tobacco :-
Fh'ft, I took a piece of leaf, and chewed it; bnt it being very
gieen 'and firong, almofi finpified me. N -xt I .itcepsd it in"
'fume r'hm an hour or Iwokrclolving when I went to bed to
take a date of it: and, in the third p.'.ace,l burn-z tome over a
- an of tire, holding my note over it as long as I could endure
1t Without suffocation. .
. In the intervals of this 'nperation, though my head was giddy
and diiturbed by thr tobacco, I trrok up the Bible to read. 'No
former did [open it, but there appearcd to me ,thefe words -
Call on me in lb: day of trouble, and I will deli-yer tbee, and" .
1170a j/ml: glorify me. '

At fitfi this lcn'encc made a very deep impreflion on my
heait, but if. f-ron Wore offagaia, when l clxnlitlercd the Word
damn was t'-.rr.ign to me. wind as the children ...=f lfi'ael iaid,
when they were prtimifed Beth to eat, Can Gad [bread a table
in we wildemgfi? in like manner I began r-.. In ', Can God
him/Ll} deliver me fi-om t/Jis. deg/blah #747211 3 I-Iyowtrver, the
words Would flill return to my mind, and afterwxrda made:
agwaterimpnmon up>>..r'vm'e. As it was- now very late, and
the tubacco hat. d. 2rd. my head. I wasinciner to Deep: but
before I won cl lie down 1 tell on my knees. and implored the
promile the God had made to me in the H ~ly Scrptures, that
if I ail/ed :Ipon him in the day of trapble lJe' quoula deliver me.
'With' much d'fl'iculty l afttrwardc drank the rum Wuerein I
had flceped Ilze tobacco, which flying into my head, threw 51c
intofuth a profound Ilecp, that it was three o'clock the mint,
. . ay
0F RoBINSON cavsoe. .35

day before I awaked; or rather, I believe, I Ilept two days,
having certainly loft a day in my account, and I could never tell
any other way. When I got up, my fpirits were lively 21d
cheerful ; my ltomach much better, being very hungry; and,
in ihort, no fit returned the next day, which was the 29th,
but I found myfelf much altered for the better. ' r -

' The 30th, I went abroad with' my gun, but not far, and kil-
led a {ea-fowl or two, refemhling a brand goofe, which, how-
eveF, I cared not. to eat when [brought them home, but
dined on two more of the turtle's eggs. In the evening I renewed
my medicine, excepting thatI did not take fo large a quantity,
neither did I chew the leaf, or hold my herd over the l'moke :
but the next day, which Was the fit of 72:1}, having a little rev
turn of the Cold fit, I again took my medicine as I did the full:
time. - '

- 3'14? 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak.' In this con-
dition, I often thought of thefe words, I <<will-deliver thee; and
while, at fome times, I would think of the impwffibility of it,
other thoughts would repreheud me for difregarding the de-
liverancesl had received, even from the mofttorlorn and dif-
trelsed Condition. I afkcu mvfelf. what regard have I had'to
God for his abundant mercies? Have I done my part: He bu:

-deliv:red. me, [mt I have not glorl led him :--as if I had Did, I
had not owned and been thank ul for thefe as deiiverances,
and how couid I expcet greater .9 So much did this fenfibly
touch my heart, that I gave God thanks for my recovery from
ficknefs in the mod humble proitration.

ya]; 4. This morning I began feriouiiy to ponder on what is
written in the New Tefiament, refolving to read a chapter eve-
ry morning and night as long as my thoughts would engage
me. As foon as I let about this work l'erioitily,l iound my
heart deeply affected with the impiety of my p-ii't- life; fhel'e

-v.'nrds that I thought were {pokes} to me in my dream revived,
All t/Jefe thing: [wave not broagbt thee to reps-mama. Alice
this, I begged of God to aliiit me with his Hal-y Spiiit in rev
turning to my duty. .One day in perull-tg the Summit-5,4

'- came to thefe Words, .He 2': exalted a Prmce and a Saviour, to
give repentance and toqive ramifion : Immediately I laid down
the book, and with uplifted hands to Heaven,- lou iiy died, 0
Mafia! ygfm, tbou fan of David, :f'fu, t/Jou exalxed Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance! And naw indec-i i prayed with.
a true l'enfe of my coudition,.anda more certain hope, founded
on the word of God. Now I had a different {sole of thefe
words. Call on ma and I will deliver thee, that is from the
dreadau'. load of guilt which opprefi'ed my linful foul, and not
from a folitary life, which might rather be called a blefl'iilgo
feeing I. wanted neither food nor raiment, when compared
with iiving amongfl the human race, lizrrounded with 1'.) much
opprefiion, mil'ery, and afiizflion: in a word, 1 came to this

' conclufion,
conclulion, that a deliverance fl'om lin was a much greater
hlefling, than a deliverance from afllietion.' But again I pro--
eeed to my journal. - 4 _

T o the 14th of 'yub', I walked about with my gun, little and '
little at a time, having' been reduced to the greatefl: extremi'y
of weaknefs. The applications and experiments I ufed were
perfeetly new: neither could I recommend them to any ohe's
praetice. For thrugh it carried cfl' _ the fit, it very much
weakened me, and {had frequently convnlfions in my nerves
and limbs for. {nine time. Frem'rthis l- learned, that going-a-
broad in rainy weather, efpecially when it! was attended with
florms and hurricanes of wind, was molt pernicious to health.
I had now been" about ten months in the iflaud; aud1as I
never had feen any of tire human kind, r-l therefore accounted

~myi'elt as l'ole monarch; and--'aa i grew better, having f-cu-
red my habitation to my mind, i refolved to make aflour
round my kingdom, in order to make new difcoveries. _ '

The r5th of 272:1}, I began my journey; Ifirl't went to the
creek, whereI had brought my rafts on lhore; and travelling
farther, found the tide went no higher then two miles up, where
there was a little brook of running water, on the bank of ,wl'ich
were many pleafaut favannahs' or meadows, plain, fmooth, and
covered with grais- On the rifing parts, where I fupp'ofed the
water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of tobacco growing
to a very firong flalk. Several other plants 1 likemfe found, the
virtues of which I did not underfiand. lfearclzeda long time"
for the Cafihva root, which I knew the Indians in that ciimate
made their bread ot', but all in vain. There were feveral plants
of alces, though at that time] knew not what'the-ywere ; like-
wife I faw feveral fugar canes, but imperfect for want of culti-
vation. With thefe t'ew difcoveries, I came back that night, and
nept contentedly in my little cattle. . , .

-The next day, being the.16th, going the fame way, - but far-

. ther then the day beforeJ found the country more adorned with
woods and trees. Here 1 perceived difi'ercnt fruits in great
abundance. elcns in plenty lay on the ground,.and clu ers of
grapes, ripe'and very rich, firewd over the trees. You mav
imagine I was glad of this di covery, yet are. very fparingly, left

I'lhculd throw myl'elfinto a flux or iever. The grapes I tound
of exitellent ufe; for when l'hal dried them in thei'un, which
prel'erved them as dried railing are kept, they proved very whole-
iome and nou'rilhiug, and ferried me in tizol'e {carom when no
granes were to be had. '

- The ni ht drawing an a'pa'ce. I afcended up'a tree, and fl-:=pt
very com ortably, though i" was the fish thee! bad lainout of
my habitation. And when tlrf: int-r9193: came, I prnceeeled with
great. pleaiure on my way, travelling abnut four mile., asl ima-
glued, by the length ol'the v.-=Jey, dir eting z'fy caurfe north-
ward, there being a ridge of hills on the fouthand north tide :of

/ mEUR
me. 'Atlthe end of this valley, I came to an Opening, where the
country 'feemed to defceud to the welt; therel tcund a little
' .ipring of t'reih water, pro'ceeding out of the tide of the hill, with
its ehryltal fireams running directly eafi. And, indeed. here
my fenfes were charmed'with the molt beautiful landl'eape
nature could afford; tor the country appeared flturifliing,
green, and delightful, that to me it feemed like a planted
garden. I then defcended on the tide of that (it'l'eious vale,
when 1 found abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and Citron
trees, but very wild and barren at that time As for the
limes, they were delightful andwholefoxne, the juice of which
latter ufed to mix in water, which made: it very cooling
_.-and refrelhing. .Aud now 1 was rel'olved to carry home and
lay up a ttore of grapes, limes, and lemons, againfl: the ap-
jureaching wet feafon. So laying them up in feparate parce s,
and'then taking a few of each with me, l returned to my
little cattle, after having fpent three days in thisjourney- Be.
fore 1 got home, the grapes were {0 bruifed that they were.
gutterly l'poiled; the limes indeed Were good, but of thoie I
could bring only a few.

17:11} 19.. Having prepared two bags, 1 returned thither a-'
.gaiu, but, to my great furprife, found all the grapes t'pread
about, trod to pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild heafis thereabouts. To prevent this
:happening again, I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon theout branches of the tree, both to keep them
Eunhurt, and that they might cure and dry-in the fun: and
having well loaded myl'elf with limes and lemons, I returned
once more to-niy old place of relidence.

_ And now contemplating on the fruitfulnefs of this valey,
and leat'antnefs of its lituation, its fecurity from l'torms, and
,the elightfulnefs of the adjacent woods, 1 concluded I was
{rattled in the wortt part cf the country, and therefore was
thinking to remove my habitation.

But when l coniidered again, that though it was p'ealant,
it was off from the {ea-tide, where there was a pofiibility,'
~ fome time or other, a thip might either be dr.v:n or fail by;-

and that to inclofe mylelr' among hills and woods mutt certain-
ly put an end to my bones of deliverance; l reliolved to let
my cattle remain where Providence had firtt afligned it. Yet
to ravilhed was 1 with this place, that I made me a little kind
of bower, furrounding it with a double hedge, as high as i
could reach, well fiakedand filled with hullrulhes: and 113%
ing {pent a great part of the month of yuly, l thinkit was
the firtt of Amy) before 1 began to enjoy my labour.

Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be drv, 1 tool: them from the
trees, and they proved excellent good railins of the fun: the molt
of which I carried to my cave; and happy for me [did f0; by
which I faved the belt part of my winter food.

Jug-

\38 ernnNn ADVENTURES

Aug. :4. This day it began to rain; and though [had made
me atent like the other, yet having no lhelter ofa hill to keep
me from (terms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I was oblig-
ed to returnto my old came. The rain "continued more or lefs
every day, till the middle of Oflober ; and fometimes fo violently,.
that I could not ftir out of my cave for ieveral days. This i'ea-
fon l' f: und my family to increafe; for one of my cats that ran
away from me, and, which I thought' had been dead, returned
about Augzyl, \with three kittens at her heels, like he: i'elf, which
I thought i'uange. becaufe both my cats were females.and the
wild cats of the illand feemed to be of a different kind from our
European cats; but from thefe cats proceeded fuch numbers, that .
l was foreeed to kill and deft-my them as i would do wiid'beaits

and vermim _ '

To the 26th of this month/l could not ftir out, it raining
incafihntly; when beginning to want food, I was compelled to
vehture twice, the firft of which 1 {hot a goat, and afterwards
found a very large tortoife. The manner of my regulating my
food was thus :abunch of raifinsierved me for r'nybreakfail; a '
piece of goat's flefll or turtle boiled for my dinner, and two or
three turtle's eggs for my fuppcr. While the rain laited, 1 daily
worked two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by dc?-
grees worked it on towards one fide, till 1 came to the out-tide of
the' hill, and made a door or way out, which came' beyond my - '
fence or wall, and to l came in and out this way. But after]
had done this, 1 was troubled to fee myfelf thus expofed; though
l cruld not perceive any thing to fear, a goat being the biggeil:
creature! had feen up-'~n this ifland. .- .

Sept. 30. Cafti:'.g up mynotches on my poll, which amounted
to 365,1 concluded this to be the anaiverfary of my landing;
and, therefere, humbly profirating myfelt'on the. ground, eon-
fefling my fins, acknowledging God's righteous judgments up-
on me, and praying to Jel'us Chriit to have mercy upon me,
lfaited for twelve hours till the going down of the fun ; and
then eating a bifcnit and a bunch of grapes, laid me on the
bed, and WM: great comfort tool: my night's repofe. Till
this time i never had diftinguiihed the Sabbath-day: but now

made a longer netch than ordinary for the days of reft, and
divided the weeks as well as 1 could. though 1 found 1 had
loft a day or two in my account. My ink tailing foon after,
lemitted in my daiiy memorandum things of an indifferentna-
ture, & oer-tented myfelf t . write down only the molt remark-
. able events of my life. The rainy and dry feafons appeared
now regular to me, and experience taught me how to pro-
vide for them; yet, in one. thing I am going to relate, my
experience very much failed. me. You may call to mind what:
I have mentioned ct i'ome barley and riee'whi'ch I had faved;
about thirty {talks 'of the former, and twenty of the latter;

and at that time, the inn being in its fouthern polition, going
' from. me me conlude ita {very
WY 'I. dug up a piece of' '

ornonINSON

  
   

.frox'n me,- tiogcthe'rfx'vith the rain
3:233:13, fitanmt; wit-2:21;: {PRACC nd glwidmg lt into two parts,
' {9945" about two thirds of / feed,' prefervmg by me about

i 'h .df l. -' .. '_ y itwasIdidfo' for no rains
Malliing,'uitdeg\lvSS:eghoafigd , and never a cared. above the

->> . earth till the wet f8 "1919'"? again, '3" them part 0t "3'
'- _newyiown.-,.- .- /. .. '
~ griweaisrffgead n to make another trial; and feeking for :a
moifier piece _ round near my bower, I there. {awed the-refit
of my fee '-Februai'y, a little before the vernal cQulno; ;-
Which-h >> ..g the'ramy months of March and April to water it, .
'ylelder-V noble crop, and l'prang.' up very pleafantly. I had
' mumed part of the' feedg'not daring to venture all; and by
. . y: time I found out the proper l'eal'onsto low it in, and
. {that-I might expeet ever- year two fecd-timesnnd two harvclts, -
y " ,m Rock amounted to 'a ' ve half a peck 'ofeach-{or-t of grain. -
a '. _ o fooner 'were the rains over, but the flakesxwhich I had
' cut from the trees, {hot out like willows the firfl: year after lop-
' ping theirheads'. I was ignorant of'the-t-ree-I cut them-from; .
4 but they grew '11) regular] beautifulythat they made a moi}:
."\ lively a .pearance, and {o o'uriihed in three years time,' that I
/ rc'i'olire to cut more of them ;, and thefe foon growing made

    
 
 
 
 

a-glori'ous fence, is afterwards I {hall obfervej , .
And now I perceived that the fealons, of the year might -
generally be divided,' not. into l'ummcr and winter, 'as. in Eu}:

rope, but into-wet and dry feafons, as in this manner :

, Februaryt . -- ~ ' '
{Marcia } Rainy, fun comiug'near the Equinox. _
' April, . ' . ' -
' ' April,
. .f ' M1?! , ' ,' ' . I
"Halt fine, . Dry, fun getting north 0f the Line. ' ' " .
ngult, ,
. ' ' 5' Augult, ' ' A ' i e -
i Half Sfpteml'er, } Wet,' the 'fun being then come back t'
lwmg _ A,'_ -
Oetober, ~ . '
. ' November, ' .
Half December, Dry, fun ruri'ninnguth of 'th: Line. -
' . 'Jinuary, ' .r ' ~ v '
_ February,

_ ' Half

/

_ r

\

V "9".>> - , -'-3
W"; e. .

' {I'he wet {:afons'wonli continue longer 'or ihorter, as the

. winds happened to wow. But having foundthe'iJ'Ebirl'ez'lneh-
eras of being abroad in the rain, I took-czire"Lb:f;rehan<l'to
' E' ' furnilh
4o ' 1. re a hart-n 'A-n v-E N1T<U RES _

firmilh myfelfmth provlfr-ns; and during. the wet months fat
Within doors as much as . poihhle. At this time I contrived to
_make many things that I wantet, though it colt me 'much la.
hour and pains, before I could' accompliih them. The. firm I
tried was to make a bafket ; .but a'lrthe twigs I could get -provI-'-\
ed {0 brittle, that I could not then 'quorin it. , It now proved .\
.. pf great-advantage to me that :when any, I tooli great delight
1n fianding at a baiket-maker's in the tang town where my {3-
ther lived, to- view them Tat work ; and like cher'boys, curious
to tee the manner of their working thefe thinesmnd. very oiiici- ..
one to alliit, I perfeetly learned, the method of "it, and wanted .
nothing but the tools." And it coming into my mine:- that the ,
twigs ottli'at tree of which I made my Rakes, might be est-tough.
as a'fallow willow, or ofiers, growing in England, I refolvuL to
make an experiment, and went the next day to my country-lat,
and found fome fit for my turn; and after cutting down 3x
'\ quantity with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, 3114a
when fit to work with, 'carried them to my cave, where I em-
ployed myfelf in making feveral fortsof'baikets, infpmuch that
. could put in whatfoever I pleafed. It is true, they were not
cleverly made, yet they ferved-my turn upon all occafions- .
But- iiiil I wanted two nece-fl'ary things. I had'no, call: to
hold my liquor, sexcept two rundlets almoit full of _'rum, a.

_- few bottles of an ordinary'iize, and fome i'quare cafe bottles, .
neither had I a pot to boil any thing in, only a- large kettle un-
fit to make broth, or flew 'a bit of meat: I wanted] like-wife

, at the beginning "of this, dryifeafon a tobacco pipe"; but for this _
I afterwards found an expedient. ' ' ' 5.

- I kept myiclf employed in planting my feeond row of flakes.

\.Bnt_re-memb'ering that when I travelled up to the brook, [had

. a mind to fee the the "whole ifland', I now refumed my,inten-

-. .tion, and raking my dog, g'un, hatchet,_-two bifcnit' 'cakESza
great bunch of raifins, with alarger quantity of powder and
that than nfual, Ibegan myjoumey. Having pafi'ed the vale

/ where my bowcr'flood,-.I came within view of the fea lying

- to .the weft; when it being a'clear day, 'I fairly dei'cried land,

_ extending from-the W. to the>>. S.- W. about ten or fifteen
leagues, as I concluded ; but could not lay whether it was an
illand'or ~a continent--Neither could I tell what this .place
might be; only thought it was part ofAmerica, Stwhere I might
have been in a miferable condition, had I landed 'Again I con-
,fidered that if this was the Spanilh coait, certainly, one time or
other, I lhould fee gl'ome {hip pafs by; and if it was not, then it. -
.muitbe the'fiavage coait, betWeen~ the Spa'niih country and Brag-
zil, which abounds with cannibals or man-eaters. '_ '~
~ A91 roceeded forward I found this'lide cf the iflandmueh
more .p'eaiant than mine ; the fields fragrant adorned with

' t'yveet'floWersSc verdant grais,together with i'eyeralvery, line woods. - i
. There were parrots in plenty, whiQh-made me long tor o'ne alto
_. . . ' ' A , . , ' - e

by

\
'o r: -3 o Erin-'50 N 0'3 .u s o 2..

' \41'

'be my cofiipanion; but it Mass with great difficulty'l'eoiil'd'

' knock one down with my: flick; and I heb;_ him at homelome.
years before 1- could get him to call. me by m! name. 4'

In'the-low grounds, 1 found various forts. hares and foxes,

gas I took- them to be, but muchxdifferent fro \thqfe in Egg. L
land. 'Several of thefel killed, but never afc'them; neither
indeed had] any occafion; for 'abound'ing With @0313, pigeons,
turtle, and "grapes, 1 could dely Leadenhau market to fur-nifh
me aibr'tter table. _ In this journey I did not travel above W0
mileg a-da'y, b'ccaufe 1 took feveral turns and windings, to fee
what difeoverics I_ could make', returning weary enbpgb to

- the place'where I defigned to" reft all night,'whjch was. either -
in atree, 'or' in'a' piace which! furroun'ded wrth (takes, that'
a'no ' wild creature, might fudd'enly furprife me. When Icamc, "

- to the fear ihore,- Iwas amazed to ice the { lendcur cit-it. Its
,fimndwas covered. with {hells of the molt .eautii'ul fiihij and
confia Sly abounding- with innumerable tertles, and fowlgiqfr
mam; ind's', which! was ignorant of,.',except thofe. ca'led'bem ' "
gains. 1 might have [hot aS'i-manyras"! pleai'edfb'ut was {paring

\ of my~ammunition,' rather choofing to .kiI-la {he-goat", which

" ' I did with much difficulty; onmaccomit of-tlie flatn'efe: of (the

country. " . ' ' ' - ,- ._
- Now though this journey produced :me the molt plcafing
fatisfaetiom yet my habitation was to much to my liking, that
-I did not repine at my being. feated on the worlt part of fire
finand." I continued my journey, travelling about Wave-mills, -'
further ~ towards the eait', where'I fet a great pile on thc'ihori"

.'lfor a mark; conci'uding that my next journey {houldbring n18>>
to the "other tide of the iflaud, eaitfrom my cattle, andibl
round till-I-came to my polt again. As Ihad aconltant View
of the country, l thought} could not mil's 'rny way 3 but fCZi'CC:

, had I travelled three miles, when I dei'cended' into a very 1mg?

-- valley. to furrounded' with hills coverednwith wood, that
having no guide but- the lim, nor even this,' unlefs I knew welll
the pofition of the fun at that time of the day ; and to add tol ,
my misfortune, the weather proving very hazy, l was obligedi, ~

- to return to' my poit by the i'ea-fide, and fo backwards the
fame way' I came. In this journey my dog furprifed ai
'kid and mum have killed it, had I not prevented him. r-Asl
! had often been thinking cfgetting a kid or two, and fo railing
. a breed of tame goats to fugply me after my ammunition was
_fpent,,l took this opportunity of beginning : and having made '
a coriar fOr this littte 'creature, with a firing made of rope-yarn,
Ibrought'vit-tn my bower, and there incloled and left him;
and; "having t'pent'a month in this journey, at length l'returned 4
to my hahiiation. " . ' ' ; .

Noiody can doubt of my fatisiafiion, when I returned to;
my little main-and repofed myl'elf in my hammock; Ite'ter'i
my journey l relied- myiclf a week, which time I employs dl

- ' ' ' inl

Y
\l

J fragine

?'

' never leavemsa.

412;," 1/ L 1": 5'ng "A. Di-v EN {1' U-B-ES .

in; making a cage fox/nay grefity Pong I nahbegan'toconw
':der the .p-gor laid! hadleft'm flit ,bower, ' and 'I_ immediately
went to fetch it hr'me. When I .cametvhere 'l-fo'undjthe young

jcreatu're abnofinfarved ;.I give itfomefoorl, andgtiEd it as..-'
. before: but. t re; Was no cccgliony for 1t! follon'ed me like a._
dog; and, 3,3 confla-ntly fed 1h, gt became i'o, loving, gentle,

and fond, thAt i-t, sommenced one of my domefl-ics,"and would
.' ' ' ,."'.~
. The rpiny feafon efthe autumnal equinox being. new come,~
I kept ;, girl: of September-,in'the. mofl ',PSolemn manner, as ,
Hfual, ' b_-:'ing._the third year, of my -abode in] the '-ifldeg.nd-._' '1
{pent e whole day in acknowledging God's merciesfiin giving- '
him thanks for making-this folitary life as. agreeable, andjels
fi'nfi'zl,' than th'xt ofhuman'fociety; andfor the communiqations'
of his grace to my fvul, in fuppoftieg; tonjforting; and-'encony ,_
'me {o depend-'upon his Pravidenceyland hope for- his}

P" eternal ore'fence in the'world to c0me._ . .. . ~

i ' Jr :'Ind'eedf'il .o'ften' did 'c'on'fider how-muchmorefiapfiy I'lvas la
- thisl'fiatevof hfe, thalvi'p-'that accurfed manri'er'ol living Infor-

erly'FIrFCd g_' and fametimesfihe'nzhu'nfingz or filming the

' country, the anguifb of 'my foul would break out' upon me,

' ... while. I- was going to return God thanks for '-

.and tho.' I- _c:,uld not thy, I thanked'giefibi'viin " '

e.nd=_'my my. .head: would. fink within me,- to Eh I: of the
vegans, the mountains, the-defame} wa--a'im; and how I was a.-
prrfoncr lock-ed up'wimin theeternal bars, an bolts'of-the.

' ' In em, in an nninhabited'wilder'n'el's, withoptlaopeshand with-I

f

.l'yredempli'on; In this condition T'xvould ot'Eenlivring my . '
,an'dz,zand. Weep like a; Child: And. even fomcfifmes, m the

    
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  

' fiddle of-my, work, this fi_t would take fire: andflyen I would
'- fit dowu'a'nd .fig'h, looking .on, the ground for an hour-ort'wo

ogether, tillufuch time as my grief. got, vent 'in a_ flood of"

3&13'A, ...' \ _ -. 'r . . ' \, o,- '. .u ;: .,. ."

- One morning at; I'w-aa -fa<lly"emSSloved_m tlns manner, I
n ' .. ' I! I

pencd my' B:ble, w

nen I immediately- fixed my "eyes upon _
=htfe w-*1:d's,'I'will IIM'I' [new mg, 5102' jo'ftzee (bed! Surely,
houghttl, time-words are (llreeled to. me, or elfe why flwnld.

- hey applarljnfl Vata-gr-noment whengf'arn .(bexnoaning: my 'tor-g '
. om condition! and 1t ch' does'ngtforfake, what matters

1:, fince he>> can make me moreflfa pyln'thiggflate of life,;'
than if'IfiQjCYf'd the' greateft' fplen our, in gfio'gfi'gfld 2 But-
1: icfenL'fiate,
iomcthjflg feemci tq' Cruel: my ngind, as 'ifit,' f It iiifai'dd: U ~
<<wonky sum-tab; can yea pretend to be-jb'gnfify'r .agrgfii'; " ' ' '

 
 

I' 4
g:

F0!!! <<With you qvould'praj to 'be dehwr'e'di'ag 1e:SS;1<<'1,t,3pt.. . '

\,

 
  

 

beingfihere, yet. I. gave God than ks fqfi$kmnSSC/EURfimSShvve\v
my former churfe of-life, 'a-nd granting'me\;ac.:t1iii'SSllSSpiiowledge_
f repentance. And-"alieneyer Imopened .'bie'gflfiggygfllblg, In
_},f1ed kind Providence,;'th'at direeted' my "ggqggfinglfmfin'g:

._ ligg'Vf

' land:
Y -t"';" '_ .f"."' .'
11". .

'1 - " 'y.

-' at 130311130112 31.211363.

hint?- to PS31151 it 21an 1113'? .'ghod3. Mthou't' 3113" o'rd'et', 11116
for aflifiing me t0 fave it fr 121' the, pqwi-r ofthe ragtngpdean.
Ami no3y'beginh1ng'my third; year}; feverhifl flhzly em'n.
onmemzs .wer'e' thefe: Fir ',yM 'duiy cave-e, and 'dlig Eat-'-
Yyreanng the. 'H-ly Scriptures, Ywhich I did Mice 01 thri'te .119,-
very day': 'Sccond/ , Seeking provifion -W1th my .gx'm, which'
cmmnorii'y.o-.1'k' nte up,w1%n it did not ra1n,vth1 e. hihtre evei'y"
morning 3 'TIJ in", The ordering, cn'ring, pjeferving, and
cooking- what I hil'ie'd 0r catched far my 112033137!- xviiieh took' -
metipg .gr'eaf per-t' of the, 4131 for, .in the middi'e 6f the ay ,nthe-
fun being in its ieight, it was fo hat, t'ha'ttE I; e;t11%! not Tt'iii"
0111-; To that I had only but EUR011?" :'rurs in the ev' nine th. Work ,
In: and then the- want oftoo'ls, o aflifianCe, ,in 115111, ivgitgd ~
:hgreetdeai of time to little purpoTe. 'Iwa n'h'iefs than two' '5
and fatty days 'maki mg "a board fit for a 10.g (half, which twd~
fawyers with their tools 311d raw-pit, 'wouid have cut of? the .-
fame tree in half a day y. It Was of glar'ge treenswy'boardv
was to be'. broad; .1} was three (1338 m' cufttrig, it down;-
two more 'in lapping "if- the bouohs, and reducin'g it 1213a, 11,...-
.inece of timti'n, This I hadked and"a hewec'i off-each gfirie', flit-3 <<'1'
it became light to mave;the1 I turned-'it,mi'1de one i'ide of- '
.'it tint 0111' and flat as a biaard PS10m.end to mid, then; turned 3'
'it diiwiiwerd,' cutting the ofher (21:13, 'till-I brdtight {he pia'nk
to be ahoitt three inch -es thi,ck. 2113' meOt': (:11 both fid'e'sz.

' . Any body may j1i'21ge- my great 'iabnui' and fatigue in fueli' a!
piece of with; but this 1 went t1 tough withwaticnce, as' 31170

3 . many gther things that my circur'nii'anCes' made" neccfl'ary fox;

, me f0 00 )3 Q. "- .

' - The 'Sharv'eft moxith's, November anti Dace her, were now at
hand,' in': which 1 had the pleaiing ' ,' 061%1);
But "here 1'111'ct "it-h a DC lfiflfife; for the'goatsmd hates, ,
having't tafied :0f'. th 38133.11: cf the blade, kept it f0 Thar]:
that it ha" not 711351513316? ihnut up 'into 1111:1111."Tc)pre'veiitsr1 ..
this: 1 ii: clof d it with} hedge, aiid by 63v 111.11: 109' e 'of its ,
devmuers; and my doggnwhich I had tied to {he field-eate,
keeping barking ail 11ight5JJ fi'lightened thcti'e- creatures, that I

.got er'i'tirel rid of t' Jem .:.,- 3
But no whet didI' get rid ofthei'e, than other chemie'eaia 4';
E

 

 
  
 

'5 .

 

21'.
pe ea1cd, to wit,.2!i?hole flocks of rem-at forts 0921;111:131, .who 011 y
w'aited til'l m yzbgihk was tumcd,' to ruin 1:13.330 much did this?
penvt'ike me, ytfi'at I let fly y, and kille htree of the maiefaetora ,.,
and 3tterwards {cried then- as the (18' n'otrsriQus thicws' in. .

' Eng-lint! , .nuzgthem up in chains? as a'='rrc'1'i', {99 others. A'hd,"'.':
indeed, 1'0 goth. an chi-Erma. this that 27' 11th (m y tori-ooh: "a?
the C'Jrni' 81181211 that part of the' 'jiifla'f, 12% ting its tl'ei'e. cri- '
11111112133 111mg? there. 1. "

1in111130111 having ripened apace, the Quite-fiend?) Cey-ber '
111 81111113 my i'ecmql har1te1'c',1I reapea 1t Wilma: 3,1'hadc 1

" of one of mi broad tgords. E had tip fatiguemcuttnib downv'.-.' I'M": . - '
v? F'- x ,_ 4 A ' V

(.'e. . ' 'f' 4

1.44 up; AND-"Anvn'h'lievk-E's

_ - l ' ' . .
my 'firl'c' crop it- was fo (lender. The cars: I car ' d" home in}
a' baker, rubbing it with my hands; infiead of t. relhingji't g-
and when the/harvelt was over,..found 'rny' half {)eel; of flex! pro~
(laced near tw,o buihels of rice, and two bulhels and a half of'
. barley. And new I plainly f'refaw, that by God's goodn'el's, I)
_ A ' flimld be 'turnifhed- with bread; but'yet I was concerned, he-
l caui'e-j-I "knew not how to grind or make meal of my: corn,'
X 1301:. bread, neither knew how to bake it. I would not how-1
. <<estate any of the crop, but rel'olved to'preferve it againfto
. ' nextflalbn, and, in the mean while, ufe my be fundeaveurs to-
provrde myfelf with other fond. . - g ' '
' ~' ~But where'were my labours to end? The want oliva plough
g. . totturn up the earth, or'lhoyel- 'to dig'it,.I conquered by .
& mak'mg me a'woiiden 'fpzde. The want. of a harrow- qupplied
> rmyfelf, with dragging oVer the com "a great bpughot' a tree._.'-'
* JVheniitWas growing I Was forced to fence it ;. when .ri eto: .
mow it, car-ry'itvhome, tlnafh it, part it "from the char , and; ;
- mine 'it.<< And, after all, lwanazed a mill to grind' it', fiev: to
3 >'._'<1tefs-'it,_yeft'and fall: to make it int.) bread, and an oven to".
,3 -. bake it. This {ct 'my brains to work to find l'ome expedient.
for eve'ry, one of their: 'necefl'aries againlh the next harvelt.
V <<.'And- now havingmore'feed', my firflpare was to prepare me'
. m'ore'lmd. 1 pitched. upon two" large flat pieces cigmundi
, near my cattle, for that purpafe, in which 1- Towed my feed,
"and fenced-it with a gobd hedge. This took me up three- - '
months: by which time the wet feafo-n coming, on,.and- the
rain keeping me within doors, 1 found l'ever'al 'oc.:afions__to em-T
' filoy'njlylelwr and, while _at work, ufed to divert rhyfelt in:
"talking to my parrot, learning him to lmnwnnll 'lpeah- hisfnwne '
name Pells'fithicf-fi'fft' welcome word I ma heard lpolre .in-the.
iflan'd. . I had been a. longLI-ifime in . ennzrzying bew- to make- 4
earthen velfels, lwhichl want-e-f'efifeemeey; andwhen 1. con-
fideredthe-'heat of the climate, I did nortgdembt but if I' Could: .
' find any luch claj.' I might'botch up a- pot. , firong enough;-
whe'n' dried' inthe. 1111,10 bear handling, arsd't orhold any thing ,
x , that Was-dry, asv 99hr, meal,_an..l nther things; - .
.- ' To be.{hort, the day I {hand ;- but it Would ocean-an the-
2," moltflerious perfon tn-l'rnile, to See what auinvard ways hook,
{hand what 11eg mi lhapen. things I made; how' many either. fell
"'"Qut or? crackedbyethe violent lzcat ol', the inn; and fell in
:..<<.' piedesj'when- they 'were 1' emoved.; f0 that i think ' it was two
""':months time before] could 'per'eet a nv thing :' and even then
. 'bu't twoclumfyxhingsr in limitati'tn of earthen-'jars.. Thalia,
..-,']iowever,-I Very, gently placediinwieke r. bafl'eet's, ..::de cn pur-
pafe for them, anei"'bet een the-potarzdz thehafle'ets, fiu'fi'ed-
1t full of rice and barleg {tram-and thel'e I prel'u-med_,wonid-
. holdfimy drier!- corn, and perhaps_.the .eal <<breathe cg"!
3' "wassbruifed'fli' As- for the" finalist- thi-ngs,_1SSnad e- them w.ith.\l:te~t.~ ~

     

 

- .f
v .
. -Y='.
, :NM-u . .. ., ' ' i ,
or' no "Neon-c RU..." on; .-4;'

ter' fucc'efs ;, fuch as little round appts,flit-dimes, pitchers, and . .
pipliins, the fun ba'king them verylhard. i, .
. QtYet- [till Iwantedpne thingabt'lutely nee-.fl'ary, and that .
was an earthen pot, not oniy tonhold m'y lxlmd, bntalfo to
bear the fire, which none of thei'e could do. It once Happen-
ed, that as I was putting out my fire, I found thereina broken '
piece of one of my vefi'fls burnt as hard as a rock, and red};
a tile. This made me think of burning Lime 'th5 ; and has
ving no motion of akiln, or of glazmg them. with lea-l, I 534
ed three large pipkins, and two ort'hiee pots in a pile one."-
'upon another: The fire I piled round the outline, and dry.
w md on the top, till I faw the pots in the infide' red hot,
and found that they were not crackt at 2'1: and Wire!) I pets
ceived them .petftetly red, I let one ~_cf them {land in' the tire
about five or fix hours, till the clay melted by the extremity

of the heat, and would have run to glafs, had I fufl'ered it ;

.npon which I' flawed my fire by degrees, till the-'rednefs 3-.

bated, and'watching them till the-morning,>> I' fouud'l had

. three very good pipki-ns, and two earthen pets, as well burnt

and fit for my turn as I could defire-' ., ' . -. .

' No joy could be greater than mine at this 'difcovery. For
after this, I may fay, I wanted for no fort of earthen ware, '
1 filled~ one of my pipltins wuh'_\vater to' boil me tome meat, _
which it did admirabgy Well, and with a piece of kidImade
me {one good hrotb, as well as my czrcumftances would afford
meat that time, . A - A .
t The next concern I had'was to get me a {tone-m )rt'er to beat. '
fome cornin,' infiead of a mifl to grmd it. Here indeed_1 was

at a great lolls,"as not being fit for-a (tone-cutter; and many

days! tpent to 'find out a great fione big enough to cut holy
l'oiv and make-fit for amorter, arid flrong enough to'bear the-

veeight ot'a pefhl, and that I'Would break the cnn ,wi'thout fil-

ling it with fan-l. I But all the {tones of the ill-and being ofa

xnoulderin-gnatnire,'rendered my i'earcli 'truttlz'fs; and then I

refolved to look Out for a great black of hard Wood, Which

.h'aving found, 1 formed it with my ax and hammer, 'and~then,' _

with infinit'elabour, made a hollow in it, jut-t as the Indians.

Qt" Braz'l make their canoes. 'WnenI had finizhed this; Imad:
a' great peltil of iron wood, and then laid them up agaititt thy.- '.
{ucc0eding harveft.'- f ' ' ' _-f'

. My next buliuefs was to make more firve, to. lift my meal,

and'part it'l'romthe bran and hulk. Having no tine thin can-

. ms to fearch the meal through, I coulfi. nOt tell what to do.

What linen I had was reduced to rags: I had gmt's hair,
enough, but nett'ner'tools to work it, nor did 1 know how to.
{pin 1t : At length I- rcmembered l'had fame necltcloths ore-.2;
lien or muflin of the {film-s, which I had brought out of the
hip, and with thefe 1 made three {mall ficves proper enough

for the'work. - . , ,
I ' -' I.'ftn , v v. . _. ." - . . . _"1

'46. , 1 ' PS1 Fit Aim Amww 3315's

' "I com'e'no'd'to co'n'fiaer the flaking part.' The want (if ah
oven] {applied by making 'fofne earthen pans'ver'y broad but
1101: (19613. gWhe'nlzhgd a mind to bake, I made-a great fire

, hpi-m'the hearth," the tiles _of which"! h'sd'made mytelf; and
When'the .wood was'b'umt intojiv'e coals, I'fpr'ead them over
it, ti" itbecame gre'ry hat ; then {Weepingjthem Away. I re;
flown my loayes, ahd wbetmi'ng' down the-'earthen' pntsmpon'

- fh'em', drewthe tithes and coals all around the .dhtfidzsnt the
--"ots to centinue the heat; angl in thin- manner] baked my
Kafleyvlm'ves. as We}! 'as iE-l hat-Ibsen a cov'pI'ete'pafiry-cook;
andhi'o' made "of the rice 'fevem'Teaxes and 'pud'dings,' ',

' ' It'. is no wonder that theft" things toe-k me up the befl: part of

' ,'e' year, firice What Intermediate time '1' ad" Was heft-wed 'ia
' ' managing my m-w harveit and Imtbandry {for in the'pr'nprt feae
fen ,l rea'ped' my com, carried it Mine, "and jerk! it _u'p in the ear

1 in'tny large ba'fltetS,' til I had time ttx rub, infiead 'or thr'afhing
It. 'And no'w,;iudeed_. mycom mcreafcd tb-mllc)=,'t?'at'i'e pro-
duced. me twenty bufhels of' BarleyHLand' as much rice, that I '
not'onty' Bega'ngm me It freely,. but. Wts'thinlzing h'q-w to enlarge
my, barns, and. tefolyed to tovras much at at time as woujd'bef

_ 'fitficient ferme fer a-whole year; . , ,
.' All this while, the profpeet'mf'hnd, which '_I had few from
the-other fide of the ifland, ran in 'my mind. _I. ttill meditated'j'
' a'rdeliverance from this place, though the fear r'f greater-mg;
fixrrrfties"mig)'t have deterred' me'rom it.~'---For, a-hmring th'gt'
Ivhzd a'tained that-phce, ] run the hazard ~of being killed'and"
eaten.by the devouring Cannibals t. and if they Were not to, yet .
IF-might be flain, as other Europeans had been, who fell into'
their hands. Notwithfianding all- this, my though-s ran con-'
flnualiy upon that '{h-'rel 1m w'wifhe'd fo'r my .b'cy any;
find the .long boat, with the {boulder of mutton fail: I went-
to the thip's'boat that had'beeq cafe a great 'way on the there
' ih'thel'ate'ftorm' She was removed but}: little; but her bot-
":bmb-ing turned up by the impetuofity and fury of the Waves-
and wind, I fell to wnrk with ail'the fitength 1' had, with 'levers'
amtro'llers I had cut from the wo'od, to him her, and repair
the damages the had ttlfleined. This woxk'tnok me 11;) t'-ree"
or-fcut weeks, when finiting my litt'te firen'g'th 'ah m vain, '
I~fellitb undermininsrit by" digging, away the 12nd, am 1'0 130-; '
make it fall dr-wn,fettiu-g (feces of vimoe to thrufl: and guide"
, it in'the fall. But after this Was done, I wa= ttili unable to Mr
' it up, ~01' to get under it, muc': iefs to move it forward tow'ards
. 'the water, and. f. I was forced t give it even. ,. '
This cfifspoimmcnt, howwer'd'w'. not frighten me. Lbegzm'"
t'othink whether "n was not pnffible for me to make a canoe
orperigm, t'nch as the Indians'make n!" the trunk on: tree,'(
' Buthere I lay under parti'cu'dr ivconvr-niencies; want ottools
to make-it, and 'wantof hands- to move itir. the water when~
it was made. However, to work I went upon "it, (topging :11-
. A . -'t- e['I' the inquiries I could make, with this very fimpieianfwer I
made to myfelf, Let'i fir/l make it, I '1! Hum-rant I'llfind fime
.twaj or other .to get 1'! along nvben it is done. , ' - '

1 (hit cut down a cedcr tree, which was five feet ten inches

diameter at the lower part next the hump, and four feet ei-
even inches dinmeter, at the end of twenty-two feet, after'
[i whichit l'efi'ened for a fpace, and then parted into branches.
' Twenty days wasI a hacking, and hewing this tree at the
bottom, fourteen more in cutting' off the branches and limbs,
and a whole month in lhaping it-Ii'ke the bottom of a book As
for the infide, lwas three weeks witha'malietend chiffel,
clearing-it in. fuch amanner, as that itewas big enough to
carry1twenty-fix men, much bigger than any canoe I ever {aw
inmy life, and confequently fuflicient to tranl'pnrt rue and all
my-efi'ee'ts to that wiflred-for more I to ardently'defired.

'Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the greateit difficulty

to .get it into the water, it lying about one hundred yards from
tit. fi'o remedy the firtt inconvenience, which was a filing hilt
between the lmatand the creek, with wwnderfui ains and;
labour I dug into the bowels of the een'th, and mac 3 a decli--j
vity. Bht when this was done, all the flrengt'h I had was a}
iniutfiCicnt to remove it, as it was when I attempted to remove'
the boat. I then proceeded to meafure the difiance of ground,
refolving to make a canal, in or'dcnto bring thewat'er to the
canoe, Iince I couldnbt bring the .c'anoevto the water.' But as
this'feemed to be impraehcanie to myfelf alone, vnnder'thc
. fpace of eleven or twelve years, it_ brought me into fome fort
. of confideration : fo that l'eoncluded this alto to be impoflible,
and the attempt 'a'together vain. I now faw, rind not before,
what flujlifv'iy it is to begin a war/e brfire <<we reckm in erg/1:,

or judge- rigbtbv our man abilities. to go through with m per-

jbrmance. . >> ~"\ If .

In the height of this work my'fou;t.l: year exp'red, from the

time lwas cation this'ifland, At this time] did not forget

, my anniverfary ; but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. ~I-'or'now my hopee'bring fruflrated, I looked up it)"
this world as-a thing had nothing to 'da mm; and very we'll
might l fay as Father Abraham fsid unto Div-es, Between time
and me mere 1': a gw'pb faced. And indeed l was {coarated
from its-wickednefs too, having neither the hut of the liefh,
the qut .of the eve, nor. the pride of lite; 1 had nothiug'to
covet. bemglmd, king and emperor ever the whole Country

1 had in pofl'eflion, without drfpute and without contrcul:

1 had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abun-
dance, and grapes above meaiure. What was all the reft to
me'? the moneyl bad lay by me as detprcable droi's, which

1 would lrceiy have given tcragrofs of tobacco pipes, or .a- ' '
hard mali togrmd my corn: in a word the-nature and ex-

;_. perzehce of thele things dietated to me this ju't't reflet'tion, :
Pi. ' ' ' I' ' TI)": '1 ,

ft

'l-w "1-"-
x'48 ' 1;:szA'N'Dfi-ADMEMTmRni

That the gored thing: 9/ .thfi'r; world" are "120' farther gbodftb, ~

m, thaa' the] are fiar our age ;- and that whatever ewemay heafq

up to_ gym to others, we can but 'er'zjcfiue much' a: cue ujZ)
and'namore." ' -.' '- -. V , ' '

There thoughts rendered my mindi-niore-Jcal'y than ufuah'
Every'tlme l {at down to meat, It did it. with thankfulnefs, ' ad'-

miring the providential hand of'God, - who in this wiidemcl's

- ha'd fpread a table to Me. And' now 1 conflicted 'what I enl- -

->j:.jycd, "r fiber than what l.wahted, com 21er my prcfen't cons
dztxcn with what 1' at firtt cxpcetcd'it 81011161 be ; ho-'w 'I/hqga'zl
have day, if I hadgot nothing out of the flip ,- that I mtg/fiharve
pert/bed before I had caught fill) "or turfle: ; or Ii'ved, ' had I
fiun'd them, Iih: a mere favage, h}. eatikg the>>: raw, and pul-

ling them in piece: ewrth- my clath, like a beg/Z. I'nCXt c'ojm'o ,

pared my {tation to that which I deferved: haz'u undutg'ful I

had'heen ta my parents; --ho:zq dg/t'imte of the .fiar of God ,' _

_ hbtw,' <<void of ever} thfizg that cwa: gob/.1; and harm ungratefiil
fir tho/2>> abundant mercies I had ' recei'vell flrom Heaven, ' being

":fld .03 if unit, by a' miracle, , em); .a: great a: Elg'ah': heiag .

" fid '11} rawent; and cog/t on aplape' <<where'- there ir-novwerzom-g- ~

2:5"

9
w
r
3
"f"

. ow ereature: t9 poi/on 'or devour me; in 1h'ort,ma.kihg (kid's

- tender mercies amatt'er cf greab-cqnfblatbn, Lrelinquiihed
.. all ("Mfg-and gavcnx'ayto-contentment. >> << ' ' ~

7.; Atlang as m'y-ink connmxcd, which with water! m'ade iafle
as long. as 1' cb'uld, l ufcd~to minute down the days of _

the manth' on "which any remarkable. eve'nt happened.---

"And," '

Fink, \! beerwjed, that . the fdfle-day I-- jbr/bch my Tjfiarettt: ~
and friends; and ran' lawn] to Half. in? order to go to jea, 'the' -

' fizme (lay afiem'uara': in :17! next year, 1- <<ma: taheh'andmade

v a flame-h} the Sal/ca rowers. . v .

That 2/): wry an} I r/bapyd out of the <<wretk of the jhip 1'7:

farmouth roads, a year after a): "the jhme dd}, I mademy e/i'dpe

from Sallee in m} pettron'}fi/hirzg-hdat. _.
'-.' .Am't, an the 30th 'of S ptmdze'r. .heing the day cvf the year I

.was. hurt; on, on that day t-wentyfl year: 'after, was I mi- C

raeuloqflyfa-ved, and'erfl aflmre on' this g'flafid.'

. . The mxt thing 1hr: waited after=my ink, was the bifcuit ._-
which 1- had braught out 21- theuihip, andth012ghla1'i:-.xy;d-
- .mylclf'but one cake a day, for ab'we a tmlvem-mth, yet 1

was qmte out of bread to; near a year, befoxe 1. got afiy-corh
ofmyown.~ J '1 - '. --\-
iln the' next 'pIac'e, my c1~thes began to decay; and my lint-xi
Whadi been gonctong befare. -How9\-cr, l hadr-upri-krved about
"three. dazem of the tailors ,chzci'ucred h3irt9,-.whic'q' pr-'zved a.

great rc'tnflxment'to' me, When the violent beams ofthe fun '

would? not fufirmeto bear any ofcthe feamczx's keenly watch
' coatstz- which made me turn taylnr, ' and, after a -m'f.--r.='ble
botchmg- manna; convert; theme to' jackets; To prelefiie

v

.. _ ' ~ I
. t

N". .... '

-_ _-.....

.mY 'I m: non-i-Nsom-cmson - 49'

head lmade'me at ca of gbatg-fleins, with the .hair out.
:3er to, keep out, the rfiin'; which indeed fervedme {o well,
, that afterwardsl made - me a wailtcoat and openedkneed-
, breech'e'a 'of the'fame: And'thenJI contnved a- fort of an~
' 'umbrella; covering it with lkins, which not only- kept outsthe
heat of the inn, but. rain ali'o. Thus being eaiy, .and {ettled _
.7 in my, mind, my chief happinefs was; to converfe wrth God, in-
moit' heavenly andcomfortable ejaculations. , - _ '
- For five years after thisI cannot fay any extraordinary thing:
ccnrred'to me.' ' My c'hief employm'ent- was to_ cure my.
" s. and plantmy-barley a'hd rice, of both which I had
I 5' 3" '8 provxlion beforehand. But though lvvas dilapomted
' t m m it canoe, 1' made it, at intermediate times, my=bulrf
i nefs: t9 he a- lecond, of much inferior fize';.. anduit was
L two-years, .ore I had finilhed it.' But as lperceived it would
I 13deg Wile auh my delign, of failing to the other, lhore, my ,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  

:thoughts were . nfined to take a tour round the ifland, to '
fee What.- furthtt 'fcoveries i could make. TQ'this intent,
" ' rafter havmg move: - er to the water, and tried how {he would
tail:"1.'fitttd up ahttl aft to my boat, and madea fail of the
ihiP's fail that lay 5?; . 1 then made lockers or boxes at_
. the end'ofit, ltdeg Wt m cefl'aries, provifion,ia}nd ammuni-
tiOI': .WhiCh' would prefer? \them dry, either from rain or
the fPtal' 'Of the {3:13 and m_ be infide of the boat,l cut 'me
3 10118 hOUOW place to 1". "Glenn in, and to keep it dry.

,made a flag "1-113"?! 0"" Ito" MY umbrella 1 fixed in a' itep
in the Item, like a mafi, to. keep nit-c heat of the fun off-

'me-.. And {now refolving-to fee the circumference of my little
kingdom, ] vie'tualled'my (hip for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of my barley-bread loaves, ah_earthei1,pot-full_
, ~ of arched rice, a little bottle of'rum, half .a goat, ipowder
' and) ihot, and mglwatch-coats; it was the '15:}: of Novem+
her, in the bib year of my reign, or captivity, that Not out .
'in this voyage '3' which was much longer than i e'xpeeted,>> _
; being obliged to put further but, by reafon of the rocks that
lay a great way in the {can And indeed -i'o much did .thei'e
' rocks furptife "me, thatl was for putting back, fearing that if
-1 ventured farther it would be out'of my powE'r to return
in this uncertainty '1 came to an anchor? juft. off there,
to which. lwaded with my gun On my ihotzlder, and then
climbing up a bill, which overlooked that point, lfaw the
full extent of it, and 1b refolved to run all hazards. ' ,i
A In this protpeet from the bill, I 'perceiveda violent current -.
. running to the eafi', coming very clofe to the point; which I the
' 'more carefully obferved, thinking it dangerous, and that when
_' I came to it, I might be drove into the fear by its force, and not
E ' able -to return to the inand; and certainly it mutt have been {0, -
had I not made this obl'ervation; for-on the other fide waslttlze
- , - . .. " * '. .. . i ef a deep water, with acurrent like a mill, whiCh' drove

'\

.750. Lure AND-anvlnNr-u'xns

Iihe current,' with 'this difi'e'tE'nce, that it' fet5ofi' atf'a'greater
ddtancegand I perceivedthefe Was a ftrong eddy undergt'he,
"land ';~: [0 that my chief buiinefs Wad ton/01k clitrTOE the fiififii ,
current, and conveniently get into the eddy. Two days I (taid
here, the wmd blowing very brifldy E._ S.' E Which 'being c'on-.

, trary' to the curfent, leaves-agreat'breacii of the tea upon the ,'

- point; {0 it was neither fit for me "to keep too near the (bore,
on account ot the breach ;'nor hand at too. great a diitance,-'for

" -. ftar ofxthe dreams. That night the wind .abating, it'grev'v R) A

chm, that I ventured hut ; 8: here I may be a monument mall/I."
1'th and Ignorant pilots; for I was no fooner come to they)???

and not above the boat's length from fho're, but I was g 13;:

. eat-the .
eeddv to .

 

along'fo yiolently, that-it was .impoflible for me to he
edge of it, but forced me more and more Out fro

- the ieft cf me; and. all I could do with-my- padd were ~ufeiefs,
- there being no wind t9 help me.' ' '

- Now I began to look upon myfelf as qu' .ofixfinceas. the .
' Current ran 02-1 both (ides of the illand,l as "C" certain they

' muft. join again, and then I had no ho -but:_of-peri'{hing f0?
, .want m the fea, after what provifion I3 .d "'33 fnentz CK betore,

ifaficrm ihouid ha en total-lie. -" . .- -' ~ '
"Who can conceixepthe prefe' '/nguifh of- my mind at this.

- .caiamity.-?. with Iongingcyes' d' ' look uponm-ydittlekingdom,
,, and thcught the ifland th' ")ieafanteit place"1n--the 'umv'erfe'.

Happy, thrice balmy dye,- {aid '1,- _//mll I never fie fbee'mg'elre?

" Whine/"d creature! :wb' ber am {going :9 Why did I murm'w

at my . lqmybme'emd'don,.> 'qvben now .I sway/{l give the eubole
world to be thirty/again? While I:was thus 'compiaining,l
afound .31ny t6 ' e'driv'en about two leagues"'into the tea;
however, I'labonrcd till my; firength was far fpent,~ to keep

my boat 'as far north as epoflibiy' I could, to that fidetof'the

'eurtent where the eddy Lay on; About noon'.l perceived a
Jittie breeze of wind fpringup frdmthe S.T,S, E. which over-
joyed my heart; and was-it'll more elated, when,-in about-

' 'half'anr hs ur: it New '21 gentle-fine gale} Had' any thick "wea-

ther fpriing uh, I had been ltfi'another way ; for hayi'ngng

~ compafs unheard, I mould never have found the way to {teer

t'owa'xds' the'ifland, if once'it had diieppeared; but'it moving

1 'the'contrarfir {ct up _ my mafl again, fpread my fail, andfiood

'awayznotthward, an much-as; couid,.to 'get ,rid of the cur-

.- E-rent, And no fooner didthe 'o'athegin todiretch' avfiay', but
:'I perceived by-the c3earnefs'of the water, a change of the'cur-

,' rent'Was near; fer, where it was firong, the water was foul;
"and where it was 'elear the .current abatcd.- T o, the 'eafl, I
3 fobn, 'faw 'ab'cut; half-a mile,'ab'reach of the'Tea upon, {Ome
~ foek5,'-I which caufed it again to -fe-parate;' and as 'the'main
"force of it drove away more i'cuthwardly, leaiiing' the rocks-
"to "the north-cat's, {o the-ether came back 'by the regular;
_ .0 '

~it ' (or gored-N59 NngkUfiGiv _ 5'
.. -' -' 2'. ( '.

ef'the rocks, makings fimp eddy, which returned back avg-ah:
Ito the northweit-wi'th afveeyifwift fiream. - - ., , . _

1 They who have. experienced what it is to~be reprievedupon

the .-ladder,'- or to be. faveduefromnthieves; . jun; going to take

'._'.away their lives, 0r fuch. 39- have been in the; MIC calamities

withmy own, may guefa, m ' prefent excefscf-joy-s' b0?! heart-

ily! rangmy .boat unto the, realm of. this eddy, (and how joy:

fully I fpread my fail'to'the refreihjng .lwind, handing-cheet- '

full-y betbreit, with-3mm tide gnder.foo_t.~. By the affluence
'Of this eddy, {was carried above 'a ..1eague;home~. again, when

beingin thewalee of- the mend, betwixt the two currents, I '-

,1 found, the water to be in-a; fort oPS_e~'ltand. ,Aboutfour-fclocii

in the afternoop,-I reached. withineleague .of-the mandland

a gper'c'eived- the points. of the rock, which caufed this'difaiter,

firetching'out, as I obferved before, to the Euthward, whie'h

' throwing off'the-'ourrent more fodthwardiyghad mcafioned an-

.'other eddy to the north. But-having a; fair'bayifle gale,-'I firetch-

' ed aerofs this eddy, and ioan hour came within :1: mile ofithe

' more, 'where I foon- landed to my unfpeakable' comfort; and

(after an- humble prhfiration, thanking, od-for my'deliverance,

' with a refolutidn to lay alltboughts of-efcapingi afide, I- breught

my 'boat fate to a little- cove, 'apd elaid me/ down totakeaaweia-

, . come repofe. When Lax-woke, I was confiderin'g. howlmight

get m boat horhe' ;. and- coafting along the them] came to 3

good" 'ayywhich ran up to arrivulet or brook, wherefindihg

a {afe harbour, I {towed her as fate asii {he had? Men in";

drrdock madeonpuripofe for lien: ' f. ' -' , '

- now perceived my; elf- not far fromr-the place. where before I.
had travelled on- foot;- {0 taking nothing wi'ch- me except my gun
and umbrella, I began my journey, and in -'the evening came to

my bower, fwhere Tag-am laid me down" to refi. Ihad not,

' nept .=lor'ig$'before~I .waisnawakened in great fluorite, by a Rrange

- wide 'that'calied me',fevera't times,.Ro'6:'ni, Rabi>>, Robin/040m.-
obin .' When: are you, Rabinjbn 'Gng/be'?-_ mm are

, 5

[0"?er R

101'.er batiejOu (men! . , .- , - . -

' 3 . So faft was I afleep at firIt, that I; did not awake'thoroughly';
. but half "weep and half awake, I' thought I- dreamed-that rome-
'bOdY {poke tome. But, as- the voice repeated Robby>>; Crufoe

_ fever-at times, being terribly afi'reghted, I {tented '11. in' :the ut-
. .mo'fl: ,confufion ; and, no fooner were my eyes fui y c H, but
*3 beheld'rpy pretty. Polk-fitting or! the, .top- of the, he ge, and
_ {oon' knew thatjit was he, that; called me; fortjgtt in fuch be:
wailing language-.I-ufed tot-all: and teach him ; which heifo ex,-
.atfifly' learned that he woqu fit upon my,finger and lay his '
bill 'clofe to._my_ face, and cry, Poo;- Robinjbrz Gru'fize, when:
.-qre~_you? tuber: 6cm: Jazzyeem? bocw came you beretv and fuck:
like 'prdttfel'ha'd coni'g-antiy taught him. But ev'en't'heugh I .
1?:an it to be the; parrot, it'was a grest while. before I'could .
adguttxmyfilf-g being amazed}? how the creature got-thither, -

' " - ', . ,. ' - Aand-, 5'52 M at Ej-Ai-izt'els? mmammm '

{and that he kflteuld'afix; "abqutgrthatsplacet; and . no wher'e' d'f'e. .
-:But 391v, being emzre'd 't-gdtxid"fic,"no-other':.,than..my'hdnetc .
"RSV," my'Wdiider "ceat'ejd; _'and;5reaC/hing. out'.-_my hand;;<andi:ca!- . '
'Iihgfi'miliarly Polltth'efcr'cgturq came'to me, 7and. perched gup'i.' ;
"QIF'TI'wathumbgas-heiwas :wbnt,-C/'conft_a'titly 'prating'ftb me
'fit'f-lth' Paar gdbinforvarjq/be,'"'andbdsw'did 'Ixomgibere, and <<when
"/201ng bees; T'as' if.-tbe5bird \Vas"osezjoy'cd tdt'ee'me; and, [oi .
'iQOk'himfiomemjbng With5m'e'."- -- ; '- I, I.
j; "fl-Was :how pretty Well 'b'ured'.C/f.-myramb1=inguto {ea-{yeti ~
;coul_d'wi-PSh* my 'boat, which "had quit me fo'much trouble add
fpet'ins,' ,o'n .this'fide' the ifl'andj once'more',' bat 'Which"~i_xi'deed
a<<was _imptaEURticabte. 7'1. thereforebegan toi'lead '3 very. retired
. fife-{lifting near'a twelvemonth "if! a "very Cemented manner,
' fiva'nting'foi- tibthing>> except "convetgfati'qn: , A-s- .tp' mechanic .
fiabct'xrsg-iwhieh my:heteffitiedgobligedfiez-'tq; lafafioiedfi-I'cduld, . A
'23 '91: (Gecfifimfmakegtaleiza'ble 'carpefitet'Were the 'poo'rtodls '
' "373', 25:15 ted w'erk -withal,'but good. ' ,Bofides; as, Ijmproved in
fat)" earthen tvqre;I?k:ontrived tqimjakegthemyith a. '<<w'hc'el,
Whieh I 'found nuch'ra-fierg'gnd better, making mygiworkmiapgg
119,? Which befm'ewas; fade. and ugly. -Butj,I.th'ink [Swasfneyer
{ti/elevated with my own upg'rformangenot prqiket, than for
jbeihgjable .-to make a tbbaccc-'pip'e,fi which though itupxoved
"gin-Iauk-'wargl ctumfy thitig',' yet it WaSS'-v'ery:_foend,' indicat'rfi'ed
.tthe-fmok'efiperfeetly wellrto mygreat fatisl'afiion', ' ; x]; '
1~ I alfafimprdvegl' my wieker wage; m'aki'ng 'mer abu-ndancepf
mitt'fiary- , batkcta, Which though not very' hanqlfoqteg were. we;
ry handy-and convenientrto' fetch things quezainviatalfglfor
,hflding.'my-flor'es,. barley,- '1-,ice',van& ether protifiopgj ' :-- 11,.) '
-' 'My'powder'beginning'to:fail,- made mei.-examine.' after what
manner I {hould ukil-l the-goats, pnbirds'tojive onjafterlityiwge-
say gofie. ~Upon'lighich1 eoqtriVed many?- 'waysu togenfnage the
3-3031-th and (he jfsl cenld' catch; them' alive,.'partieulSSrly' a Jhee
-"g'oat- 'withvyomags- At' iafi I had 'my *'defife, fgr. makingpitfalls
73nd traps baited with barley and .riee,'1pfou'nC/, one; morning,
' $1: One of them, at: 'old he-go'af,'an.d in the other. thi'eekids,
tine-male, the'other'ftwo females, " ~ " 1731'3'?' ,
' 1. _"'39 -'boi1'te'ro;u.8'_whs the old 91153,. that-I eculd righting him
away: But-I far'got the old, rovetb, .Tba't bzbtgei' willfltame

:a' fli'oin- For- Iiad-chpt- him ,t_ rce or 'fpnr days'without previ-
~4fi0n8;'..and that given .Eim z'meeAY-aterl E'Mthga'little. cornyke
Monidlhaye' been as tame asfl'a 761mg kid. The'qther"C/rPSm- '
. -tur'es' I .'wad with. fiting's' together; butgt'had great difficul-
2y ibefore Leonid bring thcmto my; habitation. fit" waggiv'qme
time befgre they/"wtzn'ldgeed ; .but thmwing them'ih'eetzcetn
.-i-t :fpumuchtemptedthem, tfiattheyibegan to 'bc tannef, .Fme
-.~I_1en'ce (1 concludes)" that. ifil'defigned'ftg - futmfh fmyfelf : "(1th
goat'sfidh, when niya'mr'fiun'itim: was '1'pent,= the; tamely
"breeding them up. like aflcck :01" {heeplaboyt my'lettle-rg'eqt,
M58 the'only method 1 ,dould take. '1 gcncluded alto I'mpit
_ 1 -._ . - \ ' . - '. frparate,-

'GAE 'KO'iB-'I'N S'o'gm'mu--"s. d'E'J . 25$"- - _
. fipaeate the-fiild4from ;.the;'tafiie',j or elfe'th'eyE <<mould-always
i'un 'w'ildjs they grew 11px;>> .endgthabeft': way; for" .flus, .'waaw
tq:SShaiie-..fome;ihctoiedfEURpi6cefofvgriound',. wcfll.fen'qedg.~ puke; .
. -.'wi'th'- a bridge" or" pale; t0'~"keapt'h:m~.f9 cfE-flirjally,' that. .thofe
'4'ivithin. might not Breakout,>> o'v thdfc-v.witheut-brea'kj in: . Supp;
"amkgndertakiug-fWas' ivery- g'rgat'fdr one m'a-ir "of.iha;1ds ;'i but as
'-thSSre';was an abfolntepc'ce'ffity, far- dqingi,' it, why fi'rft'ta'rq'ww
' 7"10%~.find.a_conveni_enr place of grOufidwhere ,therexwaa'rhkely .
to-bet'gherbageifimh'erh to- 'e'atr-watey'to-'e'rinkyand' cmiertjo' .
'keep' thC/fn.fr<;im'the_.~fun. 39' _"_ ".~_ '~ (My;- gear",
nge-agzi'nm g'axc anofifier'fnflaute ()me ignorincexaad .111"

; ;-'e51p:'rien'ce,'-tpitching-"upos ,a: piece of'meadow land ;;{o_ largeg

'thfat- Hid'ljfjincloitd'it, thehedge'or pale: mufif have'bemfit '
Raft ftwo miles abOnt; ;Jndeed? had it beg'n--ttn' milca',-.;1.had'
' ,time' enoa'gh' at? .516 king 'but' then I; did-not, confid'er that-m3?
'1ngata' ' would- ' be . $3"th iirx'fo". m'uch'.eidompatsyffia if'ath'efix
. .hdd' hact the-'wholq 'iflan'cba and? ;co'nfc<SSu'cntly at difficultjor;
' ' 'Iiicvto. catch-11327.". This thought came him. my- hea'a,~..aftSS(4l '
'hedjcarfied iron; :I' bqliev'erabout fifty Yards: ,Fthcm'foyt'fil'ifib
.' , idem'yi'fcheme', zandgrefolved to inclpfc at piece of ground: 72129111;
.onpzhundredarfl :fiEty-Yard'e" ih' )e'n'gthand' 'm hugdtefljr'iw

, -- Breadth, .1uffiticnt'-'errough,for"axmzmy. as'would maintainm'efl
flu :{uch'time,taSS:_.my; flock- Tinc;ea'.C/d',.. and" :1th . I 1 hoil'fld' ' 3:13:
. prior? gxonne-fy:-.I now~=vigaumfiny 'p'rbfe'cut'cd my. work? 181143
-'-'=J}t~'et'oqk"m'e':s;bc)ut threez'months inficdg'mg theA-firitgpiec'e ;' u'zt
. ' 'iyhigh itixi'x'eiftethefed5ghg-thr'eakidy jnk'tlhe.-bgfi=perfiiof it,.fec'dc-deg
. ' "mg; harm- as ' "dear lime. awpoflibleg-'tqm'ake' 'them-i-fe'mfiiag>>: .an'g'
findcgeflvfiji omen wouldzcarry'fomctears bibar-ley-'or a Mild?
~ fu'l '.gf-rr.ic'C/;_ Md'fGEd'fihCfljflM Of'..my..SSiandi;', by-'wh-ichilzey'
'gfgivgfjfiiffi't'amc,' fli'at"whc'1i my, melofure "was finifbcdgand I 2131'-
' leg"t'h'em; Judi}; 'ithcy' would: run [after me .fonwheufifgl piggy;
{Ehie ihd'ecd ahfwercd' my. end ;: afid'jn'a- yea! anda a hams if"??? -'
21-1'hadgflo'gk-bf abbut' twelve goats; '~kid$deg and all ',; and-Sr) two
"fears: after, they; amour'itcd" to- fortydjgrcgga befides , what'l' had?
.takeni'and kfiled..fcr'my1fgtfignancc. 'After which I incldfe'd'
_ five 'fsvgrdl pieces of ground to feed' them in,.'.iiv-ith-..pen$-'
PS0 drivejhemjintoy that. 1' might. take them-is InhadioCC'aa
'93......-_.';' ' .-.- .'. ., I ,"Fb'; .'~ -:
$2 In this-projcet I'likewife found additional blemhgs ;-;f0r.1, n0?
'- dle'had plenty "of goat'is fit"); but mi}k<<t0(),"which it) .my'
Beginning-I. did n'e't'fi>> much as'thihkcfig And5.3indeed, though
lihitd-'ri'evcr miike'd a Cow.'."1nuch let's-agoat, or~feen buffer or!
_elxe'ei'e made; 'yet,' affe'r fome efi'a'ys and milcazriagee, 1 mm:
32165081; and'fievq' affei'w'ar'ds'wanted .'X . ' . ' ' 7,.
H9w/megeii'u'lir'Can'fhe' om'nip'gten't PoWer. comfort his cramr
grunts, evem in me midff of't'lleingreatefi. calamities z" Hewc-fi's
yep-Iggy.- the '- butej'elt previdences,. and: give us. fcafsn m
. -- gmgwtyigm. in 'dungeons and pfifom 2 what a b'ougtecfismble
-. 1.; :1: . 2'1 ' 1' ~: = ' ' guitar:

/.

x-{'4 I. 1; 1; 'AZNED';"JSS$ Y mum-v n- as,
sign .heregfprea'd'in' aflwildcmefs for m gt-whex'cjicxpcattlrndb
thing-atarftjbut'to perifh for hunger; - ' " _ . ""713"?
Certainly 'afStoic'yvould have 'tmiledwtq fee me" ..at-.-d_in~ner'.
Ibefe {army roy-alu'lmajefly', and abfoluteiprincepand Jzul'er'vof .
{my kingdom; attended by "thy dqtiful. fubje'ets, "whom, ifJ'Iw _
fieafed; I qquld'eitherbang5~'.draw,-Qufir'ter, give them liberty,
9r~t3keit'aw-ay. " When? dined,, I feemed a'king 'eaung alene;
figme- daring't'o' tare-fume t6 :do {0 till I had'don'c." Poll, as if _
he hed'Been-mv principal court. favorite; was? the o'nlv'perfon.
fiex'mitteq to. talk; with me. 'My old, bet faithful dog-moi?
g'fiawn- ekceedingty"-'era2y,- and with had no fpeeies to multi-;
ply-his kind upon, continually {at our-my right hand; {while
fn'ay'two cats {at on ea'ch tide of the tqble', eXpeeti'ngf a- bit
fidfii my h'a'nd', at a fincipal .marlifof my royal favour. Th'efe
,iiiere" not the cats 3' "ad- brc'mght ftcm the fhip '; they. had been.
agd'rong before; amt interred .ne'ar, mv (habitation: bye-mine- d'wg' ,
Band;"'Bi;t' one 6f them. as 1 fuppofeg.ifgeneratingryvith.auwikt
"eit', 'e'couple' at the}: youngjihad made tame; the refi-'ran Mic;
intqthe woods, and in time grewjfo'i'm'pfident asjto'retum
indfgplund'et me 'ofmy. flare-s, till {ugh time as l'fhot a, gge'at
may; and the raft left me" 'withqu't'troublingm'euaw more." .
hf'tkie' Lplent'iful' manher did} live, 'wa'mifig fag-i nothing/"Flatt
,cbfiverfatio'rg. One thing indeed cone'erned"1'rxe,"tbe'wafit (if my.
ibat' ';;d'.'kn'ew_-.not whicthaylto'g'et her round ttejinaw, '
912'- .'tim'e '1 fetchedfo' o atcng't'he fiionelby taxi to he? ;' but
gadfiny .on'c"'in r'Eng'igm met-faeh' Ugfigflffl; ,itI,-'f\'vonld either
' :ive'afi'r'igfit't'dthem; of! made them hurt} into laughter .3. .112ny
1am ago: bug-rmae; myt'elf at my. hafit,'Whichithink.intbie'
flie'e Willibe very propertoideferibe. ' ' " . , '- ' 5;" I
- --."The-capl were on my 'hea'a.' was; great; high, and'iba'pelefs; f
figzflcgsf a gogt's tkid, with 'a'flap or pcnt-heufe hanging'dbm
b':fiin'SS,'n9t Only to keep the {m from me, but'to thoot'th'e
rain :01? from-running into my neck; nothing bring morepefi- '
Liigidumhan the rain'fa'sling upon the fleih in theft climates; ."I' .
had abort-jacket of goat's,&in, Whore haixf hung down'fixc'h '21 '
Tieh'g'thgmueb fide, that 'it reached down" to the calves- of my
kgein Z-A-s- {br- {hot-'6 pdficckings, I bad name, but made: femk
'bla'nee hf" 'fijm'hthin'g, I know not what to call them ; they we'fie
'mad'e like-bfitfiine, and laud on the ides Like fpstt'crdaflwes,
, 'Ea'i'barefiflv firapeddike the rcfi o'f my habit. 1 bad 'a broad-t-clt
~ 'ofeca't'ST'fltin _dricd,'girt. round me with a-eouple ofthcngv', ~ _
'in'flced of'bu'cki'es; on each of which,- to {uppiy the deficiency .
- (if. Iwercl- and dagnger,'-:hung my hatchet '_ and fawn/1' had-"an.
'otber b: it,- imt fo bread, yet fafiened in, the fame manner,- wyh'ch
' bungpver my "fh'ouldet, and at'th'e 6nd of it, 'undef-m-'yeleft '
'armg'h'ung. him p'cuche's, made of- g'oa't's thin, to hold my. pow";
dcr and that. My balked e'arfiedpp, my 'back, and 'my gm}
on mgflmulder; 336.0%: my head a gniat clumfy--'ngly .gnatih:
{tin umbrelta; which, however,'_next to my gun; waa'the mutt
' , a .- . ~ niece-{Tarp

\- \ . _.
d? R? oi-m-zms 0-H QR wron- ' - 5;.
.'- . , . 1' '2 M;
, mtefl'ziry th'ing about-me... A's.er my face',: 'the colotxr was not -
fo-fwa'rthygas the.'Muiattoes,i,-or. mighthave been eXpeeted-frqrhi
one who'tookftezlittl'ccate 30f, it, in ~a,'climate, ...witbin mm: or:
VQ-'tcn degre'es.of the equinox>> At one timemy beard grew Icy
' long that it. mang- dowhabout a quarter of a, yard ; but aqkl'badf.
, . Both? razor; and. ;.1cim>>i:SS~.in Rang] cut it all .03}. and .fitfi'ered"
; none to gmw, exec t alarge pairof; Mahometan 'yvhiikexsh the:
'-l_ike;of 21111611 Jv'ha .- feed: wore lay-tome Turks at ,'Satlc'f'c, not.
- lo:1g.endugh,:ind'eed to: hargg- a'hat 'upon, but": ofiuc'it a men-r
'-. gong: 4122; .-_as ' would have gmamed' anyg'im England to have;
.-'- en;~,.C/ . -> . ,_'I -_ . _-;_. . .. .'
' _ {LiijfJflLthk was pf no 'eonfegnepge Hermeth'eite Beingm'one, tot'
~ "obterv'e' my behaviour-Jar hablt, ,Andflfo, g'rittboutnfear and'fl
A ' withotit (mtmtil; Jepmdeedi'sd on :myj ogrn'cy, athe '_ ptoi'ozcutiom
'jotwhiehigfciokmenupfive or Hmdgy'sw .I' firfi. travelled ialp'ng the:
. afeafiwi'epdipeetIy-'to the place where f .firfijbroughtm'y boat"t'o;
, axianeho'r, to" get upmath'e roeksl;;:~,btxt_nowha'vingmfi boat to
' .t'zkecare'otgllaWent.ovc'riand.,a-gnea'rc'r 'wofitp- the mm; height:
that I'vzasrb'efor: upon 351mm,. looking forwafd,to-the\point'~ofi
the "rock,.- which t--lay ,out,;,an_d .which>[_xvas fwcfi-tb double?!
' yithfiYabo'at, I was amazed-to fee. the {ea fogtmgoth and 'qluietg
. .'-t_tiere; bcmg ,'np "tripling motion.- nor eurrent,-,-any'_m'qi'e thai)
in: omen-places" 'lf'riia mide-'mejgponeer-fome timet'o guefs the
" ..;.}','_eaPSbn Obit, when at hit I inas- conyieced" that the ebb. letting;
ditch... th'e- weft; ahd .jol'ning'fiith ,the.~'ceurxe;tt- of 'water'tfi'Om
[Qm'egr'eatfnigen'oh 'ihgrelmufo betthe occafioa pf fhefe- rapid:
.- ggitge'ams';:'8;efh}1t,.C/0nfequently,_a's thewinde blew more we'f'e'wgrdew '
' ' lfifior more ibuthwardlyfio theg'eu'frem 'eam'ethe nearer,-or w-en'ty
' .xhefagther from the The: e.-.-11'o fittisfy;my;curiofity,1wait_cd ther'er
. gnawing, wfxen-thetimjc of ebb belrig made',l pia'inlymereeivecfi'
.; flomwtpefjock the cttrxerit again as before,.with this difi'erelljce.~
. _-.j;hat itc'ran farther-off, nea'rrbah' agleague iromxthe Storm-whereas};-
' fin mxezgpe'ditipn, itvfet; egol'c upon it.' furioufly. hurry-ing- me!
. _,SSSSidrgpy_canoealongnwithjt, whichgatagotltetr,timcitfk'011lcl'e-
not 'Emvc done.- 'A\.=d.1ioa: l waspcmvinced'rthate, by~quervings
:gifie ebbiugand-'flowing' of tlie tidogrlime'ght-l'eafiey- Bring-mm
throat-rotindz'the,' ifland- again.. But when Fbegan. tos't-hmk oi?
.'pttttingg'n'fin praetice,.thc remembrance 0%. the date- denge'r.
, 1}};th me with inchhormrxtukt I changed my'rrefoltitiongaand
formed another,'wh1'oh'was more fafeg. though max-elaborious'w
and this; was to make another' canoe; and fo-haae .en'eqtor one"
.fi'de'ot' the Efz'and,.and"one'for.the.other.- I, , <<I, t i
,,;\I'_,.hat'. .MW-- two plantations in'= 1199 Miami ;:.the' firft'mv'li-ttl'e '
'fcrtifieation, inrr,.or cattle, .wethvmany large! and fpaciy.:u3*im-.
-,pr_ovemcn'ts; for by this time 'I-hgd' enlarged flie cayebehindf:
".,me with feveral little caves, one with mother; to Hold my
,Uajflwts, CO"), and Maw. The-piles-with whieh I-r'n'afie my' wan-
.>>werc grown to lofty find great as obfeti'rcq my hgpitvgfion. \ Angt'
V, a:a&-this._o'omg1'ofiious and pSCafant fettlement', '-la,y"xr_;y'\vefl cm
x" ; ' _ t E 3:- . . Itivawd'l

\ ,
.p_.'

56.1: :1.- 1 F EJ'A'N;SS?A%'D'-1'v It'h'z'i'ffiffiri 8"? E; 'T If"? 5}}:-

tii'ret'ed and imprued carwfiehifi'whic'hiifidly yietde'd meth'eierti;
fruit in thezprrmer. fe'afom My (team! plantation was thatne'am i,
ngeountry-featwr. little bowergwhexe my graces flouriflaed,'anC/"g .1 '
. w ire, having: planted many flakes, I made inelofurea for my; 5:;
geats, fo tt'rongly fortifiedvby labour and, time, that it' was much;._:;'j..;
fitc'nger than a .wall, andC/C/qnfisquentlf irnpqlfible forethem to
break throglgh. .As for my bri'w'er Kieth; kefifitgcopttandymn 4- , .
refiair, and cut the trees 'i'n'fuch a manner,\,as madethem;.
grow. thick and wild, and form. a mafi-'defightful'fllede. In, '
' the centte of this 39nd my tent; thus'ereet'ed.s 'IQhad'driyelz' ;,--_;';-
. ftn'zr files in the groupie fpreadingo'yer it a piece of'the thxp's-z 5.2;:
fail ; nezth whieh'l'madeza fort ofcoueh with tue jkiuspf .
thiac'reatures I had 'flain, arid: other things ;. and: having. - larch
thefr'epn one of the 12131063 blankets, which "I hast faved from the
- wreck of the (hip, and covering myfeli with-a geeatwatch--cqatg- -. , ;

' /

I'took up this place-for my countrysre'treat. . A - .- -,
;~.Very freQucntiy from this 'fct'tlement did Infe t9 vifit my; ;
boat; and'keep her in Very good Cedar; IAad. fomctimes-I=Wpu-1:Xr= I
v'entarej-'rr her arcaft or two from more, 'bnt'no. finthCI'MCR-
either a fifong current, afadderr ftoxmy \vind,'or' fome'unltlm'et': 3.
. ky~aC/cieclflt "flrgnld- hurry me from; the.;ifl3nd- as..bcfore;.rjl_3uSSgC/fi;
new} entreatu-y-a'ur attention,- whim l preceed to ighmjg._iiSS-
you of a new, but men furprifing fcene of life whieh'rheraiu-
hefel me." . ' _ - , I ' e. . It, ..
'Y'du m'ayeafily' fuppOfe, that, after having been bereft; 19113351
pothipg aphid be more imaginpthae'lto tee a harm-remap}; .
ture.' One day. it happened, that going to my boat.~:l: PS13m! '
the print 'ofar man's" naked foot" on the, more, vet-7' evident ow;
the~,..PS<<1i'd', as the toes, heel, and every part'ofjte Em: I item-'5; '
snij'apparitionzin the mofi'frightfn! fhapnj could not have been.
m'or'e confounded. \'Mv willing ears gave the itrieteti'iatte'nticmr- :4
I cait my eyes am'und,' but could {misfy neither. 1 =0" not: t
the; other, I proceeded .aJtemateiy in every partof' the flirts;
but with equal effect; neither could] iee any'other markr'.'f
though the fand'abnut it. was as {Infeeptihle tqtake impre'fisn',
as-that which was; fo'plamly fianiped. :1" ung-'fimck with con-'- ' .
' fufion and=~hf<zrror; I returned ~tom-y h , ' n,' frightenedfit. ; 3
every bnfheand tree, 'takifrg- every. thing ' ofinen ; andvpbfi'efleat,
. With the l-twiidefi' ideas! That night 'my eyes nevereloted; 14%-
formed rad-thing But'the mi-<<It difmal imaginat-inns, eondudih'g'.
1t "theft by. the {mark of the devil's foot which I'h'sd' feen;r.-FGB' '
otherwifeshow could' any m'ortzi come 'to- this ifland'.' misfit-e7 -- -'
was the-mi? that 'tra'nfported. them ? 8: .what fig--ns of any other-5; 13 ,
fo9tftepsSS'_ Though the-{e feemed very" firong reatons for fu'cl'r'
atuppofitxgn, yet (thoughf'l) whydhould' the d'evfl makethe-Z
pnnt 'of his font td' no purpofe, {as I eat! fee, when'he might
have when 'other ways to have terrified me? whyflzouid he}. - \
haw "his mark on- the other fade ofthe .ifland; and'nhat t:.~o"on .
Ithefand', .where the turging waves of thc'ocean might {com
.' I ' L . a. ' ' have '.--_---------- -----_._-..._._ .'___. _.

-ou.

'/ Iv;

"- "-5. <<I 0 " '.
-' I ' ML'
5.-

12.12:. 5 f it:

'95? 2'3"? *'..:'~'.*S~L
,- ...>> Lax: y-w'm v.2! ..
- - ' eafimmtsr: vs:-
: .w'~:7<7.*-' v ' 1-
'_.e 4"... 7' --$. ,
.. M36 .

a' 'D
58'>> . ~

 

ROBINSON CgiusdE'strficlc "Mdmc'bhfusibfi >>_
and horror, at "seemg'thehprlnx of- a man's
' . . Jfo'ost uponthe sand" ', ' '

  

 

Dr. 5 Eng. by A. C4216 Edi>>.

An J'-

.: ., ,-C/4r_~I-u.'..~uh~'.'C/vnq -~ ../. _ . .

'. .:SS3r'mE '7' "BMW"?

. '_' ' ' ~ , '. M _ -.j.'.:' ,.\ - , ', 3" '>> 3v. 4.:

. lie"): cicafe'd ,jtheti'mpre'flipn." "Study-this5118.102453th;'C/0;1fifSSenPS:SS _
'Mtkjhfi"fgibtility'5'fofSeitail;~'faidE_t's'a4my1Y=lf,l.','bu't'i'aflg'cra'muft'be:

/_ .fp e dangerofle~-creef1ite,':fomeWild '{avage'ibfi'lt'hq main 113th
Wetagaihi'c' meg-that wienturing.-.tob.far in ithc'pcean, has bccqtff
' {Riv-en; here, 'eithcf by we 'vidlcnt 'eufirrcntg' '01:. cqntrahywmdsigi '
g'd'nog'cmhg'nofizy on;thi8_1defol_etei7'inahq,gahasgonc. back til-'5

' 3 383*?'4' *5 9T '. -" "'-.'~"'1'.'1-;L~ 7 2&71'3515-3'. 9 w
fli'Haan.' fndwd'ssfiidjrf<>tmytelfgsr'tfiat'thnceef'the-zfev'rages had?
{rein 3fm.e-- in that fipfacie :.~y6t'~l,'wa$ cunt.._a::t:fceetfi'cfrg.'.;withC/SSC/'fC/af';z

' ' -A1cft.."h_eving :foungr 'mx-~bo'at,,' '1';th {h'p'ueer-jxfgtiiryfiih angimbcgaee
' Sand; dcvmus 'tzreg;or' atf-keattTc'afif-yraw-a'y an; my;,_(:orn'; atdfitttrg'iyfi.
effigy flockcefi tame-goats- ---_. In: a wotdfall' in? rcii'gipiis' 5635a: "ii-f

ifii'lbedv-'hsithoiigh Ithaught'Gnd Wouldhdbflrio protcci'gmeby" .

 

..- ~
4' ll;

.tih'is With-who 1121161412.\vonsic'ifull-xwffivw3tjx'c- foflcinge ., .:- 'F;
: . ' $5.."Ihiit'i'varimis*ChaiHS'v-figt'lefidmce'iarc.titgercV'fihtz'the mfg 29:3-
..'_ 31m}?! 1 "Hmw ehangehble'me? outigfl'eefiqns,"aecoiding-{j'tbw/Kq};-
. ;c'nt .gixC/tzmfianccs -.I 1%{1overday3-{finghagyyg.ighgfez;ffiC/imzffi_f
, frb'iir'fif WC',' ihqm qnC/\h6im,j'-w1iat .we feck the; 963$: \Thilmflggggg
~ ' {e'liflefit'ifi-'me in-fihe'inpfi fiohfii,cdti8}mfasm'cr'zaEnig-13'3jxthgaeg'i
, Fifi? had fa mi$li-'-lame'ntcdl'mygeonditiqng'in'i bciqgl'gbaniflqqqgr
-'ftdpvi'alli-'Y=mman= Jim; was, unwfsygrrjmady "Io."'gxgwegrw-hcny ~. '
'I-Cdfiffid'el'edztlii'ifii man .lz'a'ifetjhisfoor on, ibis-gle'folwatgx-iflaa'dgi
Bfit~:w1iefi'...I'-C/chfiderfea: myfri'itutim vbfiflife; dSS,.,'s'ecdr-'hy'itheein'fivi'
"Snitcli'WE '3n,C/PSood3firoviden'ce.= Of. '.Qod,'.:{tlxat- I'Qfiehr'fiQtetO:r
"iiifpti'ie-rmy .'Grcaton'e 'fuvefieigrttfx9th,-h,as gnY=flnfioixgSSed-zrjghtg
_ ftb'govern, 'ajnd'- (151'pr of :higcrcgt'qreg gag be ;thin'k'sfagzgn'vggiant-3;;-
A!) ' that'his'jufiicc andflnerfiyrcpuld cighcr punj'flrpmdeliicmgee;
I'fififai'yflw heai'l?C/qnfidefed-' gill-Ibis; I pmnfortably-found it. zglyediioi
:'i't'Y'I't'O finfi'fincwdyi in'himg pfay~'SSSSden8y~ to him};a'n'd;thmb.ly;~:

"-~'-refi;g-5i-'ipyielf_to hisfdiv'ig'c'willy . - .'
r . _>>'Q'ne-Iguemingflyinggonpmy bed; tilde-words-of'thejfhcrgdfi'
-, eivtitings-iceme-info my, mind,CalICupon--me ~ih-{lg'es-day'o'f'rr'ozk-e
_ Elli/eyw'n'd' If quill'zdeliiuvl'tbee, and tbo'u 11/5411; glqr'efi'frzie; ' 'Upom'
3't'biij'ent'e-nec9'J-rifing' moxie quect'fulq fiom ' mifbedgglgofiircd~ up!)
fii'ny prayers' in :th'e~'mofi h'eaxienlly manficrif; a'n'd When-21 'h'adrf
{dbficp-taking uppmyHBiHe tn fiat!" theft .wprdliimppcarcd'fii'ftjne '
:,f!',i.V]?\_jfi' ht;::-4ljfa'it.'on!'tb'e _L"or4,;an'd- be o_'fgaadacbeSSr, .andg'jbeap
' fjfiall fenggb'enjt'bj beart '.f;_W'ait-, I fa}; amt/2e- .L'or'dr .St'leh;d1-

' mac c'osntor;:dJ'd'this'give\mggaatbyembygfih caihfejefififii'qefgh "

.-ui3nn'fhat~.-C'cnafidn, '

' . r'iIohufieaffefi-'a:fvcfid} e"-f:apwshwEms;an'd"fe.2is,-f<six'zthrec' dami

Jdiid n'gix':$g;I=-it 'ieft' ventured [out Of' my. 'cafilc',';_az_'1g1=;n_gi1k'edgray:'

_ '6m,-.one "'of'.v'which7'\i'ras3'11};th fpoficu (mt. want. ot1,it.'." If, "ext; '
"' -1h0ugh'in"gt'cat'fcar)"vditcd" my Bower,.afid"mi}lEURefd my fib'c'ks;
, there; aifo ;. whem.' growing. holdcrrfwcntdnwn to the more:

' aga'ih,;\angl meafuripg the print-lot"th'e...fao'tftc'= frfine;..;to'=fee,,
;pcrh2p,e,-ththcr~I, 'myfclf had net>> ccc'afionc'd. "that 'lmark'fl'
ficmzd it much'fitpcrior imlargencfsgand _fo'refurncd'.homc,C/, :
mw'abfolmdy, convinceds'that' either. fornei'men had been ap-

\
, . _, {hunch _or 39-13 1-_N so N c :R 11-5 on, .59'

more, or that the ifland mutt be inhabited, and therefore that"!
might. befurpril'ed before Twas aware. ~ ~ ~. ,
' I nowheg'an to think-of providin fort-my feCunty, andrefol- ,
v'ed in my-m'ind many, different chemes for'that purnofe: 'lk' "
'fixlt-propofed to cat'doxynmy inclofures; and turmmy' tame-
.cattle Wild into the woods that . the enemy might not find:
them, and frequent the ifland in "hopes of killing the fame. 'Se'.
' condly, I Was". tor digging up my, com fields for the Very fame -
' real'on. Andylaltly, :1 concluded to demolilh my bower, left,
feein a-placexof human contrivance, they mlght'come farther
and-_ ad ontand att-ack-me'in'my-little cattle ..; -- . '
~ .'Such notions did the fear of danger htggef'c tome; and I
V looked Ithdught like the'unfortunate-king Sank when not only>> '
opprell'edbi .thethililtinee, -.but"alfo forl'alce'n by God him'felf. '
And, it is ltra-nge, that a'littlc before, havingsentirely .refigned'
myl'elf to the. will of God, I thank! now have little confidence
in. him,' fearing. thofe morewho could k-ill'this fading body,
than him who could deltroy my unmartal foul. - '.
Sleep wasan'utter ltranger to. myeycs that night 5 'yet'na-
ture, .fpent'andytired,fubmittcd to 3mm; repofe the' next Mord
ning,' and then joming 'yeal'on with fear. Iconfidcxjed that this
delight-inl- r-andplealant Illand ought hotbeel'o- entirelyfiurfaken.
as *1 might flunk; "but that the inhabitants from the other
. 51mm :migh-tgfai'l, either-with. defign or from neoefl'ity; by'crofs
windeyand if the latter circnmllance. (i had reafon to fiel'ie'v'e-
they Would depart the-firft-opportunlty. H0wever,:my fear made"
megthink' of -a place for retreat sapon an attack. I now repented
. . that} hed'made my: door to come out beyond my fortification;
fiQJ'CIflQdY which, Ifrelolvcd to make me aafecondfone': Mel}
to work, therefore, and drove betmxt that double row of trees,
- which '1. planted above twelve years before,- {eve-ml firorg piles,
. thickening it with pieces of timber and- old cables, and RiezzgthA
ening the foot- of it-with-earth which I dug out of- my cave ; _
' {also made menfeven holes, wherein vi planted my m'ufleets like
cannon, fitting them into Frames refembiing carriages. This ,
being finiflfed with indefatigable induflr-y, for a great'vlay ev-
ery where, I'planted lticksnf ofierlike-a \vo.)d,'a"-out twenty
thonl'and- of them, leaving a large fpaee betwren them and my
.. Wall, that [might have room'to the an enemy, and that they
might-not fie lhelteved among the ya'nr'g ti'eer, if they ofl'et.
. ed to a preach the: cuter wail. -And,'indeed. {agree two years
'hadpalged over iny head, when there appeared A lovely fizady
grove, and: in fix years it became a thick 'wcod perfee'tly imo
pail'ablm. For my l'afety, I left 'no axles-tie to go in'orout ;-~. ,in-
{me-dos which l-l'ct two ladders, one to a part of a rock which
Was low, and then bmke in, leaving mom to 'placeanot'he:
ladder upon that; {a that when I-tock thef: down, it wa's im'
. gullible for any man to defcend "Without hurting Lhimfel-f ,2. and
if they had,.theY= wouldthll he at the oumde of my outer wBellr
. : ' . 1 . i . , m;5 552,. .1113: AMfi"AEUR-b'SSffiSSSSiY= xiii-391$ _ '

_f But Mime} tobk all. thefe' mgafu'rcifit -hfifnfih.-iSSffiflehee?"fC/flinSS'
;.SSw'1},.preferv_ation.l_wasfiOt-ia'lto efihgg." :fihrfifidfififih'efi 0th "13* '19 ;
-~--.f;fi}'-.s.-~ ";ToY=pjfPSfcnve my meckvb tame" 'gjdafsfi"f.tha'fi}-"thE-' e: fqmyr, '
. "Lfikbuidinotgta-kc: fall -a_t:,on'c_e;1lb'okgdrqut-'qurrthemisfitfit'ii-epf3
' :'fartszqnhe island; which <<wag'the'-'}Slai;e,'2{SShgfie' 11m iomsffivfeiffi,
efpl'eemgmibncd '-;.'and"th'erie' fi'fid'ing:_a'kieaigpidc'ei'cf'hfid;jedfi'e- ' "
- tainli'ng'"thrce' acres, furioeadedgwithz-thiek"v'v6iSS'dSS;311:3wroingfifi .

. r ._>>Ipih3'rd-,'that high that: a mq'nth'a"timeg'fj'yfgineed{-it'db'fo'xigji-J '
5' fidund; that my flocks - wel'e "t'e'r'y' ,'wefl Rating; 'ia'iffendfif'phfi
. ;.<ithcrein-g'wothg;goats' aha fog-n fire'joh'es..32'-">'C/.f='-:-f3'3~'=7,---"":: J 4'" 7f .
@ll'thrsi'abbur was oc'c'a'fion'cd. pure! . by,~fehrfili$'SSSSp{C/hen5"
._'ndgs;:C/h'- 'ae'eOunt' offfbeifigi'th'efptint' of a_;mati"q= fobt' "a;
"'51.,iot-'contgcntcd' yet :' with '.-\'evhat",1 had .-' PS1911fe,"1',fehrch'efl';:for='7ehbe-' " '
; ithgxrepiace :tQWa'rds the'.wm'i-p'o'mt'oftheLiIIafidsfiiirh'6re11:might! --,
- alfe-fyeta'mu enogher. flock: f-Ifimf;wandejring.f'en-1.tlfih-:.SSrr};xid?' '
more to} thegwdt "of' the, ifiih6;than'1'evgr 'IphadT:-yefSSudSSife';:23SSC/; 7'
. ,. daftin'g myaeyesV-towaide'thejfe'hiIri'ethblx'zht'l pereeiiedsfiibfifig?'
..._gt'-).;grC/at ,diflance ';;5C/1}cC/ufdahot pdflifil'yiten whatthwas'jep ~
>> 'yvan't; 99f {31$25pgrfpeflive' fgla'fs: 'E'IacohfiQerg'agtl'reh'g'fit--Wfifi'fib'x.-
-';fir4fige;tb_ing'-.teiite the; print 1015a than-'egibot' ;dfidgo'ncfuC/i'ng '
. themzeannibals',,gbkfie'd' QOdt-fgif'i-bjaingjcmf minthei'dt'hfiifififiai .
'qf'the iflathd', -.w,he'fe,ixone ofg-thie'f-fmiageq;;SSs'.-1PSSStli6SSghSS,fiSS5yjC/ii 1:4
w=C/fa,'m_e., :B,u't-. when Learner'down "~ the; hilt- t6;- thdtfffljpfgfi'JWieEi' r
was thc'faz-swa-pbint 'qfi'the' .tifia'ndgili'w'es' {don confirmed'lmmy' . .'

5013i ' . ' 5":- E'nofi;jC/an any 9'16 zaefcrihe'im'y' fibtxflbhfihfi'fi'iieztiifiefififi .'

'iwjvh'cn fiefa'w: th 'e" 1' grofini; (breads With? faiths", 'tha'fiayfif'fefiaigfiigh ."

' :bqnee '-'of humanfgbodies 4; 1' findf'part'ieiflmyglfiqteg'ci'fiefifi'i'fiada: . 3; .,-
.likefi'tifelchm'thfitmfim C/PSwaieghshad=aeenfa3 Sta-writfimefi" q
..-.C/SSnjg'C/turgC/1 thefC_'WIeth e91 fat; find,unn'itufall3SS:f2{cfi_fiEURe& magi-1; -.i

-' dthured-gtheirefnllowmeatufea'; '3' f 7-4?" " " -" -'-'"1'-'~.*.-C/f~i'--.',;%'.\g;--ix(vi?-._ __.- :-

. .

._ ';-.,a'--.'- 3'3"" 1' '_'

:fi-Thghorrqr and -105thqmcqeih"of this dreafififlezf ,_'e'eY=aC/l'c;'!SS'q{h}. 3;
- 'ej'onfounded myEfenfes, and .m'adc'.uiC'-,df1SShatge' goin'myfipxg
mach>> in a'n- echfliVe"in2nn'gh Iithen'i'retirm'ed'tbwaj'ds'af'f'_."e
habitat-fin";.'zlan'd';:-in' my away-thither; fixedde-fiebdsbf't'efirsfi .y..'
_ 'aand falling'demonmybended kmms'; "gay:Taicfiflthignkef'fafi4 -.
makingmy statute cohtraryto .thcfe" aggtgheqkiabgi-'dgfivggmgl

mafolqfig'mit'Jofithcir'hande. .' w. =-:-:'r'-'

' . Though" -y"'eaf<in.- andjzyhzgg Irefidefieezh'er'chadj fining-mt?-
.. .tha'tfthefe' figyages- have? cam; up;'_tb-Z-the thick. Mandy fihfitifrfiffig
' the :counfxiyfiganfi' that .'I 'had- moi-563533 319'- be=gpprEURhefifixfej bfaa
difco 951'- y;; -,y,eggi_iz'eh' an' abh'ofenee 1'!ng fltil ith'mf-t'h at; fem-wk); ,-
'~'fyea'j's afterglIpcmfibed;rfiC/(el&C/un'ey'fti3ffilmy tht'ge plantaifibg's H; R
' - meanfiim'ji';efifigfifcdiifi fr'xjfeat; tang" itcl'fim're}miilfie awobdqg-
. "And-Eflidughiiifflpi'defLMOHfi'fie'medlz'egfifu} apoi'ehenfiaiis'fifie .
.. .- . 'ggniteweafis'awayfi .yfcif I'myrf'f'e'y'jes-'ffig'fe 'mpr'e' vigilant" fair: "1' eitiit bf" " .
7 b'eifi'g Him-lied;riahcfil'iwilk'efi'criiifiibizsi'pf'firifiiz Matias: fem-4
:b'eitig heardfby'etlibfegcfeaturesyfthey iflfiafil'd? figh'e'ee'd'ld att'hbk'i' .
..._~ miefi-f'lIrefolvcdSS;SS-h6SS1ir,e"vlei:SS:mhpml-Fy .tfe"lz:fe,;'rhy~:-li'fe 'if'theylfdid; "
. .' waif-wagermsmwith thieegpifiols'flfi'ek'ip'iny'ig'ifilfigwmchilad:
" 3' I . ' .. ' :5 .' --._,bv ,_ .1153: . . '9'. . " .' "A ~. . ~ 5'- e I ~

'I

.1:

' v 5-. . . '9
.0 . . . .

, .

' \h, ' ; .u.'."_ - I .

t 39:35; gammastaggerg3: riots. ' 5.;21

= fled'tetzthc:tr'eti'crigtien~I'ihavcieiv'en bfimyfel'f'be'forerinadefms. I '

Roolewit'he apveqx ~otjtrri;<lah;l;e.gp'p_ea_;{a.r'1ce.u .-; -, .

' - ffI'hussrrryr circuriifie'riceglfor .Tome? 'ti'ifie ,lfema

' and; :Eu'fidfitfirhedi; "and when>> I _'.-' compired ;' m'y' . eondition>>. to f 4
-otlicts;---'I-:~C/f9unq it <<far from}'being'zrtt'iferable. : And; _'indgefd-.
would'alliperfom;cemgarejutheiti 'cireumltarices; notfwjth tfiQfe'j '
.' aboite-sthemibut (with thoafe innumerable. uhhappy.=_eobje&s he; i_'
~ fieath--ghemfil-Bm{ure51we'mohtldtuit- hearfth'ofe _daily~nitm.:--'

. rmurixtgsfand'cpmplajnipgsat'hfa'tlear'ei'in?theuworld "for my-part',g.

' I wanted; him: few>'tl:in'gs.' .'-It'idee'q, the ;;terror [which ' "the {am-'2'
' gegghaclput- me tin, fpojled fome-myenyons-forigmyt'own conga
yen'iencm. r',Qne of ; qty; prmefis was to brew mejfome'be'er :1 . '

' . a very whimsical-one; indefidi 'Whfinit'isieonfidefd'that I had.

neither-cams firflibient; nor'. cogld Lmeke. ghylto prefervei-it-in I; 'l

f neither had; 1-h'0pe'tomake it+.keep,.~-Yeit to make'it- work; _nor
a ,qo'ppetz'on-kettle' to,r'ngke it .boi.l.- Perhaps; indeed, ,af e'r'fume'
' maria} might glaring- this to beats,~ as I_had done other things;

But'nowmy inventions 'wexe ,Pl'ced another-"way; and day

f andpighfilcould thinkpf nothing'zbutjhtw I'mlght'deltrof
{Tome .of :the'fe. canmbals, when, prdceeding'r to their bleady: en-

tertainments :' aindfoefaving a viQim-frdm'beingfaetififichthat' '

~ he nfight;,,aft'er become, my; Ervernt. '~._ Many 'ivere my emu-t>>;-

'_ <<(antes-afterthispurpofe; 'andfas' ,many_.more objeetioha occur-'. 5 '

area, {After ;1 hatched -,.'theqn;. TI;.--cycenc0ntriVCd Vto'dig a hole]
4. angler; the'place-where they, made their fire, and 'uttherinflxye
' or ;.1i--xg,pounds'of"gtt_npowder,.<<w_hieh would ebn equerttly blowf
'- tip :au.,thofe;that were 'neartit : but, then Ifwag lot-h to ,fpend
{o .jiiuchtz-3upmg' them, 2left it! fhouid, not. do that certain- execug

'tieu}I-,,,c6uld: :defi're; 8;. but onlyatfright 8; not>kill ,t'b'em.- Hav-

' fag laidsthis' defign af'lde,_-1vdgain-prqp'oted to myfelf to lie prie.
" yatelyfih ambuflagm {omeconvcrrient place, withmjr three gune'v
d'ppbl'e -_ loaded, -' and.~let flyat them in. (the "midfi'of their. drea'dt
1 {algeqem'ony andhaving killed twoor three of them at,eyery_ .
Jh'ot, fall'uponithe reitfnddenly with'my threepifiole,' 8:, not. let
. one.-_-mpther's._tfon 'etcgqie. 'Tms imagination,- pleafe--d-m fancy
[9;much-athatSS-.-ufed to dream of _it in thenigh't timer: Uri'o pug:
.my -.defign 7,ih-jex<~euti_on, ! We: not long in lteeki'rtgqfor a place'
.icpnyenjent .ffitmylpurpofe, where unfe'en' ,_PS.~might behold ev'ery'.
afaetionqof.therfavages;' Here I placed my two mufkets, each;
1745f which- was loaded with. 'a brace of Hugs, and fourorfilve,

'fie3-C-95?SS'if'ealm'; ' -

4

1 ImaJICE.-.btillets fiboutxhe llze of ' iitol bullets ;' the fowling-pieee " .

' was';;charge'd,vgith ine'arh hang! 111.0%" the 'largefi; ,fwantht, and
zingerje'ry' -pifi91 .were-- about four bullets.7-~. And. -thus:.a,|.'lfthings

' y bgmgg-prepared,'.rjo'..(opn'er would the-welcome. light fpre'ad- oge'r ' .
the elemefit, butflikem giant;ref'zz/_/_:ed.wit}2,~wzfng,f as the Senna '

.tgre-_.,h43g_1_t-,_. would I i'fl'pe . farth, fromn; my caflle,'_.an{
from a loft}? hill, three,mile9 diilant,a.\giew' if (I 'e'Quld; 'fee' 33?;
'in.vg.ders'_.apprcach, unlawully to my.kmgdom.i;..B.utjhayinga
R unfazed. 19,.'iain . two or three months, it got, only;'-.grfy Egg-W .
- "' - ' ""lreome

. ' , I /.;)
"5

'6'2. Litir'iw #5131636 VENT? H.163

' 'tirefemejte'me, but Efficiieht' ' me ('0 325m:- -'C/onfid"eratibrf,"-'hna
. "j. RSI"? j'me fixamigge finiyfelt; Mat-fight '1- ,had'to 'kfll' 'thcfe -' creas-
'-'\turea'iz;1"tha"sManhe'r;' - ' . " 3' '5-r=';:f-'-/_ -
. {fatigued I to, mylemthimnn'a'mrajl 'cix'flomi-df th'eirs' bePSafin
'fhefl'ehfiye tofleayenfitzbe'longb tq't-h'e DivineiBeingi'whohaIOne
~ 5. has theyindifli've" power. in" his' hands, to: mower ficvyn'ifi's' veni-
gejegc'e upop'vth'em. ' 'And'perlia'ps he doe'agfo; in-'making'th'eh:
became ofiefanother'fs Teekeeatiehers. ' ' Onif'ndt; "ifeGod thinks
. 11,142: doings jut}, according;{06116khowedgef'they 'ton'ccive',
.'j'wh'agtzauthority "pave ~I-"t'9 -prete'nd_to th'vv'art-tfie~rdecrees of"
i'grovidence, Which 'has permitted .thefeVaeti'bh'sfj-for[formany
_ "ages, perhapszfr'om alm'ott- the beginning of the'er'eatioh-i They
.ffneizer offended :m'e. whgthright have I-'then: tchdn'eem' ml {elf
,,'_ifi their'fltedd'ing one anbther's blood: Ands, indeea; :'I-gave .
,fixi'clev-kn'oymythey value tic-more .to-kill and idev'ou'rua' captive
I'12ken'in'war',~'than'__\'ve d'd'to kill an OK dreat'mfitt'en." '-"~I;At'h'en
_ \ jm'mcluded _it gecefi'arfly 'foflbwed, that-_'the'f_e}' p'eb'pk wwerei-no'
. figh'pre murderers. than Ch'r'ifiians, whpz'mun' .fime'a' 'p'ut whole
trdo s to, the fwdid;"after'thfowihgidowmt azimuth-{Again I
,_ Cotilde'red, that if f! feil 'u'pohth'em,'1gflmpld'tie'as much In the
'wrong- as the Spaniards,gwho had committed the/greatefi'bar-g
. baiities ~uponfl'iefe people Whorhedfineverfefi'enfied themi'Jin
. ' their ,whpl'e'li'ves ; as if the kingdbm' of "Spain was eminente'for
, Q ,3; face Qf'menlwithdqt._cqmm'on compafl'ion'to' the niifega'ble'ra
.prigxcipal 'figa of {be Inc-Lit g'en'efbttmemper: t-hcfeednpid'crab
"tibns madelmerpaufe, and made "me thitik;l'fiad'~taken wrong

. ', 'meafiireg in my r'e'folqtion": I- hgw._argued 6vit'b'-i\'r'riyi'elf,"-it\was
A "timer for he 'never" to=_':_1't'taek, but to remain utid'if'cdvcred-as
.- 16,633.91 pbflibljeOuid; that'atrop 'ofite c'nnd'u'et wC/uld3gefitaihly
1 ' x6912: .dgitruflivje ;- :fejr as .it 'Wja-'S'j 'ar'celjfjfd be fuppofedi'f' gouid

'7' 'iiltlj'eim 3,11,; 1 In"? ht either be'dverp'oweed,by-th'e-rehifining;

argt'ljet 'fqme"iefca' 1g; gnijghtibrihg thoafz'tids-{omir-eel-tam fl
;r;'deft1f1'1.e'tfrmj'."; 3965'. indeed-,- re'ligibn to'bk"theit';SSart3fo 7121116543

10: gammameehqw coufrary :it-"ifras'toi'in'yf-du,tSS"t6'SSi= gain?
9f} 'flgedfiflg:h'tx_m'a"n=bibogl, in'n'ocent 'a's tfijmf'pfimefilii', What:

. 'e'ire'n theyi'ate' PS6 dh'e'mtdthet'e- @5211 Had 'i-rotfiie'g fio'ffiosfiith
_it,,"bu]i'-ltSS1y;"'it f6 {heftGea' offal!>> pWEr'iipdt aeinihieiifiafil
.fleid,'b_efor:ej,jtp dp-d'aereiqf Wh'e't {gemewe'ibrwenicwtezaimea.

' yenlygqiqum, "And;tjxgrefdregdn-myfrneefi} t'hfifikedfthe' fllfizifihz ;
ty'i'forj ."d'eli\{eting"~' inc friam'blcio'cli =SSiiittinelSS31 am}? "5633de 1'53
'pgo'teflion that"! {flight fieee'fifal 9in't6'theii'hafid'et-"ti 531;" 7355'"?- ' '

. "iiilffitis .gi'yitxgzr'over -"'aft'f"atPSerjri'pEUR'7'3w_f1fichiPS1had 'raflfly-tegun, 1

. 31:69:: gfcegiefed; 't'fiefhm'iffi" tfiait'Eb'ee'a'fidn' fifgermrda :"ir'lT-mbmee

_ I feigngy'e'di my 'boag,WhiEURI; livi'efi' 'th'e'fithe'rff fidegbf :the'iigan'd; ,

Z;_g'1z\6SSvery' 'th 16g thh'f? mleiig'eafto 'ifier; 'Icq'vvafa 9'3:th -'C/rafl-'; er-ihtjg
:jaflj'gtlef'cnve; thatatheie 'fifgjh'tzfiettib'eefithefleafi, 156637661" my . .

3:91:11. may ' ofjfiaBLtfitib'fi1fipfift'ifithe:i,flhn'c13Y=.'My'~=EURciaftl' '}:1henfbeSS
1',iamfmy;6611;"'keeplhga'ajxafitfififirgd in it; exc'c' 'cWhazt-Jshgm: ' 3
'66-t71to. milk my 'flic- 'OZEFt,"-'a7t'fC/"btdPSi*- tfiy'f' 'flit e'LflUc'h "365$: I

' ' ' ' ;;.'.- , ' wo ,

1

u

'.- <<rt-#239; am s. an Fe M! s "0-3:" ' -r. 53

'I
..:'

\" a, "1. c

wood, which: was .quite'out of danger: for fire I was that".
thefe ,favages aeveri-'came here mu .ex'peetatio'ns to find any'.
thing, eonfequentlx never wandered-Rom thei'c'o'afl: ;' however;
atthey might have. feveral times been on more, as'w'ell before
' as. after my'idre'adful -appi'ehenfion-s,'l looked back-with hofi'or '
to, think inwhatERate' I might have been; ha'dI {uddenly"rnet
-them flenderiv 'armed, with-one gun onli'loadedjwith'fma!
that; and h'ongreett would have been my amazement; if, .in- '
fiend of .fe'eing' th'e.'?print df'one rrian'e'foot,' I had: perceived
fifteen-or Wenty. favage'a; who having' one: tet' their "eyes n'fion
me,'. bythe ftviftnefs of 'thei'r feet would have'left 'me 'no'pof- '
fibilityeofefcabin' ? There thoughts wo'uld'fink-my-very foul,
f0 that I would $11 into a deepfi'nelancholy, till fuch time ' an-
.the Confideration' of 'my gratitude to the Divine Being moved
it- :fi-omvmyheart. I then fell into a'contemplation of't'he'i'e'o-
.ret fprin'ge of Providence." and how wonderfully 'we'a're deli-
vered; when infenfihle of it ; and when intricated in' uncertain .
' ,. mazeghor labyrinth: of doubt or hefitation, what fecrcthint .di.
teem-pa in the right way, when we ' intendedtggo 01315535":
, my, perhaps' contrary, to 'our' hu'finefa, fenferorf ineliheti'on.'
Upon which, I fixed within me this 'asa certain tuie," nevet'to'
- 'dilohe --'tho{e fecret- imprefions of the mind; to the aetinzm'
not at in'g any? thing that ofiereds'tor which I yet could! affign
~nuij'egtfonu But let it be how 'it will, the "vantage nf'this con;
.dh'et .v'ery leminently appeared in the'latter 'p'art . of m'y abode
Gn'-Vthisv-ifla.nd i I amfa. firan'ger. in determining whence'thefe
{caret intimation: of Providence derive; yet methinks" they
are not only fome proof o'fthe converl'c ofi-fpirits; .bht alibi
6f the 'fecr'et "tomrriunjcatj'ons they: are fuppofed' touhftve with
thofe that: have not :p'afl'e'd through the gloomy vale' otde'ath. .
- Thefe anxieties of mind, and the care of my'ptefervatimi, put
it period to'all future inventions and-contrivanc'es, either'tor'
accommodation or'eonvenience'. ,I mow-cared "not? to drir'ie a
. lam-chow: flick, fiferq gun,- or- make. a fire, left either-the .
noife; would be heard, or the fmoke difcn'vcrme; 'And on this
.aecpnntl gfed'to, burn" my earthen Ware privately. inra'ee'ire'
17,113.17] found in'the'xvood; and Which I made convenient-foe. '
that-"Pu .fej'thc principal caufe that bron ' Mme here my
tomateflateoal; .{o that-Imight bake and that's my bread
' and 11,193}! 'yyithputfin'y danger; At that time a curiout'accidifnt'
hifilleflfmtivhiCh I-'(liallanow relatje.' ' - j -
.v . . _ lle-'I--{tyag c'uttingadown' fame wood for mgking my chat-
3931;; perceived a cavity behind awery thick' branch of under;
ii: 90d. ":Curtongf to look intoit; I engined-its mouth, and per-
. eefved' it {effluent ferrule toflahd upright-inspButfwhen 'I.
had ,Cntcted,_ and~-took.a-=furt1icrfiic'wg two rollin fitigxfitgfijje'sf '.
..' M: 'fl'qmingi'fianfgfeem" ' mo dartathemfelv'es Eat _.SSne ; To" that; j-
. fined: all. ,ththtlte soht" that I .cwldgcaszvnbt-f ,kpowiniz-fliihith'er-
13. Ems the: 6:. v.41 era monfinehat had rtakenyhis tfiifimegin
- ' i " ' .' ~ ,'~"'-'"t.3at'

.K'that. place; :When '1 wavered; littlefrbmany filtpiifqiv cal:
iedf.myfelf'athouthndf.fools, for being? firetd'toyfee .'the'devil ~
'Qtenmdgnennwho had.n'owlived ahnolt tWenty jegrszin'tlfe
melt rem-ed {olitude:. 'And therefore refnming,al_l_the garage-71.
bad, I EUR0.01: a flaming firebrand, and" inal tulhed- 'again.. 1. ad-
not; proceeded-allow, three. Reps,' when Iiwasl'mo'rehfl'righted
than-before ; for thenI heard a very. loud. Ssighi like thatofi'gf. "
hugnan creature in the greateft agon'y,'fucceeded With albcok'enj

_ 1101-33;'tefemblingwordazhalf exprefl'ed, and th'en'a'hxroken sigh \
4183135 Stepping backyuLard!' 'thought I to myfelf) utilitie'r'am'
'I-'glot, into what eflCbanled plat-e bad}: I plunged '2'zgrfllfi,fllcb q: _ .
are reported to -con.'a:'n mifirable caption, till deqi'b pm: (28,683.17
20.: their. jbrrozvf. And, indeed, in fuch great amazement
was #1,. that it (track me .into acold. fweat'; and had.m-y hat;

' been-on myzhead, [believe my hair Would-havemovedeitaofi'.'
Butiagain encouraging myfelf with the bohesot' God's'prOteh;
'aon, -I proceeded forward, and, bythe_.lightfoffmy:firebrand; '
perceivedit to be a monfirous -he-goat,; lying on :'.th'e','-gronn_d,'
gaining. fot,._life,- 'and..dyingiof-xmere old age, Atfirftl flirted '-

' hzm, thinking to,;drive him out, but thenpoor 'ancje'nt cr'ea-'y '

' ture;ftroveto get 1190:! his fect,' but wan-not ablei-fd I'.e.'e'n
let him lie hill to affright the favgges.' 'flmuld-r- they ventui-e'
into this cave. ,>>I now lookedround meland fimnd the place: -
butfmall and ihapelefs.' At the fartherfsidemfit,' Iperceiyqd'

fa fort-of hn'ent'fa'nee; y'et-folow, as mull:- oblige me to creep
upon, my. hands tic-knees to it ; :fa,.._havin'g ,no candle, 71.1fufpend-~

ed my enterprifc till the nested y, and then Learne pmVidedT
With two largeoneetofmyownmaking-t ~_ '. l : -
,.~.; Having- ercpt,.-1ip'on my- hands and-feet, through this firait, I-
foundthe roof higher .up, I think about j-wen'ty feet. Bpt'i
fitrelquort'alK-nevcr fa'w. {ueh .a glorious.s1ghthefete3" The
root and:walle of this cave refleetedza hundred thoufand lights.

' tome-frommy two candles, as thoughzthey were,indented'
.With;~ihining.gold, pred'ous flones, 0r fparklingv'diarnonds'r And
indeeditywasthe mofldelightful'ca'vity'mr grotto oti'Iitshind' '

.thatriConld be. desired; though~.enti\relyiderk.t_..'The. floor-yes
dry- and-level,- and had a-Lkind- of;.gravcl upon .it' ;'. no nanfeeus
venomous creatures toibefeen thete,:,neither- anyd'ampor {yet-'-
ahmntjezg-wl..c0u'.d'-find no fault but'inthe entrance, and .1 "began"
\ {Olf-think'athat' even this might. be very-neeeifary for my defence;
' and therefore refolvedjto: make it mym'ofi- principal: mag-as: -
ainen Ibrou'ghthithert'wo {curling-pieces, and- threeamuflge'tg,
- , leaving on] xfiVe, 'ieoes Qty-my 'c'altle; planted lit-themtnnefofr
cannon. .1 {the and?:uf'gunpoxvdegiwhicli Itook'i'fip .o'ut'ofr
the>fSSaylbronght away91abottt':}SSixtyepounds off-good \poftderfi '
Whiith' was notidnmagcd- amndnhisgoivith, .-a giteat .ffla'anmy {on

I'Ej'afiktgbullets; jz'remgvedafi'omamycdaflle;toiizthiszfrct eetfiqofiri . '
. Momma brtart'find-'fiamm: u." M MW 7 5.91.1;
. 41%, <<sauna-2'22: - id'mgixz 5951! 113431 nation __r- w a}; 5:! geugiesmlu

-;:.-.-';- . ' _ C9. - >>10111031113011 @1111 303 '53

-'I fahei'e'd my felt. now like one of the giants of 0111, who were
{316 to live" 111 cavesand 110113 31110113 the- rockg',' macceflible to
3'11); but themfe'l'ves'i 01", 31' lead, a mbfl: dangerous to attempt;
And now I defpi 'ed 110111 the cunning and 1116113111 '0? the fayi-

ge's, either to find me (nit or 10' hurt m'e'. i ' .
' 8111 I 1311?; not 'forget the old 3035311111311 ca'm'fed It'ny 121's

' , dreadful amazement. zThe poor brea'ture ave up the 3110111116

day' amiter my 31315319 I '81 it being difii'cu _t'.t'o drag him out, I
dug 1118 3131117, 311dehono1113'bly entnmbed 1111' in 'the fame p'lace'
Whe he dc' patted, w1th' '38 much cer mqny' as any WeI'cl't
go'at113t I133 bee11 13terir'ed abott the high mountain Penman-
maav .
I think I'.1va's 110w 1:1 the'twenty.-tl11'1d year of' my 'reig'n', and
my' 1110 1g'l1'cs much easier than formerly, having cont-iriv'ed' fe-
'_ #13131 "pretty 11311311111121 and- di'v'ersimns' 10 pafs 31,11,331 the tir'ne
111 3 {313313111 1na'riner'. By this time; my pretty P1111 had learned
to {peak Edghfh,' 'and pronounce his Words ve'rjr' 311131151er
' and plain, "710 that for many hours We 111216 to ch3t'z'togetl'1er
after 3' {3111111311 11131111", and lie lived 3111.11 "me 110 let's that) twenc
, t'yesiit e3re::' M (133 wI11ch.w33 nineteen yeare 0111, 'six. e611 0?
- 1111110111113: lived}: 'witfi' me, died Tome tii'ne 330 "017' me're 01:1
3329.: A310? my: 1:311, {hey multiplied 101313; that-111133 fo'r'>>
ced to- 11111 Or d'rtv'e' them into the wdode, eer'pt 1130 01'1 111166
01113111131132 my 133111311131 famin'it'es.' Besides the-11:, I 3011f!--
11113313 kept; two Cf? three hbufehold I11ds' about me, Which" I
. 'l'ea'rne'd to feed outdfi my 1131111,; and tW'b more pfirrots which
. 1:01." 1L3111'11111131311113! 3'11'd' call Rabiiajim Cry/be, but not 1'0"!>>
'. 3111131113 as 't'de': PS1111, 38' 1101* tithing that pains wit-la them. 11135
3110' feveraktea 1011113 which I had" 'wdnndcz't'axid -c'_ut1he'i1'
.Win'gsg- 3116' growing 'tame; they 111211 to breed 3111111311111
10.1w itr'e'e's 3b0'ut my cafil'e Walls, all 'wlnch 111366 try-abode
'ke'r--y agreeable. I r
-"But what unfoxcfeerr'cvents {uddeply' dtx'cr'0y' the 1-1: oyment'
{1111;111:111 uncertmmfiate bf life; wh'en 1111:1223 exp??? 311113111!"- 5'11.
$11.13 116111111113 m'cmth '0'f__..'-Je'ce1'11'lber',~ inztlie 16111111111 folmce,
311d cumular time of my' 11:31-95:11, which required 13y atten-
'dance in the f. 'eids when/301113; out pretty early one mornifige',
. 13101111321 day-'ag'ht, there appeared to me,- 4110111 'tlie {ea
' there, a flaming light, about 111170 miles from' me at the edit end-
'of 1113' ifl'and,' where I had obfe'ieied toms avage's 'had been he'-
ffet'e, "-1101 011 the Other side, but to 1113131231 atflffion, it 11133011
Zmy 'SY'de the" ifla'ncl. -
, , Struck 'wirh a terrible futpnfe, 311d my 'ul'ual appre~enfi0n9,
. . {1131' the favages'woizld perce iye my- 'rinprije ments, I returned
{directly 1;) my game, p'izlled ?tte ladder after me, making afl-

fl {thing's 106k as \vildz' 311d tiatut'al as I poffibly mum: 3.1111112

mxt'ylace, I put1 11131131511116 3 110111116 of_det'erce,l'cad1'ng 'my
1113111313 and pifi'ols, and: committing my {elf t0 de's p'nfc 11611011,
'21 retotved t'odefe'n'd- m'y- feIPS 1111111; 1311 bceath. 1 Two hcms 3-1;-

a ter,VII-"L " m
' 3

'
"Ur

. V" I | - I
1% 1. M :15. A N 1: EA n u: wwgwxasr
' I" ' - - " - ' ' .' '.' -' . -

. ter, .. impatient, for intefligefifce, Ix-'fet-g my ladder-11p 'ifo-thc- Side: - .
Ofit-he;1!:ill, Mitre-there was a' flitt'pla'ee; :a'nd-nt'h'en' punihg :'fli'e'z
)a'gld'er -'aftcr me" amended _to the top, \vhege laying myl'elf on,-
ngy helm; wieh my,pmerpeaive*g1aib,- I 'percei-ved'no Jet's: than -

, mm: naked twiges, fitting ron'nd- a' final! fire; eating; 'as I fivppe'e
{egg}: umzm Hem, yitlflheir two canoes :haledy 'on'flmre, wanting"

fiyrvgh'e flpodto'cafiyirhem-Qfi' againg-f Ybu cannot :eafil Tex-a; ,

ypr'eg'g 'the' confisrngtipn I Was in at<thiSS fight; efpepiafly' 'e'eiqg;

'lllem;'neaSS me 5 But "when Iperc'echd 'theic- coming-.'mu'ft _.'B_e.
almyS' wgth-the cz-zrnent'ofthe-ebb, Ibecamermblrfe'eafy'i "my- T

figggzght's,~bcingfully conyincz'dfthat.Iymight lgo.;abx'0aPSwitl1; '

{equity all th'c time of flood.) if they ' were not bz'foie' I dads.

"Andi? indeedC/,t!':is:ptb\'e<_j- j-uft- asll imagined>>; for no {Gotten'did

.' '~' theywall'th-kc boa'c;_and..paddle awa_y,'But-_thc tide-made 'N;' W};

f Bch'rc they 'w snt cfi' they d-anced,,'-makidg- ridiculous: pofit'irts

:and 'gcflfures {oruabove an hour,; 221; Quark naked 3, but whether
meri-p'rklwomcn, -or both, Ieo'ulcl not'-percjeivc,-._ Whenfilfaw?

; ._ them-gone, Igtoiok-twg-gur'xs upon my. montdcrsggand. "mack-gig
fceup'ge' of'pift'ols in my.belt,'with>> my' great -5fwo'r;d'>> hanging-bar;- ;_
~1r'iy":"fi'<'e;j'i went '- to ' the. shin; 'where at, firm} made: a.di!eovery2'

- 9E,-'t'hcfei' e'anxiiblalsyend: then {aw there' 12631;" beenihree'tggces '
mereibfthe-favag'es on more atthat place; which with the yen-3: .

:1'w531'e'making. ovegxopthemainland. a ; ,.-' . t 1' . ~. .lfzjf";
. Tint "nothapg 7- eodlydibe. ms: re' horrid tngme, vghen: going With?

plgiee' 'of"facrifie'e, the .blqu, - the bones,z' andar'other- mangled
paifsizdf- h11h1an:;.bodi'es a'ppfe ared'-in-my=-fight gnapdui'oefired'iiwyie
Ifiiith -ihdi>>;nation, itbat l Was'fullyjeiblyed-tb, be te'vgh'iredOn
thevfigiuhat came there,_; theugh '1 {QR my 1}fc<< in; theggcxfiqutidm
It-'theneappeavcd10.1533; :that' 't' he Vifiitgsf'fivlhitfh?the? {flake'te lthis

. mama-es not veryufpe quem, itv being 'fifiefifl mdn'tlrs: befb't-ejf'h'qy'

" 'gaenae'agam -.;v.- but ft?" '1; was, very uneafirwy; teafim ofith'ceeififial
Iep'i'ehieniions of their fi'xrprx'fing Ame -unm".sces~;'7ncm_. <<gated-5,1
"_oj_ er .tocfire'lg-'gan on'that {idez'ef-the- iflca'ad':yv}ze,rc;tliey gigfedfi-tb
"appearglefl, wilting" the alarm; the:PSWage'sr<<m,ight-rxmrhwith

. . many: hundkdmnoee,~and then}G$1?knf.gn'xfSSuiri'\vhatgxpangerI
.,1_1im:r1d{ have"."rnade my end" Thus {63:11:22 Year-Tor. more-before>>

' '11'.faw any-<<"foxhc-Kc,devouning ea nibalsfageime': 3- ' ,.' - '

' glint-tn ways this, thefeilowjgg. accident, which deniands~3t'--

, tention,' for a-'while elu ed the. force of my- firOitgHflSiflfCVCDg-B "
' ing myfi-lf-cn t'hofe-He,wens?r {I '. : ~. .4 -' jg L;

y (lathe xeth of May (accordingto my Wooden-.caiender)--~ih'e

. wipd blew exceedinlgyy'h'ard, 'gceompani'ed withstabmzdagceiq'E

' lightning and thapder allday', and. fincceedediby- a-= yew--fier-

my night..-Ihe Teaming anger offltshefiI-quvens madame ":havge
~"1'_ccou,rfe tom)! Bibby; VVMiRI was "f'erieuflfy pondering--"Mon
it; I-:v'v:_zs.--fi1_dd'enly emu-med with the ncjife'Gtiaaguaz which-1'

, \eopjgeturchae fired-unben: the-Ocean; SllChaD_"11Iillfilel'ffut-
_ -pgiiegmgfiemefiartppinn-minute, whamwi'tlymyladdersflf':
' anglingme mountam as before, them-veg mcmem aflaflxfig

.\ .4

h" - -
_ 7..)

.  _ :_ '_ ,. "6.1.2; ;,31";";-'.': 3.... ".1; _.
' fawn"? <<=67:

. 'Weefifflagtttffiefiefibx'fi bfja'iad'tffiei-"g'uhg fifi'i'efi'lfiefently heard,
'{g'mfdfm'mdzfiifi'fieefiogrx: ' hit pm. =61? thC/".Tfea'-.whgre; the cn'fi'efit'
-=~;ggee.sneiawrs~rm 'e..bi.1.?~d'.nbt harmedthinge; that'fthie tiltift.z.'be'~*3' '
. 7 ,;!pfit_2'df{tz'ef:qflgngiSSedt theta. lvyere the mgclanchowfignaw'fdr a.
119%dawe'ras'crea-fie'rrat, indeeczawassm'v storm wohthifie'
. ' efiqn'itf' but'ffiijlabofisftp'am therpf mafi'ha-ve' 'pijoved alt'ogetfi-
"-fivfififiefgufitlgffi .' I-Iowever, .-.I_'.'Brougli'tftbge't'h'crea':l"the dry WW6: '
{111317 grid-gig j'mfifi i'anfi"?n"ahn'g*a'SSprettyi' lafge~"*pii?e; Tet itjjcjfiifi're
' regsyifiye'hill.t7;_l'fwas egg-5;; "theifipiainlr eefecWQd-th;*by'th'c'ir'
. ffi'fiihE-'9anbtliefi'gfip Vdsfifien' lasit bega'nuto bake-33' .Ian'd' after-.3 that?
~ . _.fC/jibfre.l'. mbrd-'frcemf'the fam'ef'quarterg 'All-pig'b't' king-1' kefit-xup-_
my fife": 9 and w'henf ffie'fiir'clgafcdf'uV; '1' pef'cei'ved" iomfcthink'a-
' _ '3rgf?t'~vSS3f etfez,' .djree'dfw firm; could':n'otidiflfng'nffizI-wfiat'it
' 'z-g'an,' cxfre'fi' with . my" flefii,' by" feafon" the". weather was fo #'efy -
" 9f0'g'g'y'f out atSSfea;'_;"H6WeVier,. keeping .'my'iey'ef's-direefl' ;-:fixegPS. "
, \ 'tfi'p'on itgf-"findf'perg'eiivifig-it-fididnep'fii'r,_I.-'p'rcfet;tli'gSS cqn -.ude'd~it'
. .-'-'muC/=,b.e.a;mipia't-afichnri and-.fta'vewhaftv'liWae'fd'be={atiafi'ed,

"Vim; timing ,the:"gigh;99fv'%nt"to-'Iflie 33E.:pairt':oPSthe ifland,' 1i)

ffli; "famei'roeffsfiheie'fljgd' jbge'rr fdr'xh'erly 'dm'v'e' i'aWayj-by'jth't

,- femirefit'i- 'in'whigfi'.tifiY=eflth'e Weatfi'ci'figingperfe'eE-y' cleargdaup,'

2gp gmykgreayrforfow; *1-- pergeived 't'he'ivftcek of "e'fiip'em 'ajwaiv'

'Tupofif;thofe'g-'hiSS.dfen{gjet'tkg I' fouri'd" fi'hc'n' VI 'v'vhe'.-Out" murm-

"1'21598t ; end' Khrdh',3by' ineliin'g 'a' kind 6f'enied'dy, were themacau
'fifiQil'f'dfjhy?greferyafiani:3'5>> 'f'l'x" ("v'jyf'f '-"--"-" = :5" .
' " 33-- Tlaus,&z511a2'i{{dr'zz"SS7?e'rz?&fifiify 'r': analhrj': filihj'foruhdbufitedly--

" rthis {hip .had'bceh'dieiifen bri'th'e'in in -t'he_._night5 the.\vi'ndlblow~-
"ibg-Rmng at'E'. N;'E.'-'}iad they pereeiyed the ifland3'asfl'gnoxv '-
~~ }g'uC/ffcd;zthey ~had not; certainlf, miffead'ofi 'firingthere'gu'nsjsfot'

..-heip;- theyL'wQuld 'ratfl'ef'fiave vemured in_'the'ir>>;b'eat. andl fafiied'
fot'hemfelveuhag way;- -'I.the'n' thought, that; perhapsethe'yilmfl
-~ 'dprg'e'foiupon ftjcing'm'y fire, and were 'cau't 'ZaWay. in'the at'e'mpt'; .
v'-j'feSS:-I"perceived no buat'ih'the. fh'ip.' ' "But then I again-imagh'sad,'
1'? "thzit,'-perhaps-,:thcy had anOthcr' vcfi'e} in cotnpadtiy;fiv'vhieh;;fi port
: 'Yfignal, 'faved' the/it 13965, and took the boatu'pf olrithaf'tlze' Boat
"."mightf'be driven into-the main ocean, wherc'thefe 'poor- mamas-
".[1'11'3ght' be ' im the .miaft milk-fable con'dition.- But >as-' all'theib'

.. , "fiftjflehfihfi were very uncertain, Pceuld db no more thenj'c'em'.'

vi'gfiggx'atgsthere: difii'EfSS-Wnd thank God---.for~deliveri~ng~ mg-ifie

. _SSpartlcuiar,v when 16 many 'perifh'gd in. the raging cceEimy "if! ;

.: '.-.-- {Wher'l' IV 'cOnfid'gpcd' ferioufly .gvery' thing 'cbnccrniug-flthih'

IWrgekp'and-cnum perceive ,no' roam to fuppofc any- of-then'r

" fivedy'I-'chtinot'~explain,:_by any poflibk: "fora: of vgcrd'Sptht
' 'lfix'g'gmgs'vmy :foul ft"; on this.o'ccafion',-'7oftenbreakingcut i'r'z.

- this manner; 01.622: Ibere- batik liz'e'd but tw'ovr- tbregnai-mm

'-'- '97:! perflz'fiwed, (bdtm): v1SSebg~baw<1i(r)e4 ,'togetberycanmr/ed'

{'lelttfi,"dfld'COjrflfiffl'd'5'1:'(l_ll0fb?ffizand:f5 much .Were.mv-;deSSires

' 'vimofired; -that'-:'~Wh:n.\I-r'ep:'ated. thcfe. words,.0/2;"tbat'-15erc--[;ad

4 ~' (Beghjbutgpnzf: mwhfla'dsi'wqul-iCimtthogetber;and :mjtficgrrs
' '- 'pr'ets the palm?>> of my bandage clefe, thatyhad; any m 91:25:.

' . >>- 3; * been,

r . ' > -'' . h'.

6'5 mrmmnmow M>>:

. 'been-zhetweeneitmculduhavggmfbedlit.invahxmggily,.wSSflgegpfi;

; teeth Wayldjt'rikeeggetherfiandkt. a'gai'xgfl: 'eg'chfptheeylbitrimg'gg;

.thatv ittequited fame time for-me to fiantgthefiig;..'m-.' 1.5:};5; 1'"; ..,

'.- 11111115: lath year-- -of my'b'cing .omt-h'e'iflafijd.zlznevexekinm;

. whethqflonpotaqyghad jaeclpgfaveciput.ozfgfthis:miptl: L hgd- tiger-z

. affiiefiQn,,[fomel 'time;_af_PSer,,' to: fee the-cmflefili derneSS-;bey.; '

;come;on':fl)pre,nat .tbeend Qfifthp iflgndv "high Was-next; meg->3:-

_ .flgipyxeek ;. them-$331 nothing'on himhutfa {camm figi'ft'eo'ah
339ml: 'of opened;kneed,lirien 51rawen,,gngl. a blue .lineuijhitt; ME"

.416>> particulat; mark to gne'fa: what. natggtj. -_he' ,wae.'.9f;: gin hung:

. , eketw'zere two. pieces of eightgand a; whaccmpipesthegamqu.3

fix ,iehl preferred'much gunmenjdmthe firit. .A'nc! nquthere.

_calmneth-.;cPS_the;_1,ea-tempted me to venture out if! myboatfitjm

-:hiPSuiwrcnk,.n_ot only..tc_: get fomething neeefl'aripm'iof theiihip; --

:hutg'pcnhaps,_fomliuing crdatum might b'eaoh boardgwhofefife', .

I might, prefeme.' fl'hiafiuyd fuch ax}- inflheneegngon' my. miflfiy a '

that; immediately I._ weak: Mmey'laqd}. p'frepate tievei-yfgf thingn
necefl'aw-fog. the: voyageg'cagyihg on;bqagd.my. baatprov-ifiqits. ~.
30133;! forts,..vi(ith a_ good. qp'antity.oSStmn,.-freflt~water; and 31' com>>.

' pafszgffoyfmtting' omlpagldled the canoe akmgthe (Indie, till-'13:":
came-gat- 3&' 3D fihfl north-eatifiaxtofthe ffknd,fiomwhence+SS'
was ta-laul'aeh . into. the) ocean ;.Btit here .the- camatSS-.y"an.~.'fp{ ..
violently. and apgearede terriblefixthat mywbeartebegaqatqfaih...
me ;fferei'eeing 'thatjf l .was fld'riven isito' at:y.of.t.befe,'e\zttents;glz_:
mightgbe' carried not. only on: of'xeaeh.bg fi ht; oft-he iflandg'b'utrr

. even inevitably lofizigtheboiling {urges of heoaeam ', ;. ,

; ' - $0.,zoppre'1fed was '1 attbefe troubles" hat; Ingayem'gveezlpy
,entetpxize, faiginfg-ztoaJittle. eeeeken the'.IhoI'e',.fwhere.tte pigg>>
.. ogit, .Iz'fet. medbmi'iona filingJiilLN'er'yi; penfive-'and' tthg 'tjiglfuj- '
lthem perceived that the tide waa'turneC/;,and;ltbeflqodae'qmgm
for}, Which- Wedtgiinptaflieablefo>> me to gpo'ntl PS013, I'd :'man'yI.
_SSoars.5"Tohc_imore certainfioyv the fetsmf the tidesorl tummy-1
layawhen the, 3:194; cgme in, Lafcet'zdeq aghighenpiec: ofgtdundg .1
which" Overloaktfii the J'ea' both. Ways ;,; eyd. here Iffo'und :th'ait'-aSS:'.i
thegcunjcn't, of 1th: ebb fet out .cllote by-theiouth 'pointt'of, the>>:
' zifland; {as thggutren'b of the @oOdr'fe't infclp'ie by. the'flxoraofzthe "v;

' met, tide ;.,--a.pd.ail that} hadsto:do.f}vaSS to keep>> tha'north 'q'fitt
'the..i_PS}_'andSSit_1.my-return.- .' .. t ., 3 - .' ;.;' -,_:,-

- - ' .Ihat-t night Lrepof d m felf. imfi; :canqe,~ covered .y'vithmyeqs.
<<aw; 'cfoatgdpfiead- of a_;b a'nk'e'tsggthe heavens-'being'my te't'cgr PI: '3
fat of"; with .the-fitftflof tbe-tideflxn ,northa'ltill I feltthe benefit
pfthe cunent,' which . carried; me_-at a great": rata- eaftwardglygtg .2.

'tzotauvith' fu'ch >.impC/_tuofity as Before," 35" to take; tram;th 511--"
sovefi'nment;.of my ,canog; fo-thgt in tw9.hqurs-.time I Came 11ij t
. to.the'-fifeckp-which'agpearedto mega mott.'melineholyfightfglp :
, feemed-tobe a Spanifh vefl'el by-its buildingfluck faithetfivecny:
twpfirbcksg-her . item and q: arten beaten to. piqcee'byythefeafz;
ienheinmaft and-fireman Were-bragght'pfi by the -boardg.thafi: - '-
fii'broken. of? fn'mtt - A's Lamaroachedlneargl Rerceivedhioggl,
. '- . 033'- x_"' '-' "1:", ,.
r C/:Y='-3_EiSSfeeirila&;SSh~ztih'7fi.'uwzoizjizr 6s; '

Mardsgisthoafeeingfi ficf-cqmings: yeipzd'aad-icried; and :nbfooni'fi
. chfiicizr-kasalthiwsrbulgtbeepyor: cmatnrc fipmpcdl- into t'q'e leg":
kin; pf which Lt0degk<hmupx almoh;famiflwed:'withtshungar-gnsd-f'?
'Ttvhipit'::91.'oeth%t.'Ehs'E-'Fsm Irina-cake ofwhn'cadmo. mending>>- .
-M c0111C/6dC/5y0Y=r~SS1< more-fines!!!" and hegdtaflk tortbat'def-J' '
mfg fulfigxa'rggerg, mathe; qud .h'aslg barmhimfc'm hadjlmfig -.
'l'c '~ lm-Q-u- "--'--~-.' ;:r= '. 1-75.". "F. v 4W9-
' 2 ,Jhmfiafitfighfi .1 m,8fc\Y=!!hsmlthe:fifip,- wemrtwoxmcns'dwms-ru'
aid-flip, the";c00k-roqan.9nxfmccafim - inclefed~ini9nC/3nbtbqSS.-

,1er 3:9hgqgg ngrj-ppobabpy -iuppofed,..thaSS aka theme fungi-z:
Amt/aemmzrfllfiighmd WWI/r1} 4:141>>; wart-firm =in- eM'Is -
magi," :th'itba' mm jun: (12,5494,le ta-bcmr i;,-3C/u:re;/Irangee'--
,l'ed: 6111>> mafia>>! rufleingi in Qfflk" wws- where. we. e : fey/3%
, filoaifimj; oPS:liq};.3r,..-w.hcthex: :wmezor. brandy." I. Lepifld i9: lye-:1
,pwitiyez. whicglay mung lower. h01d):88. xVC/te-.p}_ainly,pC/:,ccpSSefz-

\ ,t-ifikgbyf'thc'ebbing out. 0351,13: water,-.:yeb,were- tg'gzlarggifgn 3
m ' togretend'tojpeddle. with; liken/117; ,Iz'pergeivgeq lanai-:3
Ichfifisg which , 36L feippoied, to 35:19:13; Itogthe. feaqxcm _'~1:_\'v,5.d'PSev

,wiiqhgl fgpt; intq m): - hoatwyiethom 'enmming _ what mas. 'in ;~..

.tb m,~ Badfthsfiemroffihc Implbeen fixede-fifldqthc.threpaI'tz: :-, .
pmkcn ofl}.:_I-..{hould-hqugmadefa. veny- profpegogsyo 121339.,-

. 'fipe'e,;.by what Rafter;fqundfin;thC/fezt-m chefis,.'I-.kzon cinch;
othefivifie",bqncludp,.g butthatathc: (hip; mutt, p_a_ve,','ab11ndiancC/. -*

" dfiiwgalth, op :boai'd5. nay, if '1' man-gum. by: the-..courfe;';'fhe:;.,-.l
Regrc'dg {he mum have. ban. bound: frgnxthe - Bumps Ayreg; u-
or'the Rio de~.la Mata-"in 'the- 123mm parts, pf Amcnicag-bg- _

- yolijzthc Brazils, $0,. 'e Havinfiahr in the guif'af Maxim?- and

'ibpe'maps' to..'SRaih../,'Wh'a't; became of. the rca'ofsthg thighs, . .
\ lcouldi noticcqtmpjy'tcll-g; and". all he; fiches- fignificd. nothmg;r.. -

mat-theuim'eato gummy"... . ' -.. . . '. ,_ . - .6,
. ESeanching,f3rthen,._l'founda cam. containing. abcutltwcnty ,.
ga'llqgfgfii'll-ofnl;qucn;,._w!_zicb, with'fomelabour, Ifgbtintgmy - '
.boatgmingbe'r c'abm- mete-7 {avatar mnflists; -.whi'ch' ,L let 'rcmatp. .6 -
thcyggbmxnolg aivayc-wibh nic ,aigrcar powderhptn,' Mthsabmgt v.-

_PS9}nfl fianndyofipowdgrip it..~ '1~t00k553'11'0'3-.filtt-'hQVfl'-and?'ii ,

figng'sgidwo brats kettles, a-~cbpf;er.,pot to make ._chocolet'e;,-

' anete a'agri'diljon ',-,13;}:which-aver:-,c;PStremely 'neceflfai'y twang, -r
,efpcgially the .firq-'fl'xpvcl andrtongy'. An'd- lonweth misc cargC/,_.:'-
accqmp'anied with. my dog,.I came away, the, .tide laying far

I that putpcfe>>; and the. 1hme--esrghing,..aboutzanzhour; within.
nighfi,.l-attained thc'ifland, after- the greamfi. toilwandufatlgne -

.imaginable.. :_ - .- _ _ .j . -. . ,.,r' 2::
, Thatnight'lrcpofed r'rgymear'me li'ml'aanthe boat,mfol_ving-the= '
nextrmormng to harbourwhatlhad got-:enfn my new-found: fab-WI:
t-c'mmm's grow) ;:&. nc:t..'o:.,c;any my cargo home to my,a;1ticnt; . '
<<321,319.. rHAVJng'frcficthed. myfelfi amt got ail my. ,6. ffe'ets <<:12.mo'rSS+,l.-- -_2'
next .prcccedcd t'uexan'nne- the particulars; audio-tapping this 6 ~
caik,.1found' the iiq'um: tq'be. a kindpfl rum, bntpot'lisc what -
we had atthe Bmzils,.acn indccdincar fq good; Ar the cpgm- :-

. ' ' ' mg:<2

'- mg with? Ichdtfifei'reifel~-thfidegiSSsg aifieafeaifiefi'fifefiii'tefief& '

, for, ifififlwflfioundfin'emca 'v '"

rim- <<1: 4.-

". 3,, ._ g,
fiNe'PU it E 9

. ":fi'oc c'fleowameei-eemmihg' '

~- thesfinefiiind 523mm: bf'c'erdfii fwa'teffiif-ficwbetde'higtefibbn; \
mhreearpmts." (2111:2931)?- Mpg/pm?Miami.foiihdg'thWonfiegm

. frjflje'qf the'fibdkgfti-fweetmcafs}; "an'ds'tfidjbdi'egfihichfthefietefr
tfefirei'eli'fiW-Vh'ififi '

-.0ne'.dp'z,er)"?3h'<Y=3f;1ifiif" '

,

lfe'.'

. shads xasgexly-quaflcde c~ --'I'heieSS_f mew [mew
~ v'cxcqedengly.:aweicome tof-me', and fight

;, Migeflinm' thzndkerchiefsehcj dblpfir'ceifieckqfethbf the'fefi " :eif
ugigfgwh'icmwgs I-abfglgtelyb'qceefiai'yr'rqulivipiiig-mi'faee'ifi'fii _6t -
.way:yaudg-sin'zthatrlfisrfouadithre ' ' "Of.piecg'e'ofgighfigjfab'elfi .

, Ethan hundred-1313113 Kin onee'ofhihfmfi

decentlfizfim

. .av'nie'ca 'hfiy'pape'rngerez - fixhdmz'blbon'a; 6f- gbldgfatjx'da Tom:
: $SS.3..arxdf\'w:dgSSs;qf-_the fame'kme'talifihiqh'i btliev'ewfigh't Mzigh. .

,_ mg33,SS3_1pbut_)d-.. gltiitflci otfier'chefi, which-*Ijggeffecbtd bplonggto
, flangigmter'smat'egby the-mean eifeuniftgnp'es "midi et'tend'ecfiit',
fLfiI'litdfb'uly'fom'e clothes of'V'erflittle;.v'alueSSPS2'cept;'eh'>utzfivo=
. _ tksg'kept; #31 believe}:
' ~ 'erzxsehgargmggthqir~.-row1iag-mccss 'omny dc'cafian';"iPSo.thaif','sbna
-'PShc&sY=rhoie',}rhail no gi'eatadvanfa'g'e'by thi's itai'ag'e'asgaThsinol-

4 yunii'ds bf-fyrke glaeed p0w'der',r inth'reeffih

my iwa'si'irid'e'ed 933' mere dirt,- tq "me, nit

lefsi'a'fid'rmfirofi

P M ' "313m!

tabl'g',

. {affilfi'ehrlWptllehave'freely parted With for"f'v'va?orthr:e'pair .

' '- ijf-Ezjiglithiihoes and'.-'ft'9ck1ugs<;thingy-that fo'r miniiiye'arfl".
' wad not waxing 'expept-latCIY'tho{e \fihiqlr Iiha'dr' thkch .df 5the3'fect' .
ihf'thqfeunfonunatemen'i found'drowe'xicd'lin the Weekiy'etjor
"$93,330:?!" *Ehglifln flmes'eitherfoficafe orf fviceif I-athV-foumf

3i!!- th'e'feam'an's theft about fifiir.

" tea "0 -ei'gh't5 in my ais; but

efio'gnlde; 4'0 concluded that what = degtonkjfrom _th'e .firfit'b'fleng'cdi '
PS6313 "officer; thc- 1:151ch appearing to have afmucb infc'fiqjjperfow
fiovkits' 'ov'vner; --."How.degver, .as~ -d'e!'pii:ab!'e' as ithei moneyizfe'eng'fig},
' Tl likewifc lagged it to_ my cave; laying it -t1p'if:cui'elyr;+EURas'e'l'
:di'di the-lifettT-bfi- mytrcargo ;' and~afteni had-,d'one "all zihiSeflffire-g
=-1fur:hed: backftormybpat; rowing and paddling!herhfinfiflflki -

' .3 'izime'to-'mfirdld harbour, where I carefully. laidi-hexf" up 3 '3 .
'Ima'aelke bcf'c'of my way to my. eagles" \Vheniharfivgdkflfe'ficgf

. thwyxhiueifgerfiedfegfe and quiet : fo tba .
"fiefawas'fioT-re" fe-myfelf -after my -wonte'd .ma

giaefide 51.0-

t now- 'my :onfi'rfb'iifivr '

nne'r,' ' ahd;"-t'ak"c ' *

~ .bafe' bf: myes . o'xiie'fiiez-lhfihiz's>>. ;. Bqt- thougli'l'imigh'f' 'have liir'ed'
:fv'er'yr. eafy,,lais- muting nothing, anomt'ely noedful.'.'yct= fiillr'I' wes-

.' 'ore vigilantzzthanwufual.tnpon accQunt cf= tht'sflvhges,"liSSEVC/r'

 

'32 "rag? muC'tLjiabrbacf-f'of, if I didpi-t'wis'to: the ea!1*-.parf"C/f the
' 'eiflm WhererIEWae-hcllsaffuradii-Egt'the'hvagesme'VeIi-cgmcggn'gl'
-: v'xyvhemir mightnet beztroybled.~;%carrdy.thatheavy 'l'dadiofwe'de-
o

' ;.;vp'on&PSomhy.d'efdnceSS {ashvasx ligc'
"My n. ' "

. :.-. mam-u --

';to (3) if T;wSSfi;SS'PShC/, 'otpcp'

'5 5~ fio'e'oyeari-tird:"if?!ifiqdyi'thise'efiximg'igfigoedfiiem' inallwhxcb, '(
' ,b'fimfyiin'cantie'r71'tmmw .foqrfemmfnluticn 3,; my:_!1eSSda' magma:
gmith'mozhingbbuf projzetsi and! d": figfisyhbw'il? mtglib'efc'ape from.

rtthih'viflauflfi'mlfli {of much meta-21y Wafidw
'I'Rz'a raimBlimgxdifpofitiom that'had' I hadjth:

hgt'h<'nrght_s;b'enm:'{:0n .-- , 4

1311).: Boat'thgt'"!

- went
~ mm' . .9'f1e9'53fziNi8h-Nlc'e'lgusfigye - $1525"

'--r ' ' ' r \
ftdmajSaIlefetin; Iflzould' ha'vc' ventured Once z'xior:,_=t'of"th'e<'yn-'
cenzintjrz--iofl.thesragingfme'em.-.. .. '. < '~ 1 '- ' ~1 w
, '1'.Cannotisithetem';Tb'atgcohfide'y myfelf'gmoficdf-thbunhappy"? . '
pg'r-fon's,'whgt.m3kq~tlxSSixrfetvewwratchet-1 by: there 'dlfl'afgsfaeti'dxi' ,,

. Withlithrfthtims Whihh"ch'z'has. hlaccd'them'ihf'fvm not'gd
twain-reviewmf'my primfiiVe Conditibngaud>> mv-lfatgher'heexcele' .
kn! advice; the going contrart'to-which - was,>> as I. zma-y- ray, '-my-'
.eri'ginhlgifih, {hie followihg'czmiftakes of the'fame natnwccrtainly .

" had bEcn-'SShc- meanstof' my prefent unhappy "Inflow? W'li'ab-
'bixfin'cfs' had} to.leave'aefettledifortxme, and" well flocked. phyla:
tation-g. improving and incl-eating, ZWh'ere, by- fihie' tjmfi,' I' migh't- , A
hacker: 'Worth'a'hunared thoufand <<moidorcs,,tp turn-fhpere'. . .
cargo.SSo:G.'in'ea, .t'o fetch Negroen, "whc'rg- time'and' patience

- would 'fom zchve'nlargc;my;mock at Mine", 33- tOrbe able tb'cm'fir A
Ely.'thqfchirhofejmdrg"i::im:cha.t'e"bufinefs it/wias to fetal them;

me=e'ven'td=myvdoor Eu vig-

- ;- But as]: this iscommonly' thefat'e of {ynfi3g.'heSSdSS,}if6 aa~.fer'ifouEURo'
reflre'cion 'updn" 'the "folly: ofib. ofdhzarily atf'qnds 1th: :e'xerjcife
offfhturaikedm', When the dbar' naught txp'e rig nces'of' timeeteac? if.
'es.-1i3"'repentancje., 'Thus'wassi': \\'ithi"mc3'; biitx-hct'yztflhflafiflei'

.ixgg'j-<<ttic' {@13ng if my "deli'veran'ce' ran, 12:)? firahglyxih'imfi .
-n12nd,~<<1heEURt.it2>>i_ibemcd'_to. ehigck- all .t-he' 1diet'a't'esdf ii'e'zifion";__afi&
philofdxibw -'-"5"An'd newts. 'ujh'ehiizam y. km'd -readve.r'-Wi'fh5-g'reatSSfi
.pfze'a'fiingg toethe thrnainihg 'peimch my. telatdcn; I. fiattitr 'my-tdf

. :mwil-l-'not.--'bc~j-.-taken- amifs,~ '_to.~'g'ivc' him-"arr ice-aunt ($7an
.1153 'rc'onceptions- of the-manner of efcapinggjana? upbn-fifiat
'-f91"1_ndatiQn21'laid?my'fooliihxfchemes'k" ~ .' ' "a"

.- _. Rainmaker} to myvcameyh'ftgr 'my late vnyageat'd thqflxip',
int-y'- ; frigate}; laid; 123" and; figured; as'xufual. and: my :jebndit'ihh
.41}; faring: agfigferel except being'ri'cher, 'thbugh'al 312.413. 23 'jitt-ie
lqgcgfiqiriforfi'iehcs as" the. {lath-ans (if [Pempii'adl for: fgoldae'be-
fdr'e'; zit-11$ "cruel 'TSpan'iargis -..caxjnei' among them 2.>>. Givevnig twin
fMax'fch',C/rbquig',_the-minylkafiin. i'sytn: four axd't'xx-cnti'sth-year
.'lpfSniy {@itude, [I lay idbwin t'o -'fl::p,'. ver-y.~ wclhin health,- \mthy
'xet'fl-"dfi'cfllptl' pain,- rt un'ccmmw.anaemihgfi,'eighcx'iofibodx
or --mind- {yet notwithfiazgdihg; I could not germpofe- rhyfeif-to
uflgep'fil-l gme night-10%;; All-{215; tedious awhil'cfit' ais'im ', .7,
.,-b1C/;: to] mime/f3 what-"innumerable thoughtaxzame uitb' my :ad.
' :1": film/4 gum: our Ltbe "evbole'. bfifigjr 'ofi-v}; Ilge'zirt .zgnmiature,
~fi0njflw lugin'q/z'the'ixbrance? ofi Mngs 'tfi'l-I'tamck {0-1653 i/hma".
and-1b?!) .:=procccded ((1; "amide mo" (185021 'hhd- paflilge {but bag}
I_bd')itrtd_'=ffik'e I't-ad. tahn'fiofliflo'n'xf ny'elznqunfiyin myifg- . . -
:flcgtiofifi'; :15}, u*the;.ll_atte-r~,-;1-'WQ3Y=;bmin& ibi'fidizp}; pgflureeqf'
- *ifiiy'flfli'rf-I- 1: "fie- hawkingaf 0' ~ mm!>> 16:05.5! lijh'efanxicfh
.- fib;,148'i{ contain, ' malbiad 'dflflmfifiajfiimwfifiw [bot 'izz tfie '

.L/Zzijibel (infill: -cantirzued'siuitbdfljappnabclgflga layman: . I
-_-gtiq;qzfiqling {befd'rtgad and. tqrraeIngczu/'qflferzd. ;.. (HowI-biankfut-
- _-..;;.a't'hSSpl;cught. no haircbecn {grtheiknoWltdgeflf efmwfiangen...
.- ante>> tlgfiz'ggqatctt fiagyinefs on: Candacigsfl'tflhd'bf is to _h_are_'_ '
-- ~ ' .I . 'i;I.-.. .'-z'... .a'..;;_ '..;- ..~. Went;

' I72' Ln'E AND LandmeWWREs
fltfiicienttime to; provide againfl-i it? bev' fiup endousfis'tm?
.g'qo'dne'fs 6f Prov'rdence, which" fe'ts' fircirnxnow bot :fiefltc thei
fi ghtgand knnylledge of ham: nature, we zwl'rile 'I'neh welk' 1::
ma. midft of fo mam: 'danger they ai'e k'e'vt'ferehe andcalm, by:
liming {he 'c'vents _of things bid from' athei'r" :e'yes and! knowmg
nothing 'of .thofe many daingcrs that;- furraund themytfil p'cx'jh'a'pe
the? are diffip3ted a. :d vaniih- 'aWay.=- ' -: 3:7: 7 '5 R 7:2,?
'fWhetl I4 came more particu'larly to consxder of "the real. danger: .
I. quj'orfi: manyjyear: efcap'ed; bow Ib'dd walkedmbou. 3'3': 't).3'e'5
'grea'tefl figurio'. and tranquility; '11: '4 libz'e, herbaps, .qummvem ..
339253353 7233!, lb? bror'w (If ('1 bill' a :zr'eat tree; or. Jb'e- comma): exp-3
Womb ofnig'bt, bad imam: 5mm}: me and we Jeflmflrve -
5 bani/3 of tbe. eemnibalu twba: would: demon 3b'e- <<witb a': -'g'o'3d m: '
0195053399131: I eu'balda a'pigeo>>; or .rurlcw:;1mrdy 8'1} thist fay;
<<could not but make me ,finc'e'r'ely thinkfi'fl. to my"g1'e:1t:Pree;
'ferver; whofe, fin' Ia: protee'tion I actncwle'dg'g" wgth'thergreatq,
aft humility ,-.-afi1 'withqut which'l mnft memtdbly have fallen
into the him-21 Hands 01".thch devb'nfers: r " "'2' ' '1" "I.
' Ilavih'g 1511-34-difct1fi'e'c15my" thoughts in the cleWe't manage;
ac'cOrdihg to-my~we 0k underfiandwg, 1 11ex't proceeded' to; _'e'ofie . -
55 - fideraibe'g wretebe'd name of. gb'rfi deflrgmg fwvage:, Qflnhmg,
' lfbwgb <<2033b great rwermce, to enqmre PS33147} God jbauld giw' '12:)
' e'nj; of. bi}: creqturex. to 'flu:b mbumamtj e've'r': td'brutah I}: it/e'l:

5 _ 12a: dewur 33": 62.2332 kind. 3 bit 38'. this was tithe: matterof o

'firiifel T1 eculatvon add as my: mafizreble fituatmn made 'me
flunkfihzs of mm the mofli- untomfortahle' muatdon i6 't'he
World; Ifhe'p be]; an athcr to :rqunc'ewbaf 'rt oft/3e lworld {bad
' Wre'tebe': 15533331 5723 ,. bowf far of 'tbe- 'eoafl 33/320333 'zvvfimce Ibefif
eam?;--qu-.tbcy'13e33mred'6'vfie'fi 5/5 fa'rj fidm 1205336" 5203352
bind 'of boat} comm} ed 'tbe'm" Lawry'- , 237:2: =7QO 'I eouIeI 33'6'1'>> '6r'defi
duffel/31:34 mjr bith/'r 12:, :ba! 1 33:33:73: be" bble'to tetra>>: tbegfltoum 5
if}; a; {be}: were 10 came to'3'3:y bmgdoms' '1" ' 1 " '
.-,..B::i-ebe33_' thoiignt" I, bbw 5/baII I 5333:2323 e/mjfiy' when I; come -
ebztberr? WMWII bkm'e of '35:: 3f Ifa'll'g into 2733 band: 5:)". rbe
favmge: 2'- 33'2" b'afib' jball l efeape from 'Ibem' 35/531381: ma'be' 'a'iz aneblpt
39903::- amfi <<QM 123;}:ng I fbe3efdi~ 3201' {fill meo'tbnr power.
43bit. _lballf 'do' .'fbr jam-won; 'o'r Wi'e'b Eva} 'Jball' I; 'bebd 5312;"
"23:312- 4277.!!- hefdicamrcr thou 11'? s 11th 'r'ne. i'nto 'tbe greatefl:
error: and cdnffifion _im'agin'a !e';'- bit then}- till? locker": "n .
retenteccondamn t'orb5e the smo'ft 'mifcr'able tl'ia-ta-l ofl'bfi
can. be, and that nbthi 4113' 'co'nld-v be Lw'orle; except'de
For (maugw) mm mawg 7:92-1:53: of 3:2: m'airz I mfg/3:
"gekbagq mfixWIb fome' firebgfavi 76PM" it doggy a} I; bib WM):
'43:; be}. X3353}, 653'.th Afficamflwrfihl 2' 3:33:32 tofizme 3nbbbited
wbantiy. meat: flvmxgbtmeetswtb 37mm- reluf'or fix?! ' '5'" "r"
fling Giza/13am}; tbahmxgbt'fabe meux53' '3 'I'dnfd' 33" >1 ' <<Jeff,w .530
23%.: 4:03:14: Ibul'kmeq.3zuztbx'dedtb,hwblrb maid PS31256; " "" 1;
Mike"): mm. Th6! :tfidu'ghts; 'l"'m1Y=fi'? emit}: 318391
:fim:it~;afa MWegnlnd; mmpatnfit'qtem 3:35:33: defer-
uterawt were, by! 03g continuance 9t the traubie': nd 'djf-ep.
. - Ointment;<<'73

." sintinefi't's I hid _.:met' with] in, 1he,w'r_eck; ' where" I .hoped""'t6,'
"gage toun'df fom'elivin'g 'petflifiito {peak .togg'by'. Whom 11 might
.haveeEknoyv'n in' What: place ,I 5758', and'ofi the-probable? 'meafi'sp
.gfvdeliveraheey. Ihgi'sgywhiie my; thoughts were agitated; . m"
':1iegfigna'ti,on"'C/to thfWilll,-of heaven was' entirely ful'pcnded' 151g"
that} bad no'tpowet to _4fix7_>mi__rC/ mind>> tq - a'riv flung," __b1)t Jo "the
' 'rejeet-bflaj'voyage'to the :maixilattd; .And indeed j'qr'nueh was
f-ipfiatned,"filp'on this' a'ce'n'iint'," magi-t. (it my blood into. at fen.
'me'htr, .a'pd'mypuik'beat high; as thbugh lib-4d been in a feve'lrv'; .
tilt/nature beinfg', 'fas it-yivere, fatigued angli'ea'chv'aufied with the
ithhughtagofi it, {nade'me fubrfiitmyfdf to {silent repofe. " f'- ~ "
"In 'fufelli'la"lj$txafiion,iitis veryftrange, that I fdid no,t,dream"of.
'wh'alt' Iiiwaa. fd'fintjeht.ijbnig'but,jinfiead of,it, my migd roa
'ycd"enjaguiteBliffe'xjeht'ithin'g; altogether, foreign.- I dreamed;
flat-ah gewa'sdimlinge'fromfmy'bame one morning, as can-om-
3137,: when] p'e'reeivedqupon therfhore tvs'ro Canoes, and'elevefi
"favakC/s"'C/omingr to land. 'wh'o had broughtj with them another.
'In'dianfiwhom they designed to make; 'ihcrifice of; in 'crd'emb'
devour; gbut'juft as they Were going togive'the fatal blow; 'me-
Tth'ought- the' 901' defigned vietequmped awah and ran dirc'el'a ' .
1y into my; i,tt!e.'t_hicl:' grove before my fortificatioa. to ab?"
Jcend-"from~.his'ehemiee,'w1:en' perceiving that the others' did
not followhm that way, ITappe'arcd to him; that" he humbly
kneded down before me, feeming to pray! for 'my'aflifiance:
upon'rwbighgi' fh'owed him" 'rhy ladder, made him'afcendgycarriew
him to-myp'ax'e, 'and .he became my'lervant ; and when Jihad
gotten thxs man, I {aid to n'iyfelf, now jun/y 117m}- bag): jam? '
.bopeifo' 'aftain- thefmain land; fir (bi: fillmw quill farlvg'me q: '
." a?jailo?,'vre.ll me <<what 10 def,- and <<wbere J.- mtg/I'go for "0121130111;
'qubeuf'j' lacks? to 11m, :cwba't 'to venture to, and 'rwbat' Io ' drape. . '
Bufiw etrIj awakcdpanp. retind alljhefe inexpreffible- imprci- .- '
rfions ofjoy'cntix'jc'ly vanlihed, I'fcll into: the greatefi 'dejcetion

- off'intimhginablfi. _ e . _ . . -
" 'llztgthe'si" eam' brought- me to reflsfet, that one {are -way off
efc'aping~:Maa"to"g'et a iavage; that after .I had sentu'red'my
life'tddegivep him from,' fihe. bloody ' jaws ofuhis devcurers','
the'ha'turflgfenfe he migh;.;have' of fuch .a prefervaticn','_migh3
impire-'himqvitbja'lafiing gratitude and moft fincere afi'e'etion',

-~ 'But' {Ea-cf; this. 'o'bjeetion jxeafo'nably interpofed-i bogu'rmn. I' 21:.
fifl":ibis,'-fthcf2g'ht 1,. without I attag'k a 'wboIefcqmpany'qf tbm,'

, and'qi'fiiil' film? $411}.oblyfiiflld'iprocekd {m [Mb '4 'dcfl'effate: 9H"

' :'tcm}:ijfieibC/itb. mrfiryflufibq/bre bad fqygwedqtp'. be gala-mfg}?
Ian'sl.1~.mdeed imith'cart '- tremble'd ,- atwth-e tthoughtgiof to .mp6};
'bloodg'rfghb'ifghrlit>>Were ' a"- .mea'hs' *go- .pmcui'e '_ my .deliyerance;-
PTi'Bfitildfl'might' reafohahlyehbuthI-fupb'ofe .theTe; men tobe

- .refilve'gemisy totnflife. :mefi'vi'hp Would :deyour;"xhe',';'was' itfipg
'thgifi;poweq.5'. fastbaeit'wa's- felf Iptefeifithh 33' the .highefi deg-g.

"tree:togfiecl5'vmyffelfg'2 by>> agt'aekinggthem' immy'ow'n defence; an; .
Wigwam; they-were amanyg..afl'aultin,s mm? though; 2%" .

5-,, Row SS:C/.ie<<*p'l'J'U] .---r.vv un- v; v ."'ll'.'" :7 - , , "nu -->>f' --,..vw'r1--------.--.--7vv_7:i K" - --,- v
- ,- ~ . - . _. '.

'.""'."":'(.)'-2\":v':: ' u. I'.' j". "~I' 5- ' - '_"

n
, .

' (M _ Ljezm :h'l'ID-C/A~D:.Y=;fiH-.T;II rL-f-us' ,

gin-(g. timings, gi'fay, ;f.-,emcd to me 'tq be ofjlthe.' grqatett._v_rcighSS,
33:1; aSS,_'deEURt.1'ard;bgfoce, the 'dzeaadfu},~,thohgbts; pf;fhEURddlgg~yhg.'
Wt! bliz'osb; finiblsifucb'ea Winf-tam)!(0111's?that-xtflagafilqng
{iii}: badelfiould 'xrc'oncilemyfelfiw ifs-sf ' " " '

.;SS'..'Bnt}bb ' '.-fa'r?. -'..W.f11"'1icPSa'r' en .Qfdfifil'PmePnils 91131-136!
gifoththltaineihg :tne'm'any Mpvtcs 4:19PperPYexitzcs.'I.had3fith'
x' -;imyfe:lf,:'! "at-'Ilrhgth retblYed; {right on-Wrohgsastb'get-Qng of
-' thefc'fevigge.iin{C/~ my'hatidsgcpft yhat; it would,,.onievC/n; thbu'gh
Xmfiuid 10m thrive in thg-attgmpt. :Inipired-vyitnhILchig.-'firm
)fefdluti'on,v_l fctfall my wite'fit'york, to; find-gutfififh'atsjjhgy .
thp'dsf I'fim'uld ftake to an!wer__-m9~;.d;fign': this,'-;imc_le.eSS-,s';w:m
. , PS0 (1131::th a'taflg that I .coixldfigt .pitpb-upqngnytfl7954b1e '
'. 1:16am~ tb Executejt. ;( 1,..tliqn'gfog'c, mfplyed>> coatinu'alykatpf Lbe
" "m .2 'V'sna'nt. Mime: :10, - vergeeve :.!I,hsn. thcrfi'awgesecahelon -
(Lib-axe, ,ar'rg! td have the teit to .ghg gimme letjthe Loppentggitim;
.cfi'er-asthcv wfiulde, .7: a .-,-. -\
:i-gsxtch W33 my fl ?d.tjefol;u't'angl,;yand gecordingl'yfl [etfmyfelf
3199" the fcout; [as dfim as - -.I.=.L,C/w';d;'=1ill .,-.fuch.;tim&&=ea'1 was
heartily magicf 1:. 'I waited fog-awn; wag-,gnd_SSt-_half,-.tbe :
- greatcfi pa'ft qf'whichj .xycng: put PS0112; 1mg; anax'lfduthfiweft
Comp: ofivthe wand, ,alrriofc' gw'rer'y' rday,-.'.,t.;oxv!opk fol? flawed,
, But 'nl'gm'ci appeared; Thisfwas alvclfyhreax fdifgquragcme'nt;
_ yet, .thqlgh' I ,wr; 5 very. "much 'Centgtnc r, vth; Edge ;of, : nay-ideal
, ,fign.'wa5_'as._k'cenz as ever, andgtheflbn'gcx. itjfgemcfdgm:bc~d6-
flayedsjh'e. mime ea er was fiI'for..it_i:'.;in;a'-iwm;d, lincver'ahcfpm
'x'vas. 1'9 icaretful. to , unEtEC..!oztbi_ng..sight_ bfi-itbtfc-fayg 98;; 3'8 ,
.1 Wis (Low eagqi._'~to be_ with than ;'.a'{1d'I-thdugh_t {my elfi'uf-
fic'ieatly ab'lga'v to manage ..<-.>fiS:' two, to: thr'cg'favag'esr'if leha'd \
. them", f0 'as'tolmak'e them my C/ntirc.flaves',"'t0"_do Whatjoeicral
' 'fhculd glitcet them,. add, pr'cveut. thgeirbejug ablegat',anyg,gime;
tQ' dome ,a. mifcbief. , Ma'ny' time; did-Infe- topleafczvpyfdf.
.. .. ith' fuel}:~ thoughts, with 'Ipngg andjlardentv'rx'pefitafions ;>'h11,t
nod-nut grefeut'iug, Fail" my deep. 'proj'efted, {gheinespandlmumf' '
@rouLs'fenciesyayiflmed away, aglmwngy-Vyhile I1rC/feihcd{lfngh-
thmghte', the 'dc'crgespf Provide'ucg-was :fuc':h,'.. thauuqfavageo
Wctem'comefiearmeu . 7v ,
_ - ABM 3. yeamnd ahalf aftm: when! was >> {windy-Musing
_ of flipdryotgbcryways how I flymld attain my;;'md,-QnE-tmhf-
.113,ng ggflthll Wag ycr'yI-fmuch inrpiife'dl BY {9131135 310 j'efs Th3"
fiyag-'capgcigggall 9n (hon: 'tcgctfggrtfpp imy 15'1'Gle~-t-_hg1 manna-jam!"
.. .., e ,(a6'3"'.<1e;t'ha_t bcl'Ofiged tea-the'm'alll lafldeda'aladomfifmy
' fifieigu; _gC/h;'e.;~'tjffisnber .df-thsm_-':c1ifedegfiC/cned 'alI. mfifltafifififi';
'. ' ifdr';:2iePSi~trg-.Toz ma!iy,',-boats.. sayh':-of"i{:SSi'.c.h Milk). 'boflfiifiwm
. jSSTSS1';'fQY=}!SS'-fimC/SS:{tin.q_r,e,'1.96iiflqrggot-,,tC/, lewhfititefthifififii; 6':
.. 315M. ftdeg',,"deg?eSSrm warms-rm $11.91.:'rtxvcnty-S'vffahirsmimiA
* rismelssha'fided 5,3,73,199h -,w-hiCh; 51199.11;Qifpifitgdgandii't'zgmtxfis ,
s u Elfifiatgafifin-iin gng.cSSmC/;sY=wiiiSSh. Qowesret; 311391119 .; mama? .tr
; '29. silks-w mam:iansialfiiawzc{firessrlmsefififihgfli . 3%
8"" kits : ;-:f;=;:-'.1.-...~;"gil'isfim"i-'i.-:-"v.'~' PS133.! :'ifi'f'i'fii'X-'e'fiq-'zy'as
;.-' .. I ' .1 - "J. _';.'_-.'L.,'.,;_ - _, . . >-l-'

...

f); m.) -

' I
v

I.77.

5

Was necemw; {via fofifi",a:eady to-vcntcfi .bpoti, an~C/pgaghxifenSS ,'

5 lfidfifiifllfi- e'itiCIfi'fn ' liavini: waited for tame .t'fih'c.'-"m7'3mbaa
tieht't ' "e? \'vnul '- .

"ofitygeahmggf ' ffieflfieges,' (tanning; ho"wcvef,zin Tuefi'aflejfwr,

{hats-mi hem-aid. fiat. appgzr, awe .t'he 5515;931:5154; thgylconta, .

K

'nb't- 'eafily,3lparceiixe"> mg; atid'fiere; byithe a'ffifiagibeeofi mypexfa,

~fyaet3ive'gle'f31f-6chrv:8,'h'o' leis than thirty an numberjround. a; I

' fire; :feifiingi'upon' -' What; Marthe}? ='2had'.-d'1'_efl'ed-zg;hC/w5thev,gl

- It>> 55555225555555" um ,. 7.5

, tlget'mdb'ijgfi ite'ttblghger', ;.I ,-fct-..,mv' guln'eiag. . _
the foot of my. ladder; anilga'sAlfizak'fifcendM [up :'to {tbcs'fd'fi- , "

5'.

co'okgdfiiq'. '01: what it? as, T couldnot thefif-petffSSetly-'tgll<<;'."bfiig., ,

' theyl'were'W-T'all flaming find" cipcring';abohg-.th'C/ .flangeg'aufiq'gf;

'many'wffig'ffltftxl-eifid barba'fouagefiui'es>> .' .- 5

7'. -- Butyhilgivfifhia cmt'gqus cy'e, .I.,\'Vas beigomiqg thcfc Wretcli- ..
fies, mf'fpifitgmnk'wthin the,>> :whennt percewed' thtxfi' di'ag:
moi miferabl'c qre'atucea' frfam th: boats, td-aetfdfiefla th'e drea'gi-'j,

ful trag'edfv, ,3.st fdfipofcd/they-'hgdfdo'ne. Hefo're.' '~It' Wafipqt .: .
a

'.manneri.;}__}vhile,tmp.,917':flare?-ptheyfiizem.immc'diagefysto;woflg," ' - i"
cuttie'g Mm Open' for that caskerygand-th'efi fallito devour him

'iohg; fibre-'62}? "df'thfem- fen uponthq gr'ound, knockied'fipfing,'
21:91 {tipgbfej with'aclub-dfggupo'dan :fword, .'for.:vtb'aLtf wiQ "weir

fifthcy hadfcl'ornjcfthc 'fmfrne'r, _\VhSSlC/'thjC/ lafl.' [unhappy captive
.wasflefh' 5111;151:5515; ti" Rich-"time as they wefcjcadyifeflhime.'
'bliri'g'atithe'(hoz'gghts'ofi deagh.;. ygt, fe'einghirrfl'clfia little. at H"
berty', nature, thatgvcry mongcnt, 1:: it wcrcs .infpired him with>>:

a

Thefipbdpcreatififc looked ' round himiwith a wifhfinl eye, 'treyne.

hopes-Edfalifb;'Hmfiarted away {tom'th'cmg and tan,'vbithf-incr'c"-' 5

fiibfez'TWiftngts;:{al'pngg the (ands';"dircefly to 'that part 'bf'thg '

c'oattjwhete m'y-'anci'ent and venerable-.ealtlc'.'itnodJ-r' .

'. 'Ye'I,lm1YiW21lfitnagiflfif 1 W89 fiffidfifllygfifi'fighted uponntbiev

Qqccdfibag.igiivhesij,,ail-thought, 'thfey .puifncd, him "in a ,Whole~
bo'dy 5311151355115 .tpwm-d'sz my" p'alacei. And now, indeed; I eat-7.?

parted tliatapagtjrofimy dream...wgis-ghi_ng'.tq be fulhn'ed, and.~

thifiheywould. fight-31317", fl ~toim'y grove-for erotcetion {abut}.

forgtfike-qeftQOfrxfiy dreary, coal}: _C/pcnd.notbi'ng On"ifi;_th4b. 5

' .5hefivggemouxdpurine. umthgthemndang him were, Ham-5;. '
5959:, .mx-fpiriltq: begihfiitigv-to. recqver, I'm" "kept Mon-.myx' -
sgagdgahdJ-hew-glainlyjpgrc'e'wcdx the}: wcrevbut three men-3.1 ' -

013k: ofigthcggnmbcx; that .pnrfued'him; "tugs (infinitely, ,pfeafedi

' With fihfiflfiyfiflfiefs the f. "1r 1crcfatm-e _ra'n'-. from his" purifiers;-- '.

' 533x}

.'.
'2
' v

3' '5

c>>,-

 
  

' 'wfififigmefima;wkzuid..-hSS""fikei?" 55 he:

<<I

says" "13,9 maglcdnpthtng of 11;, thopgh at'full- tzdc, ' but
, . '1. ... _- .7, n .. _ - . - \I J ;._ _ , 5:" '

'. L.

.'Lie-mu'ch'ifonii 1.1.1139 't'he'f' "that-1W! 1.? Wendi:
, Rwy: @91de u} fat: 313.1% gm I I313, there Was not. Hie. 15313:"?
SS%%SSub'he4Whld 2185.6. 3. his . fife;- mm 5'"? Power-aoi'h'is' eiie- -

thesfi." "3deg99'ti'er'3fieen-E 313123155. -'of .-w Ec'h'; i' ,Vcry much-kiwi?
.... , .._ .. _, 599deg". "Of-511W"? .
33515"?3.--3;1tg.f09_ulwas.1ppt.ogpmn'tgr'mmiwyefl 1:33;:
'tWIA I: 1'

ml: ,1: $511540"??? . ' 3:1 '4: 7.5f:"'u'-Z'- r"; - j hs-w- '-- '. , 5 .
833%: 'gig'efifind' "a! 4633.167 film 'f "was; cick'gtbat-'Km: '
5).; failcctmto53563111431535?Lafifis"SS'9m'.~the.-.wvrcck>oSSz
\' '\

7776 ' L-I r 9;: "A N D ianv-E' "N'I'I'Ufi Elsi 8m.

lriatrqpiaggqiirage, 'fp'urred '{m hy'thc'fe'nfc ,05'1gi3hge'r.2he pfu'n?
ug-sd mfofi rhg flood,- twimminglcvcr 1:: shout thsr'ey fim-kcs,[ and

, ; fiber!" iafidfiugt'ran with the, Kama: isiecedible flreiiiifii'kind-l'wiftsygfs

,' '.',z{s.bstoi.e;=i"WiL~n thath'icc piwfu'ers came to thec'reck,'i<ineiof
_ ' f:;bb'ih,7_wh3'1'psrceived cculdfiot {\vim, happiEy.' fc'r if'is part,
3 J "fetufixed to..,his' conioagizi,"while the-others. \vithiqual .cou-

\Lsre'ge, bgrt nfu'cfi '=1I;"3_' fiviftheih. attained the Ctr-F? 'ij'dc, as t'hripgh
gflgcyi \wrcfrtsfolt'ed' ficver' to give aver flue-puifuita, Andm'ow -c.r

,"-nC/vef-l thought ""223 the' time for mgfo rodur'e} 'mgfiaj i'ervan't,
., ;.-c;ampanid_n, oi' a'fiflarit-;'-and.-tb'atdes .ecrpcd- by iP'eridmce
V ito'be' the infinumeht'to-ffaye this"pC/orjtrea'tmje<s life-.51 irfi- V j
"inmediagelv' deibcnd'ed myx'wo la'ddemfwith the'gteatefi'cxpe'di- '

fiiqnxgj '10qu :up my twognng, iviiichtI'faid 'befqrc, "'57th at
bghg'bottom'af them, Md' gettringxtip aizai'n with the'i'ame ham-.-

. Ltofw'n'rd: v'tiie hill, I made nearer the {93". gm a wojd,'taking'a

.jdh'qrtjcut 'dgwn "the bin, I. interpefad "Between the;.p_urfue.rs

>>, - Lind-fiurmed',*hallo'oing 'hldud' to the'lei'ttgf,--\vhp,-'vch'tuising to

~--

'ioolg bagk', Wae,'no doubt; as 121.1161; terrified at them I :it."thcm.'
3'1 'befik'ened'tg him <<(it/h my handt to return back, ingthc tag/an
(tinge advancing towards 7thefpurfnerg, and .riz'ihing fon .th'e fore-
;ihzritfl knocked him .down'wit-hL.Zthe flock cf my'pioce, arid -
hid: him flat .on thegm'tlnd.' I ~'wa's -vgry.jum_vil1ipg','to fire" "

.- "le'ff tii'e.' r611 {hould hem} I't'hmw'h at a diflafice, qu41:fi"i(zae(1712viie:-

"ibfir'fthev' Zci-uld br no ;' andc'being out 'nf'fight-Otti:e-!jx'1mlEURe,.

-.'. 'itbei'ncrixiid ni-t eafilvf'hzive know: What, to make' cf'it.' ' Th'c

' Aothei-'xfriiege feeing'hie fellow fall, (topped: ae film had beea
' amazed-';1 when agdirancm'g..t'owarda him, I could>> perceiire'him '
" 'rtakeghjagbowirom "his-back, and, fixing antatro'w ngit,' was

fibre-pacing tb fihoot arms, _'_and, 'ivi'thout dii'pute, jnig'h't' have
39(1ng the auowin ,my'breaft; but, in fhis'ebfohitely'iieceffary
[care of ife'lf prefemationg'iimmediately wfircdat,hzmga'n'dgfliot

. 'him dic'adfiuft 35' his hana'was goingffridraw the iht'al'fir'ihg.' *A'H _

this- 'While,,fthe EhvagC/.'- who had "flr~d 'befgirle- flood fiill,' 'aiid

. ghe'd {he rat'isfziaion to rese'iusene'miesii'ucd,as-heathbughgjwho

' giefigne'd'io t'ak'c away'hissililfe ; 'ib' a'ffi-ightgd;'xva8'.:-hC/:'With' the
fire and'hgife _of 'my piece, t/mt'lm fload as'gi't' gber'ejgifie'L'afk
, ' 'Iffl'," {fixed and immoib'eable,' :witkou't cit/Jer"{fc"nfi For 'vmaiiozi'.
{hijsjb iigefgi "me to "1311029 to him again, makipgntligylainefi:
{flgn'jsfj'cguld' jt'o him-to d_ra\v,,_nea'rcr. '. aI' .pereeived"'h;e;<'-gmder-
f4? d tho'fe tekcns by hisapproachitigto anae-'3. little'wzyg'wheh,
~:a'si'if--aif'xjii'ci I ihpuld :kill him" t06,_f.hc flappcdiagairg.>> Seyerelfimes
aid h'c-fad'vame,' and '43~6"ftcn. ifibfi"inuthisemannei;;xt-il edging

.:__' tho;m.y view, Ipcfiivgdf'him tiqublinggasf'l'gfil
.-;undet'go"th,ej Yame'ffit'e. ~va which I 'IO'oked-qyfir

'gim'iling 'coufltengh'cg". End-fill} 'beckoning to' .hufifj'fl'

    
  
   
   

.7311?" came clofe}_to m'e gridi'kneded dqw'n, 31:13:53" @FSE . 'd,
z: imam;- head' upon- it, -arrd--*'tak'~;ng"me'by the: faintr'lszfgtfi a n"-
..'bg'his head; 'and. this,_as'1"n'n'derfiocd_afterward?' (fish'-
gkexjjof; {wearing tbsbe'myeflavcfbr'eyer.1"J_7t<;ol_;'.gh1m .' , End,
. ~' ...' waving

a

..
\PSEURWE, . - /"
7'3 L'iri Ann.'mbyrffij'i'unPS-s

.makifigifiiuch ofhim',' genco'nraged Him" in iheb'eflf manner I

'r "could." 3:333:11 work. was not at finifhe'd ; foil pcreeived the
I .Y

dingge-whdm knockcd'down',' wns'hat'kiflcdg- Butffia'pned

-; i.\'yith'the.'blow, and-be'g'an-tfo cbz'n'e t. finial"; 'Upsnlwhi'ch- - -

L' .'- '- "17"Tijoiifnt'ed "tbs my new firvafit, :and {heaved :lfgi'm' that hiazyefie-Q
' myuwa's'nqt yet. capitals: hp- pr'oke fame words; to men: Imp

J? hihhlcouldhbt ,undei'fiand ; yet being 7131?" if": ffoufi'dlofcai

j ";->>,'_I_,!'I'gi_i1'81fi!oiC/eIJhadhc-ard for above faycnry-fiyg'years, theyfieig
_.J'- ::Y3.PSx:plea'ifig"1:05.315; :But -_ there-wasi no tune: 'for' 'xcfleetien -

f";1.119%;itthyquddfilfange. {cc'gycjing .l-simfr'lf f0 fa!" asft'o 'fi-{e

:3 .vp'p'onjcthesgi'ound,"xyhich.-made'mypor-'r'pri'foner as" much a} _
$33...irfla'iifiasggbbfdrje'; .'tdput himiait'j'ofsw'nich fem,' I " refcpt'ed
fir-z :1!!! .'C/thSS_l'--',g'gun,'at. the; may; with. amin'tent w-flaoot 'infr ;' but
{"1 'myifa'vagefior (0'1 m'uft'nc'vjr'call him,'priev'em'ed.myfiring', by

makmgza 'motidn _toj me; .tojlend' him my. fword,"' whifihurhuag
.sinaked 'm'myl b'elt' by;'-"my_fide. LN}; 'Ifoonerr did { grant-hie ae-

SSIiefiSS "Hut aave'y'ihe"runaito'ahie."enemybyandfgatf on'cfiblbw exit. '

-' ,;.s&;hsSS_th_'e'sd-.as-.dcfxcrognyxas thejho'ftacCor'ripIiihcd-"fcxscmiongg

6 c>>

~

 

1
k
I

i A .3;1SS.me"f.o;gr:anti himjeave'xt'd 36' to birth U931) Which lbi'd'him go

' m3ke'fifeibfwo'odefi\fvemds made, of haird' Who'd 'ys'rjhicli. wit;

a

mg.ahiffefigflyfhethhmhe"I'r'z'dian, at my 'feet." ~ =.

   
 

glidiwafidaftbw -';5and'.'ft'ich PS1,235 his :lemrin'g 'defir'c- t0' Eho'w it,

..

* , . . . . .
i "154131121 11; firft' pqmt'ed ~tt'ijI-hlac-136M earcafe, and- then-Mdcffighs

:'--.--':aia,d, as wags} :ecinldg.madC/'.hiin {qafible Iagfinied his'r'eejuefl:
>>; 51351:fflheprcxhegcame there; 'hqriy :'wonderfglly avaq'h'egfirhc'k .
'5,th1. amazement ,'bFErfi, hsatm'ncdshim Qnene'sfldeggtficn7-0n

i" ..I~.v_an'other,7- Wondering he' 'Cou'Id pErC'eV'e n6 queht'ifyfoffflddd',

E: 3'? .he blggrdigg-'ifiiygrdiy; and after fiz'fiicignfly admiring .tlxe'fib'tind
>1 .,';ffl_ge:'bullet hadz'zfna'dejin.-his7bteai'c-, he took- ughis- 'bowiafid

\
s

a7: ehat-hjs' gefigr'rfwas to bury them, ' that 'tbey mig'gt not ba'. feen-

  
 
 

r;

Act"-'t-h'c'reftie'firagg'e'd'himf'afi'd'Withou't,"'afiff'cefiefiafig' 13%"; '

1,2 s-finj'owsgi'and' 'Ca'me backfjagain ;' uixm which \ ~tafnealtb'fgd

,awgymakmglmy' PS1399 to hiiny'to' follow,'kfitthe'xg'mmfiflith '
.-tl_1e}rfl,go'mpaniojns, 'might come iripurfuit Q'f athem; 'azedf- this <<I
.foundlhgalndgramd 'very well--,jby his; 'makirsg2m'e at-nd'c'rffiand

.,.if,,SS_;'h2pfihied {'3nd'which by figns agam-Il'madeihmi 3H6bTeZu ,

:.-; Nit-y,'mgchig'appg-'migd'yfl' Immediately hejelbtd'f] k,'_$nd'

<<file-Yer Waswravte-QIggcr' marefdc'xtrmgs infthgvfisko'fldf alpha .
13.373332: for in an iinfiagitga'snl might?_!'ay,.he.fer'a;PSSSa'-a'ldf - :'ahole-
-'-1h,<t'he_ 1m}; "'lth'f! is; harids,' ,fufiicignt tab

3iifi'}"0ilSSl?,:..lfl like manfier .he'f'wedthe oth'e'i' ;-'f-o'=t.' "Sim

, . ftirc'fio' uf'ndmtakcr bould'be mme exeent in his"bu'lir.ePSSS,'=foi'~.all ,

H z . attic?

O

y : '1 :in' 7;Getma_ny:..-'could'Z'h'ave" .clptie"; 'fdrf', i't'fcems; 'efiefi'flefeatur'es. ' _
fibfiifi; .Edgfe-fcnou'gh .Fytioe'eut-'ofi'"headss'apdl'arms'aat;Ongtfilo'vh . I
y g:'Wben,gbts'valoiqw.eip'oif}vas dosaghe-com'es-to me mgping; ; .
; mmmofxtriqlm' b,,idC/l_iVeyc;_djr_ne. mg"fxvqrdagasaiufi'wrtfia" :. -.
-SSgfda'1cSS of fur'pri ' nggiefiures, Jaym'gztgtj alo'n'gfi'nh thejbieefd-y ; '
_ mama-gemaasnimzfidarimggmy ngw-ili'vaaut: SS0dC/eiaed was ,' -i
:2 $31313} manner .df 'kil'lih'gtlthc fiyag'g .35 :fuch'adijlaace, fitment"?

. V

t .'
' "um-.3 ammmpmrflajzyfiSm: 7.9

fiifisaewhagdhnfieinalcfs .t'bma quarter of Fanzzhpufa-w'l; then called .
fun; way, .gfld-hfiggd'; of. gau'y'ang. himfiigeemY tp' ,myxcattlc-' at
, Em, .icpouyeyed; ahg'msxogimx :ceetc: on" Ithe. father 'part- cf; the, -
maueaaande {deny dream, we now: kmiied' in: tin: fiatt'iculark '
fiat:2_>myza_grqyg .msxtgdgspxoy; gm. a-Fylmn 39c; ihgeguary' tg
' .53:'~.id~,;" '--.?>';v.-~.sr*-':'- ".1.1:".'.;'.'- 5*" " . . "' A- , ' ~
' ,anufyr and'faintgq hnpgr; _.an;d tbilfi'w wdopbtiedl
psor. <<migrant,- 'fuppmztfe. "chiefly byxh'ewivmky cgfixitpandfi
Itngq>mmn5PSSSmipqrt$M's-joy; that M: inhumane:-:occafiofied'
. mtei'gm him-s bfeag'Lg-'wck 4-:busich.' Qf'mifinsi 'to~.eat,- and. ,War... -
' : ter wmiaky-zowmiiiqh'vhmfed:veriy, chxrfuillszri'tq his exceeding: '
~xEURfrcilme.nt-.-p 512mm... mafia him a;'.c;:nvtsr;imt .btsi' With a: parcel: -
. ' 'eii-rice-(trawzapd-ia. biahkettbpon: it, (a bridawhjch [- 111'e_d5.mSS'm5 :
T. fOfiiGtitnC/PSS.f-anC/'thelt-Paiafiag.-to'-"if,' ---ma;de? figua for hiqulier
flow-"93 3394)>>- Upon Whieh T tirc' mar creit'uscvwmuzao rake-w
~ welcom Nikola ,- -'u1 _. -_ m.
'1 3:24-11:161 :11; 'wasayery 91011361}, halniifomei. :yCung Ifgnemgexag,
tremfiimwcfl mad'es with. flraightelpngilfimb-zz n'bastxio lama .
' 915% W!'.3$Id.nveillfhfip:d. -- .ar'zd', aSSPSn$ar - d? I; asund- {flakbnfingiQ-EZ '
' 5&wentyt-fix: yeare pf'a'ge'. Hisvcmntgenauc>>:'lia'dfz-mtkyin'gzginf53.1.; '
-:fiPSmc159'r-;19'rgl)'s* but-{father afcrt' as mgjci'eir Fin: hig'i'fla'ce: mm.
_"yet,.e;_e,1pgciahy when he, 1mi1ea1-,"hgC/hgd . 1thg'i'wq3mcf3am.
.fiafin'efe'.pfy;an-EunQpcax;_'. ~ fiislha'izgivhs Intended-dike WOOL/3.6..
many ~of=thc'_'--blacks'r are" but bag-Eam- Mama-Mich the mom
beautiful, lyetgcxeitfs.txfctEs-eprcegding'(we; his_=.m'?uld'czrs..- Hea- '
.<<had--averymigh "and large {fartheadg'with'gigreaf.vixaai;y'.azidi,
..PSpagk'ling {flurpncfs i1}. 'hisw'ycg.' His 1km.3y_as=":net:foztawncm-
" asgthemrginiang Brazilians, or other, Merieanfs ;- 'But-rafihpz -
. :of'aszjight 'duna'gqliye' -.';:olour,:~ that. had-mefitliigg agreeable;im -
-. it; {Enough nqt-yery'e'ai')' to-giwe -a dftfwgtmn-iefe-uzirlie-afabqr
.'Waflsiund 39d: phngnmmith afmall-'t19ft$..wy adiffcrexft' fl'pm'the
..-'fia,SSpefs'g ofi-'the n-sgr6c35. a. - pre'te y. 'fnall' _' m'qnfih',;,tliih': alj pa; 1me-
.>>;SSeeth',. yam-fie]! fat, arid white." .thc dciven;fi1c>,'w-.. :l'ar,aC/w;o'xd,,
. Jud! 'hancLL'qmc.-features, .-,afiSSl; .cxaet fymmetty in'weyemspa'ntg. 4
-.made me .cbvfi'd'er thwl -had?'.!avcd mam 'o'i'em Indimilmiiszc, .
.7 ,pp1efs-'gtfgc-efiul and accempliih'ed- than -SSthe-:gt_ea;J-thwgepg.
. :; yhpfe->>mSSmorab2e. bafi-iNiOur; am; unhappy'e-dmingsneiestofi'igfc"
1.1939,; Zaharmed the world, - bath to._admii:3tion pfiehis..pgi:1bn_gi 3134"

mutt this?

re.-

,glgpmgaflixm-to:lhis'mfi'eringm.--~ 3 . . ",1 .. .
1 "~1ng Jetlhim be' either. ifiriuce'or'peafant, 3"? m1..- B'app'injcfe c'enr- " '
ter'edjn this; that Ishadz-now'got a-gocdfieiwajat Qngompgnjm, 4
'5. tpzv'whomyas' hf: de'frrved, .I was refolmdfto:p;c'avc'b5-kind'maC/C/r' .
.~ ahtfifafiaiting .PSriend._. Hehad.not;l;-SSbigll:,'jfl!:pti abfledflhfigfi- .
- Whit {hefiawakenedi again; .and- .whilcli was: milking: mygogtgi- '

' 'haggkvbyydut he-nu'ng-fromthe-ca'ire towards meiwmyiu'cbfbitg; '
"-53:14! :'taymgafihi'zmglf dovm "011'. the ground; in, the lewdf'ximr ~

. "egtrgtiqajymad'g.aILthe-ianticgettur'cs imaginaljlm, t9 gmrfifslhis
flju-hhfigfkful'iiefsittoa.me ~50fr~;b.EURing his delivci'en, 'ISSCofifSS:iSS2t1-heSSgfii
. the m5r_9f;hlSSibcham0l11 _.feemeg rd. bg'mdiaqusingogtgwp-

5. f 33 " " ' - -- ' *'oc'cafioxb.".'.::~'3'_V-4'lfl\_'v- 1": ' " \'.t. e I '

3992+ ' L r-rn'ii'A' ND 6% 591V 519' I"? m?"

o'ccafiomdaughter, "yet'g'I' was any 'm-u'eh amovedfiawhisiafizcv'
tion', {0 that my heart melte'di Wltbiii-'mcy: fearing>> he might.
die "away- i'x'r txeefe .ofjoys, like reprieficfilgmalefaftdr's -;_. elpeelale-e
1y. as-l wdssincapable eitherxo Yet himbl'ood', or-adfminifief-pbya'.
fie" 'ltjw'ere-to' be-w'ifhcd, that, Chem-fine.wonich'eakeJemma-'j
ple'by thisfleethen, to_ haves lafiing nemembmpee ofith'egbeng
nefi'ts and- 'delfveren'ee's they-have received; .Bf'therkin'dmnediv
atijbn 'and powerfur i'nt-erppfi'tion 'ofjtheiv' befie'faetcrs and-"deg!
lifierers'51andpitwouid be likewife. happy; forflmjenkied'gWererf

_ IthErefn'o oceaflow'to blame mar. r;twhb,?-ih{tea_d-:ef uhankfidly;
aeknowledging favouns and-babe ;'9:.-irat-he"r ahaeeahdxenhd'emms -

- tbq'i'eiwhnvhafle been a.hej;infkrumer}jts"ted-ave:th'em-anie deg>>?- .

:. 'But, leaying thefe'j'ast refleefions. I--r--et'um' to thelg'objfieetz afihati
ceca'fipneei them: y-fon my mm, to . condude; theaifi-ste .<:e'r<':mo4,x .
n'y 01"fob'edieunce1E laid. dpwq his headra'gvainron-C-the 'gtbgmd;
c.1016 tofin'iy fp'iit; and ' fear my drh'eii=font upohi hfis headg-fiehe
had: done before; making all the {13,113 of fubj'efl'on', <<fewitudeg'
and.{ubmi'ffion imaginable; and' let me undEnlt'and'he 'xVQulch

.~2'erve-me-e_1's' [bug :16 his. life endured; Asl'u'ndemoodehim im:
.many thinge, I= madejhir'n fefifible F was. very well .'pkafeidt with}.

. 31im-;-and,'.in alittle't'tfiw; I began ta-fpe'ak' toh'mr, andxleaynf
him to talk to me- again. .1}!- tbe firft~ plaee,1madc hint-um:

demand: .hisv name was f0 be Friday, heegufe it washpom. ..
that day Is'favee- hisilifeg then I. taught-"him to' {217 Myer;-
whidh'l'? made him.feufible was to be my-L'name.. I; likewifea:
taught hhn:_SS1fay\_2?es ane'JVo, and to k-nowmhat .they' meant..,
rgave lhiqhdfifime millg-iinf'anfcanthen ot-,gmaking- him-,viexw' .
me'whileiadmsk it befibreehi'm; rand 'fna 'ed- my -chad$in'-2it';~'l*; .
gave him ace-heof--biea'cl,~.eand"e2ufed him. to{bah-itli'kewife-g'
to" whichfije-peadilx confemed', making 53338 of. the grefisettffatise.

.- igeti'on ima'ginabl'er ' ._. -:':' - _- ' : - a
,. 'hfl-Jthat'm'ightdid' '1! keep. him there ;. .but 'no <<iboner- did" the";
morning-13121;; appear, when l- ordered-himxto=afifegand come;
; algn'g withing: with cettain tokens that -I woulg' giveihixmA

g {{0an jelpthe's like mine; 3! which he'feemed1x1ery glad, zbeivng -
. hark-:naked, itboat thekafi' .c'pv'e'ring whateflrehi Az'styvcgpaiic.
' fembythe' .Ecei-'yvhere-'theewe-man.-hadcbeen interred, :mfi .

man'pfimt'e: direefly to.their graves, lflzdwing meithe.m:zrka>> ' '

-. that he' had' nude to-fihdfihem again. giving metoznnderfianqy,
b); signaghgtfiw'vc': mound .dig; them up; and dew/em; th'em~,.At;
~ tugs Ifggbpc'md' 'extremely,'_difpleafC/d,. .exprefi'ed- mymtmoft. 351'?

' benehce,$aa'if I'wd'uld'vomit at; the apprehensions-:~.oPS1itY=lbeclm '

_j@ning _w'ith- may handztof come away, whieh' he aidaivith the:

' jggcagefi reverence and; fubmimon'. After,thielggnd-ufled;him-g.

' 10': the'top .of the hill, to: view if..the 'rcit ofih'etfiyagesavierer '
{yetjtemaining there; but'whenl lockedthrough'myi.;per~,fpec-J '
=tiC/ei'deg.glafSS,.;1i*coul.d;'yfe'e n9 appearance-of ;thexn',.:-nor..ofi'theipegg, ,
'noesjefonhat 1t .Waa every; evident thcxnever-zmmded;thexr- '

e "'2': ' ~ ' ' ' J Mceafed:

C/ <<i

-, l_

42:20: nom=N2soN causon. ' -- 8'1

' dece'ai'ed companions Whom we had (laid; which if they had,-
they would {1112er have i'earched for, or left one boat behind
for them to fotlow, after they returned from their purfnit. . ..

Cui'ioIity, and {a dcfire of fatisf'aetion, animating me with
couiage-to :2'fig this i'ce'ne of barbarity I tool: my man Friday
With me, patting, 1~a fword into his hand, with tl1e2b<1w and ar-
rows at his- back, which I .2p'31ceived he c>uld u-fe very dexterq _
bully. caufing2 him to carry one; gun EUR011 me, and I W o for my-.
felt; and thus equipped againtt ail attacks, away we marched

direetiy to the blaee of their bloody enterlaimn e111: Plug:- when . 2 1

12C/" me2:th1ef'e,'2lwas2-Il1uck with the utmoit horror at f3. dread-A
PS11 a' p'eetaele, whim: Friday was no way Concerned about it, '
being no doubt in' his turn one 0121111212: devourers. .Herclay
\fevc'ral human bones, 2.:there feveral- pieces at mangled 11:11,
mummy mangled, .an'd I'corched.2- whilIt fireams of. 8blood ran '
prom-ifeuoufly as Waters-- from a fountam. As I was muting on
this dreadful fight, Friday took all the pains 113: c. 111d, by'
particular figns,lt'o make me underitand, that they had b. ought: .
bv'er2four3111f1ners to fealt upon, three of 111210111 1 .ey had ended
up p, and: that he was the fourth, pointing to hinil'elf- , that.
there. [having been a blood battle b'et'Ween them and his/great .
. king,' in the jq-It defence o whom he was taken priion'e1,with2._
many. others;- all of the'le were carried off to difi'erent pinces'.'~

tote deVOured by their conqfiercrs , and that it was his misi'orlj' ' '

time-t1? be brought hither by thefe \Vretchee for the;- lame .
11r-p_o e. - 1
1: After I was made fenfible of thefe thmgs,-I caufed Friday to:
gather thofe horrid remains, and lay them tdgether upon a' beam".
which i- ordered to be fet on fire, and burnt them to allies
My man, however, fiill retained the nature <1f a cannibal, having: -
' a hankering- Itomach after fome ot the Kelli-g but- 'filch an ex-;'
treme abhorrence did I exprefs at the leafl: appearance of it, that" '2
hrdurlt not but conceal it, - for I made him very fenfib'l'e,
ihat- .if he offered any {11c}: thing, I would certainly- {boot
""3". 11"". '
. {This being-2 done, I carried 'my man with me tomy caftle,'
and gave him a pair of. linen drawers, which I had taken out of
then!) oor gunner s' chefi before mentibned, deg and wl1ic'h,Wit_h
faeiittle alteration, fitied him Very well . 'in2 the next place I.
"made him a jerkin of goat's thin, fuch as my Ikiil was able to
manage, and indeed I thought myfelf then a tolerable good {3.39:
101'. I gave him- alfo a cap which I made at a2 h'arels Ikin, ver'
convenient and faihionable. Thus being clothed tolerably we],
my man was no le'I's proud of. his habit, than I' was at feeingf
2 .hiin 111 it.2. Indeed he went very anhwardly at 51711; the drawers"
._ - theing-z too heavy on his' thighs. no't uIed to bear any we'i ght, and"
"the llee'vesi of the waificoat g'alled his Iho'ulders and the inlid'e
Ofihle arms , but by a little eating ivheie he complained 1:15:
2.: ur

\
V
' 893 .2.' ran A firm: A D??? ijI-Nl 19mm 3555

than) very_.WeH,;.-' .. .- . V~ ~ \{1 ,. g- .- 3 u _j.-: - .
My: n'extf . cmcet'n- way-Where F mpnldilod'ge hixix '; and: that: ,
Ifmaghtdo \vell-Bfliimg. and ya: be pa rthet-Iy'eaiyzmyfclfgilzerect- .
ed 'a'tetu; fit- him-inr't-kie vacant 'Ia'cc betweenftmjiietwo 'fprtifia '
cations, in-t'her in'fids .Of'th'e }a ,Land the' outfidc-Ifof'fhe' 51'1""; ,
Sum-'83 ' then: -.;Wz_is an entra'nce' or door into-mfea'vegi-made a
l'fe'rmel- 'h-gmw'fd'ouxe-cafe, and-"alld'o'or tdo"en'0;'rth"e'-1ntide"SS.1 .
hatred; it'up it: the night tipm'zg't'aking in fray" addersmoogz'iq E1133}
fi'asmy'man tp' profiwflreacherdus, there-s 'eou'ld 'bet-motnwzgy.' to_
dime at 'me' in the. infide otx'nw' mnenms;fi- walk-Withjwtrmaakmg'
fa" much milk: in'ge'ttirlx'g p'ver', thin 'it Mufti .ne'cdss'iwhkcn: me;
tbfr my "6er vialbha'd now a: complete roof-fave; it 06-10113. poles,
fipr'ea'ding over'my tent, ahdz-lgahihg--aup' tg'tife xfldegof the 'mau'n'q "
tam, :whicht'wasm'gain' laid' crofs with 'fin'a}!;r.'2'lficks -"in4'.'C/gdf
, o'felathy an'd thatched oval: aa'greawhieknefs wrththeirice'firaw,
_ ' .Wb'iqlgz'wa'g as flrou'g .as needs ;' anct'at the hole/hf?the'placegjleft
.8ng'qugbfe-'to go in- or 6:11 - by the clack-n: hacti 'p'ra'ged am: 01" '
(trap-yaw, Which,.if._it had besn attemptcd'bn the'outfi'defiwomdf
. 'notthgut 'opefige~'zzt Jail, b'qt ,havg tfilicrvd'oryyn, and .mad'e'iawgneat:
unite ;. and aG-t-Q my weapons, every night-1100b the'm'swh-tp
{myebed'jifie'EUR. .' ' . .' .3 '_- :. ~ - :-_"-- . .if' Fit-4.91:2
'-3 But: them Was nooccafion for this-precaution grfgwr-fiirgly'nEs ~
We): Matter "had. a mdrefincere, faiz hful', and; loving: fitrvantygthgw
, Epic; fprqud tome... , ~VVith0ut pafliongufulxennelh,' Ior-'deitgfngi
. fqrf'c y~ obligmgi'and engaging, his laffefiipfis We're 1a5amgch.
' ied tame, asl'tho'f: of a-ebild to its p31 eats '; 8c 'I'might venture-
'to.1a)',.-he would'havc i'acrifichims hfe-fer thc'favi'ngfi mix;'e;.=:up;o-
'_ on alt-2y.- ocgafiomw11'atii'ever. I ' And indeed-the 'm'a'ny Itefiimuxiitss
' he';;aqe-r_ne.,0't'this," ih'fiiciently confinedimefihfl-'Lhad rid-{dc} .
.Tcafi'on to xiii-theft 'precautions'.: 'Alzed -' here :1>> could. Jnot . fbut-i ire-w
I'flceh'withgr'c'at wonder, that-however ithgth'phakdwhe'fm'r
. mighty: in his providence, and'i'n":the'fgnvemment-pf-'the-hrez'g-
lieu, tQ take' from {o great a- part of the World ofi-fihiflsfi-cuature'sfif,
, the nobteft pics to whi'qh' their facultice,'an'<_i' the, pbwcrs'g'df"
their touls arcl'adaptcd"; yet that-he'has.' befibWedE'upan-'jtbhm;
thafamevrealbn, lafic'eteons,' fcntimefits etfiifiinefsfi'and'obfigav
...4-t'io'n,2 pa'fliom :'of rcientmmt, sincerity; .fidelift'yrjand' all? that-513'>>
shaciticsuf "dei'ng a:1ci'rc:c'.~.:SSving good. tfiafh-he bas' givgniti'fimtd-
<<that when, hcis gracioufly pleafed'to bffer them occasi'ons mfsaxv
renting thefpxthey are as -1'eady,'nay,:m9re ready,;to"appiyithem
, fato. the mohair mes for which theywer:be1tbwcd,thanyC/e often
21.3.1'6' ' 'lfh'ei'c thoughts- would"make me mgleneh'bl'yg; -efpscielly
'- ,whq'n KI doasidered'mcw mean afiufe we m'akz: ~cifgallzthcifiz, t-even- '
fifthgugb We have. thefd'povzere ;.'eniightened by' "the'Hofil ,Spfi'r-it of:
_' L-de,;'and* 'by'the knowledge 15f:vh'ia;'w'or'l'd,r as'mij-E' dditib'r'i"t0 _
I'Qur'_u'ne_icr'{tandi_ng '3'. And Why it- has- ' leafed' thef'h'cavmly "Wit;~
,: dam to." bbngeali'helike' mm; ,<<llmow, edge fi'o'm lfo <<many: imit-
_. ;l_io:i's-oPSfii11s*who would'certainlx- makearmuch fbetttm'ufg'ezgt; .

tart/Jim; fin'df'by, minghfihms to, the-snafu igagphfhcstaqm.

~ I01F? Roof-Noon Emu-s on. '. 83

itfthanngcnetiaiiy mankind-"do 'atzthis time. There reflections -
would-ibmetimcs iea'd ' me'fo' far, as to invade the fovereign't'y 3
.ot':Providencc'.-'SSnd, ae'it Were, arraign thejufiioe of fu'ch an ar.
bitr'ary difpo'aition o'f thing's, thatfhonid obfcure' that light, from '
fome,-and reveal it to' otber's, and 'yet c'x'pect a like duly from -
all,- 'But i ciofed-it up, checking my thoughts with this conciiio'
.aion ; 'firli, That we .~ were ignorant of that right- and law by
which that: fliouid be- condemned; but as the Armighty'vivas" ,' .
.necefl'ariiy,~ ' and by the nature'of his efl'mce, infin'itely'juit 'and
holy; .1") it could not be otherwiic, but that iEtheie creatures '
were all defiin'ed-to gbfcnce from himi':lf, it was anaccount "of-
. _siSSit'1in'g againfl; that light,~ whit/J; 535 the Scripturq'13ys,.waia
Ineur'ta1 thug/Elms. and ' bygli'nc'n 'tuie's as their 'c;)n'.'c_ience8 .-
tw'onid acknowledge to be'juft, though thefiitii foundation was ,
not'difcmered to m. And, feconfdly, Thxtvfiiil 'as we were the.'.
day in the handoi'the patter. n'o veal-l conic! thus fay to.hi'm',--.;
7be"thviboufafiianedeme 'afi'e'r xiii-manner"? ' _ ' '. Z
"-'xI had-n0.t-'bEURcn abo've two'orth'ree days tetnmedto my, battle.
"but my chief defign' was, how] mould. bxeng Friday of? from>>
,~ this horrid wa Ioi feeding; andjto t'aketromxhim that; inimis '2
. .nianitreiiih-he; y nature had Been acciifiomed to. I thought ;.
itfi'i'siyv'cigty/te let him ta'iie'bther firth, which might then} "
.- then tempt -him. . to the Iame-ab'mrrence Infoffi'en expi'cflfcd'a-'f;
gaiiiititheir 'accoijed' xvaxofgiivisig': "Upon'wh'ich, one morn? ';
_ in'g-l took hi<<m'c.i1t_\vifil 'me', with. an intendon 'to-;kiii.a_jkid "
. ,'0i1t;of.,th_e;fl0ck, and -bfing'3it homeiand'jdrcfi it."'.}A's Mics":
~ going, 1 pfrceiyed amongoat iyin'g doom in the made, aiid;.two
young kads fitting by hfer. -: Immediate}?'I'ciitchcdholdof my"?
--man=Fr_~iday',' iand bd'dinghirri'ftand fling and not fiir, 7:"...pfiei'eno. -
ztcdu'my- piece,- and'fliot One "of the kids; "My p.70! fern-my:
who'had'athdiflahce perceived? me kill hie: advena'ry, mid-g
I yet._.did' notknow- by what meansgor how it. was done, fibod.'
trembling and furpritedyan'djooked i'o amazed, that '1 thoug'ht-- '
rte \voiildhavef-funk into the earth. Hi did not: feelthe 'kid- --
, liaimedat, or behoidvlv 1-.th jk'iiied it, but' rippgd' up his W'aiit- -
. ~cOatt'ojfeegif he was not wounded,..thinking my .1'tf.'x!uti0h was;
te.,;;jn~him'; far coming-to meghe fell on' his: knees, earnefliy a
pronouncing manyvthin'gs which I did not underflan-s>>! themea'ne.
ping-of; iwh-ch-at length-l- -pei'ceivcd was, 'thatil'wouldQOt take": '.
-_ aivay=hiSS'i-ife.' " ' " _' :' '- -
. ._--' Indeed?! was much conce'rned_td i'e'ehimin that condition-,2-
A-'where'. nature-is upon" the flew-ref! triai', when :the imixiediatCm
lximdgofideath'is' readyto'ipnt for eveijn period to .,.this, 'mortal- _
. life :fand' indeed fog- much 'c'ompafiion'f-kaii'l'to. .thismeat'utej: ~
' thatit was withoiflicuity-I r-ct'raineci fremTtears. fiat, hoWever,r-
, 'asanother fortofi c'o'nntengnce was nedc'fliar..y,-and'tetconvjnce
.--hi'm that I would? do. him' no harm, I took-him smiling bxthe
hand, tin-n iaug'hegia't .hiiii, and'pointing t0;the kid which-13.2.2.9:
';-fl;iin{-;'n'adc figns-t'o .him to fetch it,wz.ich accordinglyhc (113?.
,' . . . .. , . j . o

-l: ,

\
34.>> I, 1.1: 2, mm>>: Am. meme a 33582: -- '

Nozlefs' curious was he-in.viewing: 130w the creature-waskilled, .'
than he had been before in beholdinngelndiang', which, wbiie ~
he .wzaed-zniring at,.I charged; my gun: again,.__aiid .preientiy
perceived as great fowl like avhawk; perchingi-upon a: tree .within'. :
flint; aaaNherefiire, totlet Friday undenfianfi'what. IJ'was going,
tod'o, I. called him to me again, pointing-at the'ifowi-y which

I found; to be a' parrot. lmade him uhdefftand'thatl woifld'. '..

j fiinot and Thin: that bird ;, accordingly Ifired, and' Bade bing-
look, when immediately he-faiir the parrot fall down, Again? .

he flood like one amazed, netwithfianding..ail-I'hadifaiqgtoj;
himg and the more equoundedhe was, becaufe hadid nap"

' perceive me put any'ihinginto my gun; Undoubfeifiy a thingy.

f0 utterly. Mange, carrying, death aiong'Wit'h it,'. fai-pv near,

eitherto- man or beaijt, mutt carpet-21y grease Ithe greatteiizifbpniflis,
merit tonne who neverehad heard fuchia thing In' his wh'olehfe;

and weak?>> his amazement continued in; long, that had' I" allowed ; ,

it, 'h'e'vibiiid .hage motivated himfelfi befqre meand'n'w gun-,5
with thergreateit .worfhip ahd'atifzration... #5151: the gun in

- garticular, he'wonigignot i'o much as touch itfqr ieveral days ditch";

' atWoizid comesflc communicate. his-thoughts to, it,: 89ml}; wtoit, :-
as'ifthe fenfeieiis ieeehad- underfi'mdf Stuanii've'red hiirg ; ail this;
Leeuid perceive- im'do, when he thought my back-was turnsdtg
the tfii'cf intentcf whichv'waa, 'todeflre'itnot; tokiiL hingaeg.

' afieifwatds came to undaf'cand.

n

_ Meyer. ,flrove toaprewfit his ajzzxiratiotr, .ncr.iiihSSfei' iiim'frem, 1

' thofe' domicaigeftnres he ~ui'ed on fuel: occafipns;.;13ut wiien;11i$;_

afionimmnt' was a. lime-over, lmadetokeiis. tdhim to run and . .

Afctehuheufiatrez That Eihad ,{homf Whieh :aeeciydinglffmedigfl

4:?

fidying"_tbmeztixpe- bugle: mini-11171131,: by xea '0n~'.th,C/)blfid ngtqg'
piece "-ivhcife {he- 'feli'. .111 'ch'e meah time, asi'mjv'as iedki'n'g' fog. ;.
her; li-took theadiantage o'fmiarging m'ly' .giirr'agaim-nhett{013.f.
nfighfi be ready fee. any, other.maizl:;,thajt_,ofi'ere;i ;.but mixing-'5- '
more Occuriied apthat . time. So 1; brought home the-kidg.-anc_1:_ -.
the3"fame evening- tp'c-k ofl' thelfleinganddiiride'dthe' ,cag'cafegas,"
well' as_I.cculd.-' Part anthe flafh.;;E-Lte\ved: an'd'boiledg'i-n 33.P0i1~-:\ '
I'hgg.for'~ this purpnfe, . .And - then1'11preading' rrvyfitaiaieitt131;h
doivni' giang>> my-,,man..._fon_m' of it. to e'ai',' Who-was mandate-'1.
fully. pleafegi,;. and" .fe'erhe'd .to like it very-welt"; bin; What. mfg, .'
the: moitfuz'iprifin'gi' in him was to fee me eat 'i'ait with. Li; upbn;;_.}:
which 4 he made . me; underfiand, that . thefalt 'was' Vern bad;

.\baing"qi3it.e dead, had-,'Hut't'ered' PS21113: way: tin-ther-'i_'t'._om;_,','the,'lE

3'61;fme;:when.'SSi'1tting..-a.iittleinto his month>> he feemed' 'toif .\ '

.niiiifeate-it.imiucfiagmanner, a9-to,fpit.:.andPSTi'putter at ,it',:"an_d's;

then - wafhed 'his' mouth- witliifrefhi, water :: but to .ihewi him- how;
crmtrar'y his- opinion .was' to mine-,1 put i'omejneat intp;.my.j,,.;

mough withoutfalt, and-feigned to-.(piigai1C/,_ffiutter as. much-foe};

_thcf;\_yaiit.lof. it, a'gxhe hadidgnegtfip; yet. a thispmyedgpfng; . \
figmficatwn to Enday; end itinera- long: whiierheiorcshc cgulci-g _

. \.' 1- ~-
"'0F Rad-13 xiNl's'e N cfn f; as- 0 a. ' 335 . ,

(endure fair-in his fiieag-or -brofl1,'2nd-evm .then ibut-'a {mall
immitv'. -' - ' ~ .' ' -V .'
aiimns'flmfiing fed him fu'lficien-tly'nvifl-z 'boiie'd mea't'nnd broil:

. .iatj'tig'at*tirfimjlie' nett'flay I wastrefoived lQ- Fem him with
'aflxafficd 'giiece (if tbe'kid.' And having 110-!pit'tn-i'aflen it,
'_<<'1'lOi"jASSk"i.O. tnm~i:, "i made ufeihf'that'commoh' 'arf'ifice "viii-ch
' manvfo'f- the'Cmebn' [iez-iple of En yLind have that is: m- l'et two
poles 1:15:11 each file oi'fh'efire,'anSSl' onecro 310:: the'tnp,.:_-aySSg. .-
"ing't'ne'meat'thm'eon With'a-Itrihg, ahd f0 nth-wing rcun'd cczii;
mually; roaft it, in the Talkie manna-as wen-cad Handy ty-'
teants'df old cruelly roam-d the how martyrs. '_This prae'tice .
' cau'fe'd 'grcx'zt amnirationin my -n'~.'an Friday, bein'i: quite ancith- '
er' way than that to whichfflzc ('s'arvageswere accuflomc'd. But'
Awlien he-cax'ne'to tafi'lte the l'wisetnefs'and tendernefs of the-fiefh,
-'he "CXprechd his cntife'-fatisf'a&ion' above a thonfand difi'erent
ways. "And 5.51 could not "but "underfiand-'his meaning, You
may be 'Iur'eJ-was as mond'erfullv'pleafed. Efpecially 'when he
'=m'adc':5it alfo -vcr_vplain'tb'me, Ithtat-he-zwould never, while ~he ii;

' wed, eat nfiiniseiiefh more, . - ' 5 '-

. l't_ was-now high t-iriie I {hoiuld *fct'my-fervflnt' tow'ork': fo
mextday I fez-him to'beabout fome com, and'lirtit in the fame '

. "arnmmer as '-I- had"done before. ' And wavy-me fellow was vei-y '
quick and hand-y in the execution of anything I ordereflham
'to gm'abeu'c. , 'i' made~him1SSndc~rfiand that it was to m'ake'bread -

' ,for us PS6,191, and afterwards let him'li'e-mFRPke it. in fhmfta'

. die did e-veiy thing- as I. ordered him, and'ifi'a little time 46 wellq V
. as'Icould'pcrfbtm it'myfelf. ' . ' 7 ' ' ' - ' -
' 'But nnwicsnfideringtlmt I had two mouths to fee'd inficad
rot one, it wat: neceflhry that Imufi prqyide' more ground for my
hawefl, and. plant alergex quantity ohcom than I commonly
' ufed to clog-upon which "I mp-rke'd out a largei' piece of land;
'encihg'ir, in,'ir'L the'fame' manner-as] had done before; injthe '
execution o-fxvi:iC/li1~mufi_.,gVe Friday this good word; that no
man- could Work, ~Incite hardy crwith'better will than he did;
and -\vl_1&n'i'..n~.ade him ife'hfibl-e that it 'was fit bread tO'ferx'e
him as' $7611 36 me, he then very-paflizmteiy made me under; '
Raid; :that hethhught '1 had much more labour on his, -ac_'-
~<<bounty_t-han'.l'1':adfor m'y'felf {and that no winger-diligence -

' 'o'ul'd 'rb'e \vamin'gin him, "if-1.xvcyuld but diree't him in'thol'e. :'

. vi-arks-whei'ein lie-might prqe'eed.' - ~ ~_ _ .
- 1"mu'it, certainly own, that'tlzisewas'tke m'oft'piaafimt yearil
:QVCr'iiad on' the iii-and ,3 far after '~Tome_vtime,'1[riday 'beg'ahT-Ito
talk pl'est'y' 'well'; and. mndegfide_dl'thenames of' thde things
which *1. was wont t0'~call'for,"SSa'iitl' th'e'places when-74 "iidhd {0.
fiend'him. 'Soihai-myicing fileht-~'t6ngucjj," Whichiha'd bier! ufea
445; " {0' many- y'car's,.;EXC/ept-r Iii: '21) ~eXclainatpry' <<thinner; ti;
\ thcr 'for' deliverance ' .or sbzeffings, new beganj'to ibe' cc'wpie'd
<<iri'teirching, and'~ta'lki-ng -t'o my *mian'rl'zidayg fdr-'fihdeCd :1 hii'd
<<Inch-a :fingular' fatisfaetion in the fellow himfelf, Io innocgg.' ,.36 . "L! 151:>>: AND A-D vneN'r'U-nes.

did his fimnle and unfeigned honeflzyappear more and. morexto.

me evei'y' day; that I really. began entire'ly' to love him; and

" for his part, Ibelieve there was no "love loft, andthat hiana-V
t'ure' had been mare charmed by his exceeding 'ikindnefs,'and his.
alfg'eti: nf; mrre placed' upon me, than am," othei-gobjee't whatf9-'

. ever amt-n his own counrrymenf I once had afgr'eat'mind 'to
try if he ha any hankering inclination to his own country again;
and byzthis time having learned the Englifli {o well; that he
could give me tolerable anl'wers to any qne'itien which l'giemah-
ded., I afkedhim whether that natioiifito which. he helong'ed,
ever conquered in battle? This queuing: made Friday. to fmile, '

-, and to which he anfwered, Tex, yes, <<we alwaflfgbi tee'betfex,'
as mtgcig-as'tolay, they always got the better-m .fight."Upon
which we prcceeded on the following difcourfe : Ton/a}. {aid 1,- .
that you always flake-toe Jetter 5 wbj,,t}2en,"Fridaj, bow came .
ya'utobe taken prf/imer? . . ., . _ . a
. Friday. But fora/1 that'm} naiion beatmuch. _ . i ' ,

Mailer, How fay you, beat! if jour_'nation omit/5e02, bow
cameyou to be'ta'ken? _ , . . I 'v ,. t

"Friday. The} more marzjmam' tban, my nation in (tbe place.
_w/J'ere-me and: ,- tbqv tag: one, (two, three, and me : m} nation
much over beat flow: in {be yonder place <<where we 710. (was, were
my nation-mag15.lveat one, two, tbree, great toty'and.' ~ ' ~ .

Matter>>; Teen-ebb} didpat-your megerecowryou fiom tbe' band:

.0 {outfienemfen' - '3 . _ ' . . .' '3 '
<< 'riday; The} run one, two, or three, and me .' the} make' all
"go iii/fl): "canoe; my nation-bare era-canoe tloa'ttime- .. V 3 .-

. Mallet. "Ti: wry well, Friday; out whatdoesyoim-'(mtion do
{wit/.1 the priflm'erj: they take? Do {tbey tarry them away and eat .
them a: toe/e bewe done ?- . - .. -

Friday: rages, p.19 nation eat man; too, eat goal]. ' i _.
' >> Matter. Tow/oat place do tbej oarr} tigem to be devoured 3 ., '
Friday. \'Go to ot/Jer nation: where we} lbine. -

. "Mailer. Do, we} bring tbem loft/oer? . <<

g Friday. 1" e5, come 01m: bitber,.co'me' our other olaee. ,
Maker; A114 'loa'ueyogt beenxwit/otbem fire, Friday? . .
Friday"- T-'ex, me beefl'bere, (pointing to. the north-weit 9f the,
, - inand, beingthc fide where. they 'ufed t9 land.) ' . ..
'Thusjhaving. 'gottcn' What account-[could from my mama
plainly underflood' that he had been as badas an of there-l):
of the cannibals, having been farmeglvamong the avagesvwl'io _
ufed to come '0'!) jhoxe -_on. the. farthelt part ef the ifland, lip:- .
ontthe fame'r'blq'ody 0QQ85.0Q~.,.33.h.EUR, was brought hither ion; :
and fame :time after I, .cartiedg-ljim to that place .Whe 'ehe oints- ' -
ed {and po'fopn'ee_did.he come-'gthere,_hut:he prc enlly new" - -

;the,,ground,' fignifyingito. me' that he Was once there; "when

they ate my twenty. men, two. women,.fand 'a .yqujng c'hllcij'.

but as he $08111 not explain the. number; in;EnglSSh,'.h: 31%

v -. ,'m . '. '.. 'c.' --

'. M _ '_ _._ '--2 l . 1 . ..v TI-VWVW

101': 11503-5131.:11-'5'60 N' 01:. 035:0'115'1-3 "3'27:

41113141? {011111031 drones 111 "a 1010, mtikiiig a'. .3ng 10.313111010100011:

t' em.- .. .

This, pafi'age 11111115 'the rathei'. mentioned becaui'e 11 led 10'.
things more fimp'or'tant' a'nd'e ufeful 'fdr'me to 200W,2f01 aftetI
11110-2 thw'fatnfae'tory difcou'tfe' with. him, my next queition was-,2

w'far it was PS10m the iflaii'd. t.0"' the, 01010, and; Whether th j
ea , ts were not 'often" lott'mrthe ocean :9 which he aiifwere
'11} "0' 9,1103" '00 glariger, that, 720 PS022,621,: were PS11," I fl, (but. tbgt, after.

3411' fig way but. #9 the" fed, W161": .904: a}: rpn'g- 'euz're'gt qm'i

'a ti 124511400]: 0120' 1:09} in ii): 'eflembonr his I think}; h't at")
11111 '10 11151110 111010105111" the fets of the tide, ef-going 011001"
-cortu'iig 'iigf-iihi, *3 hilt I aftetWarda iiiideritdod itwas- becaiioiied- by':
'the. grfitdraughtand 1:09 .111: ,of the mighty, Yriver 0100110110, 111,,
"the 1'11 11th 01" ulf of which 'I imagined "my' <<king 0111 11111271.an

' that? ,thi; .i'a'nd whichi'l- pet'ceived' to the W.,a,ij11d -..W. mii'fl: b}

the gtea't ifland Innidad, 011.3,;'the 001th, of the rivet-'1 .'A .'thbu'. ,
{arid 'q'ueRi0hs. (if that. wouid': i'atisfyfme") did Iraik'Friday 21591113-
the" natutexof the-1 country, the fee; the cba'i'fts, theqnhabitantsy
and what" hath-11,111,. 3w ere nearei'c them-C. To whichtqueflions they
111001'1'01'1019' Alecia-Ed 'a'il hewknew With the greateit epeiitiefs 8: 1'11>> 'L .
moit finecnty. W hen I demanded '01"- him the particular: namesof
'th'e" unmismations of his 1'01; of people, he 00111112011131, 311131000,
1110. in genera! that they, whrel gaiied Cari-215,291; IIei'iee git-11128. -L

..~eoiifide1"ed-ithat\thefe 'mui'c Be'ethe 'Catgibtes, 1'0" ,m-ticii- taken
notice 01' by, -o'11_1,' 11111113 to b.1111that"partdngnierieI,which-3: ,
treaeh'es from :the 011th 0f the: -i"i1,'ver- 0100110110 {to Guiana, 3,: .
and, {0'00 103311;" ,='Ma the. . Then. Friday ptgceed'e'd 'to' fteil-' site,"- 3
"1,5,0?" afa'a': grqat cilia}: '01:;th 1350' mom, as m'uch its-10' fay, 110-"
'yb'nd, the iettin .of, 1,11" 01001;, which m'uft be W PS1010 theig, .

'_'c0unt'11y', "1501-: fall.- 4:1,} I: 5023104 721:>>, fuel; 03119005, poinb-
'-ing_ to my _wliifl:'e'rs, mid 21501? :52. 2H!" much '_m'a'm'. I, was,

>> 1101:" ig'iit'imn't 'win'th' what baibaritsy 1110;503:0000. trehted' the'fe

creatures , an' that I psefemiyw mended it, 1111191., h'etthem, 0110113: .

- <1zruelties had fpr'eiid thrcugh'eut America, 11,0. .190 remembflrcdi. '

'eveii to {11000001113 generatxons. 3. -'.<

"'0"; you may be," .1110, this knowledge whieh,7'the'1mperie&

_ hij'o'wie'dge ofimy man hadlvd me t0. f'was- 'v'ef'y- -c,0mf01"table t0 , , .
me ,sand 'madc mic fox 0111101157,: t0 zif'ic' ,him, 11,011 I, m ht- depart
110111; 'this' ifland,' '8: get ainongit' thbie white men. P The 1.0101110,
'2"?e".1',ye;1, 1 flight grin humans";11111100111100,111,011 ht I,
whit does my man.1x,1ea11."fiirel'yfi he means ciie it'd: hiifi'fei and.
30110ther'f01 1110:3116 ifm0t}, h'ov'i'i 51111113 two" 01111003996111.- 311110..
withtm't: being j.0"i,n,ed, 01' one 0913120511151 body. being 'put in, one,
and mathen m imoth'ef? . , {And indeed, it was ,a'long' time before

' I lmderflood his meanin'g, 'which was," that, it 1011?; he a' large
,0 211,":13. bi'g'. "as two eJnoeB.',~'abIe~ to bea'i' hvith the waves, and not: ~
T09 liable to Be" overwhelmed as ,3 1111311 one mu'it b0. .3 ,-

I bfihve Wthere' is 110t' a- III-11'0" 01' lift but What 1111,1532 be hip'py, i5" -

people. would but endeavour iforthei'r part to makeit {0: .He'
, 3' is

 

l. -.. -- ~ - "\'I
PS8 1.1m: Am; AQVENITUREs

i5 hpt- the #191516me 611616 has'the mutt richer .1111: 116'. 1166.
1'13 content ta.111jth'. What 116116111; "18662166 I had my- Icrv'mt' '1:-
4116153116 tfiyt'eelf m'I-i'able tit! I'hfi 'hi'm"; acd'n'ow thaw Bid. -

1:6!!be 8611 thexhapp bebo'itsnflnmJ 6111 complamed 111811-6633;

' fied 2 dhliee'tanc-'e, froml'a" 6,1866 (of fefiremznt' ;ea'fe',- ind $162151,
whcmftbvi'dehee had fqfliciently Ulefi'eci I216?" . ,In dfirer
tfivi8; time 'I.6nt'ert2111ed PS61216 PS16666, mat-1611681116619 09116an-
gist fixtdrah opportunity to mgkga my 6I63p6fr't1m 11118 11121116,
tISat rthit pm? @236 m'ght he '6- great furtherance (shim-q '

AI! g: 8511661166 1'11 mmbecamevfu mteflggent zsrt'o 5117'

:3:Ita'iid-' Ipcal: td .(tiea'. I Ipat-'ed nb pair's tibr 'd'ilf'g 61:66 1' 'r'

.g. flint}; Ififii', accordmg to my. pod: 6111:6819 tnottfledgd.m' thU"

' . ' 311161186 61'- reh'm gton, and: the adqratmnvtflat 1116;- might toipav t'o'.
- 6 1111112 Gm; 066'- time, is I very 11.611 remember, 12,3666!

' hI-fft- Svfia. Iti'a'de Iiii'h}? At fii'ft lc'hg mndcent creaturefixd 11w

' _ afldcrfiand what I mgafig, shut rather-$11013 'h't I alked'hitit- wh'o'

: 1105811111; father? 11150:: which ItdOIt" randthtrwzay' tqflfiuk'c hm'ii

- '_':febfi)16 II? 361111211 dig Item hi'm an; efiI-W'er Ito this quefimm-
" Fridgtg, ' 512181356 with? ibit' tHat; made. (:56 1'62,"- <<this gaunt;

- wheramf'fve Wa'L 'and'- all thtfe bit-Iii 131111 woods {vhfch wfle'tb'ci- ;

. field. and here, mdeedfl thrif- h'et miL'I5'f my fntertmn fo'n .

. - h'e' toId'me it? was; UIdBenamurkce {.(tIae- G5'd" 'w'b'o'tfii 'I-' fu'ppOftd ' .
<<111' f6 fawages adorcd' <<fa/.16 126E? 'a' greatnuiy bfiopdaalie 18111" as .

Si" xs'attnbutes, pbdt Fmay 1175s a'n' fitter. It anger, Hie 3:611ch

dtfmb riothmg o'fi' this great'gperfon Rn'd' 211:" that'- 1163601111111
jefayf _Was,' 'tbmf '52 <<tom- run'y aZia. much 013w- dba'ndfiejera 6'le
(gland, 't/Je'maon, 61- 2121-, flaws" "Friday, "131619833111, 'Nif this

.~ .gr'e'at' 21651251561611 Ii'a's made 211 t PSth 111 thierworld :hibw
'1 ._ .cbh'tcfl it It.>> peI'aa that ailmhmgs, as' y 11::i11 partrcular. de'iitot

Cgadore .and'; [war-{hip Mini-1" 11pm)" thiefiooltmq ny 3-1286; w1t-h at

2 perfeet-Iwect leek- pff Innocence we're plied; Mar/5'6? 1:211] 1522':

fa), Q to 1):)>>, by- Which '-it .mzy/reatanhbly b6 fupyofed -
meant ,Adorat1on.".'aeuid av'r'116r'ezr," -I2111 I, " '66 the 1160131606

; you: Cbuntry 'go when they di6., " 1116' arefwcredemamz/ckeex

' "What, and th'eIe' peepIet'dhat 3&6 eEXICII' 11p, "(10'- they go ther'e'. 3" ,

enamuciee, {aid 1%,;- '10!th tm' dear?) , xwe' {frail for Behamuckze'
711% canoe, 'rmd Hammad" would 1412: me: <<when it} eats? me
"$15511 d1fwm'fos 1181:1161}: had'I with my 111311;; 111111 {uch made

"1:1?1'1161'61151116, fhfa't th'e 113116.666 is Wetflup d; tIio' undqnxmy

Eartha hm'lhttx'des v 'and that the {3116' 20 ranch whichwthe ;

62'1I16'na @116 to 115631" imag inimi- Dexty, 162's 'gr'eat an argument

6f .136 611171116 6862166531116 613516261163 AthafiffiaI/'rb 39

 
   
  

e I'p'

 

;'efronf

<<oi/adj? ea'n' Im'ng ;gainfi at; 1 or 603 Iyili' b6 lcnfied m hi8 " .'

;, >>W01'kC/ let "the'rl. 3,6110 muons 66 what it.- Wing-71, *-- fa'i'zd'l- 62:11:19: '
116'. of that o ifiiq'n-i "$111? lathe, coh'ceme, that? 663-1316616665
<<BI--66 tfie'i'i- to '6 damned 61" want 2192' r)?' ght' fi'otion otrfmth :in a

- . .411366 Where .816 wmtotn 6.5 161% 233161ng ha}: 110% 116111111ch

'1'".

._~

--'- - .. In 7
' ~"4-*'. "' I. r?' 1"! x .-- v v "'r- 'wp.
. . . 'y

_ _ :pyfi' Rots-41:33:15}? ._.;$:3LflSS 912;: - :39a
1min be. mahhed-azmg...ther.ef<iPSSS~tflfifieiehut$913-$359.ethat \
._ :. ,. finoe' Qfic:EUR16gncie,-iSS;_PShC/ belt 4qu'fiee;"thefe'moticrtgf-uxee, :aauag:
.-:.b'.y.5Y=t'batglight -'and;zkngieg!gC/ fihwh may ' age...pq%PS9q 9f: may"
-?;-;uhdouhPStd!y ebtain 3.231an Piaivztigns .athouzh, mm; shgt 5ande
. .imgfit'mh. .Chriit'x. as: his mints; <<Idnfeflbrgr'ighsiimaflfia' muff:
5 : ~61) 03'! "Ln-:1. ' 1. "a? '5 -'.<.-2".',-,"L. 9"" '3. J' "" V ' r; 'fi-z'" 7f" 5'
; -,.- -Limb'Iau'yiQE--t11.efe',detbrmihatim8.'a'fidti'lfishfcifik'fmdwalefiithafl' -
" 1:16:10jdifc'qfs',~_Igbegan t'O'ihfirue}.-my7PSemSSmf3.1111111}?*favwg' :
: _' Mamiedgeofihbbgue Deity,-'in>>which"thei dgcfilnng-Qf-G'od'b '
, ~. HUM".-SSS1r1itSSa:afffited._,me.C/ .l iifihdmp my'haads{otficavfimiaaw
: .mi'ut-iag. theme); 'etolcj whim , . ". that C/h_e..g'ite'a';x-MakC/ffl 9f Heme}:
and :Emhiijvga' there. 3 ~' that as'-his'.iofinite- mews-ngfqlh'igned: .ghm
,. '. '4vpfid'-01SS:E(c)f;a .confu'fedfghaos, "sand" mega: vnlhfitifit'wtfiu}
gfiame whigbfwe .hglxpld'; t'o' .Eliegamma.-anflprefgrgeaifiby'fiie'
,. :mnb'qundcd:knowledQcfibWRifi greatneisaand .pggulia; pryie' ,
463:ch 7;-:thati-:he-fiaspmnipgfem; thh'ld do, wear-Shthizig {army
'~ .,:; gimiemcrfihing-tbmhg and' :t'akc' every ethng"'aWSS?-~ mom-.4113 ; '
-";"fi11SSPS=:11'SSzw38' a hammer and . punifhsr of :ggoicfiyandgnl 33216.38 .4
. - : .thaC'thcrel was-:mzhiflgibumqhat -bc'-hi1.C/20'3:,20SS -flxC/nSSht$'.'(9 ice
- -. emf, .but.-_wha'c.-he~.cemd bri-ng.:to'iight ;-~'-'-.md-.t,h.1.!s,*bx:SSieg1;qee,-
" --.~I ppmied - his- C/yes.':~and'idbkribied' {0311513 " hhc mahh'et'nfttW '
reheatiow .09 3215:: .mbrids-'-t4iC/ flinatim flfiivfiradifei Writflfifflcfi
' V'fiO--i' :Offim'firfi parenteithe wkthedhtfgpfGoquztcmimzrpeh- .
: ..xeipkse'aaC/"t15PS' nnmnW'figm-and' -.-ahoriunetiona ,ot _ the :whole' '
_. gleam-ha?! -;:_'WhC/n.'t_bCfe gt'l-'iingg were. it'n 'Wini'bis'rmind, 41.49%:
.gghimgsfxthgt as .de'bjpfiidefyvgs .mixafitp his match its :rggbiggt
: gzo :deflh'oy'thi's modd4.1;ill:biaeficnflflfiw'mifiinfflreefefiiaxow
.:bchalPS-;g-.anPSi,,. poxpiocureeotinzrecfempticn,' 5mm: Jam off-his
. :ziieaxenlyu'F-a'aherfio exam-160ml :frwn- Ream? -' #:1th She world>>
' .x 4 .mhere bciioolg'ahmhhfnamrgupon himyinfimei'cdwin mitt-may
,: to ete'rqal' 14ny ands-climaxa {aerificefqr ,onr Aim; may-(beams-
i. mow afcefidsdmmficg'icn, mediating <<for ow. ,ardonfidciiyefing"
'-- :1 5 T'.;onirr~pet.i.t.iet='=:; and @5131}:ng -a'il,:th6{SS gcpd. cihetfitahviiiehjm
an; inahia nameybrfhhmble:andtheanty prayers, "all. which-wane \
- ~.-.-:heand:at.:thc'uthhc cfflmvcpt??? A's-my h-eque'ntlfi .ufed tp- '
a. 2, incplcafexhings-jnto his mihdg-'Ttiday .oxjc da'y >>t_oide_me,'rbgz:_;SSf
. '- .' <<infirm? W .941!!! :fieaf my Mind i t!>> flim' .174 my); iambic a
' . ' igheazf'eth Gad {ban their ~, 853129211456"; ecwboj' 53:24:>>: .a'Jmlelgbgy'
. 3%.14113; Jet --cpzd;{ 'tjot VJJ'ea'r them iii-1' leey' ya'ce'neied'fbevgfmt'
' _' (<<mowit '13,-_._g;i!3ere be 1:19;!) tofime';to.fiPSi1m :'5': ,hgt} Jeiqlgfi-fiErL-
{id/4Y1 d7: you-"gal thither so. fpeau .tohim toof'SS_,"-,~He'yaC/fw'c'red', No,
-- 1523;71:2th wen-t. {bit MeteijgglnngL-ng. jg'zazze :b'qt :ald. :gizeIr,'-'t4lleC/
'-.:;tbciri-z'100flguaeakfe,' .heanixigf the. Indiagi pri:e_fi:sSS1{ibbq-i:z0egi2 tp~
-: jay 30, (if-a 3 imprinted (ayiqg theiglprsiyet-s )V-and' 1/522}: ,'wtemiedabgz'ce,
WY=q14._,tbem's;c=(2at;B'eiza}ngmeee jaidi firefi'mfience", Lab'nld-tnot
' -~...-tbut obiieizyc'nhnwuhfipPYizxvg' C'hnifiLa-fifi 3:652; 'wll'o'have- (IS-0:123
'-'- .i'rngmcdiait-c} :r'evsiation - stimf-'our-acma'in- guide-:5 'afind that'edur faifi:
~- :z=-:is-nfeithcr.-mifleds:uOr-ouiwreaibh -i;mpg.fedzppoh,C/:by anyg'et

magifichafimhefeflmiaysixrfmi'cu'rssh...-1_. , .: _ ..
' 1>> .' -"1'z '* -, "But!

~~ .4 '-.' ~'. I
. \V'

<<90 my E: amp 'A'D'Y'IE'N m u 1133-3:
7 . But toiclear upthisfialpabie their; {0' my man ngdairgil'tgfde ,
' him, 'z-"V'thsg theixpretencc ofvtheir-iancient'ngn going up"'10~
, thq mountain to-fay" O'to their-Godflenamzekerg. was ap'iinpbfa_ _
' "jam, 3 andr that their"bringingbackan'jan'fifieg,'Wasafl{a {hamyifw
L moment ,; --f0p'tbat,.if'the.'re<<wa,s any fixch.thih*g'fpakeri'to them;
51rd); j; mutt. roceed from. an'in'femal .fpixig.'~'~:fAncF berelrI-w '

' ',th'ougift.it netetaw'to encep-'into'avzlbfingxfobm'felWith/him"'
7*WhiCbI961dete'f this'mann'er. -~1 ' -'. -' "5; - -, '7 i} : - .~. '
'f!'Fridayfil'ii'a'id'1'5." you. mutt-knew, that ; Eddie. 't-h'i'sf Wafid}

! was mmg'.' therewas?an~.-Almighty_~power -_C/'=xifcin'g, hinfihjofe'

' Lpbwcr all; things~ 'werqmadgiaqdfi'whcfe'Maj'efiy'tfigglljfhafie-Ito .

reads: ((1%) be glorified and e'dared b'y '- beisg'aqu 1a; heaven-Ii nam-

' . .'tu'rcg'heljc'xeeted angels; and-fatchangels;.thate'is-gglori-fic'd fpi'rips. __

; Idembling\,'hi'_rhfclf-,,_ 19. cncompgafs his ,thronegj'etemauy.' fingifig'
-- forthwhie pnaifC'in"the 'mofi' heavenly {bands and'fiivine harmony"

-- ._ And; amongjhisjfheaqenly choirJJucifcrzborea gre'ist: fwry, .a's be>>

ins; then pm of the pcqnliev' - favburitcsfijfhelc .celefiialabqflew ,.

'. - butfic; ' cgqt'far'y. {0- that; duty - be: Nowfid- his he'avenly'ngef'cigfi', ' ~:

. With uanhndadgingraxihide to hi; Divine'Cr'czton not :2th can
, viedfghim'tliatf'adoratioh'which: was hiiflfifipbfl tlmughtato n-r
' iiirgfihatjt'hmne; ..whieh';-h'e:: had' neitherf'power to keep;- 96;..-

. -' tifle-tafpretehd- to,- i. Heftafied'a -difi'C/n'tion*'a_'nd' civil Wamn Beam.

' 'fifi, "and;b'adja'~n'umbEURr--'Offangela $9,;t23ge11i34 rt;;."uUnboundJ--. '
'cdf'idllfl.Jtt'zpend'oua" prid'e Ho'hope" or, vi ory',.,anjc}'-a'f "f '
' agb'ovc; his p'owerfulfcteatorvti Th e. Deity,"~v,n o't fem-fa! 30f ~. '19}?

T an; 'en'tmy'; 'yct'jumy. , provoked atthismfehelliou, dammiffionedr '--
'M's 'archangcl;Michael~' 'toJead'fsrth .91 caheavenly-hjofi; any! giig-
' him- battle- ;-, thSS_-._ad{antage - of {which was>> quickly" pexecfve'd, .
by Satan's beiq'gpvertbrowml 'and 'the; princeaofi' the -' air; for {o
;- Was" thezdevil called, with'all hig'fallefi".afigfels,~,_.driven'r'Shad-'-L.
' hug-into:3'djfmai,:p1ace'C/~whinhjs.nailed Hulk.- '. ' 'j
, . a-Ighje'fifkecitglfef this truth; m, dc mya'mn SiV'e' 3?} Efeafefi'z .
aztmfiqnj' and he expreffqd'a fr'eaxszi'atisfeflion byfilus _gefiu.res,,;
{hit-iG'od'had- {envtbc devi ;into'- the.d:?pnhclcz~.= And this
' .1-defired.zj.him_j,'to give great; 'hcedzto'jwhat 1' h'ad~fr-PSm'ther--~
"iii?" ' W H ."1.
' '..-u {TO-'fo'Onergf'"-pr.eceeded if; " Was Gect'freed-from; .a'nd the-
- Heaven cleat'hfiths arch-traitor, but the Father 'i'peak's'tn' thgi.' .
? flan: and'I'IQly- Spiritywho' belangedto-his efle'nc'e; anqrwcren
'eq-ual' to him id power: and 'glory,,,Gsme _-let-~.w-.maSSgijnmn.= laid" h'g' "
if: bur~"osiz,jzi.lienhgeg\after- at); Eaawylifemj/Ir, . Gen. 1.126, .10 hag;
-_ d'oayimc'ambver-the creatmqs'ofthc work!which'wehave'crcht'ed.'\
A n'd ,'tfihefe .iiedntcnded mould "gloxify 'himfjn Heavenyiacgprding; 7
- $6 theirbb'edien'ce linthia Rate ofvprobatisn'on-eaflh. which: W38.-
ag'litywere,' to Bathe fehool-te train- them- up far. theta heavenly; ..
~mja'nfions.' 'Nowg'jSatan {eeihg himfeIE-ffoiledf; yet-u that. Gfide' '-
had-{telkgani the, o'Werfrom- hum-L38 prince of 'the'Lairg, which
, pGWer'ZHeave'lidgsignsd-fhe fhoul'd retain, <<thereby-1113 cgcat'ur'esv'
.. mixhtbdricdsjn Iflwga'fersthe. difgyacc hmbad recewedfleeSSw_
.5"? - ' --. .' ' - Z temgsfi' \

Ix

\

n aeafiai oEiNS'OH'mK WW " . {539% "

' d

impts- adm'$~gwifg,fiEireggto .fifiaqfthdtree .bfzknowleglgg' dt'.

. . -.'-'geb._dagm-!i:eiiygsuepighffig 0:4 , hajdr- fbrblddgh LE; -HC/5appeat$SSofiher'

. mafie'ifimpeyofdifd'or' , fitgietheinfl:mfi-i.bgaufifttls' cram-9;; and"
@1131 yhje'n; wait-Ems; . e?- befier" 14112311 gn'fi'mpositiot'zyfi-Whichfiod"
PS.'SS;-i1ajc_l<-pntl'i'; 9x1211'e'r-taad'353r'rbnib-3nd;not'to'Leaffgfz'tlngtifiair=PSziait'

; -. gwhjighfhg Ehafii qfiegtedg'smaae 'th'e: ridge:stgcrgqfuioukrmgkget'btm-
inimdttal-"likgfi ' f; :himfel'fi';;SShd ecchfgaugutly' 'ae'zzffie'atisand' ~
'- vgowefihl'a'he}, evppfi wlgiehiihge' 'n 01; "onfytegt' '..SSh,ere'<':ff ,'h'et'fflfr '

~ 5, (It;madgiltcjfihuflyafieceag=31fo;Lavhicfi:Bfought-fi them Bath-figderh .

..C/Y~tSSC/lheeyenlyxlfifplSSaiprefi;91., : _-'_: - '1. ~.'.-.; 31.32:.- 33;:1 .

ge-Herc afir'idafi-gxptgfidfja .fgfceai".edncem':".x4Y=:,~jszfiq6r {(2)va !'

' -:.:.eriedehqsmauSSb&<woviameifzaigbvfdawlrflmaieflamot1931?:We: -'

' %1mm,i,>>mk2<neans>Iieefimifiibzfgbfl-- ~ - .-j '

' ; L .1'.'.Ffida;,-'.faitdzl', 'God {tillJoyed.mahkisdgatfidkthoughsthcflail"
=7C/C/mpSSC/dslSSutnaxmatarg-{tiffar'gbe mum :-nbtifuflenib Mic-ham jam,

"Hanna;ppmrzovfirethcm: '1. fiaveatdeYGU:bevaeioffhitterfdhr ' -
v-jlpvewto'1hi53pesipije, tililgthkyfg lilte'LugifefiyfifQBefiM lhis' {chm -

, T'Jmaads'v" 39d rebE'lled'.gginfi :himffynnd' {Ven5'4thehy7 :h'dw- '

'.\
...

i efizs- '
, fibriffygfiisfforfly Sqnszcagmeto fave fihnersij' 218% ,'Ifillf scvav'ffgime ,
' - 'itt'hflt'eirifis' in -'the-.:.v9r_!d; ls'Lund'er temptatidn{and-3mm};"inviThe-zd'e.
.zgjlzmigag 3mm __paii'SSxSS,- :31; Eprinee :gof -,th'ez.air',r>>.~'to fuggefif' evil'ifcegi-r
' '~~_{tPSti'013_3SSin'ourmindS-y ahcl1ptdmptusaonf;tb',&zicke'd-saC/'taons;that ~
" >1.SSlSSe'-:SStSSnght".gleriy;,in jdx'n'! sdgefix'nefien ' 1thth -. 'eiiil "th'a'u'g-hts '_
' gfimeiefihage; ;' _pr706ceg1'-;.tteuij- 11m; 'flfo ; that'Go'a in thio 'out'}.'diltiv'effs,'~
mfigeasewgdhpgild'appli QOu'rfe-lves 'Ttbdfihm'byuterfient. lpre'yerr
.- . 4 gr:{pegdr.rgdtdh.._re'2-Hciiinot' like-fiekamutimcto'let'gxpngcom
?' jmajt,' shirngsbutafloqvaxfakee; :but- 'jfufiegs . thgifiedpk', as Men; .29- ,
-' ; fini'tfifis'fiq? ' sn-themfelm Lat-his-fect'," tyrrbhy.;gdefie'.eddisereSSii
'9'"9-3."RWPWPFBM'rfimPtafiOflOf'thefa'ff-'Vfllfut-r"'3"; .. '
' "24-?Butgxh6figh; at-firitm-yi. man".Fr.i_'d?;y~expr_.e-fli?d fegng' concemfajt"
" ' "($129 vwickednefsu OfajLucjferflzfonnd zit not: {01323431 ' 1 to ixzipl'int'
.-"i"{tlie}';1'fight-..notidnqgf-ghjigxiin3fiis'fliibd;"asget ms mbmutithgekflivihc.
utifikacerI0f.:@0di;'aPSor3tha,rbmane; afiififlt mbftiqfifilisz- #21>>
"':SSn'e?ntSS,th'..lhmygfp'himzphirfly.zthcznecdfit-'ypfia great {13% cagfey
_- tan'd ,oger-mli'n'gt, governing pomegrcfiwiegrgt '.da1':C/etia'g'.vai- .- \
.' .edggcggzand,fothg.;gqgity-Lafid'rcefdnablone-fs<<ofiipaying'_{adoijation "
- 3136;031:105:th-::v'wh,e'rcas% r't-h'grc' appeared: inbrbipg. .<SSE:--'zH--~:t<<hiis-
-' {in thenotion 'o'E-'anzev'il; '1'pinit,'-.__ o'f" his-firfiubg ginning,':r'his: 1133 any.
.'ax1d'SSs'abdye val 1,;va 1 his-.1 ihclinjation; to.'zcvfl'axetidn'sfiandghisgpqwg -
_ --eSS,.,t9~ 'temptwua ito.L-thlC/'-Jilz'C/;( And.indeed-;fihis.:uY=SSlC/3_;fneSS1;szg,ge '
: , -; bytfthmterg 'fe'r'c'euoflnature,pi1mY=ed mcrgwith {EURer ;QartfC/u;1SS?f ,

. vquefliop;(r)o'rcthan~emrl cofildahave 'qxpafieddi- ,9>>. . ..
. ;- '.':-I;;I;ad,git it'eefius;one...day,_g-beta:alking;rq- mm' quthje' .omniggoT-r
'gtE-at; powev'gbfcfloa, amt; Iii-3; infingm' abhorrencaflpfi'fin, \. 31::er
. mg}::tha'it-zt-hefizScriptuteiejfiyled'him a foigfumiyig:fi_l:e '1:an t_hC/_'~
' :- fflQlkaerijh-iquity '{ aw; thag;.ipfu'r,as~in;his ppfler,flhencv'crSSxes_
ypleaiedynto' :gkftroymll: tliergwmld .in a "moment ,,:':thc {grater-part:
eiwhich areacdntinuallxqfi'cn'difig'~h'im--- .r
' ~ ' "Ls: ' ' , ' Wise-m
~- 19".?>> 1,1213%? 'AN'n-s'rA-fiVfiNm'u-amsa

Whefn, 'withfa; ferieusc'fittention;Shev'hadE-'lifte'nqd 'fi'zgflqtz
- twhile, to what I faidg'aflzef-J-'had been-tailing)him-*how-the 41C/}th
C/ "was -..G.'0d'3.encm'y in the-hearts ofmen',;.and'fuPSed-_allihismah'ce? -
- and flailing, defeat the geodr'dafigna ofstidc'nce, and defirgyi-r
Eleekkinggsrgigf Chriftfiin uthe' -wor]'d/,_'a'/r;d- fd'forthfl' 71:7; <<(11:11,; _'
0' PS295.: ' .;_:4C/ay,' 011,41, 004173" 0' ;rohg}fo'a reek-1'1! 'Jemo'tf-u
. m'ugb'fli'ang; 3 mac/r: mgbfiefr 1.5.13.1>>: .haugbly;'de531?=> $'.~rTq tbs. ,
- fare,' Ftida-yl.' {aid ingo'd is more wife-and figongemhan "the .
- fervent. : ..he,is-. abn've the. devil, which; mate's-Ens fpray-g to. him>>. ~ .
, that-he Would t'rea'd down Satan unctcs hi_&-fc'at?',*e;z'able;=us to reg t z
1 siftathe'violen't temptatien'sitand quench his fieridart's-et' Mb}..- -
. c IbmfianfweredsFt-idg'quickly'h'fGod,ar'jqufqys bbnmucbflron'g"
\ . math migb! a: :5: devil, Ewe, ;GodC/{1C/o-V.Ieill.;d:C/ePSl,. pagan-no 'n'zan'v .
' ' 1e27Y=f511031rh0redotwirkeda '1', 3. - .' '- " ' ._ I \ v- _
. .911 may beast-stain; I..Was.firengalyffufiptifed'at-thiaqqcflmn"
- 9f.-mY=.man's',:fand,"'thq'pghfan' old Lm'an; I Was but :agyoung:
' 2- (ham, .andzconfeguenflyl Very?- ill .- qu'ali-fifed for a, caufixitt', .91" a".
' r'gfolvcr of, intricatefiqubts? ia~_-reli'g10n=-,2;-and -'as,it~fcqnired {qme ..
. - um: \fOrrme to fiudwab'r anahfwe'ry Isprete'ndedinotto=hC/tirh1m;." "
no: _t0 fifilghimwwh'afi-he faid; bi1t5$af.gamofi-\s:as--hc foranana
"Men; as not r'to 'fprget -his 'qucfiiOn-i' whichshs ; tepeatcdj'inr the -
' "KY-fame broken-words .a's. abbvs. , "Vehen Ifiad-n-tecpverett my- -
.feif 'a littlc-z: " Ftidayg'faid 1,. Gad Will-at lafiplinflht'hlmfdycrelyi.
, b'ath'tefched for Judgmentg'a'ndistt) becaitEintO-'hc'bOtt'E'WTE"
' - leis pig-to reinain'ia~'filjgt.everla{tingif' But: alt-this fdid not: 1'3"sz
$316133. $405, rctuming upon>> The, 'he' 'reyeatcd,~my,-. \ysrds -
\. " - 3,3 s'nxv, 133.": 1.3.31>>; membgwidmfldnd ,deg-.;fb_ut~,s,_wb} $730!" w . 515w;
wgszu,,..nat fill'depelg, 'i-eaJ; gm: nubile ago::"'~'f Fridayiffiald-I 2'
"rypujmay as'well Afigme Why'tGod does not'kiu' yoqand-rpe, , '
when; by our-'wigksd._aefidns, 1w: _i'q' much'ofl'andhtsvdlvme-
' Mfitfis'IPL'l-Icghgus-time to 'rcpent'io'f ohr- fins, that-thereb'y

;

' meay- Obfafiiefiavdonu: Aubefeiwonda fiWmvpai-Jonn'lfridara _
mfed afififiz'ffihib ; .5113} it'lfifi,' looking:metlfiedfafilyan-ethe --
JRQIWWIa'Qufiflvfaidjie, #3023: moi--wellsijbl your}, 'dcwil,-Iall.r'

- Wicked "dwifilifire'fim, rtpenig.;Gafl'pzzrdott,all'.--._.- , 9 ' . -

, 'x Ingegedfihera Luann" down to the Ian-"extremitygvs'rhcn'xt---

'i"'fi'bC/C/3'mC/"'C/:'rSS evident {anyhow-intert- nat'uralnonons will?
e,'zflide_re.afqpabie.cr'eawrcs to the knowledge of'a Deltas: and to
-' ">331 ihomaggduc'tb; th'c .Suyremc- Being ofieG'od ; but; however, -..
nothiti'g"'bSSPS-fxSSv_ine rgvciau'on-chn' farm the knowledge of Jan:
fqfi-'LChrifi, gnfipfia' redemptiongutchafed for 1-19,...of the-(medi- i
:atforzof ftheii'eiv'hconnant; and: of an-?'intcrccfib'r~-'at,the foot;
., PS001 _of-Goc1'SS throne ; ,and.< therefore; .the Gofpel, ofmir Ldrd'y'
'and'Sayibnr.;JC/fu's Chrifi' ;. fin: is, '_the- word andSpiritlof God, 3 '
Pmmfedflforif'thgayguidg Sand fa-netifisr of.--his people, i are the
mQEfiCCQflEIr'yvigfirhehrs"bf-the,,f_PSouls j of men, ' in. thafivingi
' 'oflledgie?;C/f,,gthe;I'Mmightyz ans-L sigma" to atttain- eternal--

gags) ' '5 , '. t 3 ' . 1, Angle? ,.
. . {t

y

I .".- .1. ." ' "

, ' . .,; d
' I
'-

3 033'Memes!Nefch'wsvom: . 9+3: ,
_. r'Andfihw Ifounqwneceflhry to :pui: an end to this'difcougfe" '

1Betiyeenipiy'man'4a'ndzme..;~.for;which pmquez-I xgql'e iip haftit .
51y,- 3ajs'g"d ffiad'e asi-iflhadiljome- qeeai'rgn' to-'go on", {ending mtg-1
day-for," fivmethingi that was ~aj.-good'iwaygoffi', *1 thank". Inn. '

, .,myfinees; ..and:befeecbe.d Gad thathengmaldv'infpire me (0 faith
as to guidesthi'a' pdor>>.-!'aiiag'e.{in the knoxxriedge of Chem, many,
;fw,e'r, his- qnefiions ' mpr'e 'CIeariy, that hmcbnmence might'br
'COflViflccdg hisoeyes opene_d,;and- his~f0u1~fayed..l When he my,

tamed again, rimmed-into aver-plopg giicqurfe with him; tip-'-
on :'the: Jufhieeta of? the: world's redemption by :the' .SaviOnn-ao'fi'
.it,','and\thc dqc'fline'ofi. repentance .pzeachedufrom aheaven,' . to>>
Agethet. with #33: holy-faith, of our- ble'fi'ad RedeemerJefue Chri'fi 59.
and; then-,thrbeeeded ink-explain to him; anecrding'td'my
weakgcapgciifi. the; reafon why; oug"-Savi;mr .tookmot .ofq him . '
the.nature'of:angels,.bur1athcfithe.feed 9E Ahmham; andhbw- ,

, the, fallemaiigeis hadno' ben'efitby that redemptiongand; mm.
_'that,.he~ came onlyg-t'o. the; lemmeepg'ofi. thefhouie o; Jihad", ,'
rian'd :the like..'3 God. kmws l hat-innate fi'neerity: than knowledge -
.ixftiall the my" mo}; f3! thrgpgoerdianfs inflruelion; 'andyjig f
.-mufit ack'ndwl'edg'e what'l beliefie'; .-every; body that acts 1x90": ,'
'thegfame gprin1ciple~wiiltgfind,f.thati indaymg' heavenly. trnihs,'oSS'7- _
Lpen-xbefoge binaryI--ninfnrmed' and. 1 infirufired myfelf im many-J

things'that either,:l'did~not know, or-had note perfee'tiy'eonfidem .
edjbeforegrfn that; ,hoWeyerh-this 9d<>.r;creature-might be.i;n-.7 -
proved by} myiinflrueiions; cenainix: .is,_that Itmyfelf- had great: .
reafonutobethankful to Providence tbr.PScnding..hin}~'~to mm; '
'His'~e0mpany allaye'd my grief-hand made my habitationlcgqum,
,_tab1e; and when manna-:4 't-h'at the-foiithry life t6 which 1 'hadfi.

J-b'een fo long.coiifined,,\had$made- me 'to lookgfuuther towards-a ~
lightninb'y-jnmking..' me the. imminent under Providence, to,
'favevthe'aife, and'fo'r'tqnghi .1 gknownthe'foui Jqf thie poqr,ihyagc;,._ -

By:.'biSSinging' him- to the. knowledge 0?de 'Chfifi, it. calmed>>: ,
a-fecreLija to fpg'eadz. through every part ofamy foul Handel: :
frequently'reioiced,-, thattexer I was- bzwght ton this'>>p_lace,. ,
which Lance-thenghhthe moffi'niferabie-patt otjthe world.-
~. In, this thankful-frame of mind (My! afteriv'ardsmontintie,"
While I abode? on the ifiand; and ion- three yeare' did my'tman.'
and-11in: in-the'gveeteft enjoyment- ofihappinefma-Ifideed, '12.; -
believe the fa'vagewas as .gqod a- Chrii'cianvas 1:5; :.andr I hope;
We swe'xfeiequallylpenitentyand .fnch penitentsas' were. corny-1.: ..
foxted~ and:~ reRqredzby-kGod's: Holy. Spigjt ; for now. .we .hadd;
ithe.,word inf the - Lord to.--.,infiizllet,.-us in the right'Way, ae much
as if we hadubeen.bnjt-hefinglifhoflmrem j ' .' 3 . [ll .-;
.By- thekb'nitflt .app'icati'on I madextmthe Scriptures, ,as.;I-
rack-them to my mnjFriday, Ig-'earncmy. endeavoured tp makef
'h'imjzun'derfiand every m of it, as much, as layin'm-y p0wer.._., '
He al-fo, (in 5116' other and, by his very; feriousquefiionsand?
inqesiijies,' 'made' me am'ueh better proficient- in Siniptm'ee
Mowicdfififilanj Lheuld have been by my own pgiv'ate' reading;
- ' ~ ' i "an . -
- . -.~tfte: aperiencg;.:I-thadlinSmy';web31'eifiSStlf.-zffiltfivasfthet'lmflhiie;'

,.' ,u '\I| -, "'1.' ' ." "' l
:2- - -..' " - -_ ..

'.(W.-.,

m 1;'iz-wa;-.MD"gamma-s I " _-

.mhiifii'dy. _'~.1.-y'x;fi1tih.6PS;s6fiiEURC/aiiefliePS~

thzgpceedlgfirrm
fetid:.3ifi'eSS9hremY=?1C/':.~blem'ng";-'=-thee3 filofiled'eelwf-'idetitfiiSSY=EURE\
ifieffisfihfi-(t, whijefi.' was 'ie'phihflefic'fify;'td'a'be~j'm:rdefltSSb'gr,sSSg

' ' -fimmSSSSiate'Y='~t0adivC/6tc m?" ""5 ..~'degTY=E'C/h<Y=8-tfif wrkieff-'finbek'. .
' -.-Ij=gpC/nt.ah.c'c -'.f9r'~j:mY.'1'ms;c'sa;afl: 'xaisiin'8'fPS1ieldi'- 6f a'sSa'vigfi'r?' far"
a :'etenn'al? life, 110'- a" praelicai 'fiatsd' .fe

fommidxiyfihdhebefiiepceflbo;

[z 1'4-3'If __.' ""u' , "'7

> . wrGOdTSfjnfi-itumqfia jiivyithbfiftflthe;aaflifieiicepflefiimfieifigfleanfi?

muodoxgi'yinagrm _'_"e_fpC/c&auy gbg :tt'xigfzgrigefiitfiimeiieqgrfota
.. Fenlig'htcmthiq: ggVagg mature,'gs"tp:mavkEUR.~h1mjfdugofi>d aifihfigfi -'
flangjas . ve'ry few 'e'oaldr '-'c'xceed3ihi1SS1;'i iiA'nd ithefSS4SSv3SS 'bhly-'f-hise' '

\.

~.. .'ggrezat isfigg>> flaming; thei'f'P'hadrnbylaihefiafifyrtii.adh'linifieFfthE'

2' Hay-fiacmmenfi- .t-haf gammy: partijoipationieflfilitifii'fi-'=.-b:0.'dlY= -.

' -.~'aii'<<212'1SSlmd a'y'ch. =hSSwegvC/hPSfie . zegggxgquxvgg gggmmsgmg.
~ "rem-mutd; ;ccepr'bugadezfirss,ganC/laccerdmgnbkdwaims;We?
. ' . 'mtcy'ij'on'gn-sg': : ~ .'."t- '._ l: ' l' ""f
' ' ' :rl' igut'mlaaitj we ,wantfjcd- bug-way; 'wzisima'eeuigzinjanot'hbr, tan?!"

'a J.' I.'-,_ .1" V

fififi'wasnniysrfal':peafce-Fih'iouhPSliftlefeyefii1-fch;">>WC/I'il_)hdimo;C/.dif$ a

Ema-awewnafiefi"8""?12011535einiitufefiiid~ectfi33iff'ew*thC/ihfiliz'
. j'emzdfifa'n'd- inhdiheed'fi'fflhity<, 4m".nibejtiesem.-C/kidflfihe5}mri '

'. ~48heifzds Gfkhurcfi' ,gbVeijtiment. gin-(143111". got-memfg'fl'fifetifiofia'

-<<.,

<<ray-mpg:mra'srubnfiatedihquo'na'e-smasgzmpedanmphg;

' 6:: *fi'qmo-mdtaund maxim. unintem

. ..

"Milling; fan-g gxohelijdfltt"tbf'fihefiihfttu'dtiem
.vsvatinnggi"cannatice'jvlixtfatrayaflSatay-,chfifiun:churchgs'qrimag 1 -

' ..- randfstiugfitslfimhow'mt fho'ot; 7.:I-'z'a'lib .prefentgdtojhimm'khie'egz; '

. g'ifilzimyfieti'ess 5.:1biuggmeaw- "

- fiielmierfiqe; epiey'ed r111".Il'fiefi"Qeftain,\g'nidei3tdfigai*SSn'yithafi .>

es'ez'-.ti11ec:rfii9'rSS1"equ wabiliets'fihiefi; we 'imag'tht'leetefdteb'? k
. gvgemzofghissspimit Ieedjngmstom:andt.h',-:atidimzkiggyuia.both:-

.'-'.<1':E'}1_zi9";,.vgerd; I: afiet'hc. -

age: a'rjd :fir'ee'giee e'of 'iBis ...a_'re'~.-'_ thefipfiihcifialytxfieiauejidf $11?

xin>bhcgjwdfildSSSSt6temil'ediih'sfelfifiit~hfifipeculSSfiem amasigspmiongy ,

. :- wefiQepfiitbe'fiii'difpkevr {heif'.Peziifiler'tvarfiwaand:afizcta'hieniiz;,.T?'j"
.. 1 '-:': Yp'pf,mgyisvsflfappofefijmet,g,rby <thSSC/fxfe3SSgientSSi djfu.agSSrfe._s.:ye- -; '
* {had} :mgeth'er', any man :andzifhecameimofi 'uruimat'elquuainte-

rgammdzthacitficiransfbatxeewsmtuethat 1'._cpg]dargy,;'bpmhaPSr -

FEidaf-nmdfidfiobd ::=-ah';l,".iiafl?SSd,he 1' p'pkerwty'fifi'gntly5-{thbugh'i-.' 1'

- <<sighting. filmy -adii'eizt11rca';7effieciall,yi {156$ Rhat'bizcti'rir'eclzfirjeerz- :

="gerxiyfilyzi'ggafiifii'qn-'mis"Emma: 51' magezhi'gratl'ndenfignfi9gbabfii'vongg.
gdkrfizlmyifety; --.a_s :hC/;.concC/1v_eid;. 'of; 'gunpovid'e; and $121169;

...ewhi,ch'*ipiea.fSScishim i-gxeecfiina'yezmakinz . hiins'afsbett',' :wign>>. a:

.4.

;'Eff-0g'T-'h'angipgii'tliercwfi 93111:? :thjefcm: Which -au.einear-,hhC/8SSrSSmw

n -'3-.'Er,=glandf 3r midy-'in'ftead'bfi-<<uhaiiger' 191'Put finithceficg'stvl. gaigri-f

-.; 4mm iii-hatchet,"\Vhich'.'.<{C/SSs"-n.ot' only 'fifi, semi-$1,212; Seireneagbctts'i?' ' ,
11;:mapginJ .zupon fxggjafiy ECCQfiEmSe- firm .wg'rd, :. my; man thugzgge; :1 :
' -*,geuggegmlookedi'ypgn :Kg'mfelfrzs great, '>>2:1-;.Dgn'~3Quixotc,-' Wheat? '

4' :'t'fiat ebelebgatedfighgmeiqnmfifi'zt'q;flC/0nibzfitfie dfiihg'infiilfj : " ;._-::_ .-
.> T' :zI'enegt'. gave hum-.3.- finygparticull'alggdel'gaipgiongofpthe territmjgsfi

"mkeeahdiwaiwmm

'pgacer

,max-lemzoimnaxends'the: -

,.it imam}: tflii'exken'JEheTifli." 3} mi") 't'o'bk' aipartieuhnlpieafure -in-:- l'

5
f
l.ceF-aj- 9'1; 0:331:930'3536:Rusk-0357. ; . 93;

glaqe'of my nativity: ;I;IaidabefqSSe bimfghe'manrger of' our Wot} .
'flxipping' ' God; four. behavioui': 'one'fto'ianothgrg' and *' bow: we- *
.tr-a'de' i11'5fl3ips::t9'4_:iier)nvi>art' 'of the'uniivfiib .. :1. then. toldhxm. my
-m13fprtunesf' in >>_SSbSSing, ihipwr.eclSSeC/,; Jamming; .hir'n'g. as near ; gap-E .
fo'ofild; the-place. 'w'here' t'h'c, \11fipa-lfiyirwhieb'had'bsen'gnnc long.

l . ,

'zb'efc'Jre ;: but _I brpughthimvto the ruins' of my' befitywhichbfi'

'fbfejfiyfivhol'e Mgngth.cpuld'1'not move; but: new; waaua: mat?
rattan; ajnd fallenr't'o 'pieces.~- I obfewed miman I'whday' to Wew';

L'this boet'withv uncommon curiofifi' ;,; which-,Jvhw he had dong '

he "Itgodgpondering .a' great while,_a'nd {aid not-hing. At lath. '
={aidj 1",} "F rid-avg. what makes you; pondcrfo much 'i'?'-l-Ie*replied54
9.0:.7'7'24/1'",'eze'fle'Jike'boat, 'came' to plate at my 21.3mm; ' ?
. ZItWas fome time, (indeed, before~ Izmdermod'What,_my mafia .
'inca'nfi; but examining firmly. in'to'it; I plaimy. found-,- that; ,
.'iuchv'andt'herjboat refemblin ,mihe, had come-upmlth'c Countfy. ' '

.vaeiefhc'qwat :<<thatiMd'. ay! by'his farmer. e5p!anaSSion,,th_at '.
the bgatfwas driwm there- through 'flrefs of'.we'ather..lrlt\then'

.camg-igitdmygmifid that-fame eqQpeatn {hipy'havin'g been-gait-
awa'y'; the. podr dlfireffe'dlfircatqres'AVWcre.fqrced'to'haye rc'eofirfe- -

<<to 'thc'boat toi'favegtheirvlivespand being 331,. 36,} (haughty.

, -dt0wp'ed, Inever" 'conc'er'ued myfelfitd. aih';any' thing con'cer'n'in'g. j

I

figtng but 'my phly'inquiry. Iw'aaabout the boat; and? what: dew '
fcrlptmn' myi-m'angcomd_givc.df_i't_._ .-_ , '- - '

".' _..'.In<,i_efeq.~F.riday.anrwereafmy demands ve wen; mixing mi>>

.thixigfiygey'plain to my-underfianding :- but. beyond meafnrex
mu jhtiaficd,.;when he told mewith grqat- warmth --and=rxr'-4 ,

~'d'bur. amaflera' <<6: java: .dvlzite wand-fr m 450m r "P0" "hid"

~I:'immediat'e1y. 'afked- him}... if. mere were-any wnite man's, as be;
$311139! them filth: "boat 3.0121,, ya, {aid he" #764 boat ,full;-=-mr7
fiulrfidvbiie'memi ' :"Howimrxny; Friday N} fajdl; "Here'ugon.
. e'ggn'rbercd' hitfingers;gaudygomit'ed.feventeen. , 'And w en:
J-aiked th' what becam'c" of 'tham'~,all,.-apd.}vhethe:,the-y lived o'v.'
not-2' h": 'rcplied5.2%'3,'niq/le'r,' tbejyalb'li'vepibe'fy be~liwtmozzg _ ;- .
inflamf-Tfiis': inlo'rm'axion'; put frefli-'thoughfflhto my,hea 'J.SS -

- -tha't'thefe mixfi he thofe'very men who before I-conclu'ied had;

" 'heehmloww up,.in,.thC/..ocm,<<aerC/, their- mm mm.

i
z
1.

'-'nat1'1re'.--'and( 'gmei'glity3-7' Ho,w.,-. 'c'ame it t9-

;.that;had:firuC/k upon'tbe'tocks' of- my. kingdom,'audrafter-cf;; 9

.{ca'pi'ng"thefuryz.pfathe'decp,iarided;'upon the Wild {fibres anq .
, -'com'mitted' th'cmfelves t9 the furyiofthc devouringlndiam. :

. 'Tl're msnncr: ofi'thcirscrueltiea-'to one ~anothsr,.which conic-5"" "
.quenfl'y,' a;1;thoug'ht;;-mult be 'aeted wicmgrcatcx hubatity:

:10 firangerSS,;._ creatcdjnrme'a'great ' inxi'ct.y,'2-atxd:zmade_mC/ {till-4- .
.mor'; cutkpu's'to (11k 'Fijidayxoncemingthem. .Hc'told mgbe was :_ ' '
~fufe_ thegflill .lifrcd there; havinggrcfidedwnegg themwb'm'e'fouz ' _ ~' '
years;>> and that the:.!avagncs_,gave them viehgals- to live upoh :,, '

'fil-Butvupray,' Fridays" faid'ls,".wbgngcmcoceided afl-fhts'godm; :
V . .. . paf< that ,theyugiiirn-M-

n'ot kill gnd'ca't them, 19 pleafe ~theinfiqvburing'fippetites,gaudy" ;

<<'accgfxbni 1Q- {filcndid-an .ichtertammnti among them 3/: M2,, 401.; '96? 1.111: 11111: hbvsuwvxns

"hid-.1" Pnda wander-M31111;- tbzy make <<graham <<nutb 1m ;
'Iby whieii Lymiderftood there Wises. tranche-tween <<hem, And
then .I had 9, Image fainurabip 01115011 of; {he Indians, 'uiion Iri-
day utfermg 1thgtc whims . I 1'- 11011211,. -t,-'o't_'ber nation any (at
wag-1', "law'- 'rzulm't .m'a'm, 39111.51} char" fight}. as tho'ugh. he; had. fa'id,
1H3}. no'tl'er tho'fedf ,hzsk'in gdo'm', nor a'ny's other naucnsfiat'
156' khew obey-31' ate their-fe110w~1C/neat111gs1-but 1:111:11 3: their
law, "f 111ij allowed tube dammed; 111411. ie,.~-thofe'irn1e.rable
revives, "has misfortune it 111011111 111% tobemade pnflbnera- '
qr 119.1. .

Same hex-fidcmbic tame after, 11110113112111; .pI'caraht 111139111"
molt i'efrene Heather, my man-.3136! "hood. 1111011 11112-11111 ofav
31111,; 71011 the call: tide cf: the i'fland; whence I'hzid Once .rbefhre.

'_ beheldmhe con-t: 11.2111 101" Ame1 1011.: I' .'eouldn'ot t'eII immediatalY

'" . what 1011s {the mafia; m1- 111.111an Friday feilaI raping and"-

dancing asifhe had been 1.111.11an my .demzndm {liq

:eafon :11 his behmnonr, 0'}nd {aid 1115-: 03141411111>>. 11?: my

taxman, 11%;". my .nbiz'm, "were 111w- rwbxre 'mani .qfljer'. IiAh'd. "

1:111:11 .fn'di- :11 1539111111113 fcnfe .01 pieafiire' 3911.211- "111 .vhiii co'u'tw '\ '
' 3:113:10: flirt his eyge. had an uncommon 11 111mg andbngbt-

wash '11 Inch 21 {117.1ng eagem'eis, as: if he Red 2; longing defiite 1

105112.111. his." cqh'ntr. .again. This made me: not f0 mail-1mm- .I

he'd with my man riday as bcfdrie, - 1'01 by. iflxisj appearance, "1

{invade n'o difphte, 6112 that' ifh'e could get hyack 11111111111133.1111;

'31: would 1191.1111131 he hnmindfui efavhax 16113161: I had taught:

3411151511": Iikefiife of the .g'rca't 01111311110111 :he hwc-d me for 1a-

; <<wonderful deliveiauee .._, 'nay',' that" he. 1170.11;ch hp't' ehLy- 1111191111 his"
countrymen (if- me, but acebmpaiiy. hundreds 0'1"- iham: '30. my.
kingdom", and mhke me ja humble?- facrificehke thofe'hnhnppy
Iwreichcs taken in battle. .r -

111(16de washer ; mum-'10 15151111119 1119111110112 cmeI 111.1 1111-: _ -.

3111': fufpicmas, :Ia-n Imufl: fneely 011m Erwnonged "ithe- :poonm'aea-

1111c. gem ry'u'mth, whp was ofh quite 1101111111.): 111111 at; I'fihda-g-Ieri

had he had that difcgrhin'g acuten'ei'a whieh- many: uropeans -

have, -.he would'cert'amiv hm:perce1vC/dmycaidndsand indif- g .

fem-nee, mi'd. aifp haste been very much concerned aging: that

account. 'as I was -'110"w- mote Circumfpeel, I had 1111131211 Mi; med? ..

"91mg 1111;111:113- and familiarity with him,-*~a.nd whiie tmsymlcaly . -
-_ . eohtih11ed,I fifed that'- artful way: (31017? 1:00 much in afiihibh, the '

'- <<occai'on bf. firi'fe .md difl'cutio'n'.) of. pumPing' him klai'IIy- PS111 rc'by .
ft'O difcover whether,- he was d'cc'eihfiil in his thcugIIits gm in- .~'
. . . .clmatmns IbuItf. certainly- 11123112111 nothing 1n him but; "What was: 4
acoiffificrxt wi 11 the :b'efi prmc1ples, both 23'2" reimous Chriflian. 1-
>> 54311:! a gmteful- PS11121:de and, indeed; 1! 13611113 emery. thi: 1g. Iic 121d. 51

my)"; Ange-111113118 and innocent", that 11-:haiqu. fo'c'm '4fi1111-h11p1c1011,T =

'and,.1n i'pite pf aI'i. upcafinefs', he 1101 (1:113;- "mad:- 11119)- entirery
.1118 awn-again,.SSb11t aIIfo 'caLhzfsd WmhIteJampnI-thafi-ever
Jonemedroneillthought ofihm. : . . _ p": PS3

1 21".>>. '- "1...;za7 Mo narNi,s..-m~fr gum-380% 972 .

:Aarwe wereI-imwihggup use fem: hifl'hdfithefir'day', <<5mm. .-
ivgetlicf '133'457 Engaged;than-coma;:newghqejiyedgctgc'dfid .
i'ihfient; fi" .Fridfirs?'g.zrmid 31$ -_d9_zf?t ' ydu': wifli'f 'yedrlijlfg'to gb'e-'iir . ' g
731631;?lamvnpeountm'-s:.-XF;WT'mafias-fiMfif'zficiifi-e'd"finds-am? . ~'
' ae_qfia.intafiEUR:s:?zefiw"ffiievherw "Iafb':9814flntfi*ee-atmy em.
mftfbmf-.:SS':i&ndt'>\ihg'tC/ Would'ycu.' do;_thafe)f"'1?riday;?' Wcruk!" '
. aygw~'tg1m_.*wdd,'agai:ni,,;;cgti. mama. 'fleflr, 'andibe a 'fgvagci-agycw ' .
Maggfdii'mefly-faNe; 1:9; (ministered: 'he, fidl_,.'i6PS'fcbncem '~ amt
4.1mm; hi5 headljfirieaf "OW-t?" titan?" live'gfld-j amaze>>;
' M "450:4, 'fdiij'zfto'emg-barn bread, wilfeflg/l>>,:7m"_lfi,ydoi%dC/ .

_"fiket'fz:.;;ag'a-iiz;t,SS:w"- fiatrglwrelyfl'..,>>rcpliC/d.15 F'if'syou thouldfifi'eff 7 '

tonoafi 3:;bhis, they: ; Wirll.,_f \kiil you '; and ,- po' mahifefi'. ftfie'ir.
d'eiefifgnijpttoffugh.' , in fi'meftiOqggat . you up 'whgn :thcy .hav'c' d'o'n e; ;
j 'M: Lili'emp'md oi't-a-gnavqyzyetdfinoc'cnfl :and fino'ot'h" countenance;- '
,f dawn? fWO, dbu 21291.1("; '1 may; {by willz'igg: 'lwe ,xlmylfzzui'; "that '- iii". ;
, 1th hi? Wm dbefirer-y \gilfihglglearnrg :addigijvithafiztfida
fligy-squ'<<Y=aprirgC/gmclz @Ctbeiemrdm mzixj.-tsSSat Mme" in madam; .,
-Ie';,_Wnl'l;you-,Z'ifaidsffl'ga b.ack'.again,5_I:-lx'x'idh j?'.' Hefmi'dd '31":
j. ,.>>thadt,'_.fand5':t'eld- .;. mt; mam-e. caulde notify-flux" a. fag;'- ' 1 But ,ikijd J;
' {Izwflt make'acaflmt fer - Win; 2" {5,1 [Mafia 'faiSS,"L-he;,e7ia'gq if
'rflivc them.>>- 'fQ; eat'; me, up.)~ and;~ ._devm_-youy km}; mafia-3.";
,ZVatiiia, 'fgfld'h'c; mermaid tfze'riznot'ezzt mafler,' (in?! #1,: Width" we>>:
mikejb--7C/vSSjv$gz.;={hafiefiheiwguld -te11' themhdyyj'hadflaifijfia i
'xdgmiesg gandtgh'greby raved-.higrfifgfiqu: whip'h water: "he, wham-
'<< make .thielh'eIIOVQ-'jn'e' :1? am; L'shaa' he . relat-edto nie; asiuigfl 551116
~-M38"-(r)1C/5 haw qxg'ce'dingmi kind; .thnfe of-hia, nati'onf WCIEI'chG -
L-"White; offbeardgd'minyas hcgc'ali'ed 'the'mwhcyinathcfifigteet . .

-.calamityfwme'drfiVcnv'infdtheit-countvrv; ..j'

' ' thfi'Wag 'frbmt '{bisC/._-;_tiine,~ indeed, I 'hicli-i flmflg inclindfionsefto

'v'venmreskogeer; .3nd:;u1'e':my". mod .gfi'artSS,.i15:go.m51b,g;ito join .
-t;hC/EURe-mhit2&e'ax_rded m'e'ng. who madaubtedl-Y'wm :'Spafifiardsbrf ,
.:-I?;'s'rf{1"giief'e'.;'fnr,vthwght 1; itu'muftjb'c gce'rteialyza'het'ter a'qd '
; 13%: <<(3f t-z'z cicada, whey where. is g:g'co'd C/C/mphnyy than} {pg-me

' ' alqnC/;'-.:;SScm angefihndgfierty miles' off the. flmr'g'," and fiithplat
_any1-atfiflan.ee;.~g56m?! idays', aflcmflnday and itbe'mg afiweriij, '

, iasvfifu'ak~.at.ith.C/v"~fa1fiegtime-1. diverting nurlhlve-s'"mt'h,~ fia'pio'mfl '

lgelifcfioufies; gitgldfhimil i135! aboutwhich Ifwduid'bcftow 'upen '
:fiimy'wfien'eier}h'g' .plexfnd'td remrn10'-his. cum nat'o'n' 51- and to
._ genymC/C/;m0f thejitmflh'faf w'ha't I; .<<aing took ,gh'ma With tins!
' <<13.9. the" hthe'rfifie pf. the-y'bfland', Mere my} frig awe-lay; and-then
' .~ tfiking'it't'fromi Radarjhe .' water, #fi'br Imalwdys. :kept it fink;- for

.'~fta'r3df'akfifcov.xy) 'w_e {Went mthfiiaw it mfee'hoyy-itiymnld'

rj.~managEUR"fuC/h4aan'Y=cxpedifiom,., .. _ I, ..,. . _, ..
"SS'An'etreell .-inSSven c6$SSSSarwbC/1fiakedextSSrd(r) in tow'mg'than'
4v.9m?j'faftgwfulJet-slant, flaking 1.5;: {Eat go as'fifi'agaima's. 1- ebu}d._ '
-j!';Wc'flmqw,-JPS13439;?,',faid;l',\-3fg air We no'wf gO' to.,'yr:ur7fo
fmx'tcflladmivcch'nafi'dn 3"] But _--infY=aa'd of. meefi,hg'w1th~. that

C/3SSC/fimfwmacdy Inez-mm wxwi'wmfifiw
958;. .~."L : n: mm) . Agnv iEi'N my. m: sci. _
".m'my'Ta .ing to; "which indeed .ag'figfit-furpfifcg :mee."tili'$e .1
madame- enflbl'efihfit hiveone'emw'a'e "abddt' {th'cfr'bbgfis'fi'ekg "
. too {my}! to go In, 1fair,.-a_ woyhge; -- flppn";whigeh.'l~gle_tSS;:-himguxi4'
. demand I hadgamuch-bigger;-'end.-'aecording'ly, theg'vnextjfdfi-'yr
<<vent '.;o._t,I;e ..p?a<':e <<wire. the 'fir-{t Ebogt layyxwhich'gI-hadimagleg -
--_SSxSSfiefi?fl( "the; fifength 11 had; or 'art :I 'co'ul'd F-u'fe' tfailed Emefii my-
_ . gitte'mpt to- get it jinto the water,:' but n'n_w =1SShaving+laib1n ,
- the {unit-wasard "(twenty ycaifis, and :nolgare'beifigitaken.(Shit
' sa'u thitwhilekit" beefing-inn ma'nherfoftfla "My-marijtqld me;
{fiat :fqugaiboat'woqu' do werywvell" fot'fithe fiifipofeygz'fiuflicigfit
..tq-'_carryxb'tzbzzg'b'wittle, drjnb,'V-gbrC/ad, fotpthat wa$.'.hiSSi';map;1gg
- :'SS'fi talking; ,r .In .ifh'ox't, my, mind :bein'g'mrc'gngly .fix'ed iupon'xigy,
gee'fign "of ' going- "01er_-With '_ghimv to the 'QCohtmetit; .1 :Yei'j". ' lain? 7.
lyct'bld-"hitn, that-"we would {'oo'thngo ,atid'fimake-"a'boas; 11),; 3'3: ..
'_ jg; '-a.nd.inrorerproporgiptgable thanz'that, 'iyherein hegmig'htffaffi .4
, mireturngtbhis'omnjatibn. w e j -' l; ._, 'j.j.' 3? ':;.:.-;SS.-. .-
' .' '-';'l_'hefe wordmmg'd'e _l?1=fday-'lbok{owm'pen'fivg'thafl thought-2"
tie-imam; have tallengjat fi'ye'feet; Itfla's'fome' "timt;;bSSf0,te'_hle
~-' 5'th fpeakfa'is'ord,""flick-ima'demean;;h'1m,_'pivbhtirwa_sxtlg'e .
, fixfiattergxwith _h'i'm:? He'a'eplied'in ajVery': ro&-__audanovihe.tone;
. [1(7ng 'ba:.,pob73.$riday12107195? gab} 2m yaaangrrjmad Witepa'br;
, fiffia'nl'?' What mtdezie, 'Ozrz'v/Ja': 'nwdone'i' ',""_iFlfidaY,'-'"5 faid" ,
j I;'!_'.'y:oil' never.gYet~ have dflendcd- me, {whet makes'ngt'think '
. _ Elf-am; .a'hg'w 'withquou, "when I am fight. eangry [at 311;..3 , "Tau {72C/
.zgngq; vn'o- mgr};- {aid he feveral'times, 213414135; :10 071335;ch '
"kfiffiizd:'-Freddje;bwr.'gfeq't. Waterftp wa-'bflvafiihtioh'g 2'"- Whyf ;
': Fr' 'y," anf-x'v'gfed 1,3."did u'otizyqn' mim'tov <<be-'tbere',' .1..'wh'eu-./ '.
-. 'iifdmza'-inau.ntain 'yon beheld: the place. where, you a'wasbbm? '
24W islitn'dtfito datisf'. your.defiresflt'hafiii'agn \wiuixfg :tQ-zgiive . '
75'th Ieaye:*to;.srat{uv11 "t , 'tben'? 112:; yea: :faid-fFr'icJa-'y'rgs mswyb '<<
' PS036? fberefl'ltei-'e'naugb, shim/m: '_.i7'2e:"swyb' mqfle'r fbgre.:'too-'q,gfia_- 2
.qqf/b .Fridejjborez-no mq/Ie'r fbefo i'In-fhort,_'h'e,'could,,lm)tzen'- '
flute :ther'g-houghm' cs? 'going. tlier'e .<<withjo'ut"me-._j.-'f'j'I':g'?>;theyEURFv 7,
Eric}: 3" faid r1, 1' what {hall Ida-there? -' 'He infw'erga'i'ye'ty; -,
qfiickge' Orig/largo" do great dczefimuob. .g'qqdn MY'tr'ac/J'fifl- ".
', ' <<:1: <<wild n.'C/m:"te;_le' good tame. mam-gt-gybuvem'dem {h "Mi/221255. , .
vixfe "Med 21573;, '16:}(20w. "Go '3, mid ffaj le'd.' ""Alas;!"7.SSdbr{ififii ,
V. my: alaidirl,' Ff-what ica'n l-doa'gai'n'fi- their: priefi-sdf Bgyam'gg;
rkej'e,-'SSfi_it'1deed 'whatgood-can I make ymunmm '{enfiblc bf;.'-M;eiif '.
~ ,I'Evjjx'nyfelf amx'but'a poor;ign0rant;mfi'u-? .' Nq,'no,,'g'.iziqfl_iv*,'fiidr
hc,.iyozz..PS_:' inn iguarant; ya'u'; wad-'12:: m'e 3002,;ij i'edcbe'e- dens? .-
gao'd; 4' You mall. g'o- without me;JFr-idayy.'--fa!d~".{,"fogl don't, '
.eaneito' accompany yougxhithen; .Ir-woqld ratficr-41ivc'"ihlth'ree .
Idlitndc than Venture among ' fuch' inhum-ap fawigc's; -:09;fjbjiirj..a

'- , ' Sv'fiz'cgyw defzre .ir,-=_=w'ze{'~1,eawe1mestand,.myfizfm-iwqyakf'
I I 'fifie.'ff4wtdjoief'lifC/s'"i. - , ~' -- V. . _ 3-.

-'_ ' 'vfleverrwgs any'jereatifi'egflmoie. ihundfl'lftrifckethah'jridafi; 1"
_.wa'sj;aSS'.~'.j:'xefe_l_wmfiq.' magma}, labile Wafer aswaj; ([4611. V_ '
' eeizafi'cp-aidng fiance, )';~71bSS :10, Friday die, Fwdaj [bigot-Mtg? ..
~ , w '. ' in vim...""J' .-'-. A-.-w,\v-.-q7:;>>--;:---.:F_--:.T::--',_-.-..Affir-'rqfin.' _ _.."' . .~ . . V . I _, - ,.

. , I
...\" 2'

' 5'

' . 351: go 3.1119 SON;'CH'rR.HU..SS_-:Q~'Ei' , " "39.9"

\

,1 fien'gohc, is; though he had faidr'l mgither ,can_.:n9riwi!1 1131;,
if-i,my,_ maflenifendsime'fromzhiring .And here Iicanngt bixtatakg, -

noticebf the {hang gigs? 'of ffiehdflxip,IZWhiCH'lngtiyffifitfis tuf-

' '|

- pafs'flef; of cbnfaug'uinity :' For ef'tcn'we' find" al-'g'r'eat'difegi'ecv

uimt .a'mbng? kindrcd';z an! "When-their: is'egy {gemihg _:_eg2_1'rd

'fc'n" . each'pthc'r; it; 38; very )faldqm 'mte', ' and'ffc'arcd evet'llafiing.

33150 fiche-"the: death} of arents rind i'eletibns, ,fdr'the'feke'bf

' acquiring"{heir'if0t_tux;es. at tfieE'cvWasTn alfiigli'thihg'fbetweeti

j Iofi;g_finC/e-'di5ic'fbed cf'his.-former natural crueltfit5..fi1t)uld flake;

| ,
\

.my (I

my fe'rvanfand Ind: -in'PStead-o'f 'whieh there weh'the'gncafefl: "

gratitude find-the moit 1i'n9ere'10ve; he found the nbt'gn_ly;liis,

i ..

deli; fer, but .hi" .prefehker arid epmfofferg- 'not-- a" 'fe'veigfind -

timelt'yrafit,' bu't'a', k_ind,'1'C/ving. and fiafiie;'_friend.-,1Hewan'tc'a

{fog nojmannerf'g'f Tfifien'afica; afid' vijh'c'n'.hc,.wa'sffill .o'r floutibf'
order; If 'wasfh'ie phyficla'n, : net only, ' for. hiszbo'd'yfibuthis'fpmz"' .

ind therefore no wondcr. was it,'that fuch ad innbc'efit treating .

~;\After--:I_Bad talc! Friday, 1

:- wdaras-'a'd'efen'fiwweapon, heilgi'v'es if ihto 'my hand, witfia

'h'eait IOfML that hicdnld'fchrcelffi'flk, it"Friday',' {afar-I, ~'
i'i'vbatis-it you'meqnz?'Whathmufiljdo with this ?' 0,11};le .
>>_Frid4zy,'faid he, 'Fridayj'mre not lieve. 1mg,j 'Bukwhet muit I"_kill__ .

'y'bn for f'xe'plig'td I agfiin, Ab'I'dc-af ma/ler, 'wbatlrimdgga'gt'Fn-

.da} 'flqye'flom eat a' me up; fa has-long Friday; make' Fnidaj 195w.-

S

(fair-'Frid'aynioi-e." As he gh._ ht; poof e'ature bat} faid,"AIae.-!.

'vipgye'rrtutd ."your' pr'eciohsi life "to. fav'c "mg-from xhe'jayvsfdfi '.

.Idggpuritig; (:gnni'baig' 11k: myfclf; 'aftey _' {ugh 'a__ tender) ,rcggrdfte
Iprbvide'fpn me ifu'ch a comfortable nourifhment', 'and. continuing.

._1b {1033,33 'kind j'makcr, 1nd :2. mdfi'fincere friend; ade-afig: .
makingjm'e. for'fake the falfc notion bf'a'n lndiat'i. Deity; land, W6te .A '

.ihifiz'the- tride'bed.iri,gfpirit' ind finf truth ; 'alhd, dfter 'allfhig,"

. fl), :11 b * dead-to 'eaeh'othcr 3' but greater mutt-.'beimy mkfofr

fiufiegi'thatflhfiiall inever- 'b'ch'oid' my 'Bq'ft fr'ienei'l'fhaf'v'e inlthg

7'v'v, "dd 'g'hyfiinore,' And this xtixidoubtedly, though? h'etOuliingi-g

\

.ecxpr'gfi 'himfelf th'cie'ar'ly, mutt bepis {anti-mentsj; fp't the'gefietg';
- ran-:down'.his.;. ch'elcks; in "fu'ch-~ a; plentifulmjanner, that." I . Iliad"

Lm'iighadoitexefraifilfgqm wed iiiggal'm,' 1Whg'jxi I.,bC/hSSld $695911. . .
Was? forccd'th' comfort: himm ;_
' ' "Tips '

.ebafitg; fafieeijion; {0: that . K

r

- anunceMmcorx'cetght fo cmel afe'peratieh'i'fi'qm tnc,'iv'hich 4
" 'Pierced him'to the vary, {on}, andLma'dd'himrdefirc \cvch'todiie, -
' rather-than 11?: "without me. i v' _ ' - ' 1 ~ - . -' _
'_ . ., n 'a very carelcfs, manner, ' thaflh'e
. Ih'ouldfbeathbis liberty; [as {can 3's the boat, Was 'm'a'cl'c',:'.thC/ "
. ganguagggf'hiSJeyes'expr'efl'ed.a'll imaginable confufion; 'wh'cn,'
' immediatelyyunngng rte, one of, 'hie b'atchets', which he'uqudgto

'a'rgft'kind matter", how.,c0mes it to pars, that aftqtihea '

" if bbwgr'fuLintcch: mm '30! hearth: may :' ind that '419fic'5i8 1'
', oftcnsfhefioccafion of 'thC/ greatd'c hatred, in .thc World, ,whicii' '

_'_'God, hadlbwjzet Benamz'i'ckee', and now Fri4d1jeizid-zvaj .; ,izermr "

' .'jmew; gcomgs' it now, that. you -' are? willing to'. fgndi'tne."gw;iy;'ho '
in? former co'url'e I of- 'livmg,'by _ 'whlch means undoubtkdl'yfiwi: '

r

ru-'
.,...,t

_ 'deQ-gfi_f_mg;1PS}2 AND", ADV-EM-mms *
'L- " '.r..7 .-.. ~.'-...:--,- " \x

' :'the; hefl9"-manner'l~ ecu-1d;- whichi'flid," by waxing. hiifi.'-.iPS'1f.e
' gagchqmnt 'tqz-abide' with-1mg, rI mdkfld {be c'v'gar; wfllifig-'td
: "P"..im- . '. -' "',
", ' QAfieraFfidafls' {grief wag .fomnflfing'abated',gnaw-fully toicc'n;
: fiifiCqmgcf.hi8_-.afi'EURetibv,; h": faid,'~.0 mqfle'rt'i in: .not 9447?.3'0; fie
..4552.a.wiasfiafi.oh;Y=emfjdiC/ Me's? mq'dsfinmefiwleamzaodit/Ifefl
, will}; menihjggvfiha} his'fjdefir'e V518" for? the -c6nv'erfi01}. of that
. "rhubarb 8' ,pqupl:.,," :But as I haa'no ,ap'ofidicrniifl'mp'." rijor any

.c'oncern 'ho'u't their falfia'tiqnjyfo-Ibad hot the Ie'afi'intentlen .

i btf' .defire' to} findertakin'g' git; ' ana- "th'e 'firengtflxbf my: 'ingfina-
'_;;EURion} tinsordg't-fjto' gfca'pe, PKGCeCded fichiefly--'fmm1m3ijgla.tezdif-
.. eb'firfef'with'firiday, ,ahgutfihcfc fgy'elixteep' Whites bearficdfiigfh',
ftba't 'had' hcen' driven, 1: '09 .thc'iBlarbarian' coaft 4,2~'whd'xn"l'de-

.efi'gh'ed-igoyjoifiiaethe on y: mea'p'atp.' further. op'r _e1"gapee.-:.-TSS' ' .

' " 'i'vh'ich 'in'te'nt'; rhythm and i went'm-fcarcb form firdpgr tfep "to

felhfivhrrcof m might 'makq a; {afg'e l'perigu'a' or Canoe, ; toi'un- 4

" .de'i'iafie'th'eegvbyage". andyinde'equc we're not .1611}; . in ' finfiifig
.bne"'fi.r,PSqr'aour'pepafe, there beipg'sfibtgghfof'WOOd'in the '

~ E-efflafidjftb' hfiefibuilt Might. (f "lefge Wefi'elsg but" .'t'h'elthihg' we

~' Fe'ptiqjeipafly. manggdfiyas. to. ggt-QM fo near-file" Watfc'n'th'at we.

" .zqnightfjaufichx'it 1- fftgrfg't" was' finimed," ,llfid Qatedi'nmit {611m-
.urfg1'a'mifiake a'exlhad' meadow-"baht; ' - - '

7:1", W 1!;r after'ja'greatfeafch-fortwhat wae bgfimid :fiofif'eejnie-.

ighiehtfifiriday, ,at Liam" twhbfe 'j'tidg'efiieqtem- fu.eh;'_a,fiijei_rSS.;fias
' much fizpc'riontwminc, gpitch'es ",Iipon a'kmd of wood' the :mctt

1' "t-'fitting _for'-~it.-, T9=this_dalyal, cannot-'tellst'b'c" nfiib-bf'fha'kfee,

. 'nor d'efcribe'.it';an "qthe'r way; "than obj}? bjr"._,'fa'y;ihg, that; itis
- like'what. wcuc'a- . f2: 2:, op-sbehvc'en. fthat and-1th: 'Ni'acatagu
i fwcod;;brein'g:muc_h o wig-fame coldnr'afid"!mcllfi= :'fiut-thon'g
. gny mang'kcechd mC/.in='th"e:kn9w1C/d e'JOfthe.msbttypi'operifrge,
, ,fgyct I; {named 13in; a'much'bsttpi'andcggrepmeir "to; make; :a'cao
i' .1195 .9531?! ..'.C/'Ver:he knew btform _ .
,~;_;hollow in; cavity-bf thefltre'e', inge'rde'rto make'this'boat'; but

.j'lihhfi'iold'mim'hdw fie might 'ddg'itfivithgt'qde,'l'ear'nihgjh'hh
1;,at;the"lfamejttimcjhowgtg .fife' them, ,wbich'indeed' 11': di' fiery ,

fiflefigtekctgfl :; (bithafxin 'a month's tiifie'ifielfihiflxed 'it,.-'-ma_ki'ng' it

";"'.fC/f"~he wag'ibr'bumirig the ' '

,.'.'..ery' Chat; 16mg; :bYIQixtting'tjhe' jafiffide- ' lin"tbe' ,txdtifljgpe

:z'ef. ,ai1$oat:= .Aftekthisjt' t'o'ok' as 'a hill 'fdmight' hefdre'we'*_cf'culd

. . iget'shersifi'te tug-watchmhich .w'e did as it wergiinchxb'fiiith.

gipdti'ereet'.' rmnergg :- tut 'wh'cn mam; in, magi}? gayggggr, ~ 2

'l

;,' .Fi'cd. t'wciityi m'cfin. WRh'all'then'cafe'sieiaginablei? '33,. .~ .
at? the, Shiinchmg

 

.4;-..--'J<138.iI-=Waa'v-'PSer3".~vC/!llbleafed;' oumvfbef'iiiei
'2 .' 11.,bfithis Ynari'gf'wubf, @i0?5,.1 was 50.0, lefif'ga'

' ' , _

.' .---;SSz$t1iif.SSvhit .-dPS>sterity" Igny' itma'n Mui'd "manage Ilrfqr', "fmrfii' Bel";

22nd madle'mg'r along; . iwen'friagyrasraig1,-v'what a'o' 1"in -

: wakcffit 96%.! 29.130'yicin think- "thisa-wm carryu'; 97!??? \
gag/Yer. make; im- 'ymtfirg} ""qizfier diva-II; 'szugb' "gfkeqffljqw
"'txwiizi'l: T'Rut ' my 'defign' "was yet farther; which" rhe'Was ainfenflo
' R21: 0!; and that was f0 make amt! qua-fail, .and'tomovide

'(1 I './

Jetty,

11;; '

';,a.2ea'<t6-behexd~ , 'v- -""'.'\.I .- '3'."/'J"".'"f

s b 11:) "PS63 '

r 0? 'ROEENS'QEICV'KUV'
r ' I '
I
|

_ , Hf, .. ,_. -. .. .' ' 1-" ;-~ 4' _-' ".2?
tier with an ggchqr- 231d ,cable', ' A8103" math! that was no' diff:
ficult-ghzfngeatpll to p'rercure :. .foll fixtgd npc'ri' {fink--young ce-q
dzr:trSS:.'C/.;..whiC/h Efound' .Iieajz-ghei'plage," 'g'r'e'at plcrig'y.' of." it 2+7:
pounagngiit;ther':ina'.ria:;. ainaai--ie'mn .- Erma?-'!O'TC/"tiit>>'dSS?wfl'if53A

_ gavehim-.pz'xrtigiflfitdirgCt-ibneghbgi'tf'to", ipea'nd, QtSSEURSS'~it,;'bnf
' 19:30"; mi, jail,1,1112:.3},ma,nagzd__myj{ql,_. .I' .veryf wellkneyw.
' .; -- thadlifizme ,eldgerxesggqr'pigfie's,"pf.12i!_SS enough}? 3(th {had "laln'
. 53204.1me 37647.5 bime- iarb'u}. ,'ehot. Being careful 't._<'>".pr'cier.vC/'
then}. as thinking I .mbuldjhaye,g gogoccafiqn .to'- me ath'ema. any .;
: ,mqreg \yhgp I: came tb' cver'lbpkfitbem. I wan-(151mm; 2113101; ".3".
.' rogtgn;;exc:pt- 1W0;- addzwitn' 'thefe' Lfientw 'Wcj'rk', :gngt.'.'a;fte,r -
. a gr?2t-'v'd<2!-'Qf paiiia ' and :'aagvivara; 196.10% ,fii'tfifiihg'flfot Mint --'
OE .,rz'e_edlg'js, 321. 'kn'gxh. .1 ; finiihedfjg, threcgcorficred 'Ugtng'thmg, .'
- 'le,'fh2t' ,Weflcill in',Englafid-a'Qiqnldeqbf'mutgofi'ffa'il',:f'tg'gfq' "
. with, bffiom'r'at betfiom'514figi a: 1113.1? {mall PS91355? ,theE'top', 'Iidie- ,
theft \'vbigh-{our 19:12: bi'iat's nifc>> ands-which 'I: fiery: We", knew '

_.SSow.to, mahage, efpeciauv ' fince it, waist Iik'e' Ifiat tx'ebieix :1 Hja-d-i'g'r *

T .mi panama milling boat;;when,,;w;th= past-qbgygiurynimage ;

. ~ ' 39y.-efcapejfio'm'tfic-fierbarianMrs" ; . . .
' ;_:. It;_ was, $1552.17;SSw9:_..mont.hs,;Ifthmk,' .b'efqre I'C'Qmplefednthw
[.WOIk:. that Is;-:PS1}e;.xigging and fiidxjgmyl'jmamand? fans; and:

- iridced ithe'rwtm mcely' (519118,.th 'th made'ai~{'fi1'a',li"1tey72fid

e.'faif,-29r.'aifdrePSdil'wit; ;gq-a,ma,,,i;1;'>>ye 'ihgizldzinm is} .thsssxrsftr
* Wjard, 55'5nfiwhat 18' {ti}!- fmb'r'e} .1 5262.8 ardflckh PS613.16 fietnjgf!>>
. Afiqgtqgfie'cn wig-h gsand thpngtfl \ea'esb'ut '2 "very ineiflereritfiii v;
.. Wfighy; yet -,a};_I;\gc'a'3i'fenfilb!et"ofv'the' efii-'Rt' fifeftfln'eih Wind 2', '-
. gqlgtfig- pcgelfityrqfaligbing; like .'tliisg'fapglied- myl'df ',to 'it'. with
' .fu'chfa-zconfiant applichtiongfit'hat" analattij _'acc6mpfifl1g'ti'mYK13-.- ,

' '1':f'z'fhj'sg-h'fifaifihht.with.the Mawemanate:x- htazu.'ab'<.>u_tr.i.t.-2 .
.Laqd thgefgggyrqflfmany things-,3: 3:th me as much-1:121:13: m .

r:ifir'sifiiflgfifi-efilmaiie'gvibibm'k;SSefiSSC/SS;;wbC/h'.a'PSw5-SSSS?$PS1,911?>>
' (. f1lzeg..,".mY--.mafl'v'iq gie'alee "what. Hanged?to'itwmehflfin' 5.:er
g " xhgngh.'.h,c,.-VC/xy; my .underltooajhm't'g'paddle'a-papp'e.3.1022,.
' 1,. 1b? was '_a_n; utter; stranger t9 '2 PS21! indfa rudder,,jari'c}_ _.SSjfziSS'}imSS;f
:;,.ze'sl33%hjen ksraw mC/33work.the'*5iaetitezahd.aeiaifi;i11'<.the.eEURSSr ~.
2...}..18Yugthetmind hQWtht "13.11 ,'g"tbbed : 3313.7 fiflELd.' this-WW ofif'thgt'
_ '5 Igagy',' '23? ~thg-"C/qurfe .we' {Edged chang'e'gl.'.f' After g'fo'nfje :ti'fhe :2nfdz
- a; fa.._.ht1tlegnfi;a .1 magi: alluthc'fe' thirwg65.C/crY-;familiarf1.0 himsgfdxhat, x...-
:,;'.,11..$b;,g.,-,r'n=:ah .equne -.fai!or;-.. 'e'xcepti in' rclation' .tQathe'cpmpafa.'
L;{jafi;_i7gSS'aSS1.ceuid make him anderflmd'bu'tlit'tlerofi; -,-Bu_.t',_:as._'it' ,
.3h2ppenggg mm; W25 fddom becafibn'rfor"if,.'f'th'ere. 'Beingr'bilt'- j
j 'glilt'glglchudy 'W'eaitfier, 1.2M, "fcar'ce :zany' ,fdg. iri tfiqfe pgitsi'; ,ng
fian- "faraway; vifible :jn'~ th'c'.night,,.and7'the vfiib'rc ptrgpicu~~
'-_I-;,Qi1SS. bygdayx eigeppt' tip-Rh": rainy. 'igaibn; 'swhi'ch'cpnfincgl every -.
'.gg-T'ppcquhismgbitatiom {thug eme_rcd'"SSri th'e.Ie_vei1"agfii_t'ch'enSSi-L
.r....9rh..y,.e.ar 'ejf my ram, :ox: .eapuvitys..whscn mu" 'pi.cai~e.;:(sthc:-Iam-
.., 73,111?ng inhichfiblefl'cd with the; compgn'y (if my'lm'atr'iwida'y,'
. tight not. to he reckonedjl kept .the annwertgfy of my Ja'ndigg:

f\:

' 3' hflfiwnhcheefinlg thinkfulnefs to- Gpdylfoflg's' ,tehglgyj-getekfifi

'--_'-'\*-~~ .~ V. .,-- - .
. .1 r- . . . _ . ' ' ., " 'J ', \$ '- '.- ' - . . __ I' " ,33'
- ' '. r g" -. ' . I ' I '
,, , '

,\'~--'-' a,.' .
"'1"; ;- . .. ~

I_. . I.( 1 ' ,\
\ \v."r ' . .. .'\- '

197.- a ,_ LIIEAN-D A.DV',E'NT_URES'

\ V '

. I

as I-{did before ;- and certainly; as. I: had .gxieat.'C/aufe-'f'or a thanka

, hit-Sacknowlcdggment. fix, 'my' :del'if'veransgr'e'atfirft-gl hadmi'u'ckf;
geatgr-fiow for fuck 'fing-ula'; (ancL/gdditio'sal,.;tefi_imrigi;C/ar'of-Ith'e'
Cate of Profiidcncc ever 'm'e, in 'ali'jm'yi diftf'cfich o'f--zbath' bod .
~a' d'Itxfind, andjhe; grefiatfigpes {had-pf bg-in'lg'l'efl'cetuzzn'fr-3mg",1
:fo .edily'eclivex'gd; for I had among .i-mpfi-flidri- npem my'mmd; .

' 111mg-I,momdndtflbcjanother . eat-.ilnjthisiyifland'; finfir'hp'wever',

litill'cohtimied outwith my. ufl):<<'mdr'y'-,~ digging, "'plafifipggand" .

-. filming, :tsufual :1'gagbe'rjng'3nd ctiripg, 'rfiy"grgpes; and going}

(all-fitherthlnggthat'were'pe'ceffdty, v '

. . '_.' Andi-nowfth'e rainy. feafon beginningto com.e;_on-,'ob!igcd.me "

3L iggpkegpQIthqlanger within doors abut bfct'om this {brought my
,ngyir;'_vtm{l_,~ilntojghC/' creek, where Ihad landed my rafts from,
~the fhifi,~.~ancl hafing' ,her_up'-to .thC/:fljnqre,- I'cr'dgred':my'l {nati-
Eriday -to eiga'f'docliz .filflfgientfiosholdzber in ' and .dee'p' .cncu *h: ,
to-gi-ve- h'erwat'grgwhegginlhe might float-3 arid therf when" 1451 : 1"
tidewaa'oht, {\yeFmade ali'croyg dam crofa the. find Of~it',f0
'keepj. lout,' the watgrsdiby ';which. means .uihe lay'drfi as 16th::

/ Itidg -fi-om'- 111': 21223 3-.jcaxidatojzeep1he rain from her, we thatched!
he; 'bver', .39. gigw'er'c; "with; bodghs #0131239, A like- "a hojyfe, foWe'
waited-110mm,. monthg affi'vNovember' aad Dccembcrglin-Which- " -
.1dgfigpecl'.tbxcnturhover thievoqean'g- - f': ' 7 "51,-?

' .[NfoQaner'did theaieafqnable, weathcr- begin>> todmwfxgear,'

'. butefgjmlich "was I elevated with, th-i's ,new' ~ckjrfigned",-a'glfvejntm'e', '.
fizfiatl daikyipreparedffOr' thegyeyag'ei , The fi'flt thing. I thought"-
(on wag-rte lay by a .ee'rt'ain quantify o'f'provifvx'omma a fuflieientn ~

' .fief61f9SS.'fuC/h'an expeditiq'iyk intending in 'a'wcel'r'orfortnight'k '
iti'nfa'c ,tQ1-rop'en' 1h; do'ck, and: Ito..'launc;hs Qfl_t-"t;hC/_;bo$t~fbiitSS1&t

";g}xrpbfa'. Jfiu'tbn'e. morning." I'xvas .vtxtyjibufx 119m fiamgthxdgr

A. =n,ee,efi"ry"-'f0r this? 6cgafi'6n, jI."callegl~ Exiting-19: 'me;:,:,gzggl_-;;bid
' ~ Ihjm,go_tp-the fegmore; anqgfeg;ithcouldfind'aturfltrcr tbx'o- r;
' ' <<Itoife'ifl 'thingfwhifli- ,we "commbnly: has! 0.311253 week};- 48' much;
:_1'1fiox_;',3'ae(c,0un'tf$6fthecggg, agifor,t'heqfake-cf--th'e.~flem,~-53.3." -
..7ha@1t.'-nbt been Ion};- 'gongg_b\1t beggincfmnninggbagk, 33.1216qu
-' fist-"MS .p.11..rIu"ed-.fi>.r'- life. ..,aud'r 'as Tit- werg' flew over. my miter 1.

, 5mm. '6!" 'fcri'ee,.='l_ilge' one that, feltinot the -gfound,.or_-_,Iteps.ehez '

' "Foiebfii's :fcet-bnfiand ,bcfore I hit! the to enquire {he jgcaibmgf' '
. 3.311333 'fzrqcifiifitibn'; vhepcries out,- O:"dew-mafia):Ofirro-wflbr- '-
. ;.'r;aeq {TEBM'Z' 0 m1 1 'Why, what's the matter-Ffiday'fi-'lai'clfi-'I,

, X'Oijv'wkder, flak/gr!" faid he; tbe'rq $329125 tqp'qg. ~orlzsbgefe,,aa71241 1,! -
.iiigipiibrequf'Slltely,Z thought I, thcxje'muft- be'j..fisC5 b. ,amyman's
t'wa'yr' hfirlcckonixig ;-;'.but on-_ ai-mie'tc-Ir'ri'n'qxiiryi; ;I-._-. atzhd there-g '
swears: Hut" .<<hreg; "Wall. Friday: faid 1-,; mm burn-med, 2:12 '

..wT:1'tfmfit you wt; will- not only .defendf'ourfelyes-'-againfi'magi);

' I but-kill;the-meflothelefiruel i'avairefisgiiiaButLgthey'gh,I 'edmffoxd
egjf'ed 71113:} Q in, the 1bat-"mannerIucpuldgithfei'pqox-Jcceafuire .- tie-19...;
'lfleledrfoxthat iife'atzqe knew-What t9iad9.'-,wi.t-h :hfm:=.;~_$,0.-;irzzyler.

. '7' . feid':.hb,"3'tlieySS3.edm{' 'Zeafiififedj;:flitrffie'e'tf Fz'iddjy'cict'tzflng-itf' '

":75th $161.35? QLd. 1,.) fiheygwa. <<at mgupfas. well 394;):9315'.I ,il'cijWC.r-t01fi:ght fen-our lives-

\ 1 ;.o<pemo-n1=rrC/1SS-OFN' 'c'niibf'S'"0"E "'3'
:Tw, .4.- 13'5"}? ifi V! '(Y.'}: -' "

. , " 7r . ' L3" .
yours. 'But finceit is {Oj'WC mun; '
. ., .. . 1 . . r WhatzfaY-Yeu-9:T\Cinzow'fig-ht
193%.? .55 53.2.4, Ffaid [WWW faifldfli'zfie float>> iifitv- kt? gabeat 1'.
m "Av/ear: teamed-'gntide mew>> 'nymbhzie: '-*That'.'s..!19.matteY=a'.
Said I agasnr.'-031r~':gnno~sz1fl~-unify thoiertb at <<it do: Insetskill ::- .
. Jain my ,willinggg Rand bytyiou--go 'tbeJafi; drop of mx;1b20od"..~,..v
. prrqtell me ifiyoumill _do thicjike by} .me, 'andlobe'y; mygogd'efg-
,. in whafidevcrl -<=Qmm'an.d' 9?:Friday' meganfwcred', ,0" mafia me -
lefii-It'fi-r'fl'r 101.6. ma'dir'isavbefi 10.295 .Biiididifi- T1231; mandate r .
"fins-1311 anti???" "EQFCCmin'S-' hia:_fide.lityr .knmefiiaifdy "etche- .
itdbm a good. dram: oil-rum, (pf. which I had;-bC/cr.i~a*very <<8095*
imfba'n'd} and". .gavduit .him' 40 comfort '.h'rs-} heartfi'xAjften .h'g'1'. >>

aim? niy danger ibis great .33

ewbich ,we elwlaya icartied, 3z'a'f1d! Madam-em - with" large' - {wan-111%: /

: .Jia'd..dSSedk_ it,'~'_I ordercd'ghim- tb1-V'talie'fliev t-woefowling'fpibhee-E'Ei

' " iasflbi'g'"a9__~fmgllg.piifql Builets;;:.theri-:I'fook"four; .1fiuiket's; and"

5; .i'fu'rye .;Ij'mxhedriawy1amdedj:!he-l'badedxarmsbumxgus To '

. {ft-Id? . him ,1

' .loaded,';tbC/m_. with two :1]qu ,agd-five;._'fma11 millimeaehlg.'-.cha'f-Z-~~'. .
PS3381my-'~t,W0'=Pifllevc.aQ-fi'w1th'azlbra'C? '; , 1.1;ng lay-1mm (wade;
.'ga'ascuflgmgry"naked. 10; my; lidficgand gave Rigidity bimhatcli'et,' as. . ,
-fizz-mott-expcileht'Weapon-fqr'de'fenlcq...1..I.... '...- , - .
.;_: Inns prepared f1 thought 33-well 50f myfelf,.-as-any'knighfict- ' . :'
Junta-thatjwtr handl'eid aifwoxd' and-fp'ear'. :--I<took-my.ips:xipeC/~a '.
afiveiglefs and. went-Engtofihe fide_ otithe hill;.to fey; mhabjgould' ',
_difcoye'r-; pad I perCingd wry {opn,}by-.my glafsrgtfiat'ithexk ._-
met: one and ;_t,wenty'1hvageSS;.threcgtifonexsfand tbrcef canoe",
and-thatvtfleir ghief Aeohcemt-fepmc, to be'tfiezztrinmphant baii- '
. aliquot .upofi'.tfhe.,tli_xr_e': - poor human; bOd'Its, --a ;hipg{whleh 'b' .3-this-
41:11:16: 'l.ha,d'-'9b1ervcd ' was. vet-y 09mm with a-them>> 1 ..-".:al.{or-
,-.3,'remSSr-l;;ed,;that they 'did._'n,ot_l_and,.at gthat; lace.;'from,whenget ..
-' gFrngx mad: .-his;e!'cap:,-*\bu"t nearer-1 to t C/.-C/rcC/k,;_.where 1116->>. 1
, .'-_flioxC/, .wesflqfi; .andiwhcr'g'nagthigk woodcami: fierycloib to me " .
$163.; Ad's-r foul'was ithenfiugdzwith indignation 1an viabhorrenee'
~ ziatzfucb inhuman wret'ches, 1-w.hich put-.3 pqriodm, all .mygrformgr' '
3111011133" in their'vigdication, .nqithcr wouldlgivc- m" .FclPS.~1;im'c-' -
.::co_.gonfid_erj;1SSei; right of conqngft,;_:as.l. ha'd'dpne 11C/. orembut ~. '
.. defhep'di'ng item the. maintain; licaqxcydov'gn/to gthiday" and;
.' "was." .retblved . to. go. {peedil'y- [to i-th'em f._;: 3an Chill, 1
. ethem},alll;zj ' aflging"--himC/.again~,.;.in- the, faz'ne"bcgath,_jf=-SShe_> -
_>> WOQld 'Vfland by; mean: "when 37 by this time ..be_iti'g-'=;- sfcbvqed' '
-. from inig frightuand .hiq {piritsgmuch "checrecie'with;-xhesdmm ' >-
' 1.th gwrn him he..wa,8 very-pieafan't',ryegferlgquW-tcllingi '
.'.'m'e,;as- he did bcfore',. erm. Lbidedie,' he would 911m; ' mt; -

- -'An,cl"':now .ix' \vasf-havingzufizged;my'fdblutionl _ "rquifteng'lz<

- manfierg.that?.~h,ot'1_1ing{eoC/ld_ ,diecfc' my 'bi'caft'nigitsguncommon.

my m_an_1;FSSiday;;l. gavg'arpifipl tofliclifinifiis gi'lfidic; with three;
Iguns- aipbnyhis "mouldgr', a; weight too .gwafid .cogfpfsgytqbggrgga

. .i~'but:~1-)Nhat;'-mufha:PC-Orking 9107' who. 331.913 but crib foldICI-ifi'the

i. woflckeifiutstol amow.-Ivmasle%rhim. abean- Iniaxmotegzthamwhafi I
_:::wC/i}1dezlfiioil_'xnyfc'lf, '1','l_"uC/k the ,cher'piitol-inzmx'girdlepand!
'3":3'1'.' -.'47J-.',-"-.e_."'" "11;"."1'1 MK? 3. - :~ .. ,p' 1":- .: 9...).11119 -

'f .

1' ' \
...7 . . "73"" .. Igni'

m4. ILrF-IE. Arm onnn'ronny

the other three guns upc'm my: {boulders . hay, fomethmg
mire, but that was like JEi'Op' 's- burden, a final] bot-tie 62212111115.

' which was {con lightened'to our ex'c'eeding refreihment Thi'isi'.
we marched out un'derl a porid'e'rous load of atmo1'1r, like t'w0'
invincible ehnmpion's, with- -a quantity; of powId'ec and bullets. tog>>
wind out bat-tie, and load again, when the pieces 'w'e'r'e difehdr-vj
ge'ei...' A'nd now my orders being to be obeytdfil eheig'ed Friday -~ I
to 21126;) cloi'e behind me, arid not to itir; or 1210351; or attempt 2
any. 121mg tillT- Commanded him; and'in the interim, not tor"
_fpeak fo mulch as ofie word. it- wa's in this order I fetched a '-
co'm'p'afs _to' the rights hand-,_.- of near a mile-,I as well to get- Ovei'.' '

5 fihe 'ci'e'ek, as! to attain the wood; and "by this, I thought ~W
come withm moteof them before I? could: be cliicerned, as -I'.-
fo'iin'd' bysm'y g'lais, mum not be'diffi it to' accomplifi}; 1' ,

But how- fiekle and wav'etin'g is the $112111 of man,: even iii our' .'
gfieatefi: fizr-y- -and {txongefi inclinations} ' 'F'or' while I'iwhs' taking-
19 'ma'i'eh'-, my refolution Began to abate, not: through 'fears'
of their bombers. who were1 a "parcel oi flake" :r unarmed wretch-

. 03; but thofe 'fefleet-ions occurred. to my thoughts: 6326a! foam;
'0! dim: Prommfoncd doit6I', '-or ((6631! 0336/1033- or. 7133167} '66:! Ilia
g0 and. imbro'e- in} baod3 in"- 6237mm 616031', and: murder p'eopIe
3'60: 66:! "E326" Jam:" 71671 im'en'ded to (.10 me any dof6ng'3' T66)
wire 3633033313: infarticu'lar 63- to me: and tbe-i'r 63663260243 uflo'imz
doa: not onlfltbe'ir- -mz'3fiir5tufie but 3: fg'n {6'33} God6adlq't16em1.
in t,6e 'm'q/Z: ihzm'e'nfe {#:4033262} 6333ng did' riot warrant me. 'to' 6ei'a
judge of t6eir "667907273, 3712136 133/:- mi ex'ecutioner of 633 ngbteozu'
ju dgmenu} T643, '03:; t6: 3032132637,. 610663131'366'0 t602gg63fit; '60:

'- would: M6: 130713363233 on (632>>: 63'ij1 , and! puzz{/6'-. :6em_ in 3-4"-
7163506311 dud}; according 'to PS633}: nati0666 33:26:33 , 613'! 3623'- dob: rib-'- .
163393 at ail "1720,9060 6631 no concern 'doz':6 t6e'm. lize'eed my '
may gIFfi'day mig6t- jq/h'fi Hot/PS11]; becaufi tbey dvere' 663 declared
"166256;, of {but wry/22332063111307: r663 :doe'nt 10-- ifacrjize 62'>>: 6'3>>:
fore? , and 616364 it now l25d0f1IJI-fir 61'>>: to 6223136 263613. 323265661
-I- 662213! hot f[I35 3591063 fa wit/33663.10 rim-59 wamfl'y' did thefe
thing's pres 1_ti'pon my thoughtsnll the "I? yI went, that I only;

' f'ei'olv'ed to place :myfelf 'fo as to' behold heir bloody entertain- '
merit, "wit but {23mg gupon them, exce t: Ibmething more th'a'fi
gdmarygqy God's Ifge'ciai dll'CehOD, oukl: oblige me there-n "

~ Tims-fixed'in-my-rei'olution,.1entered into the- thielcf woofl '_

(my maxi Friday? following the mlofe behind) when with all>> poiZ-w>>.

fibl'e wannefs and filenc'e, I matched till Icame: 'cldfe to~the'

1km: of it,; on that fide which was the neateft to: them; for>>
only one end OE the Wood interpoi'e'd' Between- me and them. ~.

Up'en Which 2 caii'ed very, {oftly to Friday,.and'fi1ewing him-'5'

' , great tree, that was jiifl at: thy: Isomet- ofdh'e woo_d;.;. :Porder-'c
hiin ,to' repair thither, a'nd bri'n'g me word; if}. he couldplamly
EEFCClVe their 'netion'sF; accordmizlyrhe did as I Comanddd -

Iim,' aInI'd caImIc back; with this. me neholIy- Rory, that I365 were: ..

'h4 _. ,. . , , -vr---w-------'v- --.-.,g--.v~--

I

wean-0:3- I'Nsibii'r cit-.16 3703;: V I135:-

~ 8114501:th Meir sire, f'eq'ting- the flw'lofi one" of: - tbein- prifimerx' ;
an'dtbiztg gnotbrr In}: bz'mnd ape>> tbe [adds .dr-arlitfle mam-flap;
them, <<whit/9 {bade/igneffen the .1 next fingfigfipe, ~' med- t/Ji: gt lye-told"
mafiaJ-ewe b'ne'qftlzeir nation, abut one (aft/age werj'teurdedjhelzg.
. (<<0% were {irrigate/2] afar>>; ii:a:tbeificwntrj, "and efiWbbW';/'e'= .
. #4:! flmflm talked in "fine "46mm. Youi'm'ay. be fu-re',~.thatzupe,na-
hearmg' thist'myfoill Wa'sxready'ta fink...whhin me-_:.-.-when,af,-
cen'dj-ng, jute-a tree, {Ahw' piamly,.'by my, glafs, a'white- man);
_ .,whb,lay= Liponuthe beach "of thefja,' with hi'slrfianfisi and'feett'iedu
. with ..flagk;"br' thingsfxefembling 'ruihes,' beiggaeov'ered- with?
clotheSS,-fi'and' fe'eme'd to be all-European.- Fgom the xreewh'ete,

. Ltobk'ltfiis'p'rofpeg'c .l'p'erceiyed an'cthehftr'ee 'and-a'ihicket bean? ,

you'd? it;'-_about'-.-fifty,y'atds neafer Ato'themrthan where"! was;

- which.by'taking-afmall-cirde round-,1:mighg-comerat,u'ndifr-~

' ebyetefd,';8c~thed_ I fixquldf'b'e with'jh. halfi a filo;- gf,th'ePSe>>devour.- .~
deli-Age} this eenfid'ekation albne, to 'bwmofe,.perfcSStly. men-e
ged- Wont-them, made - mefwit'hhold- my". paffion'y- though 'I. Was,
ienkageda't'o- tfie .highei'c degree-imaginable; when. going back.
abgut twenty. pagesr'lgotghehihd fame 'bufiles, Which held ail:
the way till l'cemc _to thi'other tree; and. theqlafcended!

V_jt<')'i_a"litt.le rifin'g'grdu'nd, not: adee-'eighteeniygeds diflancszgarid:
there I'had-.a full view' of thefe ene'atuxes", gndli couklperceive '-
1allgt-heirfietionafl' A   -- ' " -, ' z . .. .- . '-

. "gg'VSt'gChaefig'hfrfiid then'appean'as'.obligedl'me: not tea-Idea '
moment's time.' No-leIsfthanf nineteen afthefe dreadfuLwretceriea-~
fat-iupbn the": grpund,.clofe"huddled-together, exprefliug all-the-

- delight ,vimaginable at If) barbarous. an Aente'r.tainrgentv.;..andfg

- __'theyf hadc-jhft-vfevntpthe 6thefi. two .150 murderithis poor unhappy

'Ghrift'ipj',.~and~bfiring'him limb~ by'limb to their. fire; for they -

were then, juf'c' gaing to-untee the,bands fromAhis-feetgjn order

. for-';.'dEURath-, 'hs'fetters are fkno'ckedflofli .rthea feet-16f malefaetoz'gs,
Before: they'gp 'to the place of execution. Hermpcn,fimmed,1-1
a_tely turn'm'g- to my man; f'hom, Friday ' :'fajd- I -' mind what .
I"fay,i.fail' in naming. but". .do'exaetlyfias on feeme (10'-. All:

_ \vhieh'hee.jpromifing~hC/' wduld prel-brm,_l'= ct 'dhwn "one o'fnyy .-
mtflkets; and" fdwlingipieee upon'the groundtgand Friday dtd.
the. fame by. hia,;.~a'nd with the-'o'ther mufzet.~I-.t<po.kj-my'- (Inner '-

' the':favages,i biddiz-'gg him do thelike ;. "Are ycuxt'eady.' faid.1<<: .,

'27:;51'Mafie,,.'faid he';."why_ then fire'at themj'faidig'andr.

" ' that-verYlmoment I- gave fire likewife...' . ' - . ' - "

y '- :I' "nly,- killed'_ 'ne and wbpnded- tWo; bait..my~_sma71-F.i'iSS?-Ys-. ~
:taking ,h'iaz'aim much" bettenthim I, kiile'd 'two' and..;wqun;1- ,
'ggl'three. {'Iiju'ma'y be fure they were in a dreadfitl',conPS'cerna-.

,' adds-fat. fueh-"an-un'expeC/'te<,1'dit'aB'er,.'and"more-Wm had ye;-
.efcapedLO'u'r penetrating I'Ih'ot, immediatelyfjumped- npen their; -.
. "feetfjbilt :we'r'e'ilj'-f11ch'a;c;zhfufion,that they knew pot-when-
"uWAY town or 100}: r not. knowing from whence their: drama
, fish-came. Wejhrew gl'own our piecss, amtookup. "'5'?"

L - ' '
SS . . J\-.,\- _" ..
Y- \

1'96- .. LIV-"21593915 k'D:,Y:EER'TSSi$m'-E'SS' ' ,
-' r' ' --. -- T?\'""--' *H' r :.*:..'"\.t, 52" "am '

gifi'hga rem drgadful- '19qu ; 159g," {,th Wei: gogqu- 011'?
withtfiv'an-jmot, enfr'nau ipzttol'ebmlegs',wepetcewcds (131371-1339?

of than: fall 5 '- tho 'mgmy . were 'womdedi: whg"~mp-eyC/1li\ng;SSn<Y= i .g
.i'creamingf 'about' likeljnad acrcatureea; :21? NGWi'ai-'Ffldafifieielige ,

- 9.vlayfifigwnjyeuppicce,' andztak'cgugthgrmuikgt;3nd'folle-sn'1'g-3 '
HadidfmSWitlt grpat courage;WhSSn%'d1,1s2wmgf-:curfclveamztht .
{avagesx-'We ' give 'a' ,greabtfh'oqt,' ,and;limadC/."dxre_EURtl_g.~.to ithepbgr' .

' vietinig;'Who-'rwquid ._-:-Ihave'- bfem fagfifigedghgdri'ggaqrfiyftg fire
'obfig'cctjflg'c Vbutdhersg wighrit-hree fathers, mgmmmy'tg a';C/a;3C/SS;{ ,. 3,
By my"ordev,;':Frida' . .firedL'astjhcmuat-Whlph fiptl,;h6ugh_fi;'he
ind killed- }thpmalf, jy.:rcafqi;'bfftheir._-ifaillng-3.tqthef-bgtt'omv'gfi
the-hm: ;- howeveyfi h'e- killCd;thO,,~'.'andz morthny';-'wdumdSS&'a" - '_
thirdtfz 'Iniith'e ' _mean'. *time; _ngut-Jthczfflh'g's. that- t-iefdiitheehan'daa -
and'<<'-f2C/t;i,ofi the-'thle Creature, andfliftipgrhigx upgafkqfi him-4k}?
.th'e-detu'guefe tongue,,=(47bat' be'cwwf..'liSSvafnPSwSSfeld.~ {akin-159.6111; '

' EbrMIaw35'YIbut f0'-yeny"'v've'ak';rdnd- faint; isthg-t hSS'-;q91fid'gfC/arcEUR*-- ;
mm: m" 'fgeak,z, dmmeaiately. 'l.ga9ef'him'_a dram.and;aipifC/gegqfi* IL.
*br'ead'ita'chieriih'>>him;.-r.and mu shims,-What-;cmmtirymmmei

' M3315; rHt:faiai,-:PS1.."/}2atbialzz-,' and! j.t_hcnf;uttered-ia1y=$hSS-zth41SSkfSS1SS'-, ' ;
'ncfaiiimgjnable for" his' l delchrgnee. '{Sigth'rg3?;{aid715fxxgith-saw 1

' - mmhrSpahiflys-asil was" make; ->>.'df, fiep 'fisfftalk.'~_a;f;C/mardsgg bar; . .3

flight-2 fifiwfig'ihere, take thig {word and 'pifioy and, (19-: What: \gyeif;

(can! " Qxxrgd',:iSS1'de_ed','~ the did {cu-With fu'fih configei"afid-~intrepicY=SSPS'

tyithafi-he cut'two'sfthquo pieces in an mmntfxfherkfatagefi i-

' ,mp'tghafing'.the'pdvi'crfd-fly';f6htheil't-'Iivcs': librdcred fiidayitd'

- 'mUn'fon-thofe'piecesy we-hadeleftl'at thcl-'tre'egfihic'hhe hrcisg'htthg ..

"withs'grgata fwifine'fs, and 'flren 'Ifgavc' him-my muiket'yfiyhflg'fl -

'lpaded'th'e'reftx- Bur. newtheir; h'appgnfcd'a 'fiCtCeE incOunter"'bfe5. '

Itgtw'ee'qf'theSimiardisiznnefofithe favkgea'wtxb'hae'm'adga't' fin' ,,

"with: "(Shela '

it'fieirf'fimkydgn.ifwfirdk};and :thdfighl-Zihefidrm'ef'... :

> "was ag'brilfic as gouEd'bctxpcetgdg'having "ti'yiegffl'afihfic'dfi-hfs'

. {criemyginthe'head;;yct'b'eingweak-&faintyt'hgIhdian-Ibadfth'rqwfi
."hiifi'flpdig-tfllje' grofindskek'Wa's :Wrdting my'rfwordoptoot'hishfind,' 5..
'jwhich-.the'813ani2rd .very'f'wiieiy gutting-"drew but:his.~-'p_iftol";

3"a'nr_I?-,flibt3hizit:'throughIlia-body 'befqre'l.cdfil'd'comegnEarzhimg, ; :

'tghdu'gh I-ffiva'SJrnnn'r'ag- 120-bit} amfiancei:.-Ahith'--FfiSSlay;rihgjpu~r=' '

' 5'ffied?'tl{e i'fiyihgffire'tchcfi ' with- 34's- . hhtobctydifphtching; :fhre'ey,

' iibnt'ghczfiirett'; Were 't'oornimble tftzr_'-hi91".g.i;.fl'he_ Spafii'ard {taking

' f'dne 'df {cl-1': fowling piecingwbungl'cd:=twci;:i.w11o:mnning(mid-men
. 3Wo'o&( Erida'x- pu'rfiuds'aridf'kiliczd._;-L.bt1t,the othersndtwithfi'afid'J

ihgglgi'sfwwnds,'plungedmlmfelfimo thc'fea: 8c <<ward; to T-th'ofe-r

'th'wqctlefg'in 'th'e can'dc ;' Whicpgwitlfohe-wwndcd; we've an: 7

. -' {gatidcapedg out} of one} andt.'.tw_cnty~;- ' The accbunt" isjas: PS615"
- W"J"'" : .-.-"~' :'-~: ~.".- "' ' ";.'..-;<fi5;":':;

" Killfd'QtfixfiWtfrdmit/x'trca-' - - , . '9"1397' .'.' 29'73: x.-

'Jf-fb'q3'ficdrzdflb't -.."-'-.'.' " " :-.v--'-'.. <<'21-: 5" 3' - '.{-:.SSg;- "

- "'Eiltbfl'of'tbefif'yfi'gUazlnaf'j'_-' ' .' w 5., .----,'- 4* 5-": ' <<if-1' -~C/ ;'

. "','l-'JSS;n'fjzSSL/',Irb:3','C/li-'201L--L'-<<.'-;SS-:.~".";1.11315-5: .~':-:~ 4. :4.>> ..-.;~':,-'..~.~=" .5}: .wt '

' / . - . . ' \ ,_
| 4 I ' i ' f . ' ' . "t '1
, I . . '. -. ' Q, u' ' ' v. -' ' " _"
.., . ' ' ~ 4 I. \

~
"",. ";"" 'L2:I
. U

 

oF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107'
} Bil/1e SPamard - "l '-"-"' " ,- ".-..-"{}." we. ' deg... 3"j
Killed or died of 't'beir <<mound: <<.3114:
/' _Efiaped in tbe bodt, whereqf one, wounded, if not flaw I547,
' ' __' ',_:,, fl'b'ld arr '

-. - IIThefavsges 111 fie canoe worked yery hari} 19 fit out ofour ,

' reach, a'nd Friday was as easier-- in p111f11'1ng then'lii; arid indeed I

- was>> 110 lefs' anxious abodt theiv' 'efcape, 'left after the news; '
had :b'eep can rd to theii; people, they {110111.11 return in [111111. _:
tudes and deftro be}. So being refoived to purine them, I 311-111-
p'ed i11'tofo11e" o the caiwes" and bid Fridsy follo'w me _but

' _ no fooher was I 111', 1111111 to my i'urprif'e, I fotmd another poor '

' eregtuFe bo1111'd hand and 11191.10; the fimrghtex", fish: as the,

j Spahiard bad been, with very little life: 111 him. Immediately I
inbound him, anew-611111 have heip:d him' 1'1p;b'1zt he come,

. neitheit- fiahd. '11'or fpe3k",b'111 groaned fo- ,piteoufly, as thinking.

..,'he-' was ohiy unboundinorder to be fiairi. Heieupon I bid Fr1--

1 "day,- {peak to. him, and tell him of his deliveranee; when pul-'

ling but "my battle-'1. 1:13de the poo::_ Wreteh 111,in a dram, *'

. whlehfwnh the 511th news he Had: receiyeci, 51'0 revived his 1163":

' . 11110111111111.- in the boat As foon as Friday beg-1111 to hear
21111111112311, 111111- 1301 more fully 111 his face, it 1311111111 hsve, mo.-
Ved"any One 1603 tears' to peteemems 11112013111011 tyanfports cfi:
ioy ,. for. he "ki'fiiad," embraced h' 111,. hugged him, cried", iaughed'," '

ongoed, iumped about, dines ,.;_11ng,. ht e11-.cri1:d_ again, 1111-11113; '4
his hands, ebeat his face 1111c! 118111211139 fimg 811d jumped about;
$133111" like a diitra'jeted ereaturce '{0 that- it wasa g1eat_ ivhiie

. beforej could make. him 1' peak to 11112,".011' tell: the What" was the
1113tter~w1th~h1m but ivhen. be same to, the" liberty. of his fp'eeclr
asks-11110111111": was his father, . . riffs: -

" ;=.;'Here indcedI was infimtely: moved to fee that entifui fanc'I-"Y

~ -tend'er" afi'eetion' this poor wage had to. his aged- parent.;' .'"He -

' 'wo'uid fit 'dpwn by him; 111 the beat, open. his breat't) aiid hold

his: father'8 hes'ii. ciofe' to his b'ofom half an-ho'._111: to gethe'r. to

." cherub him: then he took his arms &3nk1es, which were {tiff 8..-

,; - numbed: with biziciiug," 1x clisffed-Sz rubbed them with hzs hands;

1' by, which meahs 'perceivin'g what the cafe was, I gave him

"I fame 1111111, Which 1110111311 o'f- great be rich; t9 him". .
f'. I'Vhiic'" We were pbufy, it; this 3152111111 the fayages had: gig-tteiia
' 111111911 0111th light ,.-a1'1d new it was we did not p11rl'11e them;
1'01 there arofe from the north-welt, which egntinue d 1111 night. ,
dong,>> fhch a violent ftcrm- thatlcwld not flipp'c-ie etherw-ife
.. but :Fhatith'ey were 31L drowned After this I CAiied Fr: day. to>>
me, and aikcd him if he had given his father. any 61:311.." He
filobk' his iiead- and faid, Name, not on": bit, :21: eat-a- up a'll, ~.

' [0.1 311-111: him a ca'ke of bread out: Of a little pouch I cart-.ed- f0; .
Mend. Ilikewife gave h1madzamfoc-himfeif, 811 two g1:- tzlrleex .
. "- . 1111 C51

\i "1.9.8 ' 'L I b: 1?- JfNixg "A UV 1; 17; TU R. 3731

bunches of'rgifins for his father'. "Both fth'ef'e' he carried "to" him, '_ -

for he'mtfld make him drinktbe dram to comert' him." 2'. _
miray-thcn he: timeout-35f the; bo'at .asg'if 'heq'wa's; .bewiichg'die. '

with, fuc': anlcxtracndin'ary fwifmefe," that: hegwasszout>>. bf-sfighflz',

' asitswcr'eh ;an'inftant ; but 'athie retgm I perceived him-41$".
.kgr'z his pace,'bc'canfe-he had' {mn'ethixigv in -.his "hand, iAn'd'thie;
Irfonndto be; as he approached nearer"; ah. -carSSh'c__pi jugewigh-

'fom'e' water for his'fathe'r; 'w'ith tivo:morc'~-'czkes zoflztiread,' whfi'ch' ' ~

. ficf'i'klivercdginfe my 'handsu-Nizneirig: very, thixfi'yi' :'m_yfe1f>>_-..E: '

' drank fouicT'of-themater;of. which \irhgfi his:father,h'ad'd[ahk,
t'u'fi'zcienfly; ~it._more, icyivedthisirfpixits ' maul-.311 the-tumhhadi ,

. giverphim, ' .- f '4'" ' 3-; o' 0.;211-"7
'9 Ifl'finl 'Called'Frida'y fto meqandizordcred him-kofcarny- :t-hef' '-
.Spanyardpsjbof ghc' Cakes-and fomcF-vtzater'; who zw'aa reacting?
hxr'nfelfw uhdcflagrcea -place"u'iad'eri the" made 90f. attrccgrbutaf9Y=

.3,
'1

#3:?ng that'fli'bfigh he 'exc'rtcdl'himfelf 'h'e 'couldrn'ot Rand'iizpbn?
I'm; feet. 1~.Up?m which Izbtfdered-Eriday tomb andjibatheixhis'dn-v.

>f.kl:'8'wi'thv'rPS1msias he' did'.::)1iegfathet's..'- -BQE.'C/VCI?' minfi't'enhc'
- was; employed 'fnnthia haiv'goig'ler-eafit'a ,wifliful eye: tpwavgisvthe' ' ,
'beatnvberc he .lefthis'father fitting" 'i-Wh'? "(added-y, cfifa' pearr .-
ing-fhc'flew.I-i'keI-ligfitning'ftd;him;"find. finding". h'cj-b'a .onjw -
hidf.'<<hifrifelf..\dowl:i "to ifefle-"liia'T 1111me he returnle'd-sllgacciigt-toi; pic .
r'c ent '; 'ah'. {gem}. oke'ito; c, japia _,t,o..ct-- :rI a :ghetpe .5
gm'engilmfi%1 .9. _ P. '1: . .x
dWeHIngl}; gtlmomd tikecare'df: him." :Upfen \vhich-Triglgm ;_'.-

; teok:him--~ inppn hisrback.;and}:fo carried hin'}'tO'th'e.-chndi;,;,fEURteg;

. ' ting? b3137cbiSShyyhisfdghenagnfiepi'efenflyfieppifigg out,;agSSili', .
- laugehed-'thelhbag pfi' 'and mad it'd". it"iaiohg'ithc'. {hor'e'rtefieitfi - .
thane'lj'c'onld. Walt,-'thbugh,thfiffiviad-';bltwg fiery 'ha'rd atodysanpds ' ,

Imfl'tid "the Boat, in' ore'ervt'o ' 'convtyedzfo'imfi '

  

hdsingibrdughtwfhcm. fife'tfitfle"creeleg-fawarhe ti'u'nsit'anfejteh. .

\ chewing? :Eanee;sve7h'rcfiqh'e broughi'fim ntheL-'erecrltej animas feign

' 3a 'Isigot'to it by Ian'dg-jvhen Matting: mc-owr', hcfimokkdetznfek': .

* Z'g'uz'ftezotit- efthebofi ;' "bait 'fd'weakwsierei.thcyi'fythat'i.'washr-

' eed'to'm'akeia kind-"of 2' Mid-barrow}! and! whefi:_..h.':camC/j.C/o .. ,

my eaftle,; n'ot beingWiHifigto-jtfiakc an enfixagnce-info mwwgy,
".we made fthe'm'fa- handfome 'tcntrfcovered with nieia;--fails~ and. '
bqughs oPS treeegmakingtwd'gnc'd bedw'of rice faraway, withabi'an'v ' .
, "-ketsttpilie upon'an'ducover. them-.2: Thus-"likeganiabfblutciking59o-

vtr._'fi:bjeetSS>>who flawed-.stheir' 'limi: (to""me,-'lth61igh_t_\ymym

.1}

fdfv'efiV'eo'nfidfifible, cfpeciallyas' Ilhad'now three-.geligiogs gin-

i'n-my kingdom; m'y'man thdw beifig'h.Pr<.tefiant,-1his':fathgn:

a :'Paganhapd' the-'Spaniard'a Bapift'; but I gave '1iberty-.-o'f; $93.11*

facfic'c-tqthewalh if" u .-'-- -. , -

. 2" "To get. provi'fi'ons Form? poor-weak filbfeflss s. ordcz'qriafifile.
' " d}?! to :lgillim'e agyC/arling .gaat :' Which" when. =.h'C/-:hSSd':dbne'il"cSSib

"o the hindeiqlrart'cfps-and' chqp'ping,itinto {m--a11;pieqesp bqil'gcb'

fand fischditmuttifi'g barleymnd?"ricerintdfthezbrothea'l'hlsle 7'
'earfi'edfinto} theft; 'tentfifit'i'tabk}.'dincd'withfthemzmyfelffifiid' '1 2. '-

"cncoutz'igg'di,tli'ema"'.'fridhy im: inz"<iht_expxC/ter'gz.td fibi'zifaithefi-
'-'"';IZSS.!'4'44 - . g : .. - ..-:. .- '

..:;<<. ' , _ 3 - .',' I .' I ~ ..

, _... - -
r

~1 '~. v
, \ -
a ' r ' . '-<'
.--

- \. I ,1 .~ '

" ..-._ of RIO-BI N SQN' C R'U'S OE, H>> 3109'
findfiixidew t6 theeSpaniat-d <<(00,,Who fpukethghqgeuge oE;tbc
arm-gees rettygwdln After fdin'nenl ordered :Friday, .to-~:teteh

, "afom'e'ial Outfit-rpmfrom the <<field'of batthe,--,ane'tlier-nC/xtflay-tip.
-'3;1iry:-thc.,dSSaC/~badien; which he tdidraccarmpglyn _' - \ .
'Elf-5'3:And'moyvhffinadcfFridfaY '.nQuirc. Qf'hig'fa-"hettg. "(Katha-he - -

"fiio'hght fhefe'ihvagcschadaefcapcd~ the-{ate fiorflm infthc'it canoe"?
-".Zmd ifa:fo,l'gw'hethcrn.thevg'Would not .reguxjnwrxhiz-pnwer to'o
great for jug-2:0 rgtifidg. ,rHc. Manfw'ex'ed, .,.t5atg.bei~t/Jaizg'b; .it int-4' , '
'gpqflible: 't/ngv-'to:C/(d-' 'ozdlimg't/Jefi/Iaam 3.. on... i/fi/J'eyfizuentdriwen' -
'y'awbwamfy; 111:} gw'ayld "(Info anrid mfbgre' tng-quwld:qq
flic'mft'dinfyf be 7 daw'uredfiai (Kim; ware 'di'ogvnegi Mike/ca, 213321

- :fllfiqueftb'ey-'bad? mmmd. tlm'ri new; Ceuntfj',' 15: flyafi'geflgffiqf

_' =1beir' fatal and-PS10821} atta'rfk; would make than $911 tbefir 17:61:16.

'_ 'xlv'qt-tbe (re/l qfibem' .wcre' killgd . by Ibunajqr'r and: _'igPS!diflf,'fiot.
",bj'tbC/<<72_iind-q/'.m.2m,u but '15] two betwmlyfiizjnr(m.eaning-[Efidey.
_-;afi'd-m' ')'-:qu'za7w;re fin: flow-above'to dgfroy'tlae'm; jAJiaitbiQ-'g

yh'e inlaid>> brbzeqv; empgfi: bk:,b:ard-.'bmz fan/J? fame'4w- (me

,' "ia'notberLC' 'And iridced "he. was, in tbe'rightf unit 5-.f',wr;.~l-';l}avC/-

' 311eard"'1ince;_that T-Ihefc_fimr.mea gaveiput that 'whocvcfwgpt _ 4
"to' that inc'fianted eflahd; ' -'Would. be'defiroyC/d_by.-fire from? the

3):" 'ods.'-.- '_I'.' g i u . -., ,. . .' 2,. 3.1"", \ ' _- 1' .
:' {g N6? 3119:: appearing fo'on. after, 391.~C/xpeeted,'-.m'yfiappfehen-
:ffl'on's- eeafe'dgg. luflgad~=ohvhich my former thbnghts of-a my age
*tbbkf'plage, .c'fpeci'a'lly iyhe'n>-'Friday.,'5'father amgred meilfiubuld . \
(,hafire' (Sod uvfegejnuhismatioh. ' Asia, theSpaniard; he-toldm'e, '
398mb xtfinjrabranfhie countiy men .andfiormguefe, who 5th
25cm filipwreeked; made their cfcape thither-g that- ;hgugh they
~M'erc injunimx With the: iiavages,' <,ygt they: we}: New._mifC/rable- '-:
'leranfidf-profifi'ons-'andnther Tnecdl'arirs. t .AWhen} aflccd him" ~
"about Ithe' ~1pgwt-iculars OEhis verge, .he'a'gfwered that ,t-hgir'ihi'p.
"Witsfbo'dfideifrOm: {hes-Rio de- a vPIataiq'fie-Hiyanfiah- ;.;that
-'tw-hyen {helm}: Was 11011,- only:'five- men.pctifizedinihefcceam;
' athefitefi 'havingiaved=thcmfelves in th'eiboat,' Were now landed
' Jon the hain'c03fiinC/nSS;'-'.And' what do they ihtqnd -to do there 2'
,d'a'id L. ' "Hg teyli-ed; they: have coincerted- mealtimes-to ell-ape, by
"building 'a'we'fielgzbut- that they had 'neitheg tools nor. prox'rifions,
'foi"tSSat"'afl'.t_hC/ir delipaenqgmato h'oth'ing'; 'Suppofi'ng, {aid-I;
.411 _}hbx'i!d_ make'a'propnfal, and 'imitc'lthem here; (would. they ~
1'5fib'tS-F'eatry~ me'ipfii'ongtto..'NC/W;Spain R be 'anfivercd. no; for he
' 'knewtfb'emitobc- filchfihoncit. m;mrasWould-2fco'mto aet 'ffich \
'vinhfwfiah .mfends ta thew deii'verer :. Thai, .if'l'pka-fed, <<he-3nd

sihgfibld fav'gxgcnigoukj fgo over-- t9.'the_m,'-tg1k.wigh themjaiboyzt-
. "fit, eiidijeifllj'g' int-12m a'nfwey :-'*5fhat'r'they flabuidjaIl-jfiv'earjfidgfity
-'W' .n. 1,",'IV . .. ,. . ' . '- .. 3..
<<30. me asAghmrJa-leadeg, "qu11 g theaflply- Sacrament; ;' :afidgfor gags,

. ~'ififiitf' ewquld' ne't'on'ly-do'vthe fam'e, but'ftan'd-'to {he'lafl'rdfbp
. ibfiis-'biqulhould there'fiegocwfionfi-4...."5: '.- -'_' .. ' "in.
j TfI'Ii'e'fia-.'fC/1qind.C/afi'uranC/es mfa'demefefoke..to;grantPS=thcmlr lief,
.sza'qd'to fmd-"thefltwo-ovcr for-that'puzpofe; but-when evary
--thing was ready, the Spaniard ratified an abjeetion, which, c3rricd
\ \ ' a

.\

I -'

\' ->-I' .- -.. ' 'r r .x

. 1m ' L15 5.1A.N"degL' '9'?>>'-' {mi-van- E s'

.. a'great'deali of weight in it :_;_ 1'02; krgaw,,~Sir, '.f_a?g1 hC/,._,.-t-Imr

,Iieqqug hem fame "timg <<with :joit,' Immaiu; fitfqg/x'eeququr
' gflqizl'efir'iwand corn; fzg'flieicht, pyrbqp:3_'.fqr gu': at'preferztgfiutmot

,finltbgm,';/bot_qld.tbej tome Lovvc'i" frefentbgmgktb 1e 5 tawifl'ugla f '

wg/[Zyl fc'rfltm .-iggtended 'vvbj'age.. "Want Might'beIf-aslgreetjafinioh-

\c'tg/x'omfir. them 'ta' (liflzgree; and rebel; [ayatbegx'lzifdrm of-[freel ' .
did (genie/1 ,~ God bimfe! f; .iwbmfitbgy wq'izmiibreadzirz 117': --.cwi_ld'- ""

fidemgfi, ~' And :tkerrfife,' - m-edyitc-isjq.' wait, dgzotbkrfifiarqg/I', ,

-: afzdzi'er-tb: 'meazz time mlfimatepng' imprf'oge margalarzd,' (cw/25m-

' 'bjii'gye' in. f'bame- plentygof'frofvyioni 'iiz. afdefih~tq...PSx?'e.ugg5'diir'
. 'Jide gm" - ~ : .

3.; {Ibis/advice pf-th; Spaniard'sl 3 proved extrcmelygaapd-sfo

, t-{at'igfied w'aeil of his fidelity'flthatl'e teamed ping-megaftcrggnd
{thus we all four ~cht.'t9 Work upon. tome, more :%!ind,'-.capd ,

" agaigit {eedtime w'c hadgbttenfdAmucxhclaredfianstgtrimmedzyp _ _

'xfnfiicicnt >>to C/fciw.'1;wenty-two bufiaelsfif 'vbarlqy' on, and fixteen .-_-,
jars (SQ-ride, which was 'ipvfho'rt' 31min; ifge'd we.hadC/0.fp'are, -'

' A As';wC/f>wgre fbutzip number and by-"thie-time all -in good health, ..
:wfc': vfe'a'red not 'am' hundred 1ndiahsSSfi(r)1C/thef,vgntnre';,to_-.,.,3;-. _ I.
,tack'ps'; andywhilc' the'fcpr'nwdsgraying;l-pit'chdnuponj-fome ' i
:treee, fit; to'hx;ild_~_'us at'lar' eg'y'etfel. incafg tthSpa'niards'camc \

"'ZOvebg'iyhichebging inatke , Lord'e'rchrl'idfa'y'andgthis fallen-10 . -'
{cut'lgh'emfio'whgappointing--{the Spafiia'rq, whog'was wwm'y .

.7 "pfivy ~copnfellou:;- to-o'verfe'p and'_.direPSt;thc WOltk>> gllikewifejgy
. ulstea'fed my flocks of goats._ by'iflmptingfthc' wild-'da'mseeand
' bgihgiilg (home their. Jude to :mY . ificlqfiiI'e-z SN'ox'. dick! : ne'gp'
, : \5:61;;hc'gfapc'fgafdn;.'-'but .churcd-vthemnsjafirufu'al',-th0ugh Lhad
- * inch. azimuth)! Low, as; \vomd'.fh'avef tillqd.;C/ighty'barrqls;.Wl,th
.raifigs'. - ",And fhus 'all ofus-._being.~ gmplo'yed, they; iq. wagtking,
gage 1m , proyfiing ,for, them; migharvefi' came, God-A Almighgy,
' I:blcjifethhggineEeafe ofit PS9-much; thapfmng.twefityfftwqi-bax-- V
' / raspfibarjgygw; thrafllcd outtwo'hundred aridtwenfymnd ,:
. thelilae' quantity of rice; :fuflicient -to.vief'ualt'a'flfip'-;~fit*toeC/a;-' -
rim: and authe Spaniards toannpartpf America: :.-"I '

" L y Thu'stheiprincipal objeetion being anflwe_ted,,by-a'fnifieiefit
flock oflpi'ovi'fions, .IJifent ,my'two 'ambzflhdorsfifiexfitogthe a
mail") laud, with~a.-' regal authoritytt? adminificfthe;031118rEUR9f. ' 1
: allegiagiee'andifidei'ity,L.'and..'h1vC/,aninfirum'ent ,fignedfimdg ..
= _~. thei'r 'hiuigls, though , I' never afkedi yvhcfiher thfi hadrpefi; $1.13. ' ' '
:or pager ;-"when giving each .of them a.;m'1fike_t._- .c'ghtghfirggs: SS
pf powder and ban, .and previfionsa enough.{qr-'eighrlgdqxp,"
they-failed away- With a, fair gale on -a day. .whcn_tthSS,jmdan.' L .

gw'asvat"f1;'ll.;,'.-'~; ,- I - . ,; ; \--_'-'.3 ,_~_,;;-- .
- _' Scarce gvfortnight had-paged"overg'myyllead, butimpatic'nfifgri.

- -i,t1SSeifSS'retm,.21.laid-madam.- tosflcepfinp .~m0r'1,1,ing,; wlzcnsa. -
"'{firafigc accident happened; whicmwaaruflxqresl "ih'-.by%..F;idaex?<e;
' Tgpmngqhging .to me; '3hda-_Cal_lihg aloud}- 'Mq/Igr',' mgfim ':

"#2) Ian! tomes: aware-tame",- Upon ,whichyenpt , d:C/g1'mihg'SSof

'anaLJdaagcraout' I jumped-firm. my .b'eds'put, on my C1935SS8e~"
., . 7 -; ' V ~ " . \ ,' " 1939-33- = or. meg-Inset: on U so 2. In:
\. 'find' 'h'urrie'd, through my little ' gr'ove 3" when' lboki'ng 'toy'imrds
'fihe'z'fe'ai,':"l\perceived-abut "aboutaIeAgue and,aha1SS.~diSSt1pt, ..
t'l'tazfdi'rpg"1i'rif~.for"'the' 'flmrej With the: Wiqdr'fa'jr: szfibeh'elgljthev , ~.
did'hotvwme-ffom: thefide 'thtef theila'tyd. lay. on,'blit;if1'<SSm the '
,-;-'~{fouthe't7moft cue/bf;theifl'and-z'l-SQ thefe 'beihg'~rione=~bf the -
"fefiplewezwanted, I orfeleted Frielz'iy t_o lie; 'ftill, till fuchflme as -
13*feam'ejgewnffromuthqmduntain, wraith; with myv'ladderr!
Know afeended, in order to'difeovef Ignore full}: wh'at they} were ;
'L'and'now, wi-t'h'vthe' helpf inf-my perfpeftive,~gIan,-;I plainly'per- "
<<:weiva'd'aann'glifl)fifh'ip, which *1 concludedit tube," by the fafhjon .
ref itsylpng' baatyan'd whichgfi'lled 'me with fuch uncommon
-:'-tranfpevts" ofjdy, PStht-Iicannot'5tell'how t9_'defcribe'; aria yet '
"tfbme: feetet- doufitsi'hnng'v about . m'e', proceeding. from 'I knqw
-. not what 'ca'ufe; as though! hidi'reafo'n- to_ be'uupon'my gun-'6'
131mm; indeed, 11"me 'Ihgve no= "map-'conte'mp theffe'cret hiigte
ruagideiint'imgticms'f dfdang'er,' which vefiv 6ften are 'given,~~\'vhen, - -
:he may-imagine-ttie're 'iavno'pdflibility of' it; bein 'reaX-gl'for'hid' .
' "1 not:"b'een' Warned; b'ythbis 'filep't admonition,_-, 113d been in'a
. _'Werfe"fituation,'th2in before,an 3pei'hapavineirita'bly'fzmiqed; Q
l . '. ' .Not long -i_t-'wae, befo're I; pevceived the boat taiappxjoachfiic
1' -':ih&orey"as:.t_haugh theyllooked for" a 'plaee;'w_h_ere_t11'efy- might
:' tenxenieht-ly land; and audit they ran their boat 'on more up- '
.-'.'o'n the'r beaem' fifibeut' half a, mil'e'sjidiftance .;fi_'vhieh, proved jfo
' much-the happieir fdr mgeg'flincegi-'had they come int'o the'creek, .
~1'they'h3'd '_'lapded_:SSuft-~at my door; " and might 'net onlyfhave
"fenced. me outizofmy ea'filfibltmlundered me .of all'I ha'd ih'tbe ,
wand-.1 Now-{was full'y- eoxivinced theywei'e all Englflhmen,' .
, - three-"of Which-were unarmed and-boupdf; when immediately
' -'._.1he;Tert four or:>>SSVe"IeapedT9n':flxore, and ~took thofe three o'ilt ' .
'-f=eEUR_-t'he boat- as -ptifon'ers'; one' of 'whom I could perceive'uf'e'd .
'ih'e mofiipaffionate.gefiures'ofent'reaty, 'afiiietion,' .a'nd' de'fpaier;
'Mhilezthe ethers iqva lefi'er degree, ,ihowed a'oundancebf can;
.J'cerm ~'- - '. f - " ' ~ '- ' q '-.'."- -
' _ :- 'Not. khoWinTg the meaning of this,- I was'very much menial; ' >>
.fgd',' andi beckoned to Friday, who was 'betow,' to" afcend the
" mountain, and likew'gfe 'vi'ethh'is ~_-fight. 0->>'m/lq'r,;faid he 'to'
me; w'u'jee :E'rz 1572; mam-eat pri/bnemna: {well a: Smiizge 'rgtdzir.
vfiAnd-do'you tfiinlt-they willeat them Friday?' faid'I.," Yes, -
E-T'id F ridge, they .egb'a' "all it}. , fNo, 129',' {aid '1, "Friday,"I am
"Frfiheh mere'eoncefned lefit they 'murd'er them, But- as For eating
, '.--'!h'em'~u-p,-'that l am-{nre-the'y will never do." ' : ' .1 . e
a And 130."! I not cplyflamented 'm ",miefer'tune in not having,
"theispani'ard and SaVage 'with me, ut a'afo' that-II Couifi n'ot
' ' 'Cb'lfie-' Within {hot (if ghem un'per'ceived, (they ha;ving,'.no'fire
'jugfirfsjiinong Athemt'and fa've thcfe+three memwvhom'l thought
j *i'beije'xe going 'to kill with theif'fWords,. .But'fome'ieomforg-it
-. . "W'fis' t'o1 ime;"-tbat I p'ercei'v'ed C/bey "Were- fet' at."~l-iberty'-'SSo 5gb -
_ "where. 51113:)?- 2 "leafed, the rafc'a'lly'feameyirfeattering about as
, 'Eihmggh'they 36.3 mind to 'Ieeftlze plase; rand-fallow did (they
' <<7 -~ .- " 'L " ' ' "negligently

- .
. ' . I
SS 3
7' x . ' .

\_--:.j';<\-'v

' mm I.L.7I.-rsreE>>.newazyA'wDrYaEeN$11qu cam... " '

rjiegfigenfly'srm,bleethat cthc:atid.SSgghad:,C/bb;ed 7'59"].QW: 'aa {0'16ch '
. ; EQQ-'S'b'fitsflgfltemfiaq:'liNQIf::WSSf$.tth.C/JWO {inertmhofierc'imber
'mtegeitefifnfpea' 'z. fierfixewieg'rim aka-1112mm tcb,,rri!1C/SSe1ewr4
jcg'hfiygfeflLefa-fi weep ; (mama-1: ethane-<<mafia fibafbkmhegouhvr,
Wan gaperceivieg:yfhe'eboamtbeleait'eaemenel .c'r'shi-sym'mmo'
.. mew-"z itseh'ef {halieeied-z @316: t'e etflecfiefi; asevhq: made. all mew '
. Z'm'ififidifiiop-fice'cemg'fq 541-i-m';;_':bnf;;;es'- Pr'wide'ricer-ofidm'ed 4551311
7 wit-heirifctce wasmtfl'cetlml tqeJaunchiherg-gejvhgn Elgeguldfnggr '
' , Jhemjfl'pea-k? town; ;SSfi<2thSS9,-W6yi-Ietj;_b4i'adlent, geekngefibejgg; .
~, Waffllgyfimt '13th Wick"; .'hygwbish Wordei- I =Ras~f(r)SSlyeeSSbfiifiC/gd
' ' fethew/gwete miy- own eemmg'rym'en. 3541' 311-thiywbileri'ayqferygqnigg, ,
' 7313' being -'~fdlly-'1'EURBfiblq yit.jceltld:.C/be~no\1eik ithanstett. h'oufiaagbfy' '
'Rfeare the-boat <<shrewd-be qflqatagan'd 'thejfieitngnldThe,~-ib"SSdg;ij;9;,
1 . {Rh-at: 3 they. ucq'itktw'motis.agfi},y-C/pc{ceiigg-.'mg'__by, which zineanisfgl
Mlbilfd'kmttmorc liberts'fz-tohear. their<<talk.<<-andtobPSepve afil'thgr
; " WING": -'M?"53.1%-'7fSSatt-1>.?repa'red afar mu? edefehocgz Wet; 1&5?st
a TSWd'-PSanotSSe-r_.~{ont' 915 enemyigmcgegxibatswitiiszlsaetedkwim-mgte
f ' uca'x'ieio'n'. -i =J-teok:twmPSugfegs on Cmyc~zihbulddr5~e~md~ gaye- :zEridgly.
' ":gthteeqhmkegg; halides} myafo'rmidzblengeakflsin .c'eatapdfimoh; '
-_ :eitronmwnade--me loamasafie'rC/6.-YndvtmPSbie Res eliemfe'st'bf
- '1':le'Qfgecieli-Y'rwhen'fiwd Dime\vmmwkin-mysbalt,=,sSSSSgl
- .'z;mw;aekedPSsvord' hangmgebysgmmydg = :- '1 .. -
_i?Itv.%Y='&8' mfdefignratxfiefi en01:g-tosmakcrafiyistteLIth-fi-Ilrit WeB' -

' '. 751m}::reandeztibemgvnow mo EURO?<i,19C/k, <<in rthe :vrcry;.t_h<'SSt;:9f rtlicef -
j 2:ydefifiae}failorsmrerejangflragglingjn :tbgmppdsi'. ' endigz-mdbyht- ,-' .
' 7% 'eyfimy'mere 'iainadmwn-It-ogflcc-p.' -C/,'PSZhgLhren'wpoore'di-fiyggedfcgea--t :

- ,7igefinms',tyaozankiagsftozgqtany,1repm'e,\qxjge_t'erhowemz--feateid."13d? ' .i

- in 1 Ethic 'fha'ec- sf- a'grreatx'rt'reeaeahputMamet-tum" eemilc ' 110i; sme-

' ' ~SS;!;Lpen,-;whjch-,'withsut afinye'mar'el.-ade,-.-I ambaehsdzitQWa-flk

35 mum; with} myzman gfallig'wijm.'behi'ndemc,<<mg! .hgfpregLnyfib ."
figzgzggivedxl cakled-filoudggp,them:itSS;SSgal_ufly;,lfiegft:<<eygg-Qaia- j
Hit/tiff)". ,' . ': z " . i ' 'v I
? f".':e{2fi5'thcfej ords,' they'fierb'edupgingreat atonfufibn,.awhep-thC/y
' '- ifieh'cld t-hei-itrengeafiemfi?'frsmedeesrihey mwedfid e-gfwe'r.
'~ '-SSbut:':fEUREUR~rPS{EUR 6.13.4518 ifithfiy Meuldefiy fawn me -:3'Gent1SSmeyg;1\fazd;'ligixx
:5 3543931511), . Eden":- she} ~3'f;bjd,-SSperhapsf?ou. hate 1' a .tffigfgg' mixer
":'fijehan' itmz'expt'eti'. :Jie-;C/415fl-:5EUR~ffemffibevnriaid ehCleK'them.
r'-';gg'1';aveY=y;pu&lingySSflihis' hatififfiue'flre pgfimllabgp;i;z~..zSSzaist'.SSwgu.
'Z'IAIIhglgi'ss-frbm-'Heawn,' faidls- A'JBdtSir, as I 'ha-Qjefepctgejied
"@518. f. _ Y ,. _,
'iingfyonly inform "meghgg to Wefiouyanflhwm dddttq flog?"
:' <<imft'ofimyfimen': " '>> . ..: '-.-~ 4 : .-; '. Lei-2.5 .
. " 1 : tea-1:22. "11' 2211123503 {Wham 2m? mwfafd-hsa- "m meltinge teage.'
"a." {fflte'sj!agl}ftgftibufigani'eifldugbr_.-Qfl':flflgd .9 : te'ZSxt.,'r;faid.:1,.{.mmgpr'
e >>' Aegbgbir'will'stelb9611+Lama-a flaming! gar)-,-Enghfljh1gSS5'.PSwillg1}g;<<jgo
:1"; Y'g'as'fifgesyauwhaving'jut 'tliis'rQe'rgfant-qnly :' ,j-herlelr' aggfgg'rgmief: and . .
,'Ii'iifggeiprmunieiqa :;tented-y.33'931x'f'eon'ditgionqz Veanmgggfavei'you'is' '1
- libelflprj, {31C/ he, ~ iijtoa Iopg'etev-telaie,' fact-quit hacking-aw
. .92 mum 36515753th eeqejm/eefiervpfilbelfiwgzy we": Maw??-
x .. - '2. - ' . 7 "girlie";

, ionlbetweeppyah yan'd -'t_hefeuhmtes'_..~finC/e };Y=9\deg.r;>>.1:i-hd-_

\L _
I

I ..
E
r

 

/

.- >> EUR ' 4 . , -{'--- . I r ' u ' '
W _ -~ ' 'Dr- m h A. Cir", Edi>>. - i \
3.34 313113333113 Abv'grnru-ngsI
tidied: and it 1': a'fawur (be; have 'put 3"} mare. t 1'; pqfleagem'

, .-.<< MK 7139',- fon- -//56Ire 319311790: murdermg nay-31203351559699 6331;031:3723:
hi? 'eifimg' Ibere'. - Are your enemies one. '1'- 3'Iaid I.~i-1.'_LNa, re-
phcd he31poihtingt9-ath3cket, 33m 129172, wbxle m'le tear} ~~

' tremble-.3. 19/} 50-95133- fiat, 212:}! #:2143111; t'bje} fibuld' mhrflfr "13': '
hill-3 5' Have they fire 'ar'n'as. '4 fa1d'1.'i'-T/-e haul-"613': PS1320" fife-PS133 ..
1' 31d 91-30::eg which i; Ilrfi' 3'31" 2139' 60:13. file alfo 191d 1333:? t13e');I' I'
were two ei-Ormqus 311:3th3. among them; that yer Ie the 3111139135
99333: muiihy, 313139;. '11": they. we3'e 131lle'd citric-12m min 1319-
duce tI-h'e refit to retii'rn (:9 111613; obedienc " W ell wellifi "raid I .
' 353 ui; retire farther '3133'3-1er 31:: covering of Itliel woods ._ " add
they; it was I mar-1e the'fe cond3tionswith 131311 . .. ...

'I'.' That, while 'th'ey. fiaid 333 the 11133135.; they-- 41361319 not pie-

'tefid to any authority, -~ but ih'oulde entirely Eqntcfm; to my 93--

'. 'd'e're, and return me the IarIma 36131911103341 .dpnt' .'331 then-7113333933. I

:TII. "I'ha't; if, the 113333 3an r'e'cInve'redI. {ii'ey 333mm aB'oid Friday. .

I 33nd :ihyieif' 23 93mg: gratin: to' England

kg", f W-I'hen' be had given me: all-the fan-123310331 coud deli-'33, 'I:

=33 "'ave "l-I'ii'n -a13d his. two 'cnmpamons 'Ieaeh bf ti; 33111991313, with>> .-

If L'I 33min" 'aiid ball fuficieni", .a_<lv;ling t. cm tofu-e 3113-" th'e'm #33::

213-3, lay.fl<<pmg. The Captain, hiodeitly. fwd" thafi ti'e 'W'ds. .
)9 PS91377.- t9'kilithem;thoun13, 9331;133:112" bat-(1', 'roiet fhei'e'; 13117-3.
I, 34-33.. eieap who. Iva-re the. 3331113913 Inf. 1313 131311-931. _ 113-513! r'be- 3:

the? rum bfus all'f't' "giWcl'f f-aid. he" :Ilo.'_ a'j yoa~3bmkfly and 519' q.

I; 'acgoxdmglylfired, Ithled 9339'- of 133.3 C agigin' a chief: enemies

3;; {and "Ev'onn'ding the 911193" 333110 eagem ended PS913; afli'ianceu tgt

With" Captain Who had' ieIleIrved his piece, ueommg-uu bid-$3313, "
133')? (ab, faid he; "Ii; PS09 In? 10:" {allrfar fiflame { fibula rifl-

1'" PS621" I613). '39' 66d '30' pander: 395:1:- mil/4:219>> Ian'dI .1'9',' 0119" ck'edihn
993711 with the flock 91111133231333 ~ .tliree 93133233 3:63.: ".3139 83313

~ 919333111339,th at my approzch cued91111'6'rr'merq" TlnsAhe
(219333113 353133139 upon eoaniuon It'ha't the-3'2 wourd fixeav' 1'9 5;: '

flue 161333332133 recent-3111131 the {13-33 which their {pl-"mn'y Edid --,

. 'mveK-Ier ob'wed the IQiipl-I '3 t9 Lee? 3:132:33 132311th 'Afier
hiqh'II flint I'P'lrida'y and the: Captain's 133 e .to 'Ife'eure- Ith'e bo'at.

rid} brmg await the' 9211's and fails '1-when'Iat' 3.13:3: 131113331,

31 ee men 69311912 baek,.andi3eem_1heir late dift'f'efi'ed 93:39:33,.

- 2.33611: theiraeorqiieror, iubmitted 19 "bq'uh'd' 3311b."- Abd 'Ith'en

' 5. - 11; was thathevmg moiie libe'r'sty ated the adventures (if 'my

3vhole'13fe,w1:ieh he heard wfiha'lenous' 1333;! 376111161pr 'at- I
' ' tentmm Afgeh th3s,,1' canned him 516d 1318313339 commmons 11139 '3
3133'- little fqr'tI'ifi'e'd' cafile,.fl3ewed them all' mv convfchidnces; afid

ntrefhed 3139311'3333'11-'13'911 prpvdions asI'couid a399,". Wli'e'31'

. 3: ,thw Was' Io'v'er; 3112': 131131311 39 'conh'den abouheoamHI'g the Ih'ipI':

\

I'I'hg 12311.1, that .I'tiiete were twenty #53: handsFo-x beaxd, 3v11'9 know...
3; -I_1'ng their. I'M-:13 were lorfeitz'd Rb)", the law, for c933'3'pe Irae'y and;
"mum-\- 'were 113- Sleii'y hardened 'that it' wnuid bevdar-gemus for-
9331' {mall company to atfack' them..'_" This was a reafonable _
inference indeed; Ibut Ibm'etliing we mult' ref-(Jive 031, and 1mm

mediatelg-

<<'35
I

 

"a...
.
'-

_ .61? f'nfdnr'r-iq'ezd-'r'r' mum; * 'Hgfi
med: 3.2:; e.gartin-Ed'xeemfpxizafwe . the'rstTEQq-"ihem21"5SS;:SSph
weqngtfigheam f9 Hi hi'th'atfilfi? #511161" nap-mp??? athghweg .

"firemrkfiyndi.We Y==hokiC/7her- moms-i1 'tqs-kefflfiepefi' '

fe'11'iaci-elr3'thgjsi' 351.8"??'3?' .- fift-zthqfl 03%) 801mm "
r . 'bfimm'ir'g 11.17339? '- was 6 1%?me to :fefld" gotw'bida
' 'a'flifire? with 112nm imk<fi=wfiogtecpe ttigte'eibthifizgimqfi'.
aflemiwe.bomvain: fitinSS.~'fl?C/ cm: ofl'fcer.tiut1.~hvz?1SSi. '
f " hre flagsthyg'e'huneflrglwymfing'.ifli'e. 3-th wgfe fbycb$mSS
'- 0123'?- eQfiI'p'Mcy? 3676152611 353;ch hint ream coma? $533
r fied'iiz-efefiivednefiyfiffi'in*;'thC/PS."'Y=-)'-5 firth? mean"- W-h. 6" PS91.!"
my 6t1?.'pritszn'efes' itkeegk't'vm; ivfiomwsfyefi te-vamam
' : 'vef'thoughtfeujg aficfa "qumu ' lirtpadficntuyg'a'fiafth'j. ~-W_n'e'g'~.
"f-,lSS"1'C/ir(?i;s Jammie. ganw'fiefig1SS'-ezjfC/gr'~brgat'igrgthafi'fgojqdifigpg, .
PS56.31:ngdt'-c.inlx~'ha1fi2;C/EUR.<13;Y=fWffired fbr'tfii'ir cmfizffinyw (maxi:
.' fiat-fig .r'ec'izivce'm' erfiieere ' "This: {tin'ikz'thlemwittifi'fioxrdx'e ,_

,,:%'nd".?mzellSSn 213$?th PS56.!" 'hnmmmm .imgF'fid-erde'feqi; " '

"Mary-misize'as hfsit'hw mWrgwixflzrdtke'mfm Fzewfieberqeiw
771313" Cfigt'ain's'fcofintenatfcg? '<<gfh'gnggygat': th'i}; - tifl":oPS?.3; {Qfidc'nx
'ifif'c'c'_'r'g'{cn' Wegc ;'d{c1efcd.'tii'=lb'oi;&.zaftt':'ithe 'bp'gt'; xylfilqfitfic'pfligr 's ' '
ifi'ikrrleapgr'oti. flibf'fin'Otdeti'm'fearw'ffif'__1hC/ir.z'campinidhyfi -. '
"and; xiitidseesl: whey" camera). the? bmw: ofiyi'teefixifl'r. near my-ae'ti-i- '
f-'di'ehfigaflifij fiomryvh'epcg tfi3yf60u}df'fed 1:9" ag'gyefif'ldjfieah fies-m"
. 75131184We'dfiiv'and"'t}'ere"iPSfi0btifiEUR'am" Whom?"tiltiataftzedi'mci'

. "eyee'rfi'thei etifingfli'Eiierif'th'emfil'ves imeer affircafiipg'xtarege
'3 My pfiiflhfifiwythafi' nsafihifig'femfld be' @eilcetfllini' hfiwhfem " <<
KAI-{#133136 u'fe "129mg aftifice to get'thcfii::al?out of the._ baft_;,z,bugf'-'

"'Wfi'dden" thef-ififttrzdfifpr and"made"t?rflfe (ed-'fidefz': fires
. fw(r)fl1rqficred'thideYfi and" the Cipt-aufig {mate- tq'gq. Gizen'the"
flagrbjefi "and'*.figllbo,'aSS 'byd'as'tflgy could; andi o-decdyzirigs.
3thSShrintb 'thq wbcrdsgpomerrquan'w me: again; -And'=.,tb'ig,';j_i1-'-iz
sag-gamma 'gb'qd sefi'eerg'forz-'they -_f9119wed Hie; noifie, ; .'timcorghigg;
efiwfemnrd'z to' ,the'fleefifhey- 'calfed.for thgi'r-- Boat-t9 wry-PS55m?
7'rSSwSS[,_;andEtakjngiofid-Qf'flfe nfcn'out pf'T-'livc'mflgff. two'tq'lQpIgi '
mfg}; ' hex-,2 having" ' fizflengd-fh'erfta tlte~fllfmyf0fia-lit.t]eetC/je_e'e;oqj
affliexe; -'I~;I.';'rcupon. immediatelyvthge Cap'ta'in Tanjd_our-perty;~pqtfifig-z -
.'z;<thflf<:fxSSC/k; puteofithfirafi'gha "Ye fuz'pr'ifieg -_th'cm; both; .byffhef '
PS16}; ' $2231.13. anckingadbw'n'hne; agdzbrdetiag 7mg. other. 1:!) fiirlj'jefnr
ya; {inflow air}rof'dmthyand'Whoibfirigtthe'houcfiefi"of't'hcm~ ,.
:X'azlhizfifgeere y' jqued' With; us-e "By this t'ifiCiifi-was pretty {fite 3., '
wigchfitihe. ye}?- re'tumiugfio {beret-5331,32 whieh 'they>~feunSS3 a;-
?"gtfbigr.i'd'r.in'_.thcjcr.C/,':k,-.-_.Ithetidei.01SSf,.4,-and't33SS'mC/n gqnc593thg-yizam: ' _
5 -" abfdut vgringgngfthci'r bands; cryilh'gj'tf 'wgs.3a'n~ c'nchami'e'd; manta... , '
_ :' ajxay tlia't they" would:'bef-ali-'xxiurdhlfcd' byliificits erdgyiills.--';Y=Iyr
"may; With} wiliinzsiy'haye' fatten; 'upon' mm, 4W, I~w0uSSrC/1i3PS9EUR-"
:F'-~a'g.rC/C/,_.ltoy,hgz'ard' gm;- of'Tonr party; But PS6 Be-ifiore, catfish;-
"-"Rriflay~fimthcheptaih-cmwted hlpOh'Ihe-it" hands 8; key, as ne'atgs
Ejapfl'xme'; '? anefiwhen the bomfwainfwwbaghed in . fight, if; edgier
~-~'T'qas ~the".;(_':apsain; that he fired and' killed; him on the ipi'at ;-.:
tErim.=xs'oundev.-i'the next- m-an, and--a~-thirdirunaway;- Here>>
- ' ' ~ _ ' _ ' L139: >>- = . ' upon:

' W
l

"Vliftet't'his;.efickcaetafiwSS _ Y=. , _. . .
, thatxihewgowemon was an .Ehglifh'mang. thfmi 13';S_.:.ex'ecflte;--c-"

" if Ehk'afld'e'IS-Ih'etan

"6 'menm vnNrrR 2%: . I

   

. . _ I ' '
"P991 advanqed' withcmr- .wh'dle. ';L l.Yl':SS*%'id,'-.:itlbC/ing' daPEsta ,
ogqerregggne- many; had- fgriziife' :in th'e'gbjeatgim 35.11;..ghemza,

'by Fhfifiem'mcay audioyaricggbwitfithmfi 'Aewr'dfin'zifirfie'xealecifi
leg: outfaamud;,;7.'m48mitb,u . .bz.sii:itlz?.'PS 'HC/:ahywerC/SS,'-'W/2SS%" '

. waggilligb'ififlerii"fibchr'cdt-fiq brhefi~..4.fdr.' god's/mnew

J} [ififim itrienedidtcb'; m? 1; indie 07.19 4:53: My>>; 7512595 1:28:11; m E? '

' fil'fwfielerf to}? '_ {ay3'25mivth.:; flhfifiufi CZzfilgiM'flne'jffljmenj'be'tfisz:

@154 12m We" me.f.fri/.'afli'r>>l.C/boxmded M14F":,minifilled'tbe '-'
flay-Main" gsbalL awfbadlfuquafilrh.,'Y=b?fi;.SS3'fai jh'c." ~=Hcie_upqnfig;:
the ,Cgppin' gaspoutj, fanfsvgirqua:3hows-59';gzeicg;f'-Jgfrieze;7; '
dafii'imfdiiidtwel and we flail- 421 "-ba'5!5'1JSSl}E'..'JifiSS-t 1554mm." .exen"?

eefii-iflfilfi'fdcm... 'Hfigupoxi.At'isihsicrsr's-'Jogfia'mmtfiauexiflim'a'rzi.

" Cefi'laiiy.;mgizfitbaiz.. {bag 1'"....aubPLtbhfie-"Fem'l~al_ 6114' "3731321

- But thfdvgeefiafliefiiforshg Was'thq tapexrmi'mau Isis-1. ,holdxpfzhhn')'.-.zk

A'-

; aanIL-bdiifiee.hinY=- "H'iiwvetrhe-Wasorweeto i1!5C/.iif":tev'th93~=
~ gev-erhbg'fip'gerey, fat 1101a wag-21,131zed>>'4,-'AndSSfo,glayiipgjdSSw3;;{:3

' SSfi1eifiierm$ WE'bomid 'tfiem albiend fazed;0n_.'tjhEURi,nbC/3at>:-. ' :c- a: .~. - ,-

a .

mutated-With;.._t_-_hem,'.:;tgfll'mg thema' -.-
, them-there ;'}~but'_=_'hC/.th'piughttthgy;fibuldibeefeptjtoJ hgleed'gexgyrgg

cepfij...vg@1'mkim;SS who was. ordered't'o'prepitfifik~deaeh';SS2C/2tthSSPS
morning, ' HfleupanAtkins. implored; 1h: Captain TtO-gifiteljecdeg; 3.:

'.fqi72hi$4'.li.te,: afid;.1the'.reifibegge.i gh'cy.SS}niglit ,nevt'"Sei'ffengi'fttifis
.. _ . .. .fwcrgd ant-"Prdjfi-fot-ftilfinz:thefiliaalgl'o'gria
aflggfepdmgr Atkins and two of ,'ther'worf'c; .fa-(ti ho and; ftQ' 't_ - {:3 r; 1

' .mgC/,3;SSpggtgq mt .b'eigxg.' coaifiiifittediitje-imy' bower, ITenift e

Captaim'to treat" with {them i'n' gthg , goygm . '78. nitric, 'ofi'gxing;,;-;s_

I

' ~ thcm';;pitdon ..iPS~'thgy.;wbizldsafiifi- ill-.mcovetiightihia miptg'zuxm'

\

on';\lvhx_',c'hfthe,x.'an p'gbmiied to fiand'abybimftin'itheg hit rdrbpebfit 1;
thanqudeagndjawlggeveit hated .treaphgtaafl-yeflieald' 1395' heng'g'dt <<.>>x_
in .cfiai'ggiupant the beach.., They'ryv'efie-'afl ,rolc-afed'.' giggthefe: '23.:
mixfances. :j. and than the,"Captaip repaired ' 'to,' glide, othgg~~SSogtg ,1 --
, mikifig; hisgpaficfngcr 'Cfiptaier @i-ther; mam: him? fear-Energy
well'fimied-;;':Whi1c. himfelf',' his-umatcgandefiizc' more; iwgnt m.'
the-hm: .'b'qatg .. By. midni'ghtrthe'y 'barfle; within-calmf-gfie mifigal..z\
thfi'the- Cgptain- orducd4Rr'binfon 't'ea hale ghel'i:-aSSSS':tSSuf;j;:u
{hemgjghatywith"gitcat'ditficultyhthey:had-:tognd 't e 'tht'llffaefl'lalt;:;gfi
Buf' inhikwth/w. were diicouteing's-.thC/.rCaptain; hikinateiapdrafie'
rvthef rgficntete'd, anjtl knpekgdfimm 3th; {wand-mum aggxfcarQ-iw
pente'r, '4 fecnred Ibdfe-"bbafificgfi ,upen the' digcke-Zbygpiittingfifi 5:19

" them>>.'u'rfd7er;,hatehe.SS,'Whi'l'e'i'fl'l'e Oth'c'flboai'eLcreM' entgredaz'z _ PS1;

 

fecqfed- the- fofegafilg-; .. th'cygith'efi broke; into: thc' irafifigthggg:SS3
Where'ythe...mate;,-__a,fter faggv-fgaiflqnc'e,'flxoygate 'pir'atficga ,gt'zx'ti. .
ttgreu'gh the.head,"upom whigh: 3113116. 1631 fielded; 133mm 91.3335?"
priming", .'And;thus the {11131.5'ging"r'ecgnggcduethe'myful';mgr? ,f;
nalfgvzgsf fired, wfiicu I;h,'ea'f ' with'ttie' 1greatjefiPSjSSy=im$ginable :-.. r "I

 

; nofeitayitlong- .'be'forefh'e'.' bre'yflxpfthe' (hip $9.5m IanC/SS6?;_fat:l'__~gglf
thcci'gclgfagmoush,' whefe :coming' to mefilnayv'ares, Time,- fayy;

he, frag;.adem'-'g/?L-frinzd;fllzd 'deliwijer,'f were}; joyhfii'pflmdg we,"

'\
I.\. ' H. 1'] 5'"
. . ~r
\

6r montusoncmason '- xii-F? -

l

2" '., ,.'- ': ' 'm'l .~-:' .-__

- creyetitymeerzffl.a'coy'foxtxfb nnfpeakablefaisf'mdeme mm
imam:'areh?>>C/_-,w!rile.:~mth. gritimde"=to Hagar-1w? <<watcher -'.'-'
dctlynjgmbracin'g:eqehzotlger.;.- if ; .-. ,__-_ . _: 5.,4.;;;_:-- f'tgj-f -_ :,_:__

I: _' bfihilig._ ' "93.": g'rgmainin'g't abut 'td' C/onfiiw wflagfwe {hem}! 180,13]- ' ' _
wimtfa'e I Pvifons'r'lsi-SWhm' he. thought-Lit-'waS-fiqtrffafc 'td' hkefi': : '.

'. orifi.bj=ia'tSS'.f;_. Hereupopficoncgming witfi flie- Caiatains'; 'Ldrgfl'edr'j
'fiiylfglfiinfanggof'his Igitsg'analtfgnding' fol; _t:he;i1~,-,'to1dtthem',vighac.i'
I'Was'goipg'to leav'c-the'iflarm'xfith'all smzpeopfe,' <<if-they wonky .-

- . tarry'=,'ther.e','."thci.r' W63 .'mouldi'fie'itparc' r-if: "Ni-"flier'fligtflidi ::
be' '- hanged lat'z'ffiiq fitm- part they}; "cam: . at>> ' ' , They; gamed-kg};

.fiaya'a;_nHene.'qun'-{I t'old'theme_1m)gewh'olc;fiory,: charging themtair; .
belt-grind to>>! ejjSp'guiardal ,that'f 'wezc, cchetzd;l "gaw': .-:them:'_1 311:: "~
njy' armsghnd-einfmmingjthem'qf 'evc'r'y thing'necthgyfdr th'eiej's -

' {ubfifiEnc'eg--gl' and} my man ~Frid'ay; wentzbn} b'oariitei BdtS-thc'? '-- '

'_ next nomingmm; of .th: ruch'zcufie-fwhnming'gto th'c-flzigifs flde'gj . .
defifin'g: the; Captain!>> that take 'them'bfi'fioarmxhoughhs hang; .'
edctbem: aftefivafida,'. Complaining-mightily:hb'w- Barbarouflly the: r .
othersfhfgd them; "Upon" whihhjligreyailed withj .th'c,'Capt.'a'1r'1j.. ,-

tdtaggtficmfin giandt-'-bei:3g '1'cverel'y. whipfi. and pick'ke'd, theyf"

: 'fisoved'gmorg honef'gifdh the} future. and fo I:bid- fagewe'll't'a}; '

. this;immd3".'e.athying {along with m': mfwmtzneyg my p'firbtfi'. .
urrflafglla; gand'>>. ' goat-[Kin .Capgz- fettipg='f:ifl 'Deeemb'ef'kr-y 1' 686,; '. '

' aftgr'fWQntyLe'eght ycats,-.,.ttwo member'~and-.;ninetecn daya'refij-gh '
~deaC/e;:'that5;ihme' day: 'argd' month;that I'efceped-'frem.841131;: ;'

landing-nib} Eirglanthimc, an," .1687, 'after 'five and thirty fears:-

aklencc-fmjmf'my owngc'o'umryg. which- -rcnderedlme altog'ethet. _ .

a;firangefithere.. '- -

HF."- I' {quad 'my' fi'rft\GaPtain's'widdwafive,.~who.had'.buriedEUR "

aaiizconq'hulhand', 'bg'xt in, varyimean circumt'rzgncgs,ngid "Whom-I;

madegghfy'u'pon'hig waning>> ASOOFI- after I went down itcfi'Yrirka- -'

ill-it'dli'vkhife all my family, yere expired; .exccpt'fiwofiiters, and; -. I

. as 'mgj)""Qf 'Qne'jof" m brother'fi "children.l'..l fim'n'd' _n'o 'proyie'. '
fimpb'a bgen .made,,_.or;me, they. gapduding [had-been long' _

3finC/_e_ .deadtyfo that'l' was'biut Suzi: very flende'r'flationu JIndccdj"

g-t-h;=G'aptein fdid,mC/_:'= a} gr'eat kindnefa,' . by his repott'ta the

( wnSStC/.'hpw I had delivered" their; {hip on'thexbefolate Jflangissf

'upbnfwhichtficyxiyad'e meEa- prefe'nt'of zoohfierh'ngh 11' next: ,

' , efit;to;\IgiPSSSon,>takSSng mymamFfidamw-ith'me, and'fthe're arri-= - '
ving'in' April, "I met" the' Pormgaech-aptam who' had-taken "me;

(On board-pox; thc~African coat}; [bursab'Eihg ancienbghe. had left;
of, the fea, and'rgfigned'jall his .bufimfs to his>>fon,',who;f'o_llowcd"; :
thg.Bl_"a_zil tra'glg, S5 alteredeboth-ef' uswere, 'that <<:we did- ndt'-' "
know'lta'c-h bth'cr at firfi', till l-ditfiovete'd myfelf m'cr'e fully. to '- -
him-After af'cwembmc'enrl: beganto. enquire c'fiuzy con'cCrnS'gf .

"a.-':'d_'-.thw;thgfqld g'enrlem'a'n'mld me; 'th'at'it-'wasi'ninqly_e_ars-'
1'11:ch he-had been 3; Brazil, where my,partner-Was.themliyiryg, ', . '
But 'my'tllfufieves, were both dca'dguthat hebeliev'e'd I" mould"
Bug-a.gg'ad.accogxpt._of the prodh'etofigiyaplaatathn; that-me >> '

; quaupn of-mx- being Vlofi,.had.'obllgc myf'truftcea to' giyc; .-

ramI
h -- V

fir'8-' urn: mfrn9'Arrve-ikaese ._
."' 1' . -- - ' "t' . ._,

4::sz mate 9?ng mm: t'p-LtfireLp't'at'xitatbzi'fifeafgeWfieeiyieietk'feg
My'fidflt eturzfmg, htt'dfgiye'n.h'ne1'15iifditblthmkiagfifiifififiSS9ifSSfi$
' mow")? 017. S'b-A'Iimfiige ; but: iiilz'pugih'fmr" chum; 31'. .-'
erzqfrz'y'mc.;.~pf wmud' {5's -:cti1itned....;empathe. ye'exxlv spfi'eimfi.
wfiiwmasgiven .to the pact. 1313: en; defined: .himjfbiiltellgmg' .,
Wat 4m figment. he theligHt-,.-had; Bec'wjhadfii 9fim'yg. Flaw-'1
"Gm, an '- Whamfhc'i'mhgeued'itawawfwett'fiimY'QW531SS.LIP'-SSQQFW'
fiffi'grl_'llt 19:; he .ahnygrgc}; be; drag mig; Kflew- hm'a? rpmgh' ; 'hi'fjsjvjrggfi
woveds 'bumwrsummas-1mm :giaetnsis..ya2 _
grammar?! .ngh uSSgn':.hia:-halfi.s:fi.-!ts}andrflatsfiL-Uad 393-35 ':
'Jfo'rged; -t. .-at the, - .kmzi hid... qum'egidbge's'sppmmnm-'=_:vfih.l,8:
'. ' mrcf'pim. "1-11: aefdtida'that thie rummagbf'my'tirp'ficcs W???
. ' .EC/I'_f'd!1SS.foa'n'inefinnduxs'afiirmfiw thatmv'mftm':cSS1C/C/eiwifi '

' 51mhmfifltfle, mY;:fiam.C/'.BSSiSS"e:[Cgifi'etEUR{Y= in ,tha g:C/ufi.tr3t;rf3>;fEUR 1'
_.mich' means. I-mp'ul'gi 'ibdiipcnfifiy. nec'cggr ,cdnlfiirablg. 13mg???
.'m'qney; ' But; anfs'i'fi'rfdi'l"Jaqw'vcmzld my 'tn .ePS3.;~-d1f.90fSS-:9,;
my egaletsr'wmn, I'mag-Eg, '93:: {onlytgm-y. heir-z?Thisfifaeefibi Elsi
1mg}, but; th'efg; 1mm!" .310 affidavit" made'Qf',mY=Jd'eatha 113;.
(1034141301: aft. as-'mx ..<:J;vc'uf9n; Hewett; mind: brdefiefl'li"

2 ihg-,..(gncn atl'Brra'zuiiojaeL by: ptccumtibd unaunfiifiwmimfi .
. and; hp-'figdfiafen ppfliffliem .efinzSSi,fugar4h011fc; byiuin'fiaqwfinfi
thdj'hggngelf .fm' eightyeacs with' my_'partrt'er.'audilmfiefigffip. ;
' 1:55: pgqfitsrof which "he Wouiggive 'me a (16,320.65 acfiqnnfgj"; v'
find;- iltds'efid' Ithis .-hPS15PSrfo'r.mcd veryffa'itah "limit! a'fceW. mills}: '
~. "makihg'hgmfifl -'i't_1d.C/bt'ed to, me gagsm-oidete,_sjeffigbldgygQinrfI
and"ab_::ve siihatjha'ql 'b'eeri' loft-it, fea',' 'at'ter' Ilba'd}leftitficpkxe... I
.j'AQQ't'h'cfihe yfigountcdhtggmg: "513a: misfortufiesfh'c; badggne :
' imp-PS11., which forced' nay-Mme)? 'Qu't 'of his hanslb'l. to 1W: PM
_'i:x_1_..a.inSSw;fixSSp+ but, faysghe, jgufl'allmt <<Milt, {bk-.1213 345515;:

' @12an mfim- return}. ' ex'cr},.f.ar.ibizeg flail-12.6 midway: .Uiim
which. he. put into my hand 'ajmrfgot 159.,'moistet1ea Ingada'ifi'
lichifeV the :ihfimmcnt, cc'ntaining :th title 10, 52h}. mi9.w;j}<;SS-
higfgn was>> in, and whichhg pfl'ered'.SSs fecurityfonthatemgljfie?
den .:.BSS;tf really"! when I fajzr' fo' 'inuch- IgQOdfr'rcst, 'EgncrOlfii':
tenderne&,.~and real hfdne'fiy, Iliad not-thczfisa'rf'tb acceptitse

, fbjr, 'ifear. 11C/, {Hamid .figait'eri 'himfelf'pponl thy~'_'agcohfito 13'5'332'

. 1.37% 'faidwh'c,' .'t may: be .75:7""batifize'nftlzlvmon'ey; 5;, joggaffifite

' "Um; ""4 7'9". "'1"! 5008- '56 krtaftfl'm4/l'.Ofi;fiI"-"i#EHSWCWSn
hemmed fifty ' of them 'back "again;- pfc'mifihg'j'th'at'lwgu'leg
fteEI/gafv'r'giv'eh'im 1hr; other hundred- when '1 got ,efitfl'fifigb-
my:

m . v _

. ... .ndeafifid m2; Igdgfigned- t9. gomyj'elf fot"'tY=iat ph't'gbfeas
' {But 1i; told me" he 'cmlld'fiie. my: that.ttmlblPS3'afid'fcifca'uigd' Hip; ~ .
, to i'eptex' m'jy name wi'th'a pugblic nataty, as likewife xixf gfi'lilfai'r (

' x ' '~_Vig,.w1'th a' pragmatic?!) a'fli'eccd to it; and'tlgis he ogdcred-ime'iti);
. "fegd._1in,aPS'1egter to; brig? 6f.:,hi's..aq)z,aint'ange; a mgrglfiang lin'firgerj
' 5211,53andiitldcedxenoth-ihg', cdul'gl hie-mic faithfully sips}. h'c'gpfiiz'xer
eblyigbfefled 3' for, ,in {even -'months-.tim:: 1 MM: very fsixghffilr

39C/ finfgbf 311' 11?)" effeets', what fu'mg 'ofmoney'werc-rmfeflw
'_ What 'cxgcndcdlsaad what remained? for 'mylelf 5. In 'a'Wordi; >
"61.noxzzespn enusdr; ' "9'. k .

I found. myfeli' to be worth gcooL fierfing, and? rec'opm' annun... \

yagyasmia all',ff6r my partnexq..qongratmSSlatcd me upon-my. .

3.2ng ali'fic; telling mahow .mfl'ch my Phnfatuin was-improved;

{what Negroes-.iwcrc" at'->work,'_ :1de how many A'WMWI'Mhe

' had..faid.mto;the/Virgig-Mary for my prcfcrvation.>>desiringmq to.
'a'ccc'pt '.ki:ndly'_ fame prefentt'; -he' had lent me, whichl fgpndn
ihewcdihc greatefi g'enerbaity. f. i'j I . ' '~ - . ' "-. ,j

.. No'fopner did 'the ihip' anivc; but] rewar'dcg my. faithful, '
C/.apt.a.in,-By'rcturxfin'g' him theehlmdred moidgrea, and" noftonly'i
forgiving hm all he 'owed'mc, I'allowedx himyearly. a. hu'n'drecfi-

, more, and' fifty.to' his for'i, d'urih'g ltheir' li'vesfi And-mg"; .beo; . .

. ,ing refo'hed -tc:x go to . quland,'I'iC/tumC/d lettens ofitlmnks _t.o__>>'

- _t_herPrimf bf. S.>> Anguitj-nc,' ahd inimic:tla_r'to.gny old' pattnefi,' '

. with Vex-y tunable" refents. _By the; 'Capgaink' aydyviie; Iwe'bfi ~,

. 'efluadcdio go by, and to_ Calais," and \thurc' take paflligc .'fos,
n'gtgndzgwbcn, an it happened, I-get; .a Young Englifiyggnu
'flemanfi't merchant's {on at Lifiipn, to .acc'omgany me, 'tcgcthe't: '

Wighv;w;>j.Englifh~, and; two '. Pom: .ue'..'c gentlpmen; "{0'tbgat-
withe'allfprtpgnef: {twang at) Ehgfii Lfgilor, andmylman ~Fri-'
eayflhqr; \xigtiefiene'of'ufin "Mbag' . .._ . ' " > V , ..
{- fl'hnsgatmed-aigc; cq'uipp'cd, M'C. fitt outtand game to Madnj'd; ',
'zwm,-t..hC/<rammc;.r .dcsxaymg.' we hailed; 't0'..Navarree whc'rcch- -'
ivqegjgficpm'qd'xthax there wagsfcgrcgly- anypgifing, by reefer: ofi-J
t_he pqulig'imis : quantity. bf flow .5 1'9 that wenvzsgc ,obiigqim ~ '
afiide jjigawwentyr<<days','at lPdmoclufia, arid at '133-'tot'ak'q a .
".guiid'efioiqopd'ueblss faig 'goy'sgavds Th'olc-ufg._- Andi? flaw? ..t_\'avque,
figh'erjgefgtlgmgzifjoining wish us, tbgc'th'gr With flgjeis'fei'mhts, '
' We 1m? "grimly cempaw-- Away four guide kd us'byifnzht'

- ,ful'menpt'ain'sz-'and 'thronghw f0;,many3~intricate-;fmazee. any} .
' .fwitidihgs'. that-we'infcnsibly paired them, which, gglwe. travelled. -
. alonggpfl'ujcregt usintothe pmfpeet of the fruitful agglhhamiink

provingesof'Languedoc and Ga!'co'gne.. ' k - - :'- \ ' -

 

Hut -.'ngw game on'two adventunes; bothtragical- and-c'orx'ticel. ,
Firfi, 'our ggide was. encountered by three'jydves'and-a'jbcer, . -,g
"who i'etupdpzhhn and his. hogafe, and wounded hin1.;xrfhrcC/
' pl'acesi.' upon .wlfich my man, riding .up to his affifiance, mot:
'one ofr'themfid'ead' upon the fpot, which made the qthgrs. hair:-
.3th theiwoods>> But the. pieafam'eff zdgventune was, go'hghold:
my man attacl'; the bean.) 'f'ispfneha creature,_..that 1&3 you let
.;him alonelhe will .vaer.__meddle_ wit-11 you. ,-.., andrhis in)>> mane:
'yc'ry fiell'knew, and R). begging l'egwe of me in brokgcn Engliflim . . .
he told us, '72: cur-241,4 "take- good [mg/g. Fley. youiiny' mew-x
{aid 1,. v' he'il'ca: 35.011.13.37 at a ' mouthful, ' Enid: m <<3, rgpiig-(L;
.he,.'by,way of fcom,'. mef-not on]; auto: Llaimy'but mali'tgmucb .gaade ' .
[Aug/2; Upon-V whith, pulling 91"? his. boots,.he clxgsfou his- '
pumps, and, running after the 'm'aniyrolls.bea&5 11C/ cam-dam,
that he wantcdzto dfi'courfg with him, and they th'mwihg'fioueas.
,.on' gurpolt';d.iqcC/afe aim, the bean: turns abaut'il1'-PSajq-y;anfl.;; _
'fiv-k 'psodizimsss' @468. nflrpflle.' Age: him fiat -ihoughtbs: '1726 L ma 2-; A: N 13, AD v ikii'r'ftfiikfnfs:

. '4 .\'-3"/ :.'.'~
wgsmoe firift enough'to'kce'fiugr'pacefi'vi'fif-Fridhy;gwtfofmhdcg
upit'o/uw asri; Wrejtbr-h'elpg; vet'bcing'aug'l's'i'Y'owdegg'fihidfl'e
"im'mgiiatelmak'e .h'orfr', and'l'e't us .1hmt-ghdergatute1.' 3 HM}
he' 'Cfitd', Dba'r'wafl'c'r; mflao'f; ma-i'naeeejb'gc'iqukb-"mzecfifi Rad:
fizfififcitmned'i'about; making fig'ns tq follow,"- While'th'cfiggf'r'au": g
aggzvtill-moirfing- tc'r a~ great? 63kt... he "'afcefidei j iii 'a'mi'titfiegu
leaving his 3911. t the bottom (SF-if; N15? dig!' tht' Egaifimgkg:

.a'fiyerdjfiicultya')PSSS, But'afeendEd,1ikei-'a-eat;. though" K195 "trig-h .
Waiver-y? great: Y'o'uv may confider I wa's' nbt-ailittl'e- 'amazg
a't't'h'e $1190me man, asih'ot" pcreqivixjg-anygbhing'tg 9CC/afib_"'
min lng'hfc'q' fin"fuch'V't'ime'Ia's'Wc {ode up nearer;;and-be[reldf

'tfia'e-fiezffi-mbunted' u 'on5-thC/-oale,.bn-;lic b'cgirininmffflquamfif,
hfiencflg-tQ'which-Fi'i arching at-,the- fl't-h'etf- cud; hcrerryy
bear'durjfa'not tome. .Hereupoh' Frideiyzcfi'ed'Qut,'1VoavEURmzerr-;v

im.m{:M_ 2214;542:qu 'mefm'ake 525i de'ifofi' ' U'POWWHEE" "93,513
amatki'ng the "bdngfiywlhighl mad": "the? creafixr'e lqek Behmgi- lug-g;
t6: fee; :b'dfihe 'ccfifieivretge'atw Then": 43' i'tf'th'es'bear-hfad mailer?
fioej'd-'l'Bisi ftmfiimringf' Englifl'fgfl/Pffierorno dometftiflfitfi Mr?!

M3535dSS7.-bcPSpi~qy; Mr. B'eQe'fl'wfzijefafl/ier'; ahdfitfitneifiqefi? '
w'egall 'bgirfi int'oh limgfifer; efpecially-when. ive-'perceiiedfrelfigf
dbt'pl-likeia'fgfiefiei'rufibn .thc'gmund',' lleaving' t};SS"-'-'B aft". tb
makefithe- ' . rdfwiis' wem dowwthe't'xtee: ~Anet'igdw t'hhxkih'iz':
iflitlfiei'maftf gpnvenicnt' time-f6 ' 1116.68 EfieLqr'eatu't'egglffifif'ff: c'n'fed:
0fC/t$.-0fialiar'_-- wig/Er, 'm magaggfiyewjmd-zm 'Wfi'en'i'tfik'iy '
thbc'ffg'lmy W'fiwfioofyef,' {mi-the? gire/ mafijbflehzqrcngu [25f
W35: '5 find' accoi'deagly' 'h'e' Was-3'3 goes!" as'hiS'WOrfi'.SS$f6x~' the"
ox'ea'mfe: ",defeendihg Ba'ek'wards- frbrd- 'th'cxfiret- 181'? Lleifiirjelyg; _
befex'g? Ire Ceuld' l'af'hu'e' 13.105911 we" gr'ophd, Fixdfivjfiofihifnf '
fihi'eu'girx'wb 'eiairgfibne'fideed 9331c}{Ifig'kigg"td'fee-'Fefletfi'ef'fi."reg"; ;
wgre'fileafiid; he-Iy'uxfif out! inwzlica'flfye brighter, 153'173379'337 PS3112 "
kW2C/fiigfieh3fiSSy may}; natflvz'flf '1'5e'gdri',' 172'"! wfifi'mflffi'hng'r "
arrafwxg Thus-ended- pit-.diverfi'oh; fowl-("37336feti'efzfiiiixfi; ,
qu'eeimlyt m 21- 3313126 wher'e thfierrible' howlinga- fihwk 513' with _'
dipomin'uai "'terrdr. Rm: the" flows 416w} grgWeugstvebygdggp'e:
' pavtitalhnlj'lpn' the"m01mt'ajns-,~ the 'ravendns.~c'rea'tiereSS'; Were
(Mari (filigteito 126356 For fflfi't'naxtce in thevfllagge'hWefC/"SSC/mingyf'
bYe-'furprife-on the country maple; blikedzl'efera-kofitfiemg B-fl'fifee:
{greatntxm-b'er-iip'f-ekeir-fiiee awfhor'fes. 1 ' . f
"-"Ou'r': guide tem- us; w: 'Ead; Yet one-.morcfizngezjoiw'plaeq'e
w'fiafisfby-xgand'if'thc'ir' wgrc' 'zny Mofe'x'volves-'in'EURhEURc6ufitY=jtSS
chem-w; fljquldz'fine them. .'1'2':i.:;.\vg-as"a' fmafl 'plzirificncdm'e' '
pafl'ed;'With'- vioa'dsg, ti; 3ng .<<thrpugh 52 long-Jane itfifg'h'ex-fiflagg ' '
where w'c'were-zo ledgg...?:3-'\Vh9rr "\'vc' Entered the'xvoo'd, thqfqm
Wae'wkhifi bait? antlmfitof-Rt'gifig": anda'httle hflcrfii-Wa's Eel?
we camcf-"iht-o the. pL-iin. rwh'reh' was "fiatfabafie .tui-'i-hzrmngs';
. afiet-'x'and'xhen- \vex3pgmsiveef'.fifie- great: xmngecmfifieNedZ. .'
wiefxeutstakie'g- notice ofrys'siaud- fi'jch-ift'as though t'hc'y'wrre; '
pafifuifng" ai't'vr- t'hcir'p'r'eS'; 2 Hahn-puma: gfij'dc,' bejififiizik'fthere;
' were more coming;'d'efi'ted'ma'tezbeiuga'm bicrg'uaifis. Acmg?' -
- =1. .4 .5 , _ _ ', 1 -\ m y

)
\

.99 1193111117501: (1111151112. . 12.};

iogly <<3111' eyes mere New 01reumfiae&,~t1ll aha. 111.111fo aiea'gue
fiance, Ave perceived-e. dead 1191,11, :and near a dozen-of w'oiveo
devouring its c'arcafe. My man .1?er fain vvouid.l1avSS-fi1'ed at:
1:11:13, 111.111: I weuld .1101..Y=1e1:miSS him-75' =norah'ad ,we egene half' over .
111545111111, 33111 44711411211171 gdrcadtnl headings inawood o'n _01xr
left,1mhemgrexently-we {aw an hundred came 1m againfi 115, as
mfiou'gh 15:31:15! had 316611 an gexpenienced 31 m5 3,] bis obligedms
to mm- c1111felvSSs 111 11113-131111 (manner; and then I-z-orderecd 111:1;
every other man mould-111e, that khaki-Who. did: 1101., might be
ready to gave a fecond vi Hey, mind Lhey. advance 1111011 1111-
{111:1 lthen ever'zy man {hcmld- make .111}; ofh'is pmols: :But there
$133110 neeeflisy 161' this, ' for the enemy bemv 1terr1'1edfiltopp ed
<<dttthe noife of the fire; {our 61': them were that dead; and
: ieveral 4111111113 being?" o_un1..ed, went Bleeding away, as we could
" New. piainiy d <<.cove'r' .by $116, [110111515116 110w remembering
Wmat Jud been eftni told -1ne,_ that inch nva's the imjcfl-y 1 fla
41121-1" 3 1112-1 icepzs to 1111111 tenor even in the xfiercefi. cue-11111511.
I_I mdered all (1121 .companione-to halioe-as loud .as pqfii'ele , and
.in this notion lava-1101 vltqgether mifiaken, ' for.they.i1n-
mediatuy turned <<about upon rthe firfi balir 0,..a11d beganst'o.1:e-
steer-11111111 Eviiich, crderihg' arfecomd veliey' 111 1heir$ea1t,..t!1e,y

v" gallnpe<lmtoet~e woods-with great,prec1p11etxon. ..

. W'hus We had fame {man time to. load Qur pieqes agaifirmd
then mdeell the We .we could 'on .ou'r- <<my ,.b1xt five liar: not
<<made +1194)? (we we Were o'biiged to put wife-Ives m. a {admire
msof- defenee as beEete,be111g.aizrmed'-Av1th a very dreadfal noife
$11 the Tame 111.109de am: left band,\tbe-T .me way as we were
{be-5.1435, 0:11.11 that <<it was-at ipme difiance from 118. By this time ' .
ghee dark-fume -.clond_s {be egan- -to fpread mien the elements, and

<< Ythemfybt 'gmwing vet-y uikyy--made 11 {0 much .the more 3320

"lourqufadvmteve 131115111111: noifeincreaein, wewere {11113

. 31.3mm eathat. it. wagiehe mung-and yelliqg_ :0 32119115 ravetiom

. creeturen,-wh n spyefentiy three. ti'oepgs of- wolves On our 111111,:

,apoeared 111 fight. as thwghmvgteat n11.111b'er- of them hada

- gdcfig't'rto. f11i'r111111d.113,-and devour-115111 fpite offate. B111 138 '
whey did 1161 1a11 .Wupogn 11s inimedia'ely,\ave proceeded on our

fionr'neiy m as fwift -a manner as the roads fwauld permit'our

' bdriesfiemch was only-a large trot. It was 111 this manner we

| ctr-awelled, ti!l {ache time <<as we difeevex ed another wood, and

ehad. the 1111151121151 of. its entrance thnqugh which wewere to pafa,

at the fanthefl; me or the plain- But furely none can exp1:cfs

- thee-31191 we were k1,- -.veJ1en -ap roachuag the lane, <<we percei-

mag- confeifed number (if {he emefl wpiyes, (tending, as it-

. ,weayg- -g11a1d.'11'1'g its-entrance. "Nor- were: we xlon inLthis amaze-

.ment, befere {met-her occafion of- horror prefented itie!f;f<~1r' ,
medal-fly we --heard the -rep_mt ofagam at 1111011161 0.113111113an
.the 1vpod, 13116; 30011ng 'that- way, 0111.13.11 aborfe budled 511d

<<faddiegluflymg w1th.the1greateft fwiftnefsg- .and no lefsthan.&x-"

4 1,911.11 01' {gem/sen wolyes parfmggafter 111113,.111 emer- mdewfir;

. c -' 12-22" 3 Lift; IND"vi-plflka-I'IRDU Rag-g

_. -...;:th'e-;ioer.creamtc'; a'nd_unqu'tftiofiab!yflbp'y did- fo:,~aPStC/:.-'thq' .
_.;lejSSd mu .. Ili'zfifim; 110; being iabkeisgp-hold oufithat'fiflifihgf;
'k'VI-ifl'! 'wbicb-be-atfiififcfcapec'lfthoibg, . ,-SS':"f,fj'-' -.~-"'-' '
"f 7' "11's.: 've rode-11910 that; entrain": fmmfwhehciqgfhcfizbotfc
. Whittieisbrth'gstbcre lay the catcajfeaiofjmotherzhoffe '8c'5tLW'sS'1fi'eh, '
"ifgiifiafifg-i'ee abdftdry by'tbefclde-veuribg Wolyeg: "311d jundb'ubfcdly' , '
' gbne bf'tbefe x995 'was'thC/--per'_fon-wh0' fifledgthegun which we ' .
r'fl~li_ad,'heard, for the pine lay/by. him'ybut-'alas!'.m(c)fi'_fof-,flge'
'_ 'zjtppcrgpart'gfshia body'a'nd biagheadflcr; 'ctitbmbesl'ihzthe
. *'bgwels pf'thhfefraVGnoug creamrcaf ' x ..1":;;..: Lj' '
' .' ' Wbat tom-{e tqftakc, ,ivhcth'c: to Prague! omtremwc c'oizld =
{not ;t-,e11; bp't 'it was .ja'ot long be me the :woxves' thcmfclyel 1
cmfie-'tts 10 come to a refqlution : .fdr. fueh 'ntimbcja Turrounglgd .\
"..SS_u'e',:every_'zbne=_ of Whom upeaed' their prey, that'yere o'ur. a
4 $SSY=dieSSftC/ibe 'y'divided among .ther'ngth'cre wptfldfiot-be half'a
-. .ifidfithftil ,aopiccc. j-'Bnt [happbi'tefy happy it,was','.for:ns',..that
A 3151;: gfitfle Tway. {nom,_thefireptrancc,' there lay fomefvtiyf' large
' jtji'mbcr Ema; whiCbI ftgppbfed'bed- been cut down-251d laud"-
.4 (were Riv {ale =L'.amonPSfi',wl;ich I My . i'ny. littlci'trdqp,'@1zdhg- ~
. s :gquCYVCSLiI' ajdine behind o'ne iong tre'e, which.5;e'l:v;ed-_'u,s fem.
x 'reafidwork,' When' dgfir'ing" them to alight, WQ'fieifodF irjsa
. .' .,triang)e,~br' 11mg frongst doting. but bodicsinnthe? antic-{the
' "if ,bhlyfilafief'stc-re {51; could pt'cferve'fhe'mg. ';' '- '_ -
1-: .inyeg'e'i-i-'Eer 51713: 'was thereamore fiarious EUR11 rge'than'ivbat j. .
#73113 ' wplvga' made? u (011 ' usjn ,this'p'jacc 1: and "the. sight 'O'fi'the -
'fi'ahg'jffeg 'wbichya's't e, rin'c'ipal p'rcy they aimedfit, 'provak'efi- -'
+3115? rfiufiger; and. a ded to their natural. fi'qceneihg-g-Th'ey i. '
. .'fieme on {Is-mitt} a'mofi' 'di'badful' poife{,tfialt,,'madSS;th_e, .wOo'ds' '
-.-:ing?.:%ai1i ': fang .bcgianigg' f9. 'mqngt3SSthc 1' itces- (at-timber, I
~-'6r'd.e;r' 'e'vmman to m, \asbchr'ezsfirta _ --. .andisixidegdgz Io
' 3.'~3we11.-:.aid-.}thqy take their a1fn3,-Etfbigt;4hey, kill'cg'df fevere'lgdffifihe'
.: :'im'lvfea at the firfi ' volicyf',:;bfit-' (1111 five .iverciobligcd-tokcepl a '

  

. 'centihual fifing, by reafo'h thqy'lc'emcwbh' like devils, puibing g.
fo'ne anether with' thegreatcfi furyg'Bu't' on; ficnnd-yglley {ome--
'thSSy~.SSydnld have made thfi yea; qf'sjherr way _.' hmclvc'r, it did :
'.'-3;6t prove, rogfor' others [madeglafnley- afiempt 13me "us: had .
5"t'hopgh'i1j font firings. we kilkd {eye-mean 9r eighgecnofyhem, '
1 flaming twice; as mafiy, '3"e't they? feveraL times iuccc'fiiidngm'e-
9333:": .; -' . : ),.-. ' .- ' .- C.) i - M, w
. ~ Upwfllmgyaa] to {pend our-13R fhotjtoq-fuddgnloygja-ndthey? '
7fo're., gall'nfi'g my Other feryaht,' gnd'givi-ng mm )1 [mm "bfipbv'v- \
'de'rg-'bid'fi'im'iaiy"a-'larg'e'tfaig} quite-along thc"tfijSSber,~ fwhichb'hc. I
' 'srr'eatefi'dekt'erity.- Bythiftim'c'rzbe'gv'oms COangQPth'e.fi;m:-Y=_\ 1'
'_'..'b<':r",l {ct'fir'etto "the tfzihg,'by'Y=PSaappiix'g {difphargcd j.p1{tb;"r'_'c_l'cjfe.j,
_' to theafiewdgx'e" This {ngeoi'cbengand 't'eifri'fi'e'd gbcifigth'az-iqine- "i '
'fcll'dowpgwghd. Mers'juchdm amcmg- us :' but there. mic. -- '

' ' thing "abated :t'h'e'ir courage. ewhen'figefiiyglz'littky Wa'hoped ' "
<<oiaa'm'tfif'm'efiflfiy Wes-1 9deg'.'.h7'i'.."'..9"{ fer? the-.C/'E$ bf 91C/".
'edid,' Whi1SS5Frid37 was'cbar'gmg m7 ffiet-md'hisfiowfii With-"1deg? 'a ':
' immgdiaiely'v.''zk'quWw--wmr,"".--Mfi'w---V~ '1' - .u.' .-\. I1 '1' . . . - . ~ - _' s
. , . ' , V . . _ . ,

.: f . v' I. - _u __ ~ /. ,_ ' _ , . .'_ '-
. , 26? R'. '6; 3; misc N' 1c 1": (Isle fi.' ":23, '
'. e l " f '

4'

/

ifiifimedi'atelyfdifpgtcfied, when; a}! "the risk, efpighte'd' Wifh'i'the _

7' light, which the aflifome night c'zflxfed' t9 'apfiea'gjmqte dread;-

.fulg. begag at-lehg'th. to retire__';' upon Whidhudrdefingmur'jaw
stfiffdle 39 befired 4? once, givieg a}: the {afme time a' gregt'flwut',

, thevirolvee 'xiet'e obliged tcr have 'reeot'sze' to theitfjwiftdefsi,
"'fi'nfi't'unf ta'flJ; andithen {are {allied out n ' Qh twenty lame 03183,;

1' eutting them'jma 'i'c'ces with 'om/fwor' a, whieh 'obfiged '2ng, ,
"'owl'lamcnta'b y, Itpthe te or'df'theif fellows,.whe'r,C/fign,ed; '

' 'o-us- the field aeVietoriou's' onqueggrs: And,'inde'e'd, Iquefi

.tjpr; .whethe'rfilexgnder' kin" ,dfMaCe'doniayiu ,a'ny ofhigeqfia' ,

'l'rflfl" s', ha'd more <<cationgfjtriumphthm vtfe had"; _'forf-he, '
yaw ybut atmek'ed" withfiumerous armies of foldiers'; vighefie'asf ..

'i' ohr'littLe arm'y' was, ob iged tofcomhatzlegipn of devils; gs itwere, _; ,
fvyprfe' thafl the {Cafiniba-ls, who; the lhmqmomentflhey'hed (lain:

" us; wouldhaye {acfi-ficed'us;_150' fatisfy their voraxz'xous'appetites; , ,
"--i ~ .f Thus ended our,bldody (mule with the-beaes, having- gun-ed
*"flireefjeore-of them, 'a'nd techrourjliy'es from their fury, _We,

. fiill' had a- lea .ue 'furtfierxo'p, whenx asWe' went,'oujr 'earjd were.

. "I'alut'ed'wi , their mo'ft ._u'pvyelcoine howmr'gs; anytfi we 'expec- '
ted everyeg'nmnent' an'othc'i' attack. 3m, in, a"n "hour'siexme;
_'_'w_e arrived itth'ejtownuwfiefe we wefij'tq lodge ;. ayd herewe'
""fdund' theyiaee'firjetly, carded, and all, in' teirible co'nfqfion,
.381 "e11 they'might, for." ear of't'the'b'ezfs-aydlwolved'brefiking'izf--

. .'to'Y=b_e'fvillage,jin order up prey uppn' ,theif ,Cit'fle'apd people. -.
[The next, morning ,we-"Were' bbligyl; to tak'e'a newgugde; BY.
f-fealbnthejother fen <<rety- bad-o'f-hj j (rounds, wh" 11' he had 116-. z '
"fiefied aS'befOre' menticined. After, we had re ched Tholgufc, fl

. Z'f'g'u'camq iritgla warm, pleafant; and fruitful country, not in-,
'fefiedfwath; wolves, nb'r eny' fort of ravenous creaturesiand.'

Twu'en' we told out-Rory there, they mueli' blamed ofir guide, for
', . fecjndpetin'g :13" through the .fo'reft atthe foot of the mountains;
;; .('iujfueb'a'fe'fere feafoq, when thie'fil'oev obliged {he wolves'tb" _

.ter .in the woods. W . en we informed them in what -' '

 
 

Heel: for jhe >> _ .. .
'maune'r wejplac'ed. ourfc-Wes', ,'m'd the'h'or'fes in the centre; they
_je:eC/eedingly'{eprehenaeduyand told us, ;it._.was gm hundred'

' to One; But we'jiadbeeqall (de'ftroYEd ; for that it Was the vei'y'
'Pfi'g'hfi iof-the horfes', .their'ib much 'defire'd , prey, that maeC/~.-. ..

l ghelwoheaj mere: ragingly fur 1611.9 than they'wo'md have beeha.

:' figfiilcfi was,>> evident, by their b ing'at other times; really afraid
'"df'a' gun 5 'butfihen'being' exce'edmgl'y' hungry and fufioue upon -

<<ithgt .accog'nt, the}? geagemefs tocpmeat the herfeemade them , i
'ih'feafible' bf-th'eir danger ;' and that; if. We had Hot; by a con-
firifial'fir'e, and-at Mt by" the .cunni'nfg ,flrgtag'em .of me train 9E , ~
pgwder'; 'oti.the'b8ttet;-.of 'them',' it-ha'd been great oddB'-xf
their nnmgttgihad no; oyerpower (1 us; 'bcfidesl, it_-'xyas' a-gre-at;

""fmfercY-Lwe' alighted fi-omro'u'r hotfes, 3nd fought their: zwith; . '

, that rgouj'a'ge'; and'__'por_nduef; wfiitg'h,' had: we failed todd', eve}; '

. man of us", fith'oumb'ea'fts, had been degvmujcdfl: and,"-indee , ,
thig was nothing but trfith ;'For"hech-in'm'y' life'wa'sl fo fenfp'

m .. ble '

9

IV \ . -' '. -,'..' --
,L .p . , ., ?, ~ . _
r. ' J.'

0.

. 1,24 Lin-RE ANflauAD-VEE'N affiliate i,

'-b1e'of-danger, as finer! three 1111951er devils came roaring lip:
Qn 33,110 {him \whpi'e unwelcome cm'n'panyw," if I __was {ure to '
11:13:}; a. [term every Week; I wot]d,rat'h_:r goal theui'gndlieagnas
' YC/3v7<~ -' i.' " * .~~' -,=-.,
l .I-thinlg. I'haye. nothing uncommon. inmy paflhg'er-thi'ougir
~France'_to tii'ke noticeof, finee ot-hergiravellerspfgreatetrleanne
'i'ng and-ingenuity. have given a'mnre ample Account 12.55!) in
penis 41516 to fet- forth. -- F mm Thoieui'ei tra'velle'd to "Paris;
from. thence to "Calais, lwh'erel tool; Whipping, and landed .at -
rfloveriiie 14th. 0? Januaty, inallery cpld feafon', ' -n' '-._ . .
, 'Thjus eeme to ~the end" of myfravels} I [003 difcev'ened my .
.newf found eiiate, and '3" the bills of exchange-I had were'euc- '
(fentiy'paid.. The go'gzd .ancient widow, my' only _prixiy_~coun-. p
fellor,--.thoupht \no pain .nor care too'great t0 precure my 'ad-. '
V ,vantage';vn_or had-I ever;.o'ecaiion;.to blame" her fidelity, which
.drewifromfme an ample.(i;ewafrd. I- was-fonleavin'g my effee'ts
in her hands, intending to 'fct out-fen'Lilhen,' and .fo the Bra-
' . ;ziis'; but aein the Dcfoiateiiiand i had foine 'doubtmbout the
' Remit}: religion, ib'I'kn'ex'v there was iitftle encenragement to ,
zfett'le there,,31nlefs.f,1wquid afiofltatize from-the oithod'qx fei'th; .
"'- ;.9r- Iiveimepbtiimai fennel" t-iieinquieition. Upo'mthi's acc'ount
' A] refolved .16, (<<'11 mv,"p!anta,tion ; and. for that intent, I 'wht:
,'td my'ol'd {fiend aft, Lifbon,,who reggmed .to:.me an :infwer;to
. 'my great fatisfaeftion; which ,;wa,s,-,that ihepeuld .felljlfito good
account}; 'however,.iPS I Ithqnght ,itC/eonvenient t0" give him libs:--
- ,iygto ofi'er itiin' my name to the~two ~mercharits,- :t e ,forvio' '
.',\,'vorjs to? my irufieefimeflding atrihe Fragile, .who can eqnenltly '
knew its' intrinsic waluegh'aving lived'zjui-i: u'pOn the "manning!
<< ,who I, was.-fenfible were very ,rich, and' therefore migbtbefthe
_ _m'C/are willinglo purchafejt: he'di'd not in theieaii doubt, but
gthat I {h'euid make four or fiv'egthqufand .piec'es of eight more
- igfi'c; than! epiiid, if'I difpoied of jtim any other mennfer What-
o.'ever_.,,,' . ' ' - ,, " ' .' "
' ' X011 may pPS;fui'e'-I,cmiid motgbnt agree witnjthie kind and in-
- gengofis .proquai ; and Immediately I Tent, hem an'orgieijreg-oi}
. In; it to them, which he 'accmdi-ngiy'diii ; .fo- that aboui'eeight _
' ijbnthsiaa'ter, thet'fhip' being in that. time reinrnedfiie, g-aje
-'me a fatigfaemry ae'eqnni, {that they nOt only twining]! 'ec--
ce'pted .the diet, but fibn't'they hagl al-{o remitted 33-099 oieeqs'
,of.eigh'_t_to ,3 cogrepppdent ofatheii' own at Lifbm, in order'fi-o' .
l'pay'fo'r the piirciiai'e. ' - ' t. '..' ' ',
.Hereupen, in reiniugI-figned inc ,infirinnent'~oPSfaie, 'gieieord-s -
jug to Egan, which they had ,{ent from-Lifbon; and returned
. itiagain . myfcldfiiend, he having.fent.nge,}far' my eiiate, bilis '
"of-thee hundrednnd iwenty--efight ft'mulhn'd'piseespf eight: 3
.;referv,ingthe payment of emf-hundred moidcrejsper 'annum',
iW-hiChsI had allowed. him' But-Eng ,1ife,;iikewife:' fifty. tm'misfi'on '
' -_during life alto, aecording tot-13w faithful .pr'omife, which the
,plantation_'was'-to makegood as a xent'charge. " Ad
' ., " '_ 1"" , .' " ' "' . ' n

. ~ .'3 .
' ' _. i .\

6

u
_ I.

.3 V P
..
.crtx'e'B--Ijfi 3'9 Na oi R Uls'e't'y

. , V f .- . . ~ . .. , g a ' x .
- - And thus bampg led my reader to the k'ngwledgge' 'of tne 51,1}

. ts. 0f my lite, fol (emarkable'for. the man}! 'e'e'nliar': pro'wiif-r
W P

dences that attended inflating in 't'fle o'ceaii 6f uhc'ertainty 5nd.- I.

(fihpp'nintment.,ofadyerfity and profperity; bagirining feclflfly, '
aiul yet efidin'ghafip'gW ;J methinks nmvfth'at I'am chme'ta __a fate
--&'. ple'afant havenfit iatim'e to'cafi o'utjm'y. anehOr, 85, layingup

' my vefle!,'bid',; foi- a while, adieii'to fezrei'gd adaien'u-fi'es'. -,I~'hau":\ '

- no 'Mher'eozzcems to lock'afrex' but.'th2: care-6f ray-hrs'th'ei's'

__ Swims, 'wheehf' witjlfthe gocd widow's perfimliofls, obliged;

' nae-PS9 et-in'tI-nue' atghome {even years; One of thcfe'ehfldfenf
.Bredupa gentleman, and f-hefither an! ex er'renced. {allergfrei'
markabfe ferhis courage and bravery. Be Ides this,-'I- mat'ried'
a vi_1:h_z<')us 'yonn'g gentlewomaa, of a very gced family", by whom"-
' Thad twe' Tons and one" daughter. Bu'c my dear'afid ten'deij' -
wife leraairig tgjs"eart}-21y- flag": (a: in the fecqnd- artdf my life
You will he-erlwhieb .t:nt~mY't--!oul as it W'sre undenfmy nae

Jive donati'y fiecaka'e wea'ry and Eire-femetb, e 51an my Lneo '
.-phew..~-hnppemng to Cerise frag-tea,>> tempted c't'o venturean- j
.oth'e'r voyage to'the. Eai't Indie-3', which [did m theyeamew; '

"at: which timcl vilified" my iflmzd, and" informed m-yg'elf 'of "every
- thing that happened fiace-myxkpafiyre. , ._ ,3; 7 _

'One migl'lt'mafonably imagine, Thai--What. I'had? fafl'ered; tc,--
grther, Wifh-an advaneed'xa' PS1,- and _the fear foiloimg amen! '.
what'I-jhad'gotten; but my? ife'alfo; mighthav'e chosrked 'up L
"the-{ceasef- Youthful>>: ambitjrwrv and. cutikffity, 'ar'xfl put avlafi'mg
penod t'oAmv wandering inclinations. Bat a's'nozh'ing butde'atlr

.'U'

can fjrjiy' allay the afiive' part 61:??in fifty-f fi'o' ilef's' remarkable for " _ '.

'the'mgjny Vgariqgrflgiq'mtiagenciei ef'it; 'you- will next perceive: '

-hQW-;,vifiteaY=my'little.kidzdcm'a, {aw my facd'efinrsftke'Spa-S'
niaz'd ; had an account of ohe tzfzget'hey' met 'with".-fr.~.m the '
Eflghmmew, agrefing: and .diihgteeimg, . unifiug' and fepnratingi
t' at. 1.27% theywe're fubjse'rcd to the Spaniards; Whoye't; um
, them' very hon'nmably, together with t3~ze wonderful".aad'fuc-
'~.ec{sf"ui'bgttles overehe'lndiz'xns w,_h'o- invaded,.eaan'd- thou-gbt'td'
'hav'e e'esqueted 5:112 ifland,' but were'reyefla'd by their fax/Em.
, eibIe'cc'ugag'e and bxraiveryrhaving't-aken e.ev'en men 'ahd'five Wo-

; .men-preiefhersgby: u'h'ich at .m'y return,1 foune'abgut twenty'.
Young ch'zklren,ien my iit'cie lzgng'dom? Here I fta'd'tweniy days, '

hiytnem flu-101163 bfiafl nec:.tfar thm s asfaffo apear enter'
i. V g a P

3:13 'fmith; mad flamed the island intfipavw, refsh-idgz the-wade
.ptoOert-y' to myfie'if. . Nor wifl ymszeizzfenfili'e, by_"t';\.'e aeo'"

C011SS3t nigh-:1? things nf feveral new adventures I have been ex;-
gage-q in; the-banks" .
W'.11:,an'-3.Whi'le, in th: filrgsrifi'ng'reeation of fuel: remarkaw
b3: ,oeCIxrrencesr'I {hali defaibe' manyei Goe'a-kindefi pr'cv'i- -
.. deuce's'tg. meiip particularpw ici'a confgicuous-iwghe; Tame
gaodn'efs, power, and xmjefi-y' cf our great creator, flio'tm one:
avay'or ohex'gqver' the face ofAth-e tartbljf duiyadlvgrteitp. ' '

r . . -

Mi. '6 'I THE

../

[have Fang-h", the dfiwerances I' have met .

4';>'..'" ", . '1'" I ," - -, _ . ' ,, r. , yr...' fl 2;. -_::., in," "V'I'Tui ',""',"" .
I

>> _y 3 THE'f'FBRTfiEK 'ADVENTfiREs-- OF

' 'I'Wreffl-fire.i'se'orz'taifiedfivgfalflrfifie- 22224 fare

" .' 'frgflng-Acc'owth infiz':[Trawlxgeaazzdfli-z';mqfl' '
,f flmarkalzle Tmfifafilz'onf' .' b'otlz";_byg 552?? ,'az'zd

. '5>> 11.47221; 'w7t'tb 9,171.3? g'fwazz'de'vfzrilngj/ian aft/534m
.."'. .*irf-eflz'c-.%'rl"ld.~ . 1 .' ~'> . ~

,j: fl 5 1'

.7 . -' -';"". - ' 2'!" '
~,-.,__,';_1.

_ '3 mighty influence it has . many times ovgr'the, tcmfler (3f ',
, . .>> "hen-lint!" it? will IbC/11Mfii<ihL gfleafiuwkmder 'tojhigagk, that my >>
'pvqwerful teafon meulgbjdmfiegrgpme_by.SS.a>>,mnhcfh__--f'tmhgerinch}
nation: IM'y' late flaggegiireciylki'ngdam 114:1 -c:'ontini.fi;lly-in my
_ ' tappghtsgian theday, and.lladrgamed'.'Qfojt.inf.th'q'n.ight-: nay, 3'
-;:.I' 'ma'de'ififihe c'drlivtinu'al},fidajC/'e't' ofimy'tal'tjtfaz'e'fieto.impe'ttinenq'e,
whfl'ryfie .aWake.-SS_L5mC/fuC/h 'gvepg)}1eSS'}in' mymeadg, 1113.th ag- .
' jmyafly' fup'pofed' my'I'elf at-.my..SSg'flyle g-that Imofeohly perCeivecl-
y. ijliftifiayfs father;_..the old .'Spax~.iafc.,'and'{SSe'uiicked'{lager-.3, but .. .
12 -.C/'ha%=l=ta}kcd- a'nd.di{C/eu?hdi -Mt!mhe3j1.abontpheix.mafi1er of
. ' 3&3}ng ; that I heard the things felatgd'tekhe, which] fdgndafi '
. {fieMurdg'tqrfisitm'e:';'f&?tfi'afijijjSS3tSScuted my jndgme'ma'with the
:_grcgtcPSt' fe'v'e'rjty _' upon: the A'ofi'cnqurir. ffindfiefieedgthi's' 'ajniciu-
f. git-:11? 'a11"ithEUR, ."filggfing Toys of; myglffe',' :fcarccly-afi'erd'ejc'i- me
'pne'p'eafigphgfir-agmy' 'earandltemiee'wi-fegoiild-ndtibut talic- '
' '-'5SSngt;ice'9fjt-,, Which drew I'h'ofe aflgefiionatc, fpecchcs-frqm', her...-
_-My 'dm,;fiid 1112,"! 'am lreqll, fieryiiqded that/5m: firm: 1'>>);-
PS11?! 'fr'om'J-iedm. ,pcmflqnq. in joix ai'deter'nginmion 510 fit! 1&-
glam; <<$945.72; 'dr am" I 196: fiIZfiM-fe but-your PS6:ng eig'gdged db-
. '72:: 4541'. thefi. gar; {bi/(Iran ('3': tbe bnbtfiinder' "g; qf'y'our'depar- '
'. ,'tu'reg'; Ik'lzcr'zb': my Hear}, '2'! 1:10:72 1'"?th 'grem, you gmufl'l '.7zoPS'; '-
' 'lo'gzg, anytime>> at ham; ,1 pnefumi not 30):): bappimfl on. in} mocha); ~
- - -4u.{z<ye~;olllyicpmforf (wife! in you. Ailint/ng _I can oly'effi 125,. Mm: .
fut/3' anjgbagq'r'dauxi'wzafermkiqe is no duty. oonfflem quii'b 114))"an
- -. fin;,of"your ,yeqr; ;:' lbw-2f you are! refilvwd to 30, added fhe,'
-'w._ceping, {gab germi't m; (a bear ypzo pop/pm}, and that iaall?
".l htIdg/ir'. ' ' ' 'Il,'_" ' .." ' "' ",>>'.' w-'- . -{
' '_-.'.- Such endearing tefidcrnefsygraced withibemofl ixinocp'nt and '.
-; xet 'mQfl: pgfiiem'ul charms, l'mgughtme'infijnfibwi'n'm'my'right ' .
~>>,. ~ underflanding :7 and uwhen'i confieeted.SS14 the tyranf'aet-ions of: :
'.' my "PS9";th particularly. 'my new g--nghgement, ,; that Lhad now
gong-child already" bond, and my wifcwbig of. 'anothei; amt- .
' that'I-had no occafxon' 't'Q' 1'ch for mci'etiches who. alrgadywas :1,
y bls'flitd with fuflicnenq; much much flruggl' g g1_ altered mys. ,-
', .. ' . " ',~ - .f . ' ' t'eiofutiong: -

WHEN 'wehonfidcr th/e yi'uimxntifdm'e of Nat _ re; and, _ at "

\
V.

is '-' ' 1'J'l}' --'::5 v1"; nul'.' ~,-.".v- : '-~. --: - ' ,_ .- - - ' -r
, t . . > - . .

maxim/9101a cx:u~'s-'0 .1- . n77 :'

' 4

A ' ' ' ' ' . ' I .,
efehitions "at laIt, refolizjng'to apflydh'yfelf rammebufinefs'p'r, ' '
th'cr, which might-.pnza pc'r:0'd- to Inchywandeting.inclmatiionS.

Hereti'ponjl bought a ttie'fm'm in the county. of-fiedt'ord', with" )"
a,rC/ibiutien5to move'thither ;' upon this thcrg, was a pretty.
gonv'enicnt Ecufig, inrroundedfiivuh land, very capable oft-m;

'_ NC'vcme-n't', _~whzeh "(nitcd my temper, as to 'planting, managing;

-~' and cultivating. Non wan.-ieng befpgg 1' enzcred-upon my 'new.' _
i'ct-tl'cmexf'r,'.ahavingzboug'nt.pboughss. hah'ows, carts, Waggon" - '
bank's; c6wa,'an(1 fiaeepg. l'ofthat 1' now, led the life 0921 cbuztitty

.. gentieman', anda's'happy in-my retiremcn't'as the greatcfi mo>>

. march in the Wham." And what; made. me think my ,happEnql'e
' the" greater was, that 1- was in the middlefjt'catc of life,-. which>> .

, s my fathethad to often fecommcnded, muchlrcfgmblmgthe fir . .

licity ofarura'l'ratirement,which is elegantly deicribed b.y- the . .

poet in't'figl'c lines : ' '. '
' j ' File frph all <<rim; fi'ge f a>>) mrfig ' - _' -' 'f _' .
. ,b'ge ha:- 230 pair), a-mtyauz 'ngfimre'>> ' 3' ' ,
. _ . . . \ W .

'

'Bu't', inlthe'm'idft' of thia m'yhappifwfsf I Wat'fuddcnly'plun'r. - -
. 593 in thc'gteatefl'tbfrcw- that "14:0th pcfl'nbly- 'endurc; for .
. 'when liteaI-{t ex'pget'ed it; my ear- and'tend'er wife was farccd't-er
C/ fubrnit"to;the irrcfifiable wer ofiD'cath, leaving this-'tralgfi-u-
(h :tor-y life 'fer. a batten? It, is ir'npgmbk' foi' me t9 eyfirefathe-fl.

_ beautiee of her mind; 91" the' 10'Velinefs of'her p'crfong- neither'
can 1 ton much lament 'he'r- 191's, which my/ latefi breath man; '.
rectum. -, her influence was greater o'vcr mc' than the f ,owcre aof" k "
my Own 5e'alkm,'the. importnn'itie: of friends, the i t-uetioas; :
of a father,*or the melting. tears. of-a tender and ,dit'eonfolatc' V

' " mother; 'in award; the was-thC/ fpirit offal! my afi'ajrsy and the _, '
duke of iny-cntcrprize'a.. But' now, fince'the cru'el_ hand at" '
D'eathf'had cloted' my dearefl'e eyus, I fecmgd 'in my~thoughts-
.a firanger' to the'world ;. my privy, connfellor being'fi 30:35.1 was>> '
. Hjlze'a' {hip .without a. pilot, that equid'only, nu} 'b'ef'ozfc the-1
kind. Inndfiyhcn flocked aground riteinthis bufy world; one' '
.- aflmbouring' for t'Jrea'd',w and :the other fquandering': awayf*-~
heir 'eftates ;. this p'fitm'e in minfihow i had-Ji'ved in-my' little; -. _.
kingdom, where both reafon'andf religion die'rated to me',. that .. -
gtherc ' wae fomcehing that 'ceftainty was the 163503! and end (at-7'; _'

. life,- which was fan tnpcrior t'o -_what"conld~lSSe.hopbst-fcr on _ _
this flde the graver "Mycountry' deligbw We're now'aS'infiped._
and dull; 3-3 r'nnficV'and fciencc to {Hue who have neitfier tafleg

'- nor inge-nutty, In morgurefolving to'leave ofihnufe-keeping: 1" " .

' . left myfarlmgand in'a f'cw'montbaret'umedito London; . - '
" 'But' neither. <<51114 that great eity, {35 famous for its-variety off
entertainm'ent,.aif>fd mean'y agreeabiet delight ;' at ftate offi-
a'le'n'ef'sj foundto be the ve-ry d'rege of life, and'm'cfif "hurtful ta"
b3?" and-foul; Itawas now the beginning of the 5'C2F.1684,.'afi

I; Vii-Kb. tun; my nephew (who. .21": Ibefore Gbl'ezgved: bad becnt
. ' - - - 1M ,3; .. , "broughfi

5' .- .
.. :4', xU <<r r' w _.-.

1:38: , L I=.F'.$ Asma- 8/1285}? (noun; ES;-
'. brou'ght'u 'tqthe'fcgsagd advaqeed--tozbn.oagtain:ofa flfimlwap '
P ,rct'u'mefi omaathrt: voyage to Bi-lbpa,,th;'firlt ha hadi'mndc-
1 "ip'tha; itatiam ' e'gomesto meionem'aming. tallingu'mc.'t-hat1~'
- 19g):- merqhanteg 'hzsapqgaimaeqe-hadtproquechg hm; togpr f
a. yoyaga- for than? {he Eaft'lndiea and Chung: Int-he mans - ,-

_ IICF'Ofipxivafigfimde'rs 5. and, new, (malty. faid' hey. if 3013371 mam??- ' "
,'szx-zm tlitbgri-'I'11.Mgaga~ta [and joy. upon your vii-{PS444 tag -
' "1:57:15 (Izzflatgaqf your [in]: kingdom; . . .\ .' f ,;

- 101tkbefom; he came, 1mm}; thrughts, were fixed-119' gat .3493;-
t'en'hfbrjts, pofl'efidn, andithen fio fillit wit. inhabitant .' Afar
,tgn-I ha.d,bhufed;a.whilre,'and looked-\fy'edfa ly on him" .baa .
W! for [giritm [3.561 I .Jrgat-m with Mix u'nluce} <<Wit? He.- ' -
flartcd'at, til". but. "covering himfelf,, 1:2>>:an P'.*{C/3iY=.EURd 1- 331's:

mt. ofikndqdw. Sir, replied, he, <<abatwaw pfiopofid fcamzbt'. p .
'bopta etflj'led 'zgnlucb, jin'ce cerhaialxyouniq/A' be. defmus to. fig - '
jqur li-_t_t_lc ~(erfritftzry, fiwberc you rgigried Wit/,1 inane.- content than:
am q/'jour ,6rotbm'. king; in tin; urziwerfi'. "Nepbewaglhid' I, if' ,. '

30:2; r1017], ;lea've;f'mc- #2!er .4734. ml] jammeaido .came- back, Iv .
tare nqtjg'ft 1 giw my cbnfem ybuthe'anfificndg- (be? flag mar- . ,
Manta-midi glow/1m "tbcir with lead? when ityfriita-'U'a-J :~

. lam>>. 19.. 2-31an t/gerg'. again, aylzice <<way a g) anibeJ'ajl' oyt'qf {bag .'

' was. Mk4; r-Sxfn, 1'a'idhe, bfllflxfiuld mifwrryiaw 131m "r35" -
gag-fly gremed, avg; 113391: Wd 5: 's'Qet'd up w. ecyhre'u' This; ,
19flEUREUR4~PS337ndegEURd sigma}:~ of teafon in it ;~, but we. fnundtoutz'a: '

' -l'C/mhe;l.y.,:.ands that: was to .carry a'fraraedfioop bnzbOarkrfiaa-v

'dnto' hafe-t- up'm the iflanea lay-the amftaxfce offomeaeaI'PC-h .

4' KISS WPiCh wg- {hou'dfiarr-y with' uythat mightvbe- fitted in: . ,

. ;,fC/w.gays;to,gg Ito-{egg 'I waa'nct'bngrin'fgrmg':my! tabla-F . '
" \tqug Which oge'rgfwa, ed. my*gQQd-j friqu. theiwidnwl'siperfilaa;
' , Qpns,,a_ridvthc ngtutargfi'ee'fion Ifhorg'to m .ybung'childxten'.' I."
madng-will, and fqgtledpmyxefiate jn - neh'mfinrier'wthat I;

, wasx'pggtteuy filtemy peor. infants Would 'have jufiichOne:

' than. "The 'good'widow not.on;ly_..ur_.dcrtook to- make provifw'm
{9; my 'vo Sage; buf, alfo took the charge of my. ,domefiic afiv -'
fairsgaxie, .;.pr9vide'for,'my childre "s cducaitionsgand' indeed.
n'g -,m'otbq:1'SSpu_ld _..take_ more cam, or .underfioqglrf that mice :.
hetter;.'PSgg Which "Emit te'zewagd and. return 11SS;"'vi'z'Ly,-,heatnsty'p
whaling -. s .. g',' : . * h "u , "57;" .
'7 The-legianin :0. ammo :6 r -5-, 7m? aseneim <<tins-r98 I --.
tpfafl;-:I..ahd_ ingday- want,- on bgftd in-,thSS Dowdspn the 8th,; '
hating, halides that; {1001; 'alreadymentjgggd313 very confidenct . '
hie-carggfmfixfiwncsv--'colgnySSx Firmlafiegfime(Gimme, whpm:

Lpgoppfed to leave..;here,-.Ias they..- flmfikf'appeap Willing; thera- '

' -we-1re'tw_o,ga.rpqntars. a?lmith,.and~a' very-10313110113fellow-who; - '
:waac. Igeksqfiauytredcs. ;, far he was Manly; a cooper by; tradeamm
-, -;but, a310,. hejwalsfiextqous. at. making whegky. and- hang-mills>>- E
j .191. ggmct cor/m: likewlgc a 390d. turner. anda-gco'd- pct-maker's. -
_ Ii'alg'cglqa'rqieda tailqr,~ who contented to (tay in nay-plantation; -

ind. provsdimoittnecma-X felkw'intha iflag'd' Asynto. mw- - ' .

'- . . ~ . 8 _ - . z . 'ca'rgo,,

.
I'.
l' O

y .

l .
v
\

.; :. . 1 ' "" .. " ," ' -;. 1

\ -. -!' ' '.-'_t '1 "'1

m: goi'nmsgom emu-s on; ._ .1259; '

icarg'o'dt confifiegl 05:11. fiifiiei'e'nt ,quantity of" -linen;~.-'an'd'7 Engli'fltj '
gum:- foxg'olothmg'. mars " iaxgda; that I'expeetecl to'fi-nd there ';
a'slikeWife giove,s','batSS; oe8,' ttcekings'; together With-beds,
beddingfiand honfeholpl- {tuft}. efp'eeially' ldtcimn uten.fils;_ with

' ta,1 kettles, acutely,- brafs, 86c; 3:110 nails,. tools of all forts,-
aple ,-hooks_, inges',SS'and'311:.other-things neeeflfiry';'auw11ich,.

1 thin "(colt-me about'threetbngdred'pounds.Nor was.thiSSall : .

v for I cameo- an hundred 'fpaxe iax-msk 'muflcets, 8; fu feesg. .bcfides.
. ionic pifiols,;aa confidetablefquantity of feveral forts of'fhot, two-
'b'ral'scannon', "beadesfwords, -cutlafl'es, and the iron 'part of-

fbme pikea ind" halbentn. I'lmrgde my nephew take With no my '

(malfquarter-deek guns, more" thankh'e Ihad: mention! for in his '
\fili'pg'to-Ieaye behind, if the-re was a necef-fitv ; .10 that we

might build; Earnithfle, and man it againlt all'oppofers' -..what-'

ifoevepn . ,. .
. '1'. Well, we {mt out to {eaE :9 and though rcan't 'fay'th'm voyage .. .

' usi'fo'unprofperousmmy others' had been, yet contrafy winds;

"_ drove-us, {0 far northWard;.. that we' were obiige'd- to p'atin'vat -'
Gamay in-iteland', where we lay wind-bound two and-twenty!
days; Hete indeed our provifions wene'very: cheap; and we; '

'f'gndeai'ves, which I then 3" olved to But on 411917:- in my iflandg. ' '
. 11' air neceflities did-not cail for them. On the 5th of February

{ddded-toeur', fhip": fierce b taking fave raj-live hoga,tWo cows

- wefa'iled,from1reland,,;wit.h.a'very' fair gale,'whieh laited fofi'

, We made up direetly to it, and-in haif an hour's time the
. Wind being fairvaee. uld plainly -' perceive a-great {Np-0113'

'ggxe da'ys.;' and'I t.SS;in_1:.it--EURvae-about'the aoth" of 'thgfame
V nth,,}'a.te intbe evening, whenvtne mat' infor'm'ed'ns, that-he
Lfamaflhfll. offite,' and. heavier an fired- and whenyhe' was.
[@eaking, ahoy. came-imam); tod usi't'hat the boatiiwain' had;
heard- a'nothepi Upon which we all r'antoghe quartcredeck;

" ftom. whence} inaafew moments", we perceived axterrible fire at

.g diitanco. . "'W'e had immediately- reeourfe}to'our_,1jeekonings,'.
mw'hieh we were an oPS.c:pini'on, that there e'mfld be no land

that Waggjtappearingftobe at- N. N. W.- Hemmer,>> we con- _

.duded f'that. 11mm. ihipk had- taken fire at fea, and that it could

I

|
)

110.2135 PS312.05; byrthe. repertiofthe guns whi'eh' we had heard... ' ' '-

fire,,
'inzthc 'middbof thefea. Touched: withl'this nnhap'py difafier,
'and-confiderin . yfonhercircunnfiances,ivhen-the'lfortuguete

. Eaptain-took, ,e up,.I.immedia.ely.or'dexed fiver'guns to'he- ;

'fitedg'r'that the. poor "creatmes, not fi'eing .1113; it. being darhg" '

ethongh' we could" perceive t!,eirfifllame) might be ienfirble themv
. weedeliverance at hand, and eonkquently might endeavour tm

. fave. nhemtehe'e'inntheir beat; Nm' wasfiit long before *the min,-
\ blefiv up in:'the'air,.ami the fine was cxtinguifhed inthe ocean;

But mpgiofing: them afllrto be; in'their boats, We hung out'our.

Vlanterns,"and*kept5firing till-eight e'elpek in the morning; when,
with our. p'ertneetivc s, we beheld-'_tWo boate' full of people, m'

"king towairdsnag tho' the tide Waa againit them 5, then lpreading _
. I ' ' - - .1. -. 9' - 00'..-

n. '1.

I

'. : ..C/' , \
e'. .' . . 4 ' '1,r_; 1.1.." i) {KT-""5"? ,.
- ' 13% _' .L-I r 1-; mN-n :Azzfxw-E'Nrmz: 1' s _ _.;; .

gcutfottr ancient;- and Kangigg' out-.al'Wafths 'a figna'lfoij tfiefi
to come on Maud; in lml'tfan' hour's'timagiwpfiatne upfiqut-th-g'. . ,
mfd'took'thcni 'all inyt'nex'c" be'm'g'gno'i'lefe'thm'fixtY-qur:mC/9fi \-
.\Vomen.r'and cigildxren. _It~wa"sEURa Freneh'igxerchast Pfi'bfifihfw , - fi

-" h'undied tone; hemngardlbound' from .Qgiebgbfin.the'_'_-1'iygrebf . ,

, .QCaqad'a.' The..mafier inferintd m": 1'16"}, "bY' fhSS.nC/'81igEUR9C/'EUR?95 f '-

. the fierrfxfizn,,thc 'flceragegwas:-{et'en fi-ret'tijat-r avtihfia-'duteryzx'
for help; the firewas; awe thought tbtalty _cxtin.ggle,ihEURSSd 5451?}. -' ',
that fdmc'fpafics- getting between- -the' timber; 3an; wn-hi-ii-if'eiq'

(fling, it prbceeded-ngto t-he hpld, where there'Wa's-nq refiflmg
it',' Be than. tiny gist -mto'_.their' "boats, as c'rcagurgs in 'Lhttvllaft'gfie'f I -

' tiemi"y,-wirvh-\\'~hat provifion they had,toget?:,er-wi'th 09-9,.9'119; .
and apomrafs, nix-siding to gd bRCk to Newfoundland, the v.'

._:wind -b)'cw1n'g a _S._E-.' and .by E. 'thpugh 'there.,_WJe-re jfe'ydgl' ,

" 'Qcha'ncm'. aghi:1'&.'t'hcm-, as'flormsto overjet'afid founderrth'ejmflfl
ra'ne and c-r--Ids'fo bem'm'lg and perifh t-hhirr-limbs', and. contrary
winds to kccaythert'. .back and {tnge than) 'Ba-t, faid he; ijc gbib' ~

- 2 <<yr gkegr (ilflfe/s czar bra-41""): :wekama 're'port of yotm sway

"when/with 1m pz-akable "joy, with? do-'wri ou'r; may}; 'and fg'zib,
we ' were rffilmrd- 19 He by (171- mnmz'fig ; gbut' petce'ijving ngtfi'
lig/gf, >> clue flit-09f "any: work, to 1:qu odr'Mat '1': Inadefitlge- ,
fianer rte'ailaizz your/Mp, h'ae hep}; irymumgm 79/740211: delimit-*1. -'

"am-e.>> , . 'z. -,; '.

. '. . -Indeed'-no~&ne ca} exprcfs :he joy .of'theklpoos,'-.Cfe'alturC/8'_ < .
on_;tbiaoccafiqn: Md and grief are eafifiy'fet forth ;~'-'fiSSh'sz, 4-
an'd tears, with a few motions-0E thg habdswa-nd head, arc all tfie.
dgmonfirat'iofzs' 'of'thefc pa'flions.5' 'but an'eim'efs'ofjof,' carries} '
in-itatheuLhnd eagzmvaganciss ;:'ef_oecEURa!ly,-I.fl1ink, am'on'g'thcfi.
iFten'ch,' whofe temper-ieallowed to be more ywlati-lgr-pafiiomte,
{px'ightlye andgay, 'thzm' that'of' o'the; nafions.' fSO'm: were"

- Weepingrtcaring themf'e'fyes in the, greatc'ft agonics (if fat-raw;
any! 'running 'fimk' mad about the'fhipg whjie~ the Teft Were:
Qamping With: their feet, wring.- ing' their handy lingin'g,.1aughifig,'
{Wuoning' away. vomi'nng, mutating, with a few returnm'g heart)?~
g-hahhs :to the Aimfighgy; and croffifig them'cl'yes'. I' think,-'if .;
1am not mifl'aken; our fur'geon wae Obliged to let'thirt'y cf '

,r then} biocd. Bu}. mong-- the pelfengegs,.thcre wcfc' two pri'eflsy. ,

' th'egnefarp'oid, And the other a young mvm ;. hut-what 'mmiz'fdi

. me more was; Him. the. oldp'fi: was in the 1mm plight; for'no. _

3 ioon'endid Be perceive himt'df freed-from 'dangerybut'hedropt'
down'. as it'dve'rc without; life, "and to chry oncfS' apprafgncew
quite'<<'.ead ;, but'Whe {queon [chafing- and m-bbing his 231mg.

, opened a whim, which at' fir. -.droppcd~, and then flowing-more

_' fir ' ly, th'er-ld ~man began t ripen his eyes; andina quarter-pf ~

- --an- ho'ur-was well again; 'lfiutfiuon remembering this>> happy: ! _

, change; t;he;joy-ofjwhich whirled his bleed about fattcr'than the: "'3

'w'vqfi'els couid'cemey it, he be'c'ar'm; ~fo {warm}, as'made hims '
' 81.0338 fit fos'kcrilfm than-any, other placc.;. bus the fag-gem; gm>>

4 jug .

A

"- i

'r

\'\> ' 1 ' V. ' - ..... ~;;<.v- nyr'NT:"V'Z-",T""T'f"u' '7, 'V 1' I' "W "O "" '4" ' ' . ' ' " ' '

    
   
  
 
 
 

" ,. '__o .15. A! 031.1'15015' 6. R", 5,915 13"

momm . _. . . . 4- ., a __ .-
' Remikablcf; .ie'dced -wag,'the.~behaviq&r ef-the ymmg prgefl; . x
At; is gutljan'ce on board the ibj'p,' he fell .0!) hisfacci'n tlie,
'11;o_ humbie .pxjoftration to the Almighty. "Ithouglzjtrindecd; /
life'hadfallen into arfwogfi', and? _ rap tc') help-him up ;= but he .
mbflcfily -told,r_r_1e,.ubq'\wa: retuj'n g hi: thanks. to" tba.xlmigbty'; :
dgfi'riiqq ink.- :to' leap: Mm (z flay-7210;511:713, and: Mat, next to Ms ,
Creator, @e q'cw'uld r'etu'm' me my}; ai/er. .And' indeed'hc did ; .
'o a'b'oet threami'nutes after, with great ibrioufhefs, and affec- '3 .V
i923, while-the te'ars floodjnhisfievcs, which Convinced me of
the gratitude of. his' fpul>>.~ Nor did he lefsfhow hiS'piety-and '
}vifdom,,iriap.plyi,ng himfelf-to' Egeountry peeple',' ana'elabour- ;
ing to commie them', by thc m A, powerful-L reatbns,-acg-ux31euts,
_ane;pSStfilei}gm;$.. _A_nd'whe_n, indeed, theiiat pgopl'ehad'taken'
" {hefii'night'alr P991, in fuch lodgings as our ihip would aflo'w;
'ive'fourgd nptging kw; the befi of manners, and the mat civil
' gaskgwwlwgsmcntsfi PS0.11.- W.hichj. the Erench are-eminently re>>:- .
maikabye, ,_fSS'lie*11i-xt day We Capiain" and one of the priefis dea-
figggio fpgak'witah m: angl- my, nephew the cpmmanriei'; They ,
$9le gs,>> {Wit-Ibo} bad. [2sz flammmgmey andwglzmbl'e. thing} ' '
out. Q)" 3119:- fiuirzed wgfle}, queicb'goai a: aun/Ewic'q ,3 Mb, 135a?! -
115;} dgfired take ,9: an fibre [bmej ' m: inV our fwdfi At the
gut. my' {mgbew ".733 for-:ateepting- th 'moncty-;,_l'tzt:!.(-who.-knew
1.1mm hardim'; cafl 'Would'havc. banghad 1ha_PQrtugxie1a Cap.

igghim 3; {Jeep}? dofe, ' he wasfmrfeetly'mmpdfed {the fiegct'

'-<<tain71fcrvec_l me go- perfue'dcd him to the'hnhtrary rand there's
fercftojd '-_flljC/m', Jim: (I: {a}: bad doize 4 wrung-16:4? whatynve
330310;. @5153". 14.40;!) new; 'andbumanimi'and sw/mt ewe par-'-

- filw; might fg/aaflfromyflbefi: inflzcb'mlamigy; [a mwbbfi Mani
#P' to [we tbem, not-to p/iqndeixtbsm, or'Jefawe 22307: naked zip-i ..
0311/12 -lana',~-'toperg}71firamfifiqfijgeflflma, and tberef'ore {wank}
mt a.gt:pt:t/Jei1SS m may .5 but a: to' landing them,."'t5a:' we} .ager'eqi- '

>> <<windy- ;, fir l2 ipg'fbmmd :to. tbe'E'a/I Indie:',~,~ it way 2-.iingflfble_ ,
guilfully' te,C/bange-' our 'vq'yage won't/yin particular (<<wanna fiorf Y

101412! My m/ng (Who was un 'er-chamer'party to pmfue it'by'

_ max-of Emmi): <<If/Swat" it to'tbefteiq/Jleh. All that wepould d9,
was 1:9,; pa; bu'nji'e vcsjn the way'of -mez:trin5 fom'e fnips {30:219.~ 7_
ward-boundfinm ttheft-Indies,1har, it ppmixie, t'heyimighf: ;

'get'a'pafi'agetof-rance oringland'. Judeed},.they .were, very
thaeykm for .qurfis-{t kindnefs ;~ But were' under-great acumen},-
clmgxallvthe' pafl'engers,~atfti12ir'being carried to't'he Rafi: In-
gl1SS$... "1726: begged tbpquar'e, I :wnuld eeap-ans'tbe 1204:4317? News.

_. flipidlgnd, 54abare;pkoeqbly t-[Jky '23:{g.6: Med .2031: M 1.15:3>>, I?!"

.5406}? 22 can} (benign Canada, :w/Jerece we} came. :A's-this was but
'8 reaibnableuquuefl, I,was inclined to g, m; 11". flack? it <<#213 no
.h'xfiaehoflchartg party, ahd that the law-s'o'f God- and net-

fihr'e'cbli . ed'us'tq do what good we swam to'f'pnr fellow-crest. .

-' mics; an; bcfidcsthc ,danrgc'r we kmd'elyes 3301.119! 499. infer want.
of firwihcna; to we; (inflated-10 cart; 1mm-to Newquggo'

\ I . , ~ ..
.- . '. . ~ _
\ ' . x. ,. . )
.r \ . '
A , ' ...._ x . ., . . ._ v 2' H: '.- , 'm. "'-\ 72C/" ., ,..5 ' I'J.*- -
. . , ,_ 2 . .' . :_- _ <<I ..,. . ..
' . ' ' . ' , .

I

332 , 1.11:3: 'AND~A-.vlv.-e.Nu'rfe'xfis- ,'I'

land, ifwind and weather would permit ;'-i'f'not, fhat._we mum

. .carry them to Martini'co in the Weft',Indies.-. Bunas itfiapy '

. pened, 'sn a'week's time we'mad'e fhe banks of;Nveoundlan'dC/I -r
where the French people hired a bark/to carry them to Fganee; '

' . But the young priefi: being d'efiron's-jo; go_.to the paw-Edits? I
' I reaaily a-grer'd to it,.b'e"eaufe I>> liked his canyerfatien, and tw'c?

' 'or tgree of the French faalors affo entered: themfelvgeson'hbard' '3

'our 1})? ._ -,

. _' ; New diree'ting our ca'ur'fe for tfie Weft Indies}, {tearing _S.>>:an;$"

,- S". by E. about twezfi'ty day's, "withlitfle' Windyfihggher advert;

' ture happehcd 'to exer'cife cur humanity. V~ Insthejllatfgtude of 47*

. degrees, ' 5 minutes north,'.'_the' 19th ot'March 169475; wepe're ' -

' 'bei'wcdp-faif; (our ovarfe S. E. and by S.) _x'vhich- bore 1_'yipoxg ans;
and theniflzeeppenred teQfie a large-Eveifelyahayin lqfilhe-r a

' mair} top-mm}. ~and 'bnltfpnit; when fiving agar; 3.8efa.,}ignal~iiqf
dittrefs. wind,N-- N. W.' we fopn cem'e~'toC/{per%k with hers-She. _
Wag a'ih-ip 1mm Brifiol,fbozmd homefmm $3rbadoea,,- o'u'tfofi '

~ whichzma'd ihe had beegr'foreed-ina gun-Rah:-tbzthe'wgfiw'atdg '

" 1' in which they left thcir'mafisr,' " ~': ' V ; . :

They told-us, .Ibejr expeaau'om quereffofiefl'g Bhbgefizfihndfif .

13112". were driven away A} a flrong cwmd at N. N;-'-' gezld'bae .

Wing- no [@2143 '10 Pfizer)? we fiifi- cipilb; biqt-'t'behrnai'azetewfl;gm? ea. .3.

fiind-bffiumje fail ilpon a jury fitemQfl, 52:42: 9.1355]? 502514.001? , i

came near '21:: Yam-d, hwre'endmwuriigqfl flangi for'tbq Cafiariuf'l-f V

_ ' my. <<elm: tum: quorfe',. bgfideisyall'tbair . juicwfitfizylgeem'alefi '
' "Mflarwdfii avafir'effirowfm; 541-27333". mfki'l? f." '61???

. wen do]: ; .afi j/Jat'thy. bad dim-d; euqs'figar,}a bqigeL;qure/5* . .
' water, and flirty: erg/h, 'df tum.- ."In.t'fiis.fli!pj'9SSl'3.93C/SSHESS3 Q ',
youth,- hismnther, and'a maid-ferv'em, .who'were in'a.,mo{SS- _.e'-, _

. p'lorable Cmdi't'ion'fozj want cf\fbod.-_Jt.I'l;a3d nbtgoqeofibpfird'"

their'flzip', the knowledge of their mifer--y 'had- b'en'; concea'x'e'd. ' '

from int, and they would have inevitably periflied; thegg-bg.

- infiecd;.thek=-fe60nd matewho wes'Captain, by reabn the-true . 4

. rCaptainwasnot op boardehen 'the hurricane f'gppesed ghacf
' before. ,infoi'med' me that there-was fuoh.-p--'tPSp;}s (3)" b 3rd.

' whom he fuppofcsd to be dead, being afraid to' inqugre a'ftent'fie'm', .
ecaufe, he had" inothiagfm' givethemufox refie'flj: Herfi-upoa . -
we-refdlved cola-them have wheeze eouldripar'e', emening-'ethe-z" '
mal'e to bring {nine of 'hie.mcn 09' hand 1.13eF-Wghi-C'hthg-diifi. _.

   
 

'accprgling as he and. they looked like i'celetohe,_;whgg;meat
, . was let-T \fcre zthem, 1 (7311365! them toIeatgpm'glgil-yl.$51115: .

hay:- - . they" foon fell'fick; which obliged the11h:ge,C/n~-PS9'_SSng~x.'
ibmething'in .thtir bruthg which 'was to, be in .ther'n, both food-
-and' phyl-i'c; \Vhen theywere fed. we ordeg'ed- our 'matehtq'ceifie.
. ry..tlze_m.:a' faciaeof-bread, and fem-or .fiy'e 'o'iecea'hf b'eSSPS,;f,',.'s,jSSutz
" - the "urgent: charged them to fee itibeiled, Emil to Re 9 '3; g-gejri'
.,on*-the cOQk-gocrm, to prefientithe' men frqmlgaienggii; 'rfihgf
and confeqtlehtiydeg titling them'fel-vea with what Was d'ee'igxiedficr
' their} mild; ;_But,. pai'tiuulazly,.l domed- the" mate'to'fee' What
. - r ' ' . c ' ,j ' eondltmm- ,.

 

) 4
l " ' ' .
.x j' '.":'~vl\~r'-'r.-N'xprs~v"r... :TI-V'Wyr '-1"/"I"'v---v'er.-v- 1---r "a; ,4'1 . - 1 1 -.~- .-

I 1 .' ' or 16913111301: can: son 1313

atonItIi-ition the poor pafi'engsrs were in, and the Target-1n gavehimI

a pi icher 1111:1115 fame broth whi h he hat} e pare for the men.

jAn Ibeing curious to fee this fc no of m er}: myfell', I took 1he

:Ca tain (as w'e'calleei the mate of the {hip} 1n our own boat,

failed afier'them. ', -
aPS11112": was a "-fad fight indeed! {carc'e were the yifituais half 1
boiled 1n the pot bhtg tl icy were ready to break open the cook-
rroom door. To'Hta ytbeir {tomachs the mate gave them bif-

' c'11its, which were dip ped 1n and ioften'ed with the liquor. of the
meat, which they enii pjruife; filling them, it was {or 1]. eir own'
11,111,, that he wa with red to give them but a l ttle at a time; -
,and {o feedim, r them gradually, their beilies were comfort-aisle

, filled and the men did very well again. But when they came

1 to the' ,pfior gentlewoma. 1 in the cab 11, who for wi'eyeral clays had
continued without food, giving .what- {he had to herfon,they
found her' as it were in the- arm: of death. ':eS' ewae fitting
upon 1he ._floo'r of the Ideckf with her' back 11p aga nit the 5 'ed e8,-
between two -<':l1a': rs, which were iallrd falt, and her head
'jhrunhbetweeh hei iliouidersdihe a few el is corpfe. Nothing
was wanting in my mate to revive and encmiragIe her'; :rIpen,
ring her lips, and p11 ting Tome ~tiroth into her mouth with a
Ixfpoc'm. But not hamng lirerigth to 'peak, he lifted up her

' ~ bead With much -diflic'hlt1,intimatiirg hat it was now 100 late! .
at'the fame time pointing to the what her {011,115 then ghfhe'
desired him to do {vhat he cook! to fave th'e'iad; and 'in a
-_iitt-le time after the cited

The Iytiiuth,'1ndeed, was not In far gone, yet lay firetched .eu't. I
on 'aII cabin bed, like one that L:ac-i fiarce any life; 111 his mrsgth '

.' swasa piece. of an Zold glose, the refi of which he had ate

. 119.2% firft he vo' itedg "hat the mate had given- him; but-

at length begahi'ens' ly. to revive, though in the greatIeft- concern

for the death of his tender mothr r.
his to the poor "11111119111; by her remifir f3, liiie one in the '.

iaft gangs of- death: her limbsy were diftorted, one of her '

hands were cla' ped round ti :c' frame.- "I'i'va chair, which {he grafp-
eEl fo hard" that it Was with "form difiicfilty we feparated her

:from it; her other arm lav over her head, and her t'ect lay bOth -.

tozethEr, fet fait 2g ainit the frame of the cabin table, - not 'only i

being 1111171411 with hunger, but overcome with'grief at the I1 is

of her miftrei's, whom the i veil moft tenderlv, It was a

great while befdre the f11rgdegon could bring her to life, and a _

intach longer time before the eam'e to her fenfes, '-.

After we 'had faiied withthem ft the (fa-5111,1171? fent them five
barrels of beef, one of pork, twin ltosrfheachl Of 'bifcuit, wash '
"55deg35: flour, and other things , taking three >>:c (ks of fixing-,1" me
r11m,and for'n'e pieces Qf.ei1:-ht as pay yment, we left them, but
took' the youth and maid with-PS15, with all heir geoda The
iad Iwas ab? ut feyenteen'~ ~3I'ears old,- very ham'ii me, modeft,
feniiI ls, anti welle bredI but- -'miIghtilyI concerned 10111111011 of his

honoared '

l

r ' \
\1 ,-. , "

.U ' '40

' 134. ' LZIFE A;N'DRA/'6_ 'ENTLURZES >>- 7';
' honoured -mother,. havingflofi his' father at 'Bzitbado'ee but' a .
few/months before. .I-le'vtbelecched' the {urgeon'tp inteteed'ei

A- , ,withzx'ne to take'him out-.of .the map; for that; me, 13119-135, nOtV'r',

fparinize (mall. fufimanccgh'ad flawed-his mother; But-hunger I.

'has npyhoun'ds, ne'rlght, and confequerjtly is" incapabie of Tany '
isompaificn. When the (target!!! .'told him, out; yoyage might" at" <<.-
him ,in' 13ml circumflapeeszfind farther. item. his frie'xgdieg- he." " i6, ~
[9: did. mil mm,- if he went deli'wred fiom' flat-terflbie lenvy) 3,, .

. Mat dubs. Cafimin (meaning me). bad fa-vcd bimframdeatb, j?>> '
be cqufura be anald' do him via bang}. and, mfirntbe 3214M, ;

1 (LU/2.8" fl'e watrqflei'ed to bar/27%;, fie qv'ouldfie no lefi- ibunffid,'
lethu (arr- "4'?" where <<we' <<would. Anchindeed'the'fm'g'een f6 '
reprefente t-hetr'eafe tome, that] contented. a'nd tookthem on'

, board'with alLthexb/goods, exceptxlevem hogmeads'offugar;

4 but.the-yg>uth*'ha'v19g- agbill of lagfing, ~I-m'ad'e the Commander

" obligehimielf be delwera lett'er_zihd the d'eceefed'Widqw'ggoedh ,

' to 'Mr.:R eys, a merchant in Brifli'ol ;,buti believ'e'the jhip '

I'was left at hat, for 'we never couldf heair Xvi/hm: beca'me (Sf/her, aft

\'hterwards'. We Were 'now' in the 'rlatim'de I9 deg'.~ 32 mitt-bet ' .
ying' as yet a tolereble-goqd voyage. ~ Bug'paflinghy fefier'al lit? .
tie-incidents rdating to, wind; arid wu'eather', I {hall relate What

' .is mofi remarkahle, concerning my'little' 'kihgdom,;_to Which I
was,thefi drawing-near. Irhad greatdifficult in-fin'ding'it;:f6r'
as I dame to, and went from it before, en -t e fouth'. and (em: '

, side cube iflandg-as cmngng froththe Brazils, fo-nqu'aippi'daeh- .
" 'mg Abetween the main 'and theifland, nlot' having any: chja'tt.

.for the coaft, 'nor land'marlr,.'lit'obliged"us't0'go-'on"rote"' if:

. veral ,iflands in themimth of the rive; Ofbohok'o, butgg' b
purpofe. Thus Ipsmeivcd, vfhat what: I -'thbu'_ht ' [Was AfiQnti-g
.nent before, was. 30' Tech thtng', but a Ion'gi and, or'r'ath'ett'a -

- 'rid'ge oi {and-5., On Zon'e'ofithefe iflandg' I foufid?fdme'8'p' 'i'aide,

' but-,,they be'onged to the We de-Tririidgd, wh'o'eam' hither.
inzarflOOP' to make. {am-and try to find'fome-p' 'rl-mdfdes. Bu; '
.at'length I'came fair on the fouth-s'id'emt my i and, and'therekl

"prefenfl'y knew the cmtngenance' of my 'little kinngm'j: Io

.awe broughtthe-flfipfafc to an. "anchor, -broadside Within the.

' creek,.wherSS-fiowd.my indent andvenerabie came. " '- V
' 'NQ fooher' did 1 the the place, but calling for. Friday; I'a-fl'ced.
' him {Where he was? But when he leaked a-litt] ~ he clap'fied
sins bands, crying, O my; '0 tfiem'o yes-yo were; "jointing to j
. our. old. abode, and then-fen a' dancinga'n'd c'a'p'ering eif'he'i'fvas

" - mad, and! had handmade to keep him fmmjumpin'g irito the.

=fea, to'fwim afhbre. ' 'fridai',' faidl, 'mvhat d'Q you think,

jhall we goto fee your father-'2' at the4mentionihg his father's

flame, therpoor afi'rflionixte' qeatm' fell aowe'ebing'i'LNa, m},

' .Iay'e' he, ' ma 1?: -bim- nevmoregfriemhfle poor? fatbef were! lg:
. .1333; agogdie, die: 101234113101: bz'mucffplgifmdu; ' 'You'd'g'm'ft
a
uf

s:

"know that; faid I, "bug V -'we'fee',afiy b j'efle'? 'Z" Helepks
.ahehguand-pointing, Q-the'hilrebovezmyu ,_ e], 'tzrieefiefi}, 5V5:
a - " _' 3 ' t . V 'f _' ' ' ' ' 67::

u
. I
u, -VQ
I

4

/\

'_-or RohiiN'SON (1'1"5-99' 13554.;

' - ' .' . '\
' fie; kw: fie Mei-e mucb' mm and than: whichgthoughl 001?" '
ndt perceive them with my gepfyeetiwe giats, mie true, by What _j'-_=
' the'mfen,'themfeivee t-oicl me the nextjdayg. -_ ' U _; '. -. .- .' '_ _.
When the>>Englimfii'hqie'ntmas fgread, and three g'uns'fire'd, "'
~33 a 1;ng of .ffltndfhip,-.WC vpelr'ceiyed' a fMOke rife from. thc' "f'
"creek 511,1th whichlfbrdeifed the b92117 putttfa'king Friday-with _
'me, and 'lha-ngin'g"putfia'whitei'flag'pf trucjgli-fent'fon fhgre,'j
ac'cdnifianied'alfo by.thc,young'friar,'to whom" I'had related the '-
hithiry bf the firjfl: part of my life ;. befidee we had figmengmcn -.

We" armed, in cafe we had ,met with 'any oppofitjdn, . ,- -
. After_.-we'= had<<yrowgd*direC/fly-into the ore'ek5'the: firlt'm'anl . _,
. fixed, my'yeye itpgn Was tif'c'Spaniarq, whqfeiife I:.had--*I}1'vegi,.' "
' _2hd'xvhofe face I pefifee'tly'weil knew. ,I 'order-ed them. an. to. ' '
flay-inthe b'oat fora while :' but Friday, perceiving his"'fathei:.'
. etlai'iiiteince, emula- have jumped intq thc- fea,'_hadv they, net i
' Jet thebcjzat g6. No fogner ,vszas he on (have, but-the Hew'like' a,
. fwiftfgrrow out of a bew to embrace his aged fathernj Cer>>
_ .'t'aiiily itwould melt e manvof the figmelt-reiblutim into git,
' - loftefiteats, take with what uncommon tranfpo'rts of J'oy '
. {he felutedlhim' ; he finftlkifl'ed him, then firok'edghi's fac'e', took; .
him .in 'his'.arms,- laid, him...i1nder.;a {hgdy ti'ee, fat'doivn by
. him, then lacked a3 'earnefiiy atuhim as one... ceuld duh; a'pig--q
- tizrC/,2for ajquarter 'pf. an .ho'ur together. - After this- he; yeuid _
lie upen the grpu-nd, fir'okehis legs andikifs them; then get up ' .
' and Rare Kathimg'vas though he was. bewitchedf but xhanext' '
.day'oneeouid not iforbear. laughter-to ife'c his behaviour, forehe'
{ Wouid' wan; ,feve'ral. hoi-irs .x'vith his fathe'r'alon'g the more,
ugchding'him by.-th_e hand as tho' hewas a lady ;. while',-every'-
'npw- and- then, hejwouldj'nn tethe, boat to get (om'ething.
" for him; asia iump'nfihgar, dram,zbifcuit; pr.(mnething Ol.' other
_ that-'Was'goo'd. His" trblics rain in anothcg'Qhannfel in the after-
noonifiivhenhe i'et..old.;_Friday :on the-grmihd,'he would dan'ec
trauma--him, makingcnmicalgpofiiires and gefiures;..a'nd all
this "whiig:;'wr.iiid'i>c teiling him one. {tow 'or andther oihis tra-
welsand adventure; ' ' 3, f .. .. " ' cz: . _ -
-f It' wah en the 10th of April, mmo.1695, that I {at my fact-up;-
on the iflemd a 'fecond; time.; 'When- my faithful-'Spanizyd, 242-.
eomyanied-by one mcre,- approached the boat, he'iittiefilmew
' ith'Ist'ra's, tiliI 'dii'c'overed myfeit? to him. Stag-var, {aid Lin
Portuguefeejdyiz't yohwrsaq'u .jme :9 He fpei'xe, neverga word,- but ' '
giving his mufkette h-is-'atten'dqmt, 'Vextended his arms; and
fay-i'ng' fom'ething :in-Spanifh. that! did n'dt ..tl\':u undefitami, he i
came forwardeg emL-r'accd me, laying. be <<was. inexagfable natffit
inowfiii: deli'verer ; abfidwliec 42n- angel [2th from bmm'n, bu!
yawn; w;- H; tIi'en' beckoned xto'th'e inan- term?) ehthis
'eompanions,g;,afking_- .me if, I, would walk .te my .ownhabitatioiz,
"am tghe pdfi'cflinnmvhere'lfhnnld; fiflfi-fiome mean improve;
ments :~ but indeed they we]: extraordinary-ones :- fat theirghad
wanted To many trees to clpfcleogether, that . the, pizlceufi':

l1355' f" t -i= 71'; (A; figs A" :13. infiniqr b1; .1: s ._ _ .-
nie 3-'13159aaifig'ssrtseeii mafia m ma oii'f (@635? maxi-rem;

wfifiikfib'm i't-E iht'r'i'caie'anamaga: "-1 amea.'~hira ",thsmemmg'ut

'allt'h p'fqyifigagibpq 3.? ~53 told'Jth 1:53 @6418 qfixnfi'rge PS29912??? _
' 19deg32: fin? bird fffidgime ' } flefztflrejiflffib 57PS2SS3f,dfid'fiwl~ee. 5
IJEI? dfiifled "foyi'c,"u 213% 1, EUR51,7Itbeiig/tiifo: 56.5 'wc'irmgi'z'kfdeffiefig
PS22? gr z" z'ezzaw eee..ee._di/fv'leWs' W. #eevfitx .fofivgvkl-kemkt
t? 4-,", A?! HIM-WY xir'ere w'i'ckeaifilhifisrfo I- tal ,-hlm'..;t.SSf'}SS.
fl-ivap'fint..bni' ..-fa.r..frems findih'e..fienlt with it; but. x'v'afi What
. h'ea'rtiig>>. gli'dgte'gfith'ey hhd'fqhdlugdfltbejr'h; Wfiiy'efiqweye. 2.11143
Italkinz,...the {flan $5"th '53.,fefiyr3wmda3cie'o" ,'pi'knied Etch?
:vfie'iewenhiit ia'fii'ch-haberssxhas itwakfiifipc we PS9 'tflle'rhat
dragons thqz-'iyfre_,of.'. He fi'riilturhed' to megand Jp'oihtipg'.' tg'j
wean-T542. Sm..-f4i'd beera're flzme 'efqflic zenekfiie'z'z 491:9.."99
' , Fair {i112} 10,1611)- ngbfdgzefi 5.1119,?!- hrnmgxo tli'evm>>; 339d ygzpt'ffl
-'10.;tne;;'1'C/=rmade.zthC/Y=n fenfibte ."th'0 :3. was; Tand.th'<'=ln*lhdeSS; ' . '
,-tfiev-fi1SS1c.d.SSre .qnefiv 931:6. ant-3's 6rdinarv3.emeri-,, kilme't'hfi ,,
mg. g; gbteen; gufbamqogs- .di- .notsle'eien, arid Ira triumpfiegt-

PS92911sirC/2tsfi9mC/ii 6&1} iieuizefie -efi1SS.SS2teecl-Ivzitfiifi;;nraalike;
fithcg'm'nty, 1511; at>>: seflme-nm'ewas {d-thxgingand.2C/qSSSS ,-

I

I

.tehfis.-$SS<niSSde-tfie_m agiedble'figtheglfiefi deg'gjeex w . . ~. 4:.>> .
Befem'r'date SShC/:bv'teiy'9PSthe 'trehfeefibfisnfimy kk'tdew . '
<<:92! man; fr.9hEUR--tfiv,SSeatiiar..aEURe- vfiufibfitiid iiiixzfi' her;- W?"
"$5.115? dpmi-t'tcfdvita' my fdlgmist" rejg'tiogg The ,m'agtteiffiik Ellis};
igft' befyfip 3w; ,weigh'e'c} .vanclj'di'f. 51331 fet- Jail, 'tfii'ete king'gycAg
. .:;1*3eirre1m beard abhflwfg', Jflfiich' tit! likatv'bive <<csa ..ov1'cd;;a
' =EUR9n<11emtltiah taunfuch Simas 431i: .'?Ouffigcofi9':C/aSStaSSizzka'
.figg'ethM th'e mart; airmail .Pjrirdnfexswgrd .-g;hSSmsin. gong-g,
tyrefleliitlfi, as tb'ey;were.-.c9i!Cemgd--ih.-thc forth? slitcfisiers, .153 .
. 'e'v': tkgrnhved .i'ri' Eegia'nH-Icir. meafiifigshw.Whitheghia; ' .
:Tfiiexfr'ghtened' .fi-e'ne: of thexdfigafs .shinkinzthe :93Pteifi mum -
efeTijc:_thm.-in' tfig'eda'fnfe gfiahijer, fihqn'eiehe fe'empgl-tdgjfvejjgiefii '
59degC.! wci'rdifqrgtfi': Pri'fertu ."3fit.th'e;.wa!EUR;fiavipe iptslhzafitae ' .
. fifthies.Wde'meracq'uieint'ed fifh-ihek.fcaxtdiiozthai tQ-Slfieflie 5
tfiem more gamma dur'fefiiee fii'tir'efife ifrpij;Lr'lgflqiigpqnfgaitaeige. '
.1"Va$nbligtC/tdeg<gsY=5lms .2199! M. m. ,hflfifsufrfe fishi- foir. 19':
' 153* fipdn' tfihir geesfcbefieviiaief; . 'a." tfiet figs Fifi $515311?! 1%:an9
g'knringteftimqnyiofwbibh, Lordbrdd mica-Wt}. m'enfsimfi'e
"4 bsz'tihn-PB; {Sawemmm' f9?f"'ii'SSfi'-. .'B'ut as. this} '43. b'rfieght .
.Qe-toan 'mecfiqr'that. night .ifilw. "ch. tHe're was; balm-ash: WI .
' .fP-tfiatfifidfi'eeafifl it?!" 91.161": mu bf --thctr}iEURe399i;PSkitt;.;em
. ; 93?: ="Otfifirfl'c'ai501i'o'uenfl : takin' thefbia's "r.IIn.r'-'aC/9':.n9t7j9t-
banish ,- tanavai-taawefiab'refi'er 'ro's'deee.;33fi-PSsfl Harm '
yin .vfe e"; .tfieiJnag'ebtoat .x'fitfi Ewen 'tp.-PvffieC/. t..e'm..1mSS.aPS!
jfifaifi';sthemate, in garage, .ivpua-ancfiehiomigdmitigle ~ ' .
'- 4, kn: W'thtiirg'fdrniffifs' .afid; d'dtrbye'd theii'flaitafifins; but -
"Dian? ..rz'di 'e'r'ders fink, 25% 593.?"th "I!" ifiie'zeiciutiafle.;.4SSd. '
Isihizaszfi. st: wC/r6=fiye\z;fing1.ifl1meil'-.ia hSS;.?fianfi,,..wfieyficcaefed ,
'rffcett ' . mum?apmvfillthffiifipanfirdz'ggmmfi a.pSS1'fSSiSS't'.eSS3
Pgntpfs m'the farming wanker: " ' _' ' "Y ' '
. -- _ I \-' ' ' ' . . 01:5923 glam-59$ '=:C-!SSFSSfl9 3deg" ' ' 1.37

4.' .5. Y=9Y=1..EUR3'!E'?SSxSSifa 59:>>: msmhtr tbs 99th,; await!!! a! 3"
330m, and." what" aifi!SSp,gnlSSiC/fi1$fiC/"fitfi mi 153% by 1931? .315" .
Sim; 21:73.9th mum . 11137-9,&SSi':'1'tfiSS.ttlt.vxf~$EURty unhe; tempt:

' 05'4" "Mama geefifiimc.PSfefi.wsthf,C/a!m wsetfifimne'a 81199;>> .
' Eta-I ,m'etixdtrvi Vastfifiifix: f, It} 99.1: tint-met! @989 we
AIifithafxiflz' @3155?" fifipmfman? 9n .qutfii-ths' 94913.!!!-

. ' ,fit-fis: ihi .quked Rift! fiszlnshfifizm ' WWW their-mimic
'leffifas; 15.1IPW-ifi ',I"'Y=3SS.'-Y=8iSS.e2' fi'r'tiqnt-r by figs~fwgfis fif'gqetg'er' .

"thoushtrwe 19322; fiixce'cngqmbcd' m tbs-x1: 1:199-

' ."ati'ir'xhtheyvhafl .. . .
,Etc'iust'bjpwigl's. .B't'gt whpn! I?fl1SSSSPSf3C/" gherqqhe 211.3%. 3.331131303-
-'-'ti.ofn:z: the? prbvi'fifinslmai't btqflfi'ezfiir thtm>>.-tfis$10~filsfie 3839' '

. was. e-ffisdadlp'teh Wants. 29$?hat9a1-1'3'19'wm894'!m"

'fiedifittiv'ptmattd 10- ..c'firzse 211mm h .2: #91 they E's-PS6

.~ fihlistdi .to. 'trcfm-'s 9:209 their Wk? *1?" 329.3% x bfix'mmg
-"it.{ie9:fiPSthC/rtC/efiC/SSflfifififital'etfitt'tferf'iflmg'; afl'dilii'flfiemfi

iii)?" "first. magma; .bpt Whom armr-gremfibngufif 11).: r'
' I'lm'12sifistpt a few Artdte'whicb femtdthfit in ME .95 WWWL
3' st Mite-iigfikt'ebfienezye asmee atfitzrg'bafiitetifinl- ail-.1??? Wt

Lfifitflitb-w'tt-qufifh-'f'e'ttzrwhq, 1C/9n9C/f32'zfivt #55935 A 60?: ~
: .fitfifieet 19ft?! efdzaeetiqn vgnvbafilgf-Ffor 1.39.9>> WW: 01?>>? .

.BHQWW-tg film; 11?. tam? PS06m; watt 9deg13"; (tutti grams;

. as; posfig'atfiafrfl'fiwrttetcm $121.13:th W'?ees%,tar~19t'im&v
' 35ftY=-.- 48:!!! "2:911:49"! EQSMXQW- #921199! 12%;??? Wits- I???

.. ' flfiY=3Y=.:f?tSSfi~ .20. am. e29: :YEEl'EfiPfigfiF"fi'l'thc'fimfisfifi 1'

. 35m, @0121? fifths: Sfiafixam W?RUSSsxSS'thm, gndfiktafirk --

"M8 1592?: flat -.E"%!2!hw:.SS3SSdeg .914. '99. 12315.11" tam.

- 3862'}!qu .t. tmftlises $9 33191 s19....% We; fiofiflfig'fimfiw fit
sastgthxfi-Byt w: had ti; . tr; has efiior-ewefofafw
max: zfletmsfii af'ffim 1319?: 'grz'tswsnp natatmfifiy 'tum'c'fi '
WW (Bel? m'hrfidegSS':.filacsc.of ,ttfidsniet by tint" flatt- fith'mit-
WC: @fim'mfidfi . "2 342.49. my; SSESSY=1lSSY=SS9 93:21:." .4zfififizfi4hfir
"qu.1.9SSSSC/SS mafia? $91.! $929!;qu m WP! ebf cc}. :xx' .. -

' 'xfi'igtfiaflknadethfimp 91:; 1191;; an: "at we mam 't.' 38611:;- a>>

' m1}; s--...b.s..1...t'<.=-SS mt". martaslqwssfi n} W>>: ethattbc :5 fit {63%-

'fxtigzs NEWER-13$ data; Wham 3:149. mastfihfi "their man.

' .. r.-h's=. sort" hilt-9f "19339434- .8 hm?- "stinging .tfiszths-wt}
PS25} feat; Pf. {watts Hetst mey 'buzlt "plum: we: ti: 1062's.
"-3199 PSth .th $9 lax them .fiarcs "ms . fit my 'zfifid'wfir's;

Spapzargsjgmng ,thgm 1MFI.{C/SS3,8,"\IBEUR Que; .thd plank; 2:5 x

312i?! 'dgn-s: and began to '!'xxe<<nrSStti.!ya 1' at While that" WSW;

. pillfisikfimfatfefilyggqipg10,":thithrge qnfiater'i brytemlheir .
'tfififitrxm'efiz tn 6 taste: Emma hump": . ihfufifid $119335;th

wigs; 3- ish: gevcmor (mamas Wu) fififi'zmnl'thein 3' Mk1;-

' .fipg'gt'ttfg flawlgpd :1me "gym ghe'y'mcmd. mild fibug. 231:6?
' afl'ihrtrgtowd. withou'; p'ayxng PS91m; --'1'1iSSfiY=PS9hqns{t'ihfi1;-

, 1 my: {9 iii 13;; gyy'fiifliqgnfifl; "them; it'hgljghgt .their_' thtc'c
- yngxryitg 2931?. 193%! a115,! 0360;??16m3'm3tt'd' them in; :9:
{cc thetrfirxe habxtafldns; *yghx'l; th'pzpthet' feqslidtlfly ma them?

'- 'fififimfifie _"ESSSSSSE.T'Ei*}lSS7 Eme'fims' 31%? SI'EP. flmflafintfi- A .

"N9 ' - _thcy

' u--13's 1. i 'r g '3: N n A b-v'fi-N fix" his _'

, th'ey fhnuId'-,~'_according~to the pufiom'of lards,SS'SSflve__t!iem"a,l'ong'o
git lga'fcg? at mam; time gtefiriflgthtfm'ktb'kt h a-'fcrivhje'ntg'
7 .Vdfa'yu'ghg Writiega One; of tbefl; ' wtctbh'esgfwariihge'ee fibiild
.pn1firfzbq jcyl;;-featqh'es {spa firebrand:;?.nd-SSla;5ping1t_'t'o_'the
, rtmtsi'de, of jhc-ir hut, very, fairly -f'ct"itv'gn'- 'firegtwhxchflwould
"foonhdye confuined lt', had fiat thehqnefif--ma'hf th'r'nfl: him=a\Vey, ,
', afidhfod 'it waif .wiLthlhis -feEURt.; Hcr'e'npon' the -.fell'dw:_:iethi'ns .
gyiith his pale, "with'g'yvbi'eh h'c-'wpgi'gl'hay'evlv'chded-M's-flaw;had; "
'mtgjthenpb'qn mar: avoided thfic..blo.x'C/f when fetching his'mpfg;
kggfihc'knoek 2d down the villain, tbat'hegan the 'ngncls, Th2:-
, Jv'olther-'two, can-ling, tqaflilt ingir "fellow,~' obliged-ith'e" .honejt *
.' 'j'niain'fio iake bis muiket glib, and bed: of'fihcm'prel'chgingfmez: . .
1 - 'iecegbidithewmainsgrand (mg-and if'thcy didi n'ct Jay'dfifiih
' flair 'arn'zb, death fhoflldidtcide thc-'difpute 01?? Way 'or ot-hsflfe "
' ,.Th}s&b'rgought'_;t_hg:n to'agaflcy', ' in} which they agreed to 13-1172
their'imin'ded, mans/:33 _ _b'C/gc_'>t:,e,: but 'thgy-Werpip 'thg. fivr'o'n'g'
J-thafgh'e idggyenotod'ifagn .them' 'Sx'hgn they" had {the power; 'arid.
. 'fl'mnlma ref ftlfcir comphintf f9 zinc-any; 'gg'y-Spa'nierd'a for'juflieir,
-.:xv'tSS1'ch.r._might5haqe-pt'evg'nted thcii' farther dgfig'nq againfifthem,
fif'd' induce}; To, may trcljngfifes'fiid 'glx'ey afterwareggdminfi, by
:tlreadiyg; d952,!) their .cmn'. flldgitingfiheirydfing' iridsand'gqgt-s,
and p1aguiSSgighcm2hight and - day, that t'hgr'rcfolvcd to" cem'e'
.35; W gameggshgaeegcrau thethme; 'aaci'decfd; qrii "right '5y
.rehc 'El'ain--'b.at'tll=a',whiie the "Spa'niaree :fl9C/<Y='in-PS0i-,-es' faili'plav:
'thiedayit happcizgd, .bhathmp oftnyr-Spamar s- (pneofwhbla' '. '
'fufiderfic'dd Engfiflwbcjng ivn_;the' wobds; were: rhetby': 6:1?be
, f'ih'e hcncfi men-,2 xx'ho'cempiaincdipew 'Bflb'arpflqthycirc'cu'ntrysk
men had lbeggjn Td'cflroging' ;t'SS1e1_r. -'_e'c:_m; hikingfiheir milk-
., [goat andjgbxcg kidgtwhic. egpmcd thgm cf-=-the1r'.ffibfiit;cce ;
. ;7J:d.tfiat ifim'ejdiiingt grant ghgm reh'e'fyjthcy-'mgzfi 'b'cffne'vi'.
' 'tably'vfl'aniedguei'd, 1'0'. they name's WE'VE?" my Speniards came
hbme ar-nigtmnd-fupper. 5%ng Ia%!e:,ene-'~-6P..t3=C/;n
.f'fiegagld. tepxeh'erid. t'hqflEngfifl:n_:'c'::,flbut :h ' a Ncryi mafia" '
' , W21; which.'t,h.ey~:efenti_ng, 'rephedaz"Wbavt':brgfiizg/l bkia'fljcjiir
.g'oafd'rihymenjf'in"M'rlzf'glacejwit/2.0g! Image," fzvbg'lzz it war fibgziipf
115617..-SS*e{m4'? 5,171! :..'fa?PS1,'-.my Spaniards "4!?in Inglfii'twl ,
flfieflflfllctlfla'ffugl." .. at they-replitjd', "Let 117mg flqrmg'qu'fi'e '
'flg'mfifi; tire} flzoyld {ngtjbcrz piant nor 'e'uitd'; ana"'da:zih 1/1922"; ,

1/19 "fii'g'ulfi fig._tbeirffitwnmt&.._ and dgvark'fir-tbem, f0}- jtb'e jflmjd
. KIM-i 'lthir?.g,~'_'hfid1/je_yiebvould 544m all-1b: 1:32": Mgr/7101114 fin?!
vigfi';[,g;g/Za_udy B} tbix' rule", fqifi zany-Spaniard; {miliggfigfq 1531(-
J: yoga? jerdiarztj too; dyafi} Gfd,_.a__ildjo you all; rcpficd'the
'.'SSmp:i'gl_SSr3t' rafeiahg 11qu .which,.1_ta:ftl.ng '1?) '_ iii Atkins crigs, _
Caeie'fjgzc}, ,lefij hive .t'otbrr' bitq/Zyfiuitb them}; hobo Idm'fe' sq;

. 3,111,345.},3 035364572179"; .9" ' j Thus Icavi'ngs.us'foih'e;h_ingfhC/aibd;
withfijimrmhlfigmaway t_h_ev;trh<zpcd. eve-WEED havi'hSS'-'3'SS1i?-Y=.f
Wald???" {word1muggenpg .{omelhreatenfimg :VQtdsh'that'w:
'cd'nl'd men but imperf6C/t1Y= ufi'd.EUR;fit3ndEURi 13'th "1811.??th :66?! .
'sigucd "to murdex" that two comganiong, and inept-mill nfigl
. V f' In < I' . ~n'g t.

 

'\

..a r', n a. amaze" :3' cums; 1'39"
\ 2h: we howgr- .thi 4:19 t9 fed! up. 'tbc. 3 their 9 PS9" '
1%; W; fins-mpg; 152:; 151-3., .zaaeghzal? bagcfn'isf ' fbgfii-fz
Osg'thifllzflftehlfie'thCYW-flCFQNiRS .t'? findmm ., hit 'yfi

'an foam? 901?de therfizfthsfiv seceEnded that I and my 8%.
ward be"? given them noticea and i-'fltfief-irse' {FY0165 3'13 'Tel'lsffi:
.ng an as. . 132% fig! dcmfifhefi. theamr npen's Habitatmfi -

:0; by 52C/, azs thcy"attcmatSSSS- More, btgt- p'ulkd 'dvap'thei
ga'lii't'?' limb ,frvm. Em!) not Jams flick norfion'e oaths
ground: when: they. 1:90, . r91Y=e 111d! 11'5"!th 1%" in figeefi r
126,176? up their use>>, {poile _thcir' ,ipclqmme', antif'in '36! ,-
mritc ruiapdthsm'otever'y fob 811'??? had- 133$ "361.76? 96991.
mat tomhen no. dQubt bat tum wattld. hevc'begn a; bloc ' ' -
bangle; but gravid-glee epiglgcd it'fpt th; bgtter; .6; jlgfl'gg-

the three were got together the. Ime'we're at our Mile} 1-923:
when-dad left ug, thy: thrge gin): "in? agein'? airy gigj' ,

'. F336; f9C/SSSSiY=1i taking 326 What they 'had 9m": wheh'bnc takin"
59mm; S'panigard's hat, mid-9i mum, (ayi'ng. '4qu jog-194$.
as): 39% Span'anadzle km We? faz'ltfig'bfjwe' .43?" <<iii?!
. yoztr.ggiagz>zgn. .y SSpSSmaga, a gray; bi": ceyfigcdt's mag,-
1511.9qu hirp 9deg11" sglth' Eme- .bipsg' of my Mt; 4t yhicb, apf-

,' 53th. tyiflain liked his 931191. 'and naxrogvly unified b'igbod'y, p-git

.yopngd-him g firth: '1}; the; cat " Hc'regt eurgged;.the' Spamgfg'
fiakga ypflhe fgllaygg 'mggket \yb'ofxg'hg had kgochg'dc'wj, '
@fldgyyoplgi heme _ rot mm; if] gndithc'rgfi..,had ngt' ghmfibqt,
Vgngit'akgr'a'their auggfrpm (,1er 91(ch the'm'.' " '- ' ' '
. . .'f The e qulifpgnejn ctceivjng'they had mad; a}! efus-thgif
fincgfigg, ,,cSSgn' to 5:1an ; . 91 potygithfiandiag'thgir hgtter'wqhgs
fl}; spaniaqu woulglnot 'retigm yh'gm .tbeir arms again; ItfljihgT
.tfis'm', -' their womdo :th hp mam" 01? harm,..if they gyc'g'tfl

. 131w: peaceably s bier iP-'thcy offsred 12m iaj'n'rs} t,6"$be1>1.axi.,a.tzeSSz'
,9: cams.- thqy would {hoot mixing-he? Wind do xaxcnqus "

' {h'gafiaf'm r'i'tfi'z mad; theri'g to 'r'naq, t. at they mm away ragipg
1Qse {Erie's bf 11161;. -'-I;hc :Wel'e 110' {Gong gone, 'but it"; barge

. fnptyio hqpcfl {net}, fits: flyith'the jufiefi' r3 e,'i~EURfi;C/h'_h't'fi'bg,
.- .aying bcen' IUHICC/SS$ aturfl'aid.' " qud i'ndega:~ zit craggy; hag,

that nmetccn cafes fitqnlch-bmlicg'by time 211mm; @01ti-

h' fifl'ending with'impuni't.y,. " ' " -' ' 'r ' .

g i. 3': -i._t-'.w-'2SS a gram; 'whileySir; before 'wg gop'xd prrfugadeathgi'

.. W7: Engliihtrgcn'vfmin' withing; grid uneoubt'gdjy killing ,th'g'm'r

_',wit[1'_th:SSr.fitc:arw9 '; but'wc fipomii'ggixhtnj 'fj'uitiw {12'0ng :5; 1

' 15,1921; the 1;>>; 'gmd', in t1}; mean-'Jtim'cp- th_C/,v'PShou!d refids With 33's
5:2 .ogrhhlaitation3 "1' 4.59m fi-m-'da'ya' after; thsfe'three t??-
xrantgs aimpfi Rarved' with; h'p'bgfgrrd'rqg mag: '6n.r-groyC/, gnu,

;~.pgrcziving.meg-the'gqvcrnbr, emyo 9th6tSS walking byfthse ,sjdeieff
the ccegk, they, Very fubmeifiyc'ly 'dcfigg'd to be 'rgceivz'd i329 the
<<family aga'in'. ' We toid'fhe'tn 9f " f-heir fg'teat tficivility ti; 'us, '

. :8; ,of that .ugngturgl barbgrity. gatheii' Coggtrymcn {but'ygt-i'ge
1mmSSPSgC/m$ :2>>; {:3 38'.ch to, ans: 1mm how's 'time'

' ": N34 ' ". ' " - ""M' wcfild:

.'14.; '1. Lit-E 'A'N-'D' A WEN T'W-'R. S
woixld bring them-from: AfterIfdme'deBate, we calied them'
in, where-their two. cmmtrymenylaid, aih'eaiy.' ;ehargc" again";
them,7for mot-'0fil'y3 ruining, 'but defigging to murder. them;
which they could not deny. "But here I -'waa forced tointerodto:

as .a. mediator.' bywobiigmg the "two; Engl'rfilmen 'not 'tohurt "

. the'm,jbeiug,naked .& unarmed, - and'that the otherthre'e fhwld':

' make them relfitution, by building their two huts, and "ten--t .'
cirigtheir ground inethe'iame manner as it was before: "Wellfig -
being-in amiM-algle condttion', they fubm'itted to 'this' at preferatg.
afidllivcd 'fom: . me regularly- enou:gh',-eXcept'a3 to the'work:
ing part,".l.w_hich they did not'care for, but the Spaniat'ds won-101'.
hnfiev'difpenfcd with that, had they cantinued cafy and quiet: '-
Their a'rmq'being given ithem again,-they'fcarce'hadthcm 8':

-. week when they became as troublefcme as ever ; but 5n:a'_coi&," u
dent happening foo'n after, obliged us. to My afide'p'riva'te menu

int-ms, had" 1601: 'to'our common prefervation'. ' - ,. . . , .
if: one night, Sir, I went to bed, perfectly well'i-n health, and" .
yet'jbyLna meahs could! co; pore. myfelf to Deep; 'u do which, '-
bting yery'nneafyifl got up and, looked oilt, but'it eing darky'
locum perceive nothing but the trees around the 'e'aftle.' 1-.-
went tg'bed'again,s*but it was at! one, I cot-12C/ not flee -;;_. 'whe-Irirji-
on'ezofmy Spaniards, shearmg' me "walk about,,afk;. who 1t if
was up.P - I'anfwered,' 1H; 1." 'When I told him theocc-afiom
Sir,' i'aidJu', [tub thing; are not to 63' ' ,igfbttd} "for eat-tainljibm'e'
is'fim: mf/'cbief pbm'ng 'agairg/l m.' Where are the Engliflirizhnr?
{aid 1., :13; ,anfweard, Ir; Meir bats; for"tlle$"laty Separate-from 2
118,1 Sjr, fiiieetbelaft' mutiny; 1-W321, {aid 31, fame iibflflairi--tgfiu >>
:bilt iifirmdtion for ad'vanmee.' Come 1:": w --g-o abroad, 'arzdfi'e- "
fife??? Ming 1er to jtiflifi' our'fiai-J. Upon which? and {01113.}
'of my! Spaniards'we'rit up the mountain, not by the ladderybulr- f
through .the grove; and then we were firuokvyveth z'fmnio fear 1;
onfe'eing'a light, as though it werea fireyat-'a fieryfiittle'cfifi-
' tame-Land hearing the voices of'fevera! men. Hcr'e'upnn we re->> _
treated immediately, and raifedthe'rdt of our foxes; study 3?
made'themfinfible'of the tampending eithiger: but "with "all my. '
authority: I could not make 'tlxe'm'fiayfiwhcre. they were-,2 {a 1
eameft Were they tofee how things went; . Indeed the darkne't's'fi
.of'the ipight gave them Opportunity enough to view-them by .?
- tfic.}jgiht-.of"tI-z;e,~firea u'izdifeovered. -As they were 'in- dzfl'etetxt'"
.Pfitfifiei-Rfid'firaggling over the" more, we were much'afraid-thaet. \
theil'fliofildfind out our-hvabitations,-and dcflroy our fiock's'db' 2:2.
.goate': to preyent which,'-we {eh'timmediately an Engliflamjan: u
and:.n_tfwo' Spaniafda: to-drige- the <<71223 into the valley where -
t-h'e'cjayeflay ;' 'ot,2if.tliene,was~oecawn,' into the cage iti'elt'pA'e 'r
to omtelres;.-:r&fuming.'ofia"nativ: ccurage- and "prudent-corra-
duet; hat! we 'nottbeen'dividedgj we durft venture'fio attack} ark f}
hugdxpctgf't-hem -;..but'btfore it was very. light, we" retolveQ-to;
-- fiction-t Friday's father 539' 'a fpy,ljwho.;'immedliately firigpintg
, .himfelt naked). gets amobg. them ungifccvered, and in; two layouts: q:
' '." ' t ', . . s - me

"Q'

.' _'_ ' _ ' u\sI1- - -----\v,------v..

. on: R o 3-1415: son's-e m: s o 2.' Z, me .=

time" brih'gm-Word, that" they were two parties of two,cli'fl'fere_nl;~ '
nationn,-who- lately having a-blo'ody battle with one/another,
happenedto'land by mere chance on. the l'am'ejfland, to'devoue>>
their mifer'able'prifoners; that, they were entirely-ignorant ofi.
ahy 'perfon'einhabiting'here '; 'bl'lt rather being filled. with' rage
ante-furya againft'one another, he believed,>'th_at amber: as-day.
light appeared, there woutd beater'rible engagement} Old, "

' Friday'had {came ended his relation, when we'heard an un- '
_.con'1m'on "n'dife, and perceived that'there was a horrid engage,

meat between the two armies. - ' ' ' v~ " J.'
. '9 SizehWasthe'citriofity of our, party, efpecially-the- Englith- .-
- men, -.that they would not-lie cl-ofepthof Old Friday told
them. ,'"theirilhfety-depended upon it; and .that'iE-we hadpao.
tlence, we mOuld; behold the lava-gee killlot'le anothe'r'f; How-
ever' they tried game Gautier-z, by gotng'tarther'into the woods,
alnd- placing themfelve's in a convenient place to behold the bat-.

-'te;'.'. " -- " - ,- ' 1

' " Never could. there be a more, blood}? engagement, or men- '.
of more, invincibie {pit-its and pmdentcondue}, )accordlngx'to" '
their-manner- and 'way of fighting; 1t latted near twghoere, till; '

the parrywhieh was neareft 'our 'ciaftle ltegan'to decline, and-
fat :l'a'ft to fly them their conquerors. We were undoubtedly put.

[into a 'great'iconfiernatiqn an this_ account, left they thould '
run into our grove, and confeque'ntly bring usiinto the like dan-
get; .Hereuporr we refelvediu kill the hint that came, to, prey ~
'irent d-ifeovery, and that too with our Nerds, and the butt '
ind'gf our muikets, for fear the report of our 511113 Ihould be} ;

ear . . , . . 1-. . , ,. .4.) , _ . .
' 'F'And fo indeed, as we fh'aught',' itlh'appened ; for threeof . :
the-vanqui-lhed army crofling the creek, randlreellyto'the '.
place, 32': toavtlzick wood for fhelter ; nor Waa'it long before our _ '.
{coin gave us write of'ity'as alf'o, ithat the victors did not .-
-tlrihk'fit toipurfite them; Upon this] wchl'd not fufl'er them to--;-,
be flaln, but had them furprefed. and taken-by our party ; ai'ter- :'
wardsthey proved very good fe'rvants to us,jbe'i-ng flaut yOung ' '
Creatures, and able to do a- great" deal of work. -.-The remainder '
of--the'eonquered favages fled to their canoes, andput-ou't into
theoeean, while the conquerors-joining together, fhouted by} . _'
way-of triumph, and'a'bout three in- the afternoon thcyalfoeme '

' harhed for their ow'n natiOn. Thus we were ,freed at once from .
there fa'vages and-enr fears, not perceiving any of there erea- '-
turea-'for'fomeeonliderable time after. We feund two andthi-rty. .' '.
men 'glead :in? the field of battle; fame .were thin withJcng.
arrows, which we found {ticking} in their bodies; 8: the rail were:
killed *with great unwieldy wooden fwords, which denoted their:
vafi' firength, and, of - which-we found" i'eventeen', halides-bows,
and ia'frrows :'bht:We1'could notfind one wounded Creature an '
mongihem'allve;foe-theyeither. kill their enemies'quite, or'
carryjthofe wounded awayw-ith them. ' " Th;

" ' x - 7 t . ' 13
. inef- 31191:, "but maefiaaeblfg'to'the tommn nceefary-bfifinefs' \

1:43; 311-". A RD - Ae'zn'mnw v a a 9 .

; :9, {mg arguesaga:-_PSamed.ghg$PSngummen,. Enigma-timer?
Confidcnngmow untmmfiate' they. might ' have; =bgen $9.6. they '.

men into theififi'ande; fwh-p' .mmcmonoqty kflhytbcm asgpcs

'ihies; '. but "8K0 "far' feed-,3 as Wedoihifle; 'ahd indhefi'fdsmuch

did-this? xiatifeate :fhhir 'fiohazhs'5'rjth'at it "not-Inqla? inadflhgm

ef. .t- 'eg'whdg'g'ogieg'y, platuipggfowmg, and-reaping; with the",
groat'efi {Eggs of'armty atlgignaaap'; PS3, thin beingpdwalhgaod " g
' ftiegds; "we. "began 1'0" confide: '05 circglmfiange's'in .Igefielfai ;;

am the fiffl: .thihg'we thaught emu, whethet,' as 1.32soeipgmefmd

' "5' 136386? .ha'imted- that-m;- of :2: mad 336.4116: gaging.

- 1'n6re rthyecglfidfl-s 351' it} afi-yet'efivefl, mite. 'tq-'outmam'ecr; <21"
" _l_i_vmg,"-agd equally togxxsad-gant'age', 3-3;" .quhtz notxatheum
1

7 move; qur place --of-' re
'fioth forth: fecurity. ofotgr'.cqm-'apdrcattle;. '2' g . .. . . ;

.' $53; Afigg a'lengdebate'pn this head: it uzexcfflvxeygmgtbe; -
voted, n'e'min'e comradim,-.not to .remov'e' our ancmngcafiim- "

. {#9an m'efltn'g'ersnbtp findin us 'I'hCIC," might think .t

denccg & pita-2t itfm 'a much gafer,.rgl_a(:e,

'a'nd' that for this very Maegan; tl'a'a; fume firm or ntbc'r. we"

'ez'tpqeled'tog-hcai'ifi'om'our in reme grave-hon,(meaning-fieugb'ir}

c was:

, ' _"ae'melifli'bgi;'_and~afl->>hix fin'gje'ets defiroycd bylhesfavaggsy -. ' -
_ {gt-Ag td'Tt'he ncx-t edncern'relmiggyto- m'x'r .gormmn. cattle;
.fiwe-"c-'bnfcnted t9 ,have th'em' remhved. to tbmvallcygwhfirc'

L 4.15%;er 9f bg'r'rhfclution, which). 'waa'to rename part .of .onrlsattle: '

. anther-andplienttaefik pattnof'cu: corn'th'exe ;._PSQ..that infcafe

but: paxjt wag dpflroye'd'; the "quiet ight be pnbferwdl. 'Aa'bthgp'.. '

. kfom'tion we. PS60k. {v.fiich ztgally' ac} agreagidc'el Jeffpglm'jncle -
' in it'- g-gajxtd'xhat' was, in 'not'tmifin'ghhe three (wages. whom'wc'

1/ u

' fh'cre;"intfeh lefs fof .thc" "cave, ,whefr'cinzwe keptrfevxxal arm's;

-' th'eicavc hasrftfiatgbeing mqfi'nf'2pgopenyndj: fumeiemlffl'. I

Now>>? Bur yepyvhcn' fife -bonfideicd- "tanker,- 221:. aimed, one

Lad taken pril'oneysgh with'gni knowl'edg: 9f themlh'nifitmn" _
ive'hed made in'th'e valley, of what number;- 61" 1:2:th aye-3.1.23

31nd: two'flbrgnrels _bf~'jpnl\_.Vd'cr tybilcft' fdriusfat. 3min: aghampxe
'. 'jfig'gm'this-sflapd. , But th'mggh' wa'touldnbtfih'ange'ovxhahxta-
- $1911, We'xcfuived>> to makc'it more fortifisd and-(mgreJ'fncrgtj-

, TEankesl'of .the'ejrceli, nay,' . into '11]: very obze'ewhlfrp'1tlgg.,fide"

'Tdfihi's' end; 'Sir, a_s you phhtedttcfiat. tome 'difimce :hcfcm

flJe 'egti'arigc of your palate"; :12) rare-,3 imitating. yo'izr example;-
anted; and'fincd tip the Whole finee _--oPS 'Lgmundy each. to' <<shy-r

I ' 'flbiwe'd,' notfleayjnga, pine-fur'landing} and a'moxigihofc 1/1116-

.a-at'edmhey; ha

.irxenningied-io many- mortgonea; all of

' .' 'ichff'growipg' wonderfully Psi-t and thick", avlittie' dag-cpnmc

'ffichEmdy' rmd'a wage .t-hmu'gh than.) 'Ner wes,thisPSufiiqtent,;a9

in": ih'o'u'ght,' ,fbr' :wc' .did'it-h'e fame" .to " PS111 the gamma; "on 111'?

fightindlctfihand bfius, even teith'e. topof th'e. kill, fifth;- -
'. - ' otxth'm'ntcfliflas? {gaving' apatfagc f6!" ourfelves, .except ihyfihg- '
~ "die? "whichzhmsfhken dam, naming-1M; armrhai'mzi'
s;x","'.'..' ".' ' ~ ' ~: "' "1. -4'0_ 'I' '..._'.'~ g;

a

,-

61

 

I.or 'R' Q 3-}st 'o_ "N" c R H's-'01; 143;.- . '

' 61' 'viit'Chci'aft emfld' pretend-to-come' neariugxzhnd ii'adced ,
. this-wig] expeedingly'wel'chntrWed; eigpecia'llycto'fefve'that 25cc

cz'ifion'fqr which vote-afterwards found-it neCc-tifarif. 3 ~' ' i. . .

. ' _'_ '.'-'Th'u9'-We lived two years inia happy retire-mien ~; haVing,jSS:SSflI' .
' '_'this"time; 'no't'fineivifit from the favages. Indeed 'one'mpfir'ring'

,:WC/,'hadfizin-_al'arm, which put-us ifij-fisme azfia-zement; fort-3's- ,

.j feW'of'rgiY'Sfaiani'afds being but very eally, percei'iedno leis-thaw i
! Itw'euty chimes; as i'twere "coming'm {hare :' upon. which re-- ~

turning -;hto'xtxe,.with- g'r'eat- precipitation, they gave 119 the,al;i'rm,-: ~ -

,; I'Which'dbligeel us to keg-peat home all that -'day'and the next-519

gr "going out only irr the night-time to make 'our obfe'rvations ;.but, .
s he good? luck would have it, they were upon'anothcr delign, and

" did'fiOElhnd'that timcupqn the ifland.: '-

.--' 3"" But now-there happcncg! an'o'tlier- 'IfarteI-betmventh'c three"
O wiekeq-fEnglimmen,'-and'_fome oh my Spauiards.---,-'Ihc"-,ocg:a~ -'
13621 Was" this; ' One'ot' them bei-ngenraged atone" cf the favae- '
' "fies", whom he. had taken, ptifoner, for not being'able to compre
.. 'engi {amethimg'whiqu he was. (bowing him, fnatehed-up'jg .
, 'hatehetin 3 gm: fun! pet to correfl,_'but to' kill him ;' yet-mii'o
'fihg'_'11181.hSSad,.i-gal-five; him,_ihch a barbarou8~cut'in~'the1hou1def,. .
. that befihaglfikjettq have itka otf'fg'isiarmi; atwhieh we'd;
- my "gocd-ngmred' Spaniard; interpefing bet-ween the Baglifhrfija'd -
and'tfiSSj}a_vqge,,1b_eteeC/hcd the farmer. notitc mu'rdenthe'pou:
, mature; .bilt'IhiB kindncfs had like to ,have .CGfi."thSS~ Spa-533.12%
hisilfl'e'; .er the'Eninjhrha'n {true}; at-him-ifi the fame mama's ~_ ,
'\ Which he 'nimblyqn'd- wifely aviaidiggrxemrned fuddenly upon
him "With his mine], ;(_being.a1l_'at work about their co'rn'la'ndfy
rand 'veyy fairly knocked the brutifh creature down. kleren'pon,'
_' .ahbther'lEngfi'mmga cpmin'g {akin iellew's~amEURjanee,;lhi,d thC/ -
' "good--Spaniard on: the 13511111 3 when T-immediaxgly. twqpthcrfz
' Comin'gtoihlareli'cf, weretat'tagked by the ~-thi_rd' Enniiflxma'n.' are '
fled with 139" 014', cntiafg,' who- wounded -'~t'h'em fiaothg. TEE
uprdax 'fponxeachedpur says, when we~~ruih_ing_out upon-them;
took the three Efigiiflamenptifonem, and then ow'next qu'cfiic'rt .
Wagjwhatjfllould he done>> to fuch' luminous, arid'imptiebnb '
fellows, 167' furious, defpctatfiand idle, rthat'they. were mifChie;

#50113" to the hi'gh'eflz. degree-and cantetxueutl'fi' not {hfef'fogzthel-'ot- '

-ci'ety'tc5'let them liiieamong- them; . .,_ . , _ . ,. . g _
' . "Now, .S'rr,"_as 1' was- gove'rno'rdn your 'abfi-nce, fo'I info toe};
ihe-'au'thority- of 5. judge :'and,' ha'ving them broughtbefore'me';
fl'told 'thcms'that' .'i't they hind been ',of .my-cauntryg'l would ..
Ihaive' ,henng.'_cvery,mother's {mi 01":th 5 -but--fm<-:e_it' wasla'n ~
\Englifhman; ('mean'ing you; kind Sin) 'to whumfivejwere'in- ,
flebtect'for- our firefervati'en and deliverance,--I chnid,ein' grad"
tud'e, ufe.,them-w1th!ali' pofiible mildnefs ; but at the fame time:

,, leave them to? the judgment of the tithe; t've'Q Englimmem
"-ivho,-I 'hopee,' forgetting them'teifentm'ents; weuld deai'imyaxe
..1ialaix'by'them;' ' ' '. '-- ~, " ~' ' ' ?-' '

 ~ '"Hercufxm
.. ' _ ' ' /
3 m4:- 'LSS~ma~SS9w-yrmmunzs _
'11! re, non. Ln: this 99mm "~ #5119033}? 3 Sir.>> leis! 133-: {
..s.v,. 9 . .. flog/alum: :aemfiwtofl'l.' '1

[51:32 :1>> gap; fqgtm fer 1.9?!" K -/ .. . . .
' q ' " ' 5132?,ng PS6,534]? 9330,: 11/ .413?le

Anne'- 1.5m} to teg gglegg: .fi 5ch . _ _
'1'?!" EUR53 333.>> .'!e3t'3ffir.oia%C/?e <<I.>> 31.3.4.3." weight MW? 101%
3'5 131311.933! 3.319.>> axe/37342 3994 30.54.14 .7323.>> 392113343 393-. fiat'kfipxeifiz'
' 92173;"3457595 eiid four. qigilazeeafw 443?! 1593 {42531617339 M09337
III'WTZ'?" 1/: 3, ' ..\ _. I..:'. ' ..\
' '~,'.'.. .a-w "3-" fr. faid 1543.233}?! $9124? 3 9313;113:345 333.3% -
143.3 I] .lflzatfig 533>EUREURY=I30j33ffifi efifid 33!? 704132011, griegwflr
.3337323394e72217--"S.3Y=3;.$134wats--t'hgweit; fromdmlpfi 1S3 .
' fiber ah? More; 31-32222 Iziryezet be @9834 313?- itfi11~...5.Y=4SS.9vlmj" ~
' {E4323 333.13 40325>>.'te 40.3!>> 'vffrisraorflteien .fzid I, cr 319% waif/3999: .
_ 5221'}; b} killing :4: - 'quf 'fl'f'll guy db {9" pretax>>; 19.3.? ng' ,' .
"03.164119359313333"! <<4'1?"Wb.v."'..,i111'13PS'$elgner Mim- fat .. 2
maxim; $1,433.33 tvficb 433-2445332331 33.1.533'52334; [3.3.42 910.3334 223.3%- 3
3'113'; 1311* . 'grfat 9153:3413! 333533.169 'nqu. xct' 1cm: wit :2. .
E1111 i939, that'he warming-WW et'me and smeeuhtsfdiy 3m. 4
attg'mpltcd walk"? me'ffihemd Fictifl'eOfififid' 03.. muons, 995
Minot... 5.6.331 PXFYC'WQ bythzee .33me -.-Th-iSS~ pnnaratliglse
apgixgllainguSSfiqazriagm made :19 fetimuly 9925.661" wright was 19"
FE .-SS93SS- T he'tfiQ-Eingfifiafiea ane'the. SSpatfiariC/PS 33139 Red-.13}: .
2:33? the ' 209: Inmah'es' lifc; wgkt-ilv .zzgtition: .- ms: 30. km "
PS33? of -' hem, .fo'fx .'ain' .cxamplg tdi'the, 9:13.339, .3; 11gb manic! b1:

132313153. hrg'twifie'attemttee to WWW-1115493332115 133211131: '
hey-1.3km at Shet..$5SS1C/'SS?50i433'??in3W$SSY=e"-thC/ 9991: PS12.? .. '
..SS}QSS1d,xSSSSgiicr- But .th'sxvfieffiki 333.:33323379 1W cghignfimm
9:393:39. 13:33.31": f0! 3116' @1683: ame-- m'entionedzfinsezt; 3:43--
3&1 PS33313. man" (Em meisrfglf) 37h? waismy'defiszem-z aysli'a?
.,s=rC/.ifnl'epsxfif.els'3rc31303 PISSY%1SS""S'\Y=31C/9' gawk mm.>>- $9
339.: -itY=33.x_xi.t's>"hC/..<:PS,1hc famomizm 3?? to dawns!>> 13??
*9 355333313. 43mm"; 333:? father. mufcniigfi win all 8. 331395-
31"? "19?>> mmwa .9 2 .319 13.339933: .3? {@342- eun; 995% 3-1333 . \
.IQF': bufibe- 233513316. 'fi'DI}? tb'; "Egifth t5") hyggs' g3};-- glcgfgg! -
~ -~'SSY!t?!9mfslvm 3354':- 31.33419- $333.30 Eng-imam, new 313;? 9}"
tbs fipayiargsi. Mogrldfheivs smlysr-Iafiqn with. t???"- papa-jury
- 'gccourzwh :Tmer; 3w my (1109.135 '- law. 1399.; 1mm 99mins?

Whiz: q centeih' ,dina'xzcc {#9333 92,1318 ; am" if mafia}??? 30.4.???
"3.21M'videnc'e, ietth'e'r'bv 113323.113??? tarmac,- Tunas; ei'd-eitmx': '
in? W degf "Knows Planfinaeaahetildmga- 3:33.933.>> 0.; 95mg: "be-
.IQ-Qizsifii: 3.9 . e'ffaei'et'ya'wc 33.03113 $0.23 them" as. firms: .'

3 5.19: figwes Ma? 9f'fleyaie flame? 9149mm>>); Em; .

-. '1.' his'tc'mcm fe' '. ed i 9331.33.19? t9'9311 1593 themfvlns; char: 'v
wig; nieeeifill-ihdaefi 331133? but to 311.: m3? We?! 7133551133:

' War-Wing? 3273.331". ' eelbfyecr {m 5:12.! .3103. take 1133:261

3251534: 3...??311 15199. if 3."? 1&3 m. We; gig/35.3 37332-3033 {fit/#8:". .
. 333511343413 9'13..sir...sme 1.33 133. 335133.233? [933's sew-3921.3} '
' tbemi'eig'lq} :fimifu,. anfor'feed tofiw, by av )5; twig?! .711 rfi/g; '
19:33: {3; {WWW .- 14: w 3% 69/112310 221:0}; daemji; mzlc '

o

804'!)
. four

I
'-

' ,513' min 5135" f! "135"? If"

. ozzr'wz'azzi, i>>; :2 "22212,; a: fid'ell'jar'":23?f may: '1! as>>, '4:
fl)"- .e'z'fert/{ei 'ifific'egfl .31'ce212t54 1:0"in my", . jar/:52}! Egg>>: ' 4.2.}
baffbeti'; 2m 2:11; law, 415?! ' 3&5 'tbifi'zflqefipfi'gfift'to 515123 '1' 6'1}:
{12%} :Ifall 'fihfie'fi ~yy'ei'e'al' {feta : likijfldrfe they topk. {helix ihfg')
esa'rre'mdtts i flared. 'tfiemthlefinlyztb {wean isfiei'itfq fiftefii'et
' my thihg' igilifi ; us; 6:" lhfeirree'ud'teymgrifir thejfpt'ure. Thu's'
dimming thein f-r'em oii'r, fepiety? Th'ey 4mg afigifiTej-leh 62
r Miami. as tab-nigh .pgeimer sin in: t'd' o for .fifi'm . us'iwie'vec;
'feeihg" gi'o rt'ifie'd'y; tfi'Cyhtfitikj Wki'fit'."rd? ifioi'l Wag; giyexit-he'rfi',
-. V'gfimfifigte'waofe a'cbn've'hi'eliitifile'e fiffibr'e flit}; jin'ieht liv'e
.xycnenzrqwaa; ,' \1' :" .- .:. . .- '... -..
'..'-"""A'B'opt fi'g'e d3?! gif'tet',' they earfie.._t'o'.._{fiofe 'liimts ,fippoinftea", '
ifi 2.3M mware me'alk; A am: My fine .4Wr415x-tzne ,~9r;my
! fifiefiia'ifll'; WW'PfiheY;,C/al'eSS F6! 'Wflficfl'f? hag pfteh'ed 1.511911" "
'. thhtei'; find nfi'akfiedthgfirfglvES'fiytlae"kab: fatio'nh dh'd pfginf'i:
' ti'efi; 'a'i: fife ". E."-and tfio'hnfifefie g'ai't' bf th'ej' iflg'njejfi 'A'g'd, jfi. '
SSdSSe6',- 'th'ere Hey 'Bfijlflthehifcfii'gh t 'o' Very hSSpa@_mC/SSdegttSSSSe_b,
thferfiBIin ' 6dr. littte came-,- fia'eing ddde'r the 3de of aj'nofzris'

. t'difi;jw'xtn fdfii'e'tr'e'eie' fang)? y'g'rqwmg dd thrge s'idiesvdfit .3 f6
,tfiatwlawqg d-fg'v'iv mags, .it w'mild be ofircgfie'dfirmii- Sight;
jupliefs; 'fiimgulefiylfp'il'ght rat. Mugs- tfi'e'f'qhu'te figfififlflhed;
5W? g'e'ire' tfifehi'fdb'mj 'dr gSSatPSSSSSiSSe feifB'e'dE'iih'g e'a'd 'c'oxiering; 3;
fifiidh 'th'ei'r gividg '11}. 'llfii' ,afl'urafices 6f thciti'gifib'd' Eefilq'fie'ifi'
{@fiflie (figure,- We gavgfipmflq'me pg::;xfC/,.b$flev,;SSfid 'i'ice foi' '

Jerfiin'e; fih'djrlieteifier- 1:01:16 ivEfcejiId {pm-1:." _ .. '
-LL"i$i'x; mbfitfis Edie! 'tfi'ey We in this; {spefetk cbfieiifibfiajii
,xirhich-itfi'ey gdt their firlffierfieit in, .thch'ugn'tity.of_<SSvfiich, was
7.151%fip'a'll,zhepeifli;tfieySSad plrhqged blitfitlfilgfid ' Jo'r; ind'qga,
211.3115:piihratiobsasging ,t.o' f9rmg..;heC/(if.e9'e $316219 trivia;

_ ,cijgny ig-'i; was; tvhifig. oh; --gf_ ghetr'filem'eq't {341:1 Whgen the
fiver}: amigeafiqugtheiy boa'tjes ah'd Pots, gai'c, "thy cam '
'meke littl'ehrf fifi'fhirae .efit. .' visaxhegxe nyufengh'ICQ firigp'ri;
fi'uf them irite 'azr:atsr.a9?.fpiwtx 'fier .vlvanf bfa'caii'cfie Ee'fefi
' ' t1~zeit fcogn dr'y... ah'd prcvept'itlffdmfpgiliqg': and lbmupheid
.fliis humble th'g'm; that th'ey. biggegfl' (if my ASISatiiland-eftd he'lp
. 'tfiehz;'..tot~:vhiC/fi thfc'geet19'aa't'tlreie.-mEURhgrEUR%idi:livac'6niY=nie. ; aim ,
xih'fqhae 'daveipabe,' 'iw'ri'wtix'cedfi zreat .hqle' irithc. SEN: 6?. t chill -
fair! tli'cm,"la'rge;enbi5gh far'tfi'e'ir'zfimfbdfe, t'o' fecfire tbeii' 25min

ariadthe'ri'thihgg tirb'xh th'e rangithmi'g}; no't ejden'isairafile'tob'qfi,

mick" via {efire'rei'laddfiiefla-I axi'.zrtmSSts._. . ._ .' - ,.
"j" 313}: 'izun'eqv; whim :pafiefl'cd task quges' agfiiit tfifce'fiiidtt'efgb
an Yehej'after,' SSv1SSiC/h_.'l2ga'.likfC/; t9 hm: ngnea m;_.a'ria mam".
"@1358 72.965. 991'..'it tfc'eflis, bc1"SS.SSiSSSSd.. afieitflfier'fgfif it}???
4 qt.) bf.,1ivine'."whis:hf ma}: thegn'. .wcerk forthsem'fe ve's. cam.
fidghofis .pfj'qhanging'lthe'i't gonditi'en', nb'thiflg 'fiCiflquelfl'e.
:them, '; \it'th'at .th'e'y "(91114;'ihakefi 16%;: -_ f0? 1.1.15 C/SShtihmC/p
mad. Er"? matey EURenl'e.'fC/izephoe 16%;; '91? {the mags; eh'dgfifinri
3.5.33.1"? 6%" 3'" flaw-:35 161101th arufigery; yflxi'lethey lxve'a a-- .
:cefeaEd pkafur'g. ' " ' ' .' ' '
' ' " Indeed.Ho :>> _ ' ' . { '

<<46 Ly! F'E A'N 1) AD v'zN Tu RE 5

. u Indeed the'projeet 'waa'not fo pnepqfie'roujfifthey had'ngt'

'gone farther; 'but they; neither (114,:'1101' proppfi'd/any: thing,

. but what had mifchiet' in the desigfi, for thg't'vgntx.' Que mm>>; ' .

-~ fling. thefethrec fellows came down to the limltpd flatten, and ",
lufmbly desired. to. -b.c-admittcd total}: With .us, _\y.hieh We '
rc'adiiy 'gtjmted; they Wok} pa in' that, that "ee'iag; rim!

'- (f tlm'rf niamter of living, 63de tbe , labour "(3/ . fbgir lmhd;

. in fuc'b- gmploymentsy 'not fixing fificient; to 'preture ,tbe pm]...

, juries, offlfl; May only deg/ind one of {be' came: cu}: cam'e., cover
in, with/am: (inns. and ammwdfion fig tfieei'. dqfincfi'and' tbqy

'gbould' flee' their 'for'thes" a'br'odd, -an'd nerm'r (radial: '11: "any

3. More; To be {we we were glad'cn'eugh to" get'rid of--{u'g'h
wretched plagues I; but yet honefty made usingenuqhfly'rcpre-- .
4 flat to them, by what wt; fomfelvcs hag fufl'cred, the certain ' ' ;
defirue'eign they were. nm'uimgintb; .'eithcr'of beihgjfcarvedgto
death or murdered by the ravages. To this.;they._veryiaudaciofife
- 5y graphed, that they. mit/xr could 'npriwduld <<work : 4th torfl'q-fi '
.gumggytba't- the} mighty: we}! 'be flar'fved abrogd a: - at 'bgma; ES'
~ ~ '41: f9 tbeirfqliitlginto tbs Iiazt'd: of (be: fawagex, 'w/Jj, iftbzy <<0'07;

-mw:rPSeirei, gbef ave: notbirzqfo w; tier: Euai attend 9f fifem :

- neitb'gr bad they any avives'of cbilJren 'tb .crj' afiqr tbem ; nay :jb
intent. aurrejbe'y-'upon weir voyage, .tbat ef 1/2.? Spanr'afdi fun!
not gimzz tlnm m'mnjo {be} bad but the Macaw Wailld barb;

.- g'one witbautibtm. 7 i _ 3 " - . ,Ii . . ' . '

1 ' " Though we could not well {pare our fire arms, mther than .

' they. mould .go like naked men, We let thcm'havb two muf- .
lasts, a piftoh a cut'lafs, and th-re'e hatchets: which "were thought
vc'ry .fuffi'cient; we gave'them alfqgoat's fleflua great-hafket
{fall of dnied grapes, a poto'f frcth btirtsr, a ydungzliVeqklid; and
a larg'c'canoe'fufi'xcicnt' tq carry twenty msh',' A'nd thtts,"awith '

{dmeitmade of a long p'ole, and am} hf six 'l'arg'e; goat-{him

'dried, having a fair breeze, and a "H end-tide ijr'ithl them, they.

7 mcr'i'ily, failed away, the Spaniards cefling "after them, 36711:!ng

, , . .

aja, no man ever <fxpceting to fe'c them 'more., . . '
.,.~ -WhEURn- they-were gene, the Spaniards ., and 'EiI-gliihmcn
would. pft'eu (31y to one anether,' O 'borw peac't'ablr dqxtwemow
' 'lirut, "flute 11709111955141")! :fillo-w": have Iefl m' I _'-N0t-hit:g ceuld
, be farthenfivom' their .'thou'ghtsI-thmfta beholdth'eil; feces'any
mote; and y'e'tfcarce two' and tgwcfnty days had p'affcd'e'Ver '
their heads, but one'of. the Englifhmet}, being abrobd' a planting,
_ pcrcciv'gd "at adiflence, three met": we'll armed, approaching _t6-_ '
. War-dc 'him. Away he' flies-Mm {peed ta eur ' c'afllje, and
' "(tells mg'm'd-'the reg, that we were all undone, {of that fitangers
werch-Ianded; upon the-"inand; and-'whd they, were hegeould g
net tell; but added that-nh'ev- iv'er'e not favages but men habitz
~~ ed,'hearing.gmia;, ij'th5. {3331, 'Jwtb'a've the Iefi-oreae-vm
'to' beyt'aflc'erfled,' fine; if :i/qu'migre not-Indium, 127911 r'n'qflbe
' fiiefiwzifll' lam, jug: that--i: in; 0/24/2342: pay/cf Wmffieflifilfiff
"Ir-[~1- '. ' '.'-" ' "." " '..I '. "J"!

. O , '

v ' ->; '.0:.-.1'42&:Q:..3:_I PS55.. QN": G'&.USS,Q 3,2 ~ 5147

I ,twbatnowill'do, a: gqod. maker; tlmtz- barm-..-,ciBut whilelwe' We]:
' ' '_,.conlid'ering'of the event, np'qanieihefthree .Engiifll'mefl-l, Irwhofe '
. ' amigos we" ,,'qnicig.lye..knew',v and-1'0~ __all ont~4admirgtion~ of that '
' ' naturefieaf' d~aton'ce.V-Apd-rourvwonder was:-- (hemmed; by. at:-
" Ptflcir; fort ,of inquiry,._which- .was; what conild'b'e '~the-rocc'afi,on
' of their retumihgfo-quickly .toathe 'ifland', when we.__litEURle-'cx;:ec-
,tjed,' and mine]; let's. delimit theinC/bmpany ?'-;'B,ut' aslthis was
' 'bctter fto._bje'...iteiatcd bythernt'elyes; I .ordered-themrtoxbe r
j' bfropgh't in, When,.thcy~gayc..inejthe'following rclgtionof their
voyage. V. j, .m - "1.": ,A .' '. , .> ~ .' .. .' .1 5'?" 1.: .
. j{Afterlitwq'days'faih{or fortuethihg, ids, theyreached- land,
Whlfe'r'ethey found thepeople ; coming 'to 'give them another
. fort 'ofxcc'ep'tion thalfi'. what theyexpeeliedpr'desirede.fob as .
' ,-th_e.,PSiyggeg.wcre armed withibows and. arrows; they dulrttxnbt
" . je'ntnre'j ,on. more; but Iteened,.northward, fiirfir feven;'h6ui.'s,
' "ztiil'ifibfe'yf .g'a'ined fan; fopehin'g, by whichthey. [Stanly per'ejeived,
that'the'land'that a' peared from this'place, was not: the main _
land. but "at; man ; .Attheir entrance into the openings'of the .
fem'th'ey diIQOYQYCd,8nOthCV;Ifl3nd, en'- the'right hand north:
" jifgird', andi'everal more'iying' to- the'mitward'.;.\ but being retai-
y dyed tar-go 6h more {ome'whe're-or other, they. put.- over-to ..
. one of the Weflcm i'flands.... Here they fouridgtbenatiyss very
' 'eonrtetms' totheni, giving them [everal roots and: driedfiih ;
; nay; even their wpm'en too were-as willing to {apply themwith
what they could procure them to eat, -: bringingzit 1:: great '
' way to themhuponyth'eir heads. gAmong thefe hofpitablc Indians_
they continued. fo'rnp' days, inquiring-by figns and tokens; what
nations iayjaround them ;. and were informed, that there ivere,'
.,ievera'lg fierCe "ar'id- terrib'ie' people lived every. way,- hatzcnftoizicjciI
*' fp'jeat mankind {but for themfelves they never ufed Inch diet;
- eieefit'thufc 'thatwere taken-inbattlc, and of {hemthcymade
_ g'roiemnfeam . f. . - q .. g .- :3 _,
; - ';'."'TherEngiifhmen inquire-:1 how long it was fince the'ylhadfi:
. fiafi' of that kind 3,7 Tney an'fwcmd, gabout Java nzoonx'fagog;
poihting'to the moon . and then .two fingers ;. thatgyat {In}. time, ,
' twinskinq Earl two hundred pri/bners, whichever: flattening up ,
family: flaugbtqi'. The Eagiifhmcnwafe'mighty'defirous qt tee.
' _ ingftheuprfiouersnvhich the others:_rnifiaking, thoughtthatlthey .
' . wanted {amt-S (if-them fontheir ownicod : sipon which they
' Beekoned'to'them, pointing to the riflng, and then- to the fetg_-.. .
ting of theflzna'meaning, that by the time it appeared'inthe eafcj,
next morningthey wmildhbring? them? {eme :, ~ind indeed they.
were 'as' gond'as,_.theit Word .;_ far by that'time theyb'rought'cle-
ven mcnffic five_women,'infi: :4sz many comatoimn are brought :_.'-5 '
to fea-pofiptownqtd Viaul.-.a>_fiiipC/ ..But:a$ bmfifhfas #hcfe v
, 'Endiiihmeniiwere,"their {tomachs turned'ntfithejiiht. NVhatr . .
to '36 in this base, lvthey .ecuid nottcn to refufethe. prifOnec'; .
.. "(WM 'have'flbeqn'the highnfi afii'dntfloffired to the {avage gen-1: -
try ~5- hnd to difpofe of them, thev knew not: in what manner:
* ' ' " - O .- _ ' ' -'. however,

. a '
Ias men Aunmvwwm '

-h6fiv'eve'r;=t1i'e'ir. ierelveaz'tq- act'febt'ltheffg, vatfd' to: g'avqf flxc'r'mip

,I-felt'i4t'.'h;<'9nte'ie.fthfirh'atehefs; eh'914,7kC/3*3. fiekriifeeiefi'dz- 132.9f.'feL+-.-
iemef (hail-7 :b'tmets; thing's v-whicngthgfgfi'engrg__w1jgll'y ,
,ig'hex'ahti of,;--ygtfth"q'y fee'aibd ie'fitirely cqntgntgdfwithz;.lsgfildrdg'g 7 '

' mg: tfie 713'on ','wi"et'<:1ics i'r'ltg the boat, Cwifh'. ilth'e'it 'hafigs'...pp'i}ng"

. bebifid'fihem'; gl'eliyered'tlicm to .thgiEpgfiffimeIi: rJSg'zbfble c513: ' ~ ,
ligfzfiedv'tliem tofpu't. off. 33 than as thefbadgtfigfq.;prefC/jntg,'lcfPSt the ~_
abnbi's' 'ffiox'xld'f-beve,texpeeted'tyvf'o 'o'rfthre'g .ofjithemgtdv'bggkile': '. '.
lag-"arid'i'te-be? inyited'doz~.dixiner?t'iricfairway;."andxfd'taki'ng >> '

km 'evith' all pfifliblegfi'efyeC/ aydytaa'nksp. attic-ugh...-nc?th.C/it{6f V
~th'em' tinderfiepdswhalet. the bghe'rsfaid',' the. _>>fai!gd.faivay$b3SSlggqi:_ .' . .
the'IIfiflE'ifl'mH', grid"therc 'fet gight"0EUR_;he;p[ifoneg8;',aPS'lib'erty..:' ,
' . If; their/Vipyage' they endca'xfaur'ejd 1:0 cogfifpgtgj and 2112qu mm - . ~
cbnvex'fafidn With thetpoot c'aptiycs; but. it .wa's iimpr-fibl'e t9
makeathiem fcr'lfiblexOEvinyihin'sr z-and,:-np.thinSS .th'cy.ccu1df'fir '
6'13, 29%.: .0?!" do; fir them, ' cbiild" make .thgm; otherxeifg pm'fizag
g ,fd'ed',' bfifitheit theyzwere'unfimmd my {obs-devoured';yiPStfi'SSy:; 1
a. , aC/C/.i=the'm.'3fl.y feOd's it'hef'tfionght it"wa's- dlegt'Q'.'faflefif'fh'em': ' -'
9:12:12." fliughfetr- 3'3 owlloqked a't. 'gn'ygqne "1.0136 5:33! fibulaflviy the:
Paorfc'rrstdrdffuppbfed'iltfelfftqbqihel "firft factific'e': fanazzmzem
pwhe'fi; wcfbi'cughtxthemgto .bu'r mug, 'and 'b.C/2ai1it,onureityC/m
'with't'hcfgteats'fi ,hfimanitg'and.ik.i96'n.efSS; ye: 'they'flexpe'etpdiem ..
. ..x'-y~'fdav'7that:SShcir,n'e'fw'ma er: wgp'lddc'vdfir thgm'fi :fi~_<<.,: 3f._".-'.'.'J .
3:3:Afid-'ihixsleSiz-gjdid _ hefe' three finghg'e'iwan'djetcrsi conclydcj '
.their..ufimfihtdb1c~'relation .ot-their, "V.Oyfig'C/SS'-Which wze.._hqth' ~ _
axpja'zipg;;a'p'_dj ,'enfit'crtaiainge-J;.Hefe'npdn'."1' 'afkejchthgm;__ where ' ' .
athere""13ew3familf Mas: 3 They told-me, {be} 'bzz'd'py't {hm-iii,-
19'3'6he40f ' flm'i- "butt, 41.72491"; mme'uxtq; fieg .figricz'wi'fiaaIJ-i.fq,r' .
16??"3! This,,C/.ipdSSSSd;.'mad_e us 1311 long" toffee-them},:atidjfi'fekmg _
_ ,{Fi-'ida'y'effathcr' with-,us, {eaving'ioqu tw'e'at. but'vetafilerwci
"(liarhe-dpvintngehgldthefe poof: cre'atux'es'. \ e 1ft: _
L- -'-'-'_'1When..wesarrivC/d at theymeg'aqmeygbeing'bound'aggazn'w ~. .
""the' PSfiglj_mmen,=fqt;fqar.of efcafiing)' wc'r founde. _th,em?'jfiarkii '
, 'nakedg'" pgfiip_g'-.their.-fSS:al 'tragc'dy:there'were-\thr'e'ej;lufiy. '
j.- ihe'jigwtl'lilhaped,,withfira' ht and-goat! limbfi-'bctweenfithirty' "I.
~ar'4 .53; an'gl- .thirty'lycmfi 'd .; and. Tzfiyefwomen; tyw'o 'ef j't-b'e'in '
. '.mightj' hgsfr'qm' thirtyzxp forty, .two: more 1:61;, :. abdve _fpur1.aPSnd" ,
fitfivcntyffiian'd- the lafi','_~_a. candy; talk maidcn' of about fev'gnb'
A Rica; ; .gIndfiedafiu:thembmcn-were 'vgry.'egrec5abte,vb0jthrin .p'r'oe 'a
4;>>;pgr-tieujfar'g'go.Seaturgs, exceptl'that th'cy"'.wqrgSSxtamy;pgevhiphf'-
35515611?mfifibflmfiotm;apd other-"graces,'-;m'ade'.'amlends-' fog. 1
" .iihefi frh'ex-fiaflem'ards Catfiextb-be glethfgd...,"~a_ . 7, _V

I

\ .

~,

.. m

V f;$2.51:hiVS'ofi'akedjappe'areficep fio' qtyepWithgtpginmifefiablesgirp' _ '

, 'CfigMCCBAWQQhONICI-y cqgnfotta lerfightto fny'Spaniar'dsz 31.119, '
: zgdyfthgiggperts,n.l,.;ma -_ 'vcintuge, '.Si;,g.iwirhout'=;.flgttcr.','Ito-'..f,ay-...~E'

- 31C/ fuigfp:;_of'tl'C/fibefli e_fiavion_r,_'c'alme_it ft'egripers,f,an : {Wecteit

f'riatiige; ,that' :c'an ' pofiibiy' be 3;.,_fC/r' ..they;;,immed_iately prder'e'd j

:"Fridiy.18C/f.athe'f,-:et.a Iggifhe kneViVj'anY ofztfgem', .Qfif hc'undff-:-'.' ~

I hfie'deMhit. thfiy 1:;on (3y. Na" fodngylmif thej 01d Indian 'app .1

'1' git: ' r I. If ' T- 'j'fi w _' I Pea: .

'\
. ' I".:_.,..,'. . . .~ .9. ~_-.' I.',' .v .'..-..'. ' ---_n ;;., '

"" .'.' .V'.'.
~ A. '

\ .

- e - 9?3'SSSSW2.9SSCRUSH "7,149, -

~' P535: but. hPS.1degokEURSS..at.th9mfifith.srcatferioufncfe'; lethas'thev
_' .Were nefi-'of;hqufhat'ijon,;.thSSy;ivcre'.Utteriftga,n"ggrag to-hamgqu
, firinefipuld undgrft'mjd;ithis-'ffpeccb ' '8r3'fig'r'ns;-'bytzfione , Wbman.
'1 {I'bjje' wagt'n'qugh, t_p'_;anfipei9:'the'fiefi'gpe- Whlehlwag'toz'fljlrg
K , j;them,they",7_vio}.1_ld-,'notihe kigledr..'b,eixsg'; "falehx'j'm'gijh'e 113m}; .
. fife-Chiittx'ans; (who abhorred inch bar-batty; 'When they; .wcjrp -e
" {filly'rfgusficd ofjithis; they "expg'gifcd. their joj;:by'fuch_.firangSS
' _ geihireSS, gea'd urig'cjrm-mafi- 'ten'es, .a'a'it-is flotipoffiblcrfor mm
'siefsftibe'.u_;But glid'fwem'enikth'eir; intefpretgerg'Wasylprdered qq'xt '
no,=_C/'nqlge'x,e',_. L-whct-her 'thgy were, ;.con'tentlfto ibc mama; and A
- viguldWalt-forth:"mgjn'vzlio:Jhadibronght .th'cgnhithet toifave '
' .C.liC/ejr=1iife9-? "Hexycu'pon, (being'aft'ghis"time nubound),thcy'fellla' Q,
.ea'pjedbf zian'd.flinging,"chestaking'tbi'a' .thingifl'pb'n "her 1116ng ' '
., - 'ldefr'yfi'ajdgheibtlggf'that; intimatih'gi'thafthe'y wage willihgm
' ~ 'ddjany'ftbihg' fe'r- th'en'i'."But";how; Sixes? havipg- wememabmpug'
' , heg-'emdfii'egdipg'e that. zit-might! eccelion- fom'e.-..fi'rifc,} If not
| ' -b_l'gpd,_,.'1efiSSedltl}e fhrc'e menV'jwh'at they: wailidojandrhpw
. ,'Cheyl.jixten,d_c;C/ ta ufethellf-ereatprhs, whether'T'ae {griranta'ggr
.lw;'csv'.mC/n,L?.~'-Ff?' 93,6 of them" 'v'cry 'pertlyfl "and feadilyxanfiyercd, I
:'g'tbw" $91114 7mg. them as'.-bpg!d,"- Gentle'mjtn} {aid I;"_a:_-jbgi_zg,r'<'g
"joggt pwfi n:g[?:rxSS-'I'pm. gatgaijzggeffflrgin fiufromflt 3}"; but
' {hotbmkh figmpigigag dfloeatibhs- among in; "midi szlytde 1f; -'
jdfl.:EUR0;efigagEUR5-fikbtfl'qneb ,' [1.24190le iakef'mm.'![7mz_'dfie foifa mic:
- ' Zkflflfiqjt i'mbeje, '0';ch 14m! {airing mks- ibis' orig, (like. eye 11301914!-
. 3:71", '_'}:.fo'._floycfifber_;'for;1/243qu .ewe 175:0: (291} <<pig/ii}? egnba- A.
' 1-i;j~'fo;.ma.fiyi_1byyyeti'it i3.}b._z{tl repfqggaele,., fleet @vbeekzcnflby; '
. "(4:59.31 .4 mew, 1129443nger '10: maintain 12ers flaw need?!)
--' fiarfazgy flmgg zo'q'b-hvilb'lz'ef; and this,'indced,fappgared- flijufl;
. EUR631!prg'ftnr,_thzgt-it__wSSs,_unanimupflyiagrqutgg "l'he'EpguflIL
rpcn, then afkedj'r'n)? Spaniards, ' whether. 11.56? elafignad t'q take" .

' - .any'pf t'hemhbmrthey aflzgigwe'xed, Nofiomeldccllagipgihgy.
,hactgmady wives in szginy'and'dthg'rs Lthat the, fearthnet' '
1.19,, jgx'fix with-infgdglggf On thgzl'reverfc, the Engl'i 'men "PS99k
;'e'ei$p"of, thema te mpr-rar'y'wx'fc,' and 1'9 .fetg up a ngw' mqthodigfi"

_ ' fiyiqg>> {is to .ngd'ay's father, t'n'c: Spaniards, wan'd ~t,he't'hree.iag

' 'fiageVei'efiant'se'weshgg;taken:i,n'--thc'-late.gbatt}e, _t,h'ey. allJivcd '
. ~_'yiSSSSl m'e'jn pubandgnt. came 3394111516"!- wfe-'fuppliedtthe. main; .
pm pf the many! with "food, asgncc'cflity: reguurnd, -.But;.the, '
" mot}; tematkafilepa'rtngthg fiery-13,5 hdwzthcfe Englifllm'engi '
- wgp'i hgd'bsehllb- much at' Vanna;- {hauld'agreegabout the" Q
- (PS11936 913.1.1391ew9men1; yet-..th'ey rock a way PS0.04 enough tog;

' ~ gram; gdargcltingamojng tth'gl'veg. _:Thcy (at, the'fi'vc. wow -
e " mt:i;jihz;9ne 6?; their hats, and gate: :the'mt'elvcp 129' (heather, . '
. (Ray-"lots Which thank} 'hayc jibe-"fir :ChOiCC.' fNaW, he that
',_'hSS'd,th'C/.firfi f10tyen; toithe RubianQA'f-etqhedgut he; h'echOfef; ,

. .[afiqgfxit'fiiSS'-'rema{kabjc,z that he ,toekgher 'thafi'was thb :m'QR -
-. 11'6de Sand gldeft of the autumn; which :'made. 113': itg'fl: , of the .
. ,Jfinglimgzmleggqedingly'merxy ;;he'_$pariiards themfdves'could
. EURth but annexatgiss' Mam hapmsw we .f83W:SSefdifl-'deg'

. 102 _~ "1163

 

' /"5deg- Lifi" 5N9 'Afb'fiz'ENtu'R-Eas' .

m thought; in ehdefing one-'6: for a'ppli, _'.tion' and bil-Iinei'e _;'

-. and indeed 311g grieved .the-Beftwifeefrfl the a'rcei.' '. . '_

- , .."_ But When, [t e_ppor'ore.1tures perceived; tgemfel'rg'eeplaced'
iu-a- row, fiend, fe arated, pn'e, by one,lth'ey were again" feized'
with hn'vunfpea'kagle terror, as nasw. thinking they- fiere going to
be thin in eaniefl $7,503 When the'Engliihmefi eeme .toftahe
the. firfi', the r'efid'et lipfgiamentable'ery, elafp'e'd, their/arms a;-

' rcu'n'd her-neck, and hanging. about'her; wok-their ,latt fire-j? .

-We!,!;,'as theytthought,' in inch ~trembling'jag'0nies', and afi'eetiohe' .
"it: embraces as wot-lid haie'foft'ened the hard'efi heart in the -~"
world, and made the driet't' eYes'melt into tears; nor could they, -
(be: pertuad'ed- but that thC/y.we1:c going-to' d'iffttll Inchtme
'as'Rriday's father'ma'de the'mfl'fenfible that-the Eninthme'n' had; '

" (hofenthemtfnrtheir wives, whichen'ded at! their, terro'rgand .
. Gaheem'ppon this taxation-- . ' " _',' '. I,
'.-' ;Well,'hft'er-fthie, the Efigliflimen Went to wgrk; andhmig
affifled by my good natured Spaniards, in a few hours;.they'.__
'exeeted'eVery meet" them a new hut or tent 'for tfleir ,j'eearate
ledging,'. fincfle. thofe they had already w'ere, filled; with, 10018;>>
. houl'eh'old fluff, and prayitionZ-aThey allegntjnne'd'on tBenorthf ' .

-fl:'or_e 'of the"ifland,"b1it'fop'a'rate 'as :beferei-fthe' three winked"
ones, pitching farther off, afld'thetw'o Hoheftmen'h'e'are'r'our" _
cattle-j.- 1'0 that'the iflghd themed'to be Keopled'lin three places, ~
three-toms beginning. t'o.be:builtf0rt. at purpofe. Jim} here.-

. I cannot: but remark, what ievery' commgfi, that the'two hpnefl:
the}; had the wo'rft wive,s,';(! meam__a;t~ th'infiuflery ecleegiipefs;
and ingenuity) while the three repzfcbatespnjpy d, momenbf A
quite "contrary,"qzialitiest ' ', ' ' -, . . '_l . - . .

_ ' ,'"But another obf'ervatiqn I made W335 in'fevourcof the two'
, . benefit them to {how Whatrlifparitythere is between- a.~di1i-.
gem appfica'ion to bufinefsse'o'n the One hand, and aflothful ne-' ~.
gligi'gu', :and idle temper, "on' the other.' Both of them had.

>. thejame'p'arefl of grouz'd laid out, .and com to fow,- fuflicient

{dig-them ;; but both did not'make the fame, improvement;
either in=the1rg chltiva'tion qr their planting. Thetwo': honeltg '
men had gimultjtu'de qt" young trees planted about their habitat-w

tf'onsgefo thethwhen ,you'apprgaehcd near them, =n0thi'ng ap-i} 3

' fiearect bit a wood,_>yery pleating, and delizhtfpi.' Everything.
they' did, profpered'and figuriihed: their gra es, plaht'ed iraj '
Qrgier', . feemed as though managed in a vineyar and sure infi-'L
niteiy preferable toany of the-others; 1473' were they :wan'ting j >, .
--t<')sfilmt,qnt,a place of rtt'reat,SShut dug a cave ft: the 'r'nofi retired
part of athickmood', to fame their wivesl,andichildr'en, With -
r their, prefisigmand chiefeft go'ods,'fi1rrounded arith'innttmerge ,
hie; flakes, andghaving a mofl'fubie entrance,'in-eafeanymifi' '.
__ Thief {hauld'happ'en either from their feilow'couptrjrri'en, or the
'--'dev_otiriiig fav'ages. .1 . , , - ' ' " '._".'.. ~
' {Ad to the reprpbatesrahough I mutt own they Were-much ' '
. morejciwib'edfthan befbrcj - infiea'd ofa delightfuinwood {mm .
_' ' ~ ' , > ' ' '" - 'xoundzng -

.';'4,--' .\

f stag-31321993: fill-$0515.. 1514.?

" 'Wfifin '-1hC/i';4WEUR1.Y=i.nV8SSa..'Y='C/=fQfidfic yaee' bffiinngrziomoxi' '-
'deg<'-" 1"" 3- warmed. =31; Fm: .6; sm- mama-x we flaws.-
' 918.4. fit: 1'1,,w\.ale'awgmw WWI 424m ~12 gmanyl'placcs "their

crepzsm bbtbured pyzwcefingthmhed .- .haviug,fC/.v'C/rallggapse'-_ '
infthemg'jhc'xwihl'dqgoats haaj getting!) {afgn'upgthefcdfllyfiild' _
"hex; imid gthe'rg was a deafiflbgfll 1th fiefithefe gaps-Foruthepi'er - '_.
fe,nSS,>._which' Wag n6 morethagt- mtgmng 'ihp. Mblze'Lanf- aftexfs- - '- >>
thextced mg -fiqlgg,awa5e._, .'But'as to ti'eir wives, the-31293 I'eb'i; e -
- fe'rved'hefpi'e) Were mqwdfligqm; and c'iegnly:enog'xgh,-.efpeciaL--ZI .
ly zin'fthieir' 'ygfitgalsi being igfir'uthd byiqne'nf thehon'e'ft fimen; ..
'Whefladfibeen'algbek'fi mate onhufard aflnipz- 8: fvexfi'xxkll it :ivaah '
~ 8Q5?59?'T'5fSS:1ie <<acted hixrlelf, his-.cbmx'mxon.ahdf'th..C/3r familici-I '
Hycfiflaggwellgs-the idle hufpapgis', .whq'dixi' naming but lditer- " .
' jabqg-fer'c'aturtta'y eggs,- gator; an>> and>> birdsfahdg dogax'z,yv;._~
. thing'_'lmt_}fiork,;_,apd, ljvt'd aceprdingiy ;. whijegthefidifigent "Ii-'1. :
. ycd'jiefy hgndfomcly am} plentifuny, in the moflgomfortgblg
' , j"?*AndfnoW,iSir, I wake tq lay before your. eyegvavfcene quite -
dfireht'jrdmapy'thigg that emerbap'pmed to as; 'befdxeg'pandi' .
"pexfhaps cviexf betfiel'j'you in all. theftimc-'qf your te'fidence dir- ' .
' tfifiifiandgi 1min ipform 33deg31 .oiits original in'lherfbllbwing."
manner.'af , . . -- ' ' ,' 4" {fry
' >>. 'ef'une morning, Sir, very early, therelcame fireiox- fix-canoe?- g
offijlndians (in more; indififiztab'sy uppn "their --old "cu'fiom of "
. dgfiqu'rifigfthejri' flamers; _1.3,k'-_i';hat')\ze had. to do npnp'~1'uclg 'eny
a 'oecafiqn; wgs to. iecdiagealcs'i,' that they, nqt Izayizrg'fitfxyhotice -' "
- ofinfiabitants'mightdisuquietlyrafter perfqrming'theirfildbdy" .
execution :procvcl: fl flnfmwcmdfthe Images, Avais' to'gi've"
natige t9 alrtlgc'xhr'ee' plantatiozps'__to keep mthin dodxs,~'-.ngjdf .
,th:a"3_pSSSSupe'x'l'copt 1 was 19' be, placed to'g'tye intefligeflc'efv ;
-. ,th'cix" depafiuyeL-: But-noisvighftanding thqf'c' aviPSdeg',zt'ieaguates, anis- '_
' unhappy"fdij'afier;di!t:overedens.to.the-fa'vage'a,'3f.69hichlWas like-e -v
' 'tQ haveciufcd the dequatigSSn 'offche whom iflaug'-:i;fr>r,after'th'e; .
fivgg'csfficpe gone, Qfi'jn'thcik'cztnscs, fame .ujf-'my' ~Spafiiardk":1--- -
zed}, leqkingabrogd,' 3931!)qu inflamed with-a3mmvfity't9fee
what-'thexhad'bzepfidoing-1, 1y) our fg'reat amazement beheld}: '
three {JVAgcg-fa'fi gileepgu the ground, why--either beihggrfi'y'} ;..
'ge'd,' Lc'ogfldpn'otfakae when the others, 7mm; Qfi'orlhaving'ij
wendefe'df'mg-far'into t'ifie'woods', did' nutcor'ne 1m: .in:tirhe.'.- ,
_ -'.;'-1Whafitq=dd'iw'ith't-hem at girth; we capidgn'et tell $535"; fer . I:
e flgfeS ,we hadfenou'gfi of them already ; adage-to knliifig :hem}"-_
nejtller'Chnfiianit-y or-htumanity: won <1 1351:: ,qsz-t'd _ flgadfith'e".
(blob'd 'of ,pe'fl'o'ns[whoyncgeq'dmus \vx-b:$'g.> We gfifccived they '.
he'd-1'10, bahtvle'ft them Tao-Vtragligt-gb; them to Lheiir-fpystng'nattoni};.
" andiTth-at'f'by _' lcttiggjhe'm Wander about. they might ftlifimveg '
' 11:3,; gnd'infoim thejfl'rlt igii'ages thntfhould"ha'ppcn1fo lang- upofii,~
_' the ihgnje' 'blogdy;Qgcafibh5'ifgheeh infcrmation migEit "entirely,
tum LuSS.i'SS,ixaiid_~';'tl;cfef,0rEURj lesiqunfcelcdgmy. Spahjm'ds :10" jfceure- .
'- "" K 5."?'IJ-'efif. ' - ' ' 7013; 3 - .:- 7}" '--'.'thefi,'a'

/
'

_ A4" 1 : .' _
' ' '4' ' A
."!'.\'_ '
'.L
\'.

. I' 1.52">> L-Ilr,n'-_.A_:N.nf A'x'a'vSENru'stl-V

them,'andx {ct them about fom'e. wbrkfer other, failure; (:01er
better'difpdquotthem.' ' '* '- .' ._ '.., '. -. .3: 2. : - ..
1'? gHe'relp'q'n We; all went ba'ck;and makingithem'gwake; {Oak 3 .
theinprifenera. '--'I t is ir'n'p'oflible to expreth'thg' {Ignor- they;,w'e1re..-f
in;;'e'fp'aei_ally~_w11en' b'ou'nd, '33 ,thinkiqg they megefi'going' to be"
..murdeted arid eaten, but'we'fqhneafed them';9f'thC/it.fearf-ae ;_
'to'Zthati "'0ig'it.' 'We hit teak them to the-"bower, whete tfie-
.ch'ief :o "pun e'dgntry wbrk'lay;-as keeping goats, Vplantiqgtpptmij
Sui. and then'earried them to the two'En'gliflxmen's habitatioln; ;_ _
. ta he-Ip' them in their bt'zfinefsj bat happy it"wesrtbtus'afl we r
K did; not .'carry _ them to-Oiir male, as by the tequel,,w,ill appehrg -
: The Enghfhm'eh', indeed;.fo'und them, Workt'o dosibut-wbeg
_ therfithey- didtnot guard them (trietly, or that theyflapug'sht they?"
' ciquld "1th better thenifelves, 'I'eanqot tell; but ,certg'iniyjbne .7
otthem rantawgi into the made; .a'nd they could potheap'pf.
hmfota-long'ttme after. _ ' ." . ,' :' ;'j I '
. ' Undoubtedly there w-as' reafop ennugh .tq fuppofe _he >89?"
'hot'xie "injdme'of the candes,' the favages. returning. jg t-'abi'rtItj. "
107p:- weeka time; and going ofi'in the-f aee'efltwo-dayS. L.Y01;'
' may-be certain, Six-gun's, thought enu_d-'nqt butterrify. melt-J -'
ceedingly, and/5 make us jitfily conclude, that the {wage would '
inform"hj's equatrymcn of Our abode in the man !, how'few'a'qd -' .
Wak"wvefi_Were in carppatifontqtheit numbyrs; 8: we e'xpe'ce ' '
tedi'it. wc'mldnot b'e l,,hg"beSSbvc'thc'Enghihmen'wonld be att'ac-'i '
hed'in their habitations ;'1bn't the favages hadhmfim theit ,'p1g'_-. 3..
cite-oi fa'fety "in the ma'ods,' nor (in: battle, , wl'fich it was'a'gr'eat'
A 'v'.' Ne} were Wemiflaken incur thoughts upon ttfiezoecgljofi. e";
. .f'grgabout eight mo'sths 'afrer- this; fut-"canoes; with'abputteny. '
med iufig'aeb canoe, "came lh'iiih'g H the notthkfide' ofthe'fifland, ~
which they were neVer_jaccmbn1e te-d'o beforEUR.'_and l'endeda-v
about, an- hqujr aft-ct fumife, neara'mile frem Ithedyven'mg of:
the} tW6"'Eng3ifhme'fi',.- Who,- itifi-e'ms,' hady-the ghodtbrtune'to '
._ flifcov'et'them 'abou'taleague' 011' :f to that it was'an'Lhour be-I"
fate1 theyfi'comd attain' the more, and forfh'e time iofiger- befcfefi,
>. the could coine at 5th"em.r,Azid-no'w'being cbnfirmed'in'tlii'a'r
.cp', ' An-thatzthey were, certainly betrayedlgthcyflimmediately,'. '
' nwuttfi the twoflav'es'fi'h'chiwiyr'e left, ea'ufin'g twoiofxthethrt-e'fi
~ men-"witbm "they *hx'ouiflit ; With the-'fifgnfien; and Who pm.'
. Ned very faithful; to lead them with tlzjeif'w'zves, and ether clan-34.-
' - areniencdsfiijito'their-"retired?c'av'e 'i'li;'zthelwood,.land,there. tat
bind the 'thoifellews band and fobtj'fifl theyjh'a'd 'fizrther-'brdets. '1 j
, ' They- then. openedethgi'ryf'enfls; 'Wb'ere ' theyf he'ptfltheiaifmilch
' - g'pzttsgigahdidrlove them";dSS-6ut'-,_ giving the goats libtrt'yi tqigegtxe-Qf"
blef'in'tye' fivo'cidg; td make-{gm "favagcsfl belieye't'dat they" int-emf; .
Wild I-o'ije's f; but ("the flave-h'a , giver} ait'r'qet' ginfgjmationg'ukfiieh
' fh'adelihem 'egmetqthe' very 'inclofu'rt's; >> Thejth fri mailman:
_pSS{-titj;thSSeotSSefrflaive'fofdhe-t'hree, .efv'vh'o' had-{hem ugiepiuxem' .
earl'accidcxit, td'aia'rm.'the smegma, and dffire their; affifldnee 3.

. Y= -H

o F R o B IN s on c R'U'so'z.' 7153'

in the mean 'time,,they.'tt>ok :their'arms andfamiminitio'n, and"
made to the 'ceve_'wh,'er'e they hfiql'fent'theit' 'wjvee', and' teething

tflet Eavesgfia'tcd t'hggnlelvea in; pr'iv'a'te plgcegtfrgim w 'efiee
they might- be'no'ld all .fixehfiionm'qt': the fdva'gesgi, N 9': jfiadi they :

,' gone far, whehaibending" _a' rjdin'g'gro'und, they cow'd',1eeia:little_

armyief Indians appe'da'eh'tc'; tn'cir b'eautifiil 4 dwellix?SSs.'md flin' gal-1'
few- moments mOr'e', fper'Ceiveltbe fame, I'Vapdytheir.infuitnr'e, 1:0

- theirsgyntpeakibl'c; " nef, hunting .in a'eonfumingi flame, and}

' ' when'th'is wag'dgfie',' they .pread here and there, 'i'ear'ching every}
'bnflr'and'iplacc tbr. the peeple'. of whom it Was 'qu, evident; - .
.ibey nth'infcmafiion.' "Upo'n which" the .two' 'Eng'eithmen, not-v
,thinlgin'githeaxfel'veb fe'cnte Where. they 'fl'o 1d,. retrained" about .

' half; 'milej higher in the'eountty,,zightly concluding; that the,

: farthetthe ihvg'ges'fimlled,thereew'odld ,Abe M's numbers .Itc'geev

E tfix'ef'! ufponi-mhiuh they next mot-their fiandy'b'y-the-tmnk of, 4.

an Old tree, very hollm'er a'nd lat; e5 whence they r'efolved yto;1'ee': .
hat would-offer :Lbut the'y'hadrnot'fiood lengthen, before;
five fingers egm'e'rb'nning d-ireetly mWatds them,' as thmghltham

. vibg knowledge oftheir'being-there," who lfcem'e'd refolvgd to , .

att-aekztfi'em'; ah'ttle farther were three more, and ..'five gmbx'eg. -
behind" the"; againg'Fa'li'run'ning the'fame way. tt-ca'nn'qt be.

1 imagined the perplexity'tb'c poor men were in 'at' tl:is_ fight, '

thinking th'at tf'aififtdnm did 69; fpeedily- cbjrx;e._'their eave'in 'th'e' .

. Weed. would b'efiditeovered, 3nd confgquently, all zthecein loft 3%

{0 they tcfojved t6 refiflithcn'i there, and," when 0?; owered','_-<< .

-. -to.atcend-..ta the top~ ofi't'he trees',' where. they mi}, .t defend - .1

themfelves ,aglong'as their ammunitidnylafted; and fell their litesv' _ _
as dear aSjpoflible to thofe devouring fayages; Thus fixed in_' .

' their 'refofition; they'ncxt-c'onszdeg-ed, 'whet'tu-r they mould-fire, '

. at thefitfl two,-j-':cr-wnSSt fer the "three, 'and to take the middre;
party, ,by which the two firfi,&, the five lift would be feparatcd,

yin this"; :egulaiion Hue two favagesalfo gopfirmedthem, by",

turning'g'httle to anotherrpartotthe weed: but, the threes": '
&'rt-he 'fivefaftet-them,' 'eame din-{Ky towards the tree. Herenp'onl'
.- they ,r'e'folve'd tbtake'them in a direek line, as they 'apptanCd; "

heart-r; becane'perhapsthe fitfi ihot might hit them allthree; , ' ~

angi- ,u'pon'this 'cccailiorb' the man who wad'to fire, chafge'd'hi'eg'

~piSStce With thrceo fourfbullets, And thus while they, were
waiting-,- the PS9135 '8 Came. on, em- at them was-the runaway;
wh'o'h'a'd caufed' git-the md'chief ;_fo they refolyed heimquld not ,
cfcape; if .th'eyb'qth. firedat once, 45m, hpwewpfithpwu .
they'did' native, together, they 'were ready'eharged 5. when . .fe,
firft' that l'etgfiy, was {no good_am.arkfman_ to rnjlshis, aim; :. ,-
for'he.:};ifledfhe {mt-moi} .outright,.'the.'ffceond_ @140 (wattle:-
fu'naayaj. Indian) fell .to the. g'ro'und. being that t rpfigh the be?

. dy; "but not ,dea'd'...apdf the; thirde'was 'gr little; wounded in the - '
{boulderhwhq sitting? gofimgcnlthc 'tefundfiellra fcrgartfingi.

* 3' mafi'fearfal'memreeiuz Th'e'n'oife'd fiie'guns; Which not only -.. z_. '1 - "'
. 3'.

' mack; the mail. Isfollfiding @9535rfiqm en'ei tidetqg $11: when '
'gfitrxaired-tne:birczs'pf.a_1,1.-,rqrC/e,: amassing ,\.2i.t,h' :9. #16 mm;

'3 {d undue;- ibiimush"temficsii'thei-fiyc:avggcselbemnqt 'at-tbiE 2
:fiboid'fiill-"ait firm- sike remadysinmempmnag'es, "amt-When. 3 '-
thihgs-jv'e'te'eh pfofddhd'gilgnpe,' th'c'y gdmc'jftb, :tike'figce'whcjc .
there campa'nib'ns Lay 13"hn'd titre; nio't bcifl: >>feY=!SSb.lel.t53SS7t:h'c5f_ -'
fibre li'abI'c' 1,9 the fam'e'fatc,' flood gyer thg fibufiqed-'ni'g'ri, 1193
dbgbtadgy "inquiring tfie 'op'cg'fion'gf this fid'calfizflifis' {a'n'd-- mg:

-33"rieafonabletto'ffnppofe he 191.91 thems thatfittinieifmfiflwtidgr';

3991.1} htfxiflg' fgom'tbc'qusg haying'h'qye'rfccngdn'.hcii{df26C/ '

- E91195: pie, in thc'vyholc.cogrferof their-lives. w-By thisftim'cfgthg. *

.'nslifhsmft'z'fibafiing loaded than new fire'cl: 'b9SS5."'t.ogSSthin

(f.a'-fe'C/ond'1,itrie," when ' Reins" th'gm an'fa'lf immcde'a'tjglyvonr'ph'g}, .

'g'foun'd. they thought thev' had killed"'qv:r7'cx;eAL1it;t ofjtghme...

'r . This m'agl'e'thqmcdine 11p Boldly. befoic thry had'ghgfggdkpfigjm.

' g'nds.,'"wfnch ifldfgidiwas 'a'wrgng' fflej,;-'f9r,'ivhen .,t_hc 7: {36;an
t9" the: Place,- they found . four-'2 We; "yo; offing-mg? lids: -
mnnded; and en's net at all. TWhifch-Qflited them. to all up'eg-'I x ,
thgm. thh' their"? m'thet's': ;thfey' Iii-1t "kn-fished the 'xjm'aVi-jayaf'a'fl.

' mgeionithc 11:251., and another't'hat. was but aglfi'flbig'iaundgcd 7.19;; '
'19: am), 18: men pumh'e othgr'la'ngnjmmg 'Wxfigtghgsiwtpfeg'hfit; ' "
:p'ain-i "while he that Wa's'lngt-hurt'," "with bendgd: kneeg anflf'n'g-S.' ,

- ' _ Iifte'djhean,-'made pitecusmgaqs, '-and'fi'g_hs,;SS0~*thcm toijjpergf ~ '
hiefljfe 'g-npr; 'indcgd, wen; {hit}? nmmifu; t:'o"the~ pedfafis'x'gtpfig
.b'u't' pointed to~ hjm to [it "dewn. at ,t'he'ro'ot'of 9' t-tec hayibjji.

.. PS1151 then; .6011: of the Engliflimen, witty ziflpielclg o.'1rofiet1\fiSSe'glije-r ' _
'hadeifi his ockctyb' mre're- .Chan'cea.Wingihie'.'two't'esz'ge-fattjtq-fi :..

:getkcrg'anghistfim aadebz-himlhim,' theflefl himth'ere'gfi'gg'

wiping 311' [the bait; they Could ifttrt.tliej'ctheritv'C/0,ffea'fing'tbg'yfi .

.. gfip'oufid .fiigd-'oqt theirc'ave ; but th'dygh'fthgy c'o'itld qu't'jfiydt'ake -

,_ .tbg'n'j',' , they .1164 the fatigfaetien'tp zp'crgeiye' 111cm}; al'flifiznC/fe,f. .
3 firefsjag'yzgugy'tbwargs the, feg, a quite caputary' _Way_to;.thrir7rC/+v;
targar': updafwhich they rctu'meglj tb"the'_'tre'C/;'s.t'C/ floek'l'afzcr 35;
f thgig.gprilbnye:';--but when they- came 't.h'erc,#he;wgs-.'gmi'e', 1683

' fihg'the 'piecc'of rope-3mm, 'whetgwith he wesbopnd; 'bghihd'r, .

9' "("3ch ~ft)bW.-._th'c'ywc:r.e: a's '- math; concerned as c'ifgrgas'r'mt

-> ' kfibyvia'wgl hn'iyfncarv';h'C/ir. 'tDeIfliCS'might be, Cf 1n fwl}at n'iu'iiif
~ 4,135,; .slflajm'eiiyiatgly they repaired to [the cave;:t'o'fe;'if awkwa-
ka'l': 111?."35 fifidfifound-CZYQW'. "WE fig; <<31C/?! ".13.- fiiemfi} 4

' whdlwe'refifgtigfimd 12pm" t it 1191153an accougt; whom. may: ,.

., .figw; lo'x'md e'rigg'grgly; (Tl'hc'y'haa not b'g-'en L'onEhe'18; befoi-Escg

vven'oc'my' tsp-armada came-to zflifi'them; th e'the'-'6thC/iifen.=
helix: feyva'atsgfiand Fridqy's milieu, \vere,Y=gqne'teie'cfend'th'ejr'g} -

"Qingpfirngihhd cattle, i9c'ate1he {ravages Mguldf'hiw'c-Treifigf \

-.81e(11.a1SSd'f3r9 - ' T139: accdmpanied- 't'hgrl'rVe'n -':Spaliaiards,"'pne' 9f

.1thC/'t'hr'9C/dhvhge'8.thatmdf ffimerly'bscnxtakcn 'Pfifonefsgfindi'

v "Wk'tficm @110" that my. Indiana-mamatfie 'Engnmmeu ygy
_ ..- , . 3 ,, 9 '9 ._ .9: 3.3.33.

, g,' . ' ' V - ' v .
- \ . . ,
, . . . . 9 . _
\' 9 , \ 3. ' . .. .
:' I . v - . H >> n ' ~.' clear'o't fuch'qnwexcem*C/~fiuehs;=:aM T
')

'0 F 11:59": 1.51.8.0va "city, '3 93.. 155-,

#1 little before;~.!eft under the treee; I'fdr. it'feemsgthcy pafl'ed I?!
that way "Where. the flau'ghter'fias' made, apd'fo 'camed alan '
with them thatp'aqr Wreteh that wasjleft-bqantl.' ' But {07:11:11
pr'gfoperej now-,,~becdmirtg 'a burtbextSStqusgf and. fearing-the '

'_ dreadtui'eatikquence _'of their efcaping,. molt 9f the Spania'rdsff '
' afid EngliMhyged- the abelutc 'necsffit'v there w'as .of killing-

them,.tor our common ptefervEtion ; hbu't,' Sir, the 'aqthpritz' ,I-
bqre, .333 a E governor, over-,mled that piece 'of'cty'ehy; and 't er;
I oreeredthfimto be fent prifon'ers tbthe old eave it; the'valle'y;
bqundyhands andgfeet, withtwo Spaniards'tO-guard them. '
' - ."' So muchrkncouraged Were theEagliflamen at the .apprbach:
of theSpaniards, andhfo; great fives their fury agairift' the'fivah"
geefe'r dethfbyipg' their habitatiens, that'thev .- had not patience,
taftay. ,any 'lc'mger; but, taking five Spaniards along. with them',
a'rthe'd with lfburimuikets, a pi'flol,'a_tt_d a quarter fiafi', away they '
went ip'p'urjfuitijot their enemies. As they pafl'ed bit the place

. \'vhe't'e.C/the fiv'a' 'esl were (lain it was ve eaf td be exceiv-'I'
, ' .

g'd'that' more of them had been there, havtng- attempted .to carry .
efi'thei; dead bodies;th foundit impi'aetieable.' From a-n'fitig, - 4 ~
grOu'itfdi'outgp'axj'ty had"the.mottifichtipn to fee the 'fmpke that

praefii .ed- from their ru'ne; when ee'ming; ferth'erzinffight, 'of.
th'eth'ore, 'they' .plaihly perceived that the ravaged; had embarked-4'
in- "their canoeuan'd wet-e putting out to {923. _' This the-y": Were? '
yer? forty, for, there being ' no coming'at ' them to""give them"

' Va ,pjting f'ahx't v, -bnt'thbw'eiier,"theyjt'yere' glad'enoythtOj get.

"-1" Imus the. mutate>>, wt unfmuhete tngumgeg; beirggse- '

tuih'ed d'fecond 'timeit'end-theit'ixpprvamenta quite 'de'fixoye ,'

- mowpf myfi'goo'et-n'atuted'fipaniards helped them to rebuild,-&.- - ,

we illgaffified them with-'needftll {applies;- nay; what is' more fe-l.

' ' metka'bl'e, their three mifchievo'uscountrymen, when-they heard .

.of'it {cubic}: swiz': hflei' airy/2,1,; difffler: tw'erfi over, the} livin '
v

. , '

;' .imrfeflremaie eaflward) very-friend ,. fymiaathifedwith them, . W: .
-'~ Worked f9! them' feveral"days; fa that, ina little, their-whammy '

. i233" at Itheteatyend gfitheiflandefi

' {ions were rebuilt", their neceflitiesfupphed, and themfeIVes-,re-.

flared to their former t'ranqqil'itys'

" Though the, ravages had nothingtobo-aft bf'in thie'advtene' .

mre,-(fiwa1.canae; bank-driven <<flotafillawed [21'in drowned . '

' "(Mara-L "having u:1rloubt?d_y,__met With a flarm' a? flgibzui
, wry nigh; {be} departed)" yet it was natur'al'to' befuppefe ,
.thqfe whofe" better fortune it ,wge to attain their native ihore,' '
. flould inflame their nation'to angtherruinousvattempt',"with'"a_ .
greater force',;to carry- all before~them-. And,'itideed,'fo it'hap'l, 5 ,

thet'

p;ned-: f0)" aboutffeVen. month? after, our 'iflal'ndv'was i'nvgdejdj-

'witb 'a mbfi- fdrmidable'havyfitto 'lefa than; eight arid twent'y'e'a'.' ;'

nm'fimfef'fatagC/8x12rmeC/with-{womnj (WordS', mofifiroasr .
'Jubs', bows and arrews, an'd fuch like infimmeptagf'WaraIgnctt'"
' ' '7 W-Yeti. .

~7v ' - w" .2 .' '. :_-'.~" I', ,A - 5-441" .o'x "-25" .'
'I " ' , 8

:56. MFA AAA ADVENTM A18 '

( v .

, _ 5" You fiaywcylhfif, imagine, whatqeonflemationgug mgr
yen infuppn' this ac'ecfintg ,a'n'd', hgx'v .fpeedrt'hfi genewrgg. ' -
'c'mc theirfiefomtmn, 3-having.bhly-~ th,afij;i1ight,'sf. titfigfi'allqwge. 1 1
firm: .' They 'Hxi'ewh that. fince. ghey-Eb.t.l,ld_hot- witfi'figfidxtfleif}
mania} ".'goneealme'm inns ~t'h'ge only _' way"-t9_;.,;.Pr0;11'fC/'-~thC/in ,
". {21fo ;i' afid',"2th_:zfcffi>re,4th_e'yto'ok'down'thch11gf's..th'et_ v26re built" (
"faint EUR'deg,.t'wd"'.PSnglilhmc'n, and'drove.jtb'ei'r"figekq bf.;gpats,"'tb-; '
etherwith the'sri own-at the bbivfer;'rtothe'oldf.caiSS:,infSS11;efval- 'K '
' ey, leaving as little; app'eer'anee (if inhabitants a; "pt-{$13193} ' ind,-
Jthcn 'pofl'ed jthcmfclyes, yith' all'thqi'r -?force,_;at' 'the_'plant'atiojl:1e' '
'9f.'thevtw0' incn.' (Ag'th'cyiemeaed5fq i'tfxapyencdinfqpear}? , '1'
{thcn'ext mornihg', the-Indians; le'aving their;cgfiOce'ag'fihg ' ;
cakjgfid-'ofi-thc ifla'n'd; came runfiing'elo'ng' fife 'flmmjfi' abbijt} th '
,, 4 iiundred awf'fift-Y' in. rin'mb'erra's 'n'ear'36-6dn1dfibfgti'cii'rfiej
' .311:- army was L-utlittjc iirideed; and Wh'at,'was-mlSS;gl79atfiffi
mlsior'. an r, - warm '1' pot farms fiz'fficiqnt' for them'f' Th; ra'hcofi'fit,
38 mike 'mcu; 'Sir,.'is'aa"EURol_lC/'Wn ":'wi'zf, {1'17 . ,Sbl'zz'njieiriifij":.Enjfi/lg:
filth; Old Fridg','7 'tbe librvef'fing' taken .iigitb'~'{ee;fi?EUR;w9:
.. 7.71:",gubg prma'faitbful. fiifz'ghrem' dflszbfil!othi:;fl4qei;2fipieg ' 4.
gang Mg}..-'.Spa_u'izird:. 5n 1 ,ei'in' 15C/ ' may iqu'xi flay/52ml. gs; .
>> puck: 3. fmylingypiqcu"; '12 'fiuord;, ' 3'. old Mike)?!>> 5' mfg/figyg._qif V
fiwlirggr--piaem,7fakm Ifidp'z" we fail": @betig-'_jbd"',hgdueed, ,4:
. 19.?fif'J/aigJ;-'gi{t gaveltbfitezy'xbn'n'bhleefl:,-- and #2; qie'e'fi jb'rge
. 1 fig. flap/3', 'yidirb great ('1th $52k; 'izi'e'tfiev- cit}! "cf Mam, with
gait/Jet: 6y-.-'t'b_eir f2)"; 3m". zflfp. filifimteelf-.'flit&i_q'g..1'4"'6ug?

' gifdle{,~_ Mile; :1>> frearazw mg; twag wigbaagoarwgmgfi
Wk Amelzo'rzim fortinide;sfwzifli fiat. 252-: afiadgd Jcbiigz'fsibrirzz .
alaijgiw12b thir'dear bzflqhdjmzzfl'ffma'diwsito,{lie .w'itfi :gem, '
-SEUR'ttflg- 1/31? .firg/'o'luiiom'm' game} #9291" $fi{ckeirhkm0.rfi;but .
- @eatf'kqud ugh-QM; were flatbed?!"Wiffir'm!"('iiieic'b'7W}.- deg
~ 'eiesvrerfow- enw. bow A 11/?) w: Ahmed>>! 5.4.4 'fl'cftsfisil'ifle '
' ' .tbgm,' ajtgr 1534': mpmoraele'e'a!!k pfzzeflfliifi/a'hnpfiieh" 'figg' ,'Jj-"Jf
, "over this e'rmy, whichfth'q hxiitfle', Was of grgitiihttefileio"
'fy;.I_Was-co.nPSY=itutgd ,chi'efg'Qn'exe gad-tb'cmmandcp':aia'rgdhkgjofie: , .
A iug'Wiiy-A'tkin's.'--t,hopgh_ 'excgeding'jg'_Wickejfd,;y'ct;}a'?mgn'effing '
I 'vencible oeil'yegqj gave himthe fibwer-I of, .c'drh'cfi'andlug.' Igriglg'r. '
_ , mg": ".116 hadrfix-men-with their muflgetfrloadedfiwfith fixmr
.:'- feve'ngb'ullets _'-}a-.piecle,-atyd1werc planted? jufi ,behindfaglmagk . .
;_ .tfiickctOt'ih-J'ihesg'es an advgnpe'ct guaxd,"h'azing,orde{$'t<SS kit;
-. 2th: "lficfi Pat's 'by ; and thfen, A'When- hr- 'fied into-1h: riddle?
of mm; making a njmblg'fc'trcat 'r'au'nd 3 p'art of'.-bhe>>-xvqfid;
iaildf'fageqmgv-ia this, rea'rbf the Spahi'arqs, who werej'hadadfb'yfl
ailhicket- pf atfeg'eg for t'hc'zugh the." 'i'avag'csvba'me-Qn withfihg
fipzcenefs'qfa 115,385"th they wanted-1h: [ubtilit'y sqflfogeg,' being A
* Wt 'ofeallfinaaficr "Arden and flraggli'ng'.'in heapscvgcryewfim}
- .apd, inje'eed. whgpriu Atkins,- after .fifty'qf'th'e {avg-PS5} had pat;- .
Ifqe'hirg: ahaxd bidetrdfi'ht'ee is}: ~hi9r71i'cnksp"zivC/ fire; I0 great
.1 malady" comigatfion; ti? feefoi $133132? gem-,egzggtwgunded' . ~

' fan: ' .

>..

I "I ;. {xiv-"Vt. p In .I~ K: ' ('4',ng LVN. \II' 7' '5
. -. > 6r inorsam Mum-vs at: .
L _ ' l- U. u" 5. . I "I" #1:. . t 5"; I. "a: ;_. - --..~l.:'..\ .. .h'. f. 7.. -.' '.
2" 'i'hee'fifiigh adreaefiul-aoxie, and; yct 119cm" .th *whe'ficeaiit:
cz.m'e;-,thSStz<gthcysm'r;1frigfit'cnfidmmci- '53-'16" 3'33"" I'm! ' '
. wirfiq'irztiie'.fSScen4.-V9}Y=SYWas $1.2993'tfiefc9ndudcd' no 1deg"- b-"t' I' '
1 't'h'aft'f thdrfr'q'empanicns'" 97cm , Ram-burr- thhzdegr :aii'd' li-ghtrfifi '

' 'fo 'HS"ven'.-~ glnth'ig: fiotipb-ihgey fibuld .vhaye'f'continued," 1:15

W ill Jfitlfifie'and his-mep'petirgd, ; as ffoojp' as they :fi'rcdgi ac'cqrd;
. ,'igngjdfordeit: "on h'apiithgrgft-'b'gen may: gram, ,topour in-'thcii-
tflzefi Cbfitiimafl?' Leii" 'i'ght;ha"ve..heep a cgnplete yieteff'bb'.
; .._'tai'ne,d':i_but It'ayibg-ft'o' load"tl.1'eir_1 pi'ccc's.'a'gam. .difcoveredvg "the

thflIE-Imettchf Thu: WSi'C- '9SSrC/gived,byPS9'gz1cibfth_e 'fcatterifig
fiifiee'sj '32:; fiiflafigcgwho lc'tufiye their arrows. amon'gthem,
\vehgideil'AtEinb =SS1mrelgganC/~kmgC/ms fellpwgngtgmmw, afid _
45:13:61? 'tli'elngglians'. t'akcnfwith-gbe-fivom'cn." On? 'p'arpy'ldidgnei;
faiflo' Eenrfxfirergthe'ugoand 7n igh'eir' {gtr'e'agt killed about ,'>t_"\vgnty'.fgg.
v'a'g'cs. J'I-Ierj'c'lcgnnotgbqt,take notice of on? peondyifigfflavc'
.tho',"tIieE'fibpt- from . h'rfs' rctreat'by afathl arrow," yet'with. his _
.iteifi'ah'd hatchet, efigt'pq'ratehiand _- g'allantly fifi'ailed-'his purfuere,
'_ 13ml; killed"'five.pfi.the"fa%geSS,- before: his lifpfubmitt'ed to:
- multifli'cigy'.SSf'(wounds. for is the cruelty'ox' mglice- of'the-J'n-y-
' 3diitisjt'qbc'lefsremarked; its breaking the arms,<.}egs,' andhgada >>_
"bf th'qpt'vo dead bodies"; Wighybgir dubs _afid;wobd'en qurd3,1 '
affe'i' it x'nbfthrctchgd-{x'nanncrg ." As~,Atkins.retre_ated"our p'arty

adva'n " "d'," to '1'nterpofc 'bet'v'voe'm hm! anthhe ,feeagc's. :2 'but_'af.

_ terl ,tpfeg sdlligg, -wPS_ Were ,051ig'cd: ta retreat 'alfo ; for-they ' "Were
' 1b nnztti'cljpigs'anddefperatc;that they came up to our very. teeth, .o'
3 mist their fa'rrpw's like-g-deud, 'and their wcur'xdfd men,>> gnra'geg
with cruel pain, fdugb't like madmcn. They did not,- jtheve'r, .
.- .thifikffit ,tqulloufi us, but. drawingithefiifelves } itificircle,' >> -

the"? 'g'avg'.>>t\PS'o.. 'num'phan't mouth inftqkenr ,Off yi .oi'y,','PShbdg'9.

theywha'd, tI'i'e'fgl'i'ef'tO {cafeveralpfthcirweupdcd men .bleed- 'tq.'

, .6531" bgforg'them9\ 't' ".2 -.'\ . ,.. . 7' '2 r . ;':-:_:-'F.

' ,-'gf'g4ftei.'_l had',~'Sir', 'dra'wn up at: little army together; 'upon'fa'

'_ 'rifing"gi911fgd;;Atkins, WQunde'd as... he was; .w'onld havc had ,.
fixatfa'ck'the whole quy oflthe fayaggs at eticc,:1wae extremee" .' :
313i: "Wyn pleafed with",the fgallantryof the man. hut-{uponc'ono '

>>'.fid ration, I-Igfeplied; for) pan-give,>> Stignor Htkin'fiubaew' llmfr u .
ayag'iddgd'hzegzhfigbt ,' 1e; (Mm; alen'e- Infill morning'kwbeh {be}, -- v
evillgbe vy'a'in't,_,fl' , and fire; and themes: flail bury: fewerrt'o}. ,
cambat,C/vitb.._ _0 which Atkins; ,fmfling,=L-rcp1iaajg._flfbgzggjsway .

. Lir'lufe,'3Scigizor-,ffi [ball I fed {and 219425 fierce/en}! '91vadeth '
' _ tb'enremw-Lam {war-172.. __ We- all, anfwered,i.'SEighbt-Mww fig! '. .

" yditr; flirt; 10:; MW eeba-ved warygallmitlyfazgd,ifj'o'zi- are-fifth: '

Va'bje'tajppfroacb' thew-emf?!) 'in- #22" mpmz'rlzge. we 'qpill"-:fgbf fair: -

' ' j'qae 'till' tbm'wezztbmk if: rcjomlmitc'rfl ta'whit,' and ECU-we" tat-i ,

_".,-By thee'brig'htgnefa 9f fibegmcm ti1atniSSfht,we_perc'cived
t1}; Iairagce'jihtjgrcatf, difordgr. about: the}! dim). and wwnd'ed

: men; This made, us changc'pui r'efekmon,'~;and-refo'lve to fan _

. _ ' .' . ., upon

l7-' ' -. . '5 . A

5558 ' Elf;4'N.'D-.zSS,D,.-V;E~N<<TB-UREESv ' 5 -

I

3113011 mm" int-he night, if @cdulq gimhm -orie~yblte;n.;u'ndir;

'w'tefie'd- 'eThis weak-54113 taixqpeppnunifii-'te EUR10,515? hue-om:

1.

E1126{Englifli'z'ia'efiileadin' I :41j,_~.1{du'r'1d;_-;betfixszcenzrthe;.ivobdeeandgphe

: 'Tee'flaei.wc:fiwh?ds..an itiui'ljlib'eifiiogft' {Ofiitheflank firivatel'f EUR03 '
' "L'pljacc' :wbcrd'TthCItbi'ckefi fifthcm we're; =Unhgafd' and-1':unper-. 5

I ' .e'ei'yed,' 'ei'ght'lot us "fire'd among, them," .-_am';l~ ,did- .'drezielfelexeg-

button; and in fhalflfej nfinutefiefterfieig'ht mm: bf, :vuillet .'fl,y,, k1!-
ling and Woundipgfabnndande ofthcm; and" than: dividing "suf-

reivch' into .tihx'e'ehodiee, eigbtja'errqnh-in, 'eafch.-hod"y,~vc~'e:. march;,_ ,..

'4

l

'e'd-rfmm a'hxori'gwhe' t'r'e'c's'r .toj 15155:.qu'ztcetlxndfthefehemv,

1...fgndifig'"fbrth thekg'redtefi.mexts'andzdclgmetiquea TH: favaj-g
't'es he'arin'g a-'difierent noxfc. fmmthreegquartersfi'atron'cc'.

Ithddinthem'tifio'fl corifi'ifibmfbut egmin'g;-in;-fi'ght_jo'f.us, .1151

fly; Volleyoflarrpws,'which,yxr'oundpd.zpoorold'fridafiyqthape ' -.
- - 'p'fly itridid' fi'ot fifov'g mortal." _We' did W'npt.,-_'_bo\yev.er-,- giv'e

-, them a'fspcnd oppcr't'unitylg ,butirufhingjin_amozig-'tbem,~.yvg
' fined three {cw-r41 'way'e,'ahd~tlhgn fell to .woxk'Wi'th' ourrfimiords;

fia'vqs, 'Batehgte;.3'nd the bett-gfid of-jtgm' mufflcetb, 1'5 with ";.a}fn-_
tyZ-hpt" to' bc. refitted: fo' that1withvth'eimofl;d.i{mal'.<<.fcnSSaming

'andf'hbx'vlin'gj'fh'ev had-rehearfe ('0'.- their .Tcet,\to~ffa"y;e. their '

. - - .Iifie's by' a'fpe'gidy'flight. " Nb? mitt wc.~forgC/t' th'eYalotfif-zjfi the".
. -- .zwcgwomenrrto:theyjtxpdf9d>wrim-{5255.5 "4515' 25551553 43%
- gfers ,'_'.k_-illC/d 1r. any'with _thcir"axrewa, and._3galient1y.def_tSSoy_ed;fiSS

I .

verzl '11:"be Mth their hatchets. - ._ .

<<f 111' fighting thefe two battles; 117311515 {6 '11111ch.-.11'1Eed,iiSSaSSt '

5 {1255. am} no;;"then trduble .'o'urfelires' to With: tlie'm .th theif'cat

.5 Tricks, 15571111211 We'thou'ght. they'wdfld prefently pat. 1:0 they; . '
-c'ea'n,{but-treir'happeniug'a dreadful-{term at 163', 'which' coal;

firming all that? night; it not QfltPtQV'eated their. id'y'a'gC, '-.b'13t'

M " :daihtd-"fcirerel Of their. baits _:to 111059 .iegaidfttbdagbeechf313d} '

E 'B'l'lbbeitheiefft' {o'sh'igh'upqn the. {bongihat it. reqtiii'e'dv- ihfin'itefifi

'3 ' tq' 'qe'ishti-.i,fi*mifery5 though -_<'zbli:9.d gt! conqw ;therr1":.byztb;q52 -
. Jarvvacf arms but .0115 OM Indian 11315958 Put them' :o13t of theinpaiufi
gbygdifpagching-them with tharxhatch'etagu At lengthyfcem'mggnig

"I,f:_.'?_ie\VSS_-'6fSSxthe..;r.emairi def; 'bf'the .afifiy,'f..wc found thetn f-le'am'ng'?

labeurybffiefithem pfi'. Aft-cf 91535 men had taken [pint gammy-
{nen't Eng-a ligtlej ~r'ep9fc,'the.y firefolyeC/ 'ea'rl'. _- 'inr the'mmhingtgfi.
got'oWares the'plaeze. of thew landing, :an .fee;.whethegj*.th'e

were-gone Cfi,' akin wfiatwp'ofiafe they remaingdzf [Thism'ce -'

,f '3-'far'ily'LEIed7f'tfi'efi1j3 toth'e Place of-ba'ttlc," where -[eyC/xal_of 111645-253 '

"'3" "'e'W'e'pi'fii'z>> 3 '13???" W373 Pleefihgii'o gensrr namin'da; . -

-: . u~155115thhSSrmain-".rzwhich xeremd'eiaz' imam-2.2511215 51195151.; .
'; 211211115 headmctween the 'tw'ohandfi.' .7;ch,cupgwn,fc'm.i|3g wit/11:5? .

"l

' mmuikctihot-f'ef'theifi,' I ",'c-id:red;'tWei;pigccs tollie' firedgwithif T

1 " .'
. . O
'. (a '

.. 4r,9pSS"bel-l-;'finiord'er to"hiartif'thpm',f"tligthv1re:mightzj>lSSinl'y..;kSS19vir,'t~ .
; gggfibgthefir'tbey hgdjfthc..cqmaic'gb1;,'x(e}nt.uirt;_.gpoth}c'_r' gran-1e; .Or'- _
Wer'b'vitt'edrd,iipiritC/d frCm- 15C/h-an-5ttcmr3t; 11.553150 w might '

abbqrdingly' manage them; -AndSS1:decd,.thc pro eel-ioCkwerv'>> .' the gom' 'do'wn undeif' tliei13.fe'et,"f'and tore 119 "the': 11:3,:- and h"

'(l h"\'VrWrF'7'WW"WV:I-'.I my: . ,'- ' - -'-
I .

01311031}; 301611: nus-o E. ., 159

I
Well; for, no fooner. did. the faya g~es their the firit gun, and
perceive the 1171' (1:190? t'h'e fitcond. but-.gthey hiddenly fiartedt- u'eo'n' "5"
their friet 111' he greatefi' eonfternatidn and when we approach-<2.
ed 1711711111,; 1 am; they! ran bowling and foreamiii'g away up the _-,7:'.
hill into' th'e eoimtifyi .--

" we china rather, at fig'k',' ha'v'e 1171111211, t'hat the weather
had pernfitteci them to have gone. 'off to the fen; but when we cori-'
fidered, that their ei'cape might oeeafioii the approach of 11111111- , ,
hides, to 0111' iitterfruin ant-1' diti'olu'tio'n; .we were very' 11:11 pleh- j ,,
fed- the: .e-ontreir'y hipp'ened . and Will Atkins (who, the "
wo'und'ed, would not part from 118' all' this whil'e) advifed us not' te
let ilip' this advantage, but: elappihg Between {hem 8: their "boats,
deprive -t_h'em' of the capacity 'oi- ever ieturning to plag'i'ie' the/l.

. iflgm'd'lfi I 1720177, faid, he, 2/7972 g7} but 071': objei'h'q'riiyoii ca77':'771rah,"' ' "
which 7:, that tblj'e' drfalure: 1' 177773' '17"! ;'bi'q/l: m;- the <<1.0904771'19. .-
make :icm'jdm,' 722?: the pldfltafiom, an?! ~97! frq'y tbe tame g'oa't: , , ,7' "
an: tbw; c'o'nfldcr, eve 'lmd belterf to 46 with an bundre'dmm 5117/7077:

   

".

. <<we can-EUR511,107 mafia .flaIvisf 0 7'2, W627" re, than with a'7'1_ band.
a

red natioiiit <<17,17an it i-J 7'77: pgflb .4711! few: mag/2117:: from,' .
777175;]: If]? iibdii'e, This advice, and theta arg'uments beiqgap'n? '-
.proved<9f-,,- we' fct fire to their boats , and tough they We've" ,'
{a wet that we Conld n01: bur-n them entirely, yet we made
them in'c'apabie for {Wi'mming in' the fea's. 'Asfoo'n asthe I'm-f?
dians p'ergeivecj wh'a'txwe were doing, man of thoi'm ran mit' o'f

 

_. the Wood's,- in fight of us, and kneeling dyown; pitgonfiiy tried 1 _-;
, o'ut, ,Oa'; 0a,'.Wargmekba. Intimating,IZI-'119pr_>fe, 111215111179-

Would lint (pare. their canoes, they,.,11oiil_d never: troubleiusqv .
agaim- -I" : .u ._. 11.33 , .,_
" But all; 'their complaints, fubnuflions, ani'._ entreatics, vitae>> -".I,' -
' in vain=:. for ,felf-preiervation obli'g gi'ng us to the contrary,,1zSS 4.. f.
deftr0yie37eVe13y-'orieot' them that had e'fca ed the fir'ry3561he o" 1
<<7111. -';.When the Indians pendeive'd this,t "ey yaifed'rY 'a I'unenta- --
ble cry; and ran into the weods', where they continued ran-3'1:
- ginga, houtgwmakmgahe W061i: ring 'with: their lamentauor
I1'ece we {110.11ch have eon'figie-iged, that making their, eteatuxeq;
thus de'fperziie, we Chg"): .at t': .efa'm'e time t'ohave 1,711 11111115-
ciezit gnatd @on' the blant'ationse for: the i'av'aifes, in their <<$7112; .'j: SI
ging 216 wt, gfound Gift the .bo'n'er, deitroy'ed the fa es, "trod 1"L'

A5
.'H
::

 
  

_; grapes. It' is true, we" were alvsi'a'ys able to Iight' thefe' creaturesgywat .;'

but, as they '-w_er'e ftoo iml't, foz' us, 'and 'x'e'rv numerous we7 M
'd- .1111: not gbmit edge, {'01- feai oft'iem,,-ti'1'oxrgh thatstoo 37177191
a'edlefir, the) I having no weapdns 1101>> am materiais t9;- maker"

t9cm; gii'df mdeed, their extremity appeaer 'ii'; alittle _-'I?I'_I'?l'C/$
a ter. ~ \..',_-_-_ - 1~:'-4;3.-.' ' fl .

." Thoiigh tliefavages 21;; already. mentmned ha'i demoed
our. bow-'er,ai'1d all our "corn, grapes, Ste. yet we hat} itilllei't + -

  
   

_ our ftock of cattle 111 the yafley y, by the cave; "711117111111: little? 1';

coin that grew there, and' the glantatio'n of WiIl"_ 111121111 32:!
. _ -.. 111

\' DALE! 'Eng. b (I. Canaliz'dll-.' , ' -._._r ' .v '." .' I
. . , . ; ..

'o "I: _ 7:110 in: sew? e mush-"Kt." '1 1361'

' his :campanions, one-of whom heiri'g "kind-by inn, Earr'dw, ;t'bey,'
"'iikere' new reduct'd' 2kg; tweit' is.it'em'afikabte-.thafit"=th.'is";{xii-3'3 'ttiic'
{anbvfrfifisiho'fcuf the'pboqindiar'igxfitb fiis'fiawfie :z'fiarm'afigede-r . ..
fign'td'murdgr' me:afidlfiy-'epflnufme'n'the' S9mfigzfia, {33'6161333- '
candifipgl was-{o ' {gm wageafife'fip thefi-eibhmdn:"tg',ilxEURi?e='j'ch7e .7 '

famgcemp m: thc"fl1".v-fzner:SSu'_ :1.j:-SSh'c;ifland,.whgxchp'lnglaa-ngjgnj- ..
"(18:13: mm: L {is mahy oji" metififii'wez Could,,-tiSS'l_ fie .h'aidL'fcehcefl'
theh' numbefiiandyrhen t'og'w'e' file hem-made: Rimhv'cskrn' to flight-f,
and 'go' gach' thgfinf'figmto'iive'by'theiv'daily' 4gb01SSfr;'.1..actgiffi= :
Mglygwe put-fucdzhem with our..g'xinsg'atjahwhearibg~ot'fwfi'gch '
they-mere ib/t'crrified,3that t'he_j,'wetlld' 'fzil (goflxhe'pgi'eiti'lg'... '

' Ems? 413,31 "W21 kified'fend- :I'rcm-I'M'ed". 1bm'e' (if. 'tb'mfi; a'rid'-'mafgx >,
more foundsfiereed;tb.'dmm,"fo,tha'fi'omt' h'ear'ta, bagaiz-wjiieigiiei '

. 3:111:15 gihp, dfififueh muembje. ijqflgg'. Azf 143'; Mth'jig'r'eat'cfiifiik

' ' unit-y," rekingzo'ae :ef t1C/mnafi~vegandfifing him-<<with. Mn'dneffs;
&'_tend_ei:~nePSe', wC/.bimigh't hmgtdOId'Bt'iday ,wbe't'alk'ed'xoffiim'>>,
fidelihimfiewrgqedwetwcmid be fO-'th'cm all, givingtheia' o'eiir'x -

hp-e'lam}PS5'plaethnd.}iC/e in, and tpfefem-nfourifimmem, 9?:va 5.

"dad? they"matr1SS1.kee-pwithi'n fueh'behgds .asflflgenld fbe";eflY=ot'fSSelfi "

them;.:'an:fd net',.d;'> firejn'dice 10' "others pas 1/313; Tait-:Efie,."e{?xfl' ~'

--PSnfomgyaur cornfiymimi'of PS33531; daikbfif 12.59 fillvm'et'figeejeflfig -

  

\

v; Wfifimqfl'mijfifltwfiez-f'r - A. ~ _., - ;.-
" "if" The'pachrcgcgla'rcs, wing-01:22:17 humbteef gbcEng-'Ered'eegil: ;
'f faabnuh chm-fem; 3.0ij :chwdwk 666%,."aizefefifeegfi" '
'. 1):; Baggedifomqud;.-hc'r'cnp<m we ~feat twelve Bjifiiiflefign '
' stoyE-nglgmm'apmyg 'arm'ed,"together-withQJF-xfigyggefl
three? IEURndign_'_.flaiSSza_ were loaded with a 'ler'g'efiiiantififi'bfbiififlv"f
and"r1536;fakesfisseiili; thrcEUR"'iivc 'gcatsfis'hngtehe PS509?- Judging; .,
' bgt'ug "gtdtfed mafitkdewnrogzthe fide,of the, hill; ,filxe'fFa't'tiifl'tjhez-
. 131131133134)er mahkfimy, 19d shite: firovp'elfl'lrhflrft "fiig;}a_1t}PSii.eEUR I;
" _ . Yer prefpafjagisheyond 5 tfi'eirl'bnunds,j Twherel afithiudely fliefir ,
-- ',432tc1xang1'happjly>>.'rema.in'p mid-.thrkz'wcftzow-abdj'f'flififfim '1'
' {hemilarfilfh'cy hard goxxfiued to a neck ofjaad'.'zbei1t'a'"i:iiiqafid'3};
' bglf'bmadggtand three enfmtr in "length; 'on'tbevfonefietifi' {30%. " ,
. neg-9i; tgaiiagnd. V the fez; bring? bcfere,' and; tel-gay; mdfifitdih'E;-; '
i " fbflgmdjheha} i';f_t?C/e; fgpm'fhe'zppeai'agc: of cages sieiiid iride'eei if
Wettincoumtfirmem new: mid? an)"thi-Hiiry'ieffiefi'i'i'eififii-'i =1W12. .2

' ga'mfith'eri twc'lttc-Ehetchetsg and?.-threc;-eY=,f0fi!' kfii"85;5?"heEUReg;:

' taught {Egan to._b:':1'aSSd.hurs',i . make; wo'odem fphdekg "151w 3cm" ;

.-
a

' ~7-M3.kSS'zbre'aPS{-}.-.brs'edg-gtme gegtsfahd-iuilk'thcfm, ."eegilflgfiife'ngaj;
- _ ' mgke: Mick-.61? 'ygfik, igpiuhiefiifmnfi ingcnudil'flY3C/SShfefiSS3fihEURjifi3fif'>> .
* fim'gglyputflo as, @3ng "made. (hemfel'ges feve'ral' (nifett' -n'cc<.,f-'- ,e':
' $flkSSSSfiipffli~fidd3mBSffiaikEt's; fieeesfibirfij-Cagee'; "211d? eu "1-53,. '
' "33' filfqefibijfie,h'SSds~am ,cdgche'e, nelefs ltfefuil theid'de'ig'fikffi} ;- j.'
'SSndc';iqw_t,heyrme'flle :mofi;'~_inaoce1:;.,an&in'ofiinfiyei'e're'at'ifi'g's; ;
gfigtjageven'flwete fidemd; in' that wdrld'; waiting, 501th 3:533:53
. . dumtofnakethemz Daficm ' '->'C/ -_ _.,_ ' I-f . .5 ., "."L'C, - :,V'x'..."'..t'.:'-:.33-
V. ' u ."Tiih's:

4

'x

\;s: ' - ' ', '3" "41/ .

. ' 16.2,... '1. ': 17.; ,mm '4" Div mu v'xnfis-

' "_ Thus, kind Sir; h'm'r'e. I gii9en. you; aeeefding to my"'abi;

' lityg-aa-impxrtial'atcoyat; bf the,va'rigugtraqfizfetibgt that'hevei
harp "wed in the; ifia'nd .fin'ce' your; departufe31-td'thiyday'j; a'hd

; . wefiwave';g;e_ef ye'afo'n tota'ckpowlgdge {he km'd' prqviec'nce of
Beam; in Our merciful . delivering; thc'fi .Ye'tl' I ipfgcet' 'yo'mf-

- lit-tiekingdomgiypu,_will find hit-Effie Iit'tledmprq'rementHQMf ,
figckq inqreafed; and your--kfpb'eets fipggnjemied; $120 that fiom."
a: defelgte iflgnd, a this. was beflerefyour: womler'ful ctelivereh'ce'
ppoh;it_,.hege-is- amiableprquee't of'its'fiecoming' a" po 319.119, and

. \Itlve'lltgove'rhedlittte kingdom; to your 'immor-ta tame-and

9! .x' ' -.". . -.'_-'-'.-'- f '-
, ' firfl'z'zereis n'offidubt :tgfupfidfe but that the pfeceedihg'rpiatipn- _i

, 9ft mj-feitfifulawanimd'Was'vei'y hgrse'ablegj'afidg no. Iefs"fnr.=-'

: priflng'tdxngezfltp the ypnng, ni'ctt,'and"toall' ivh'o h'ea'r'd' it_:'.nor-
-w,er_e,thge1'e';pkoplelle_ts pleafe with thofc' nece'fl'ary utenfiljt' that
I breyght; thfem,"1heh its the knives, RENEW,-hfpadesflhwe'ls;

rind; picksa'gtee,,~.with Whig: they now adorn-their habitatio'ns': .

' ' So muchhadthey addi ed themfclves to.wic"k'cif-ws'.brk, prom;

.3ejdnby.'tb_e in 'enuit'y of the. Indians, who aflifted them," that"

f When'g'layiew'e the Edgiiihmcn's'bolodies,_.they'~ fee'med'at'hvdifmu

ataneejaa lthjmgh they had: livedfilik'e bees ina' [gist-fr (91', 6W1!!-

3 --Atkins, who was noxv'be'cezmea, weryfiinduflrimwAndlfoBet

. >>-',.n'ga,n,j,hadfmade him'feife'teflt bfbefkctwtarktound the outfide ;.

' the'iWallg'xgere' .wo'xjked 113m; a baker, lin= pannels'oc :flmn'gfl

{qfiates s51?z tlli'ctygtxvo in. number; inaudingflabout feven':{f.eet'-_

hygifl;:"'-=.i_n the (middle Was another, not :ab'eve twe'ntyl-'twau

' - paccstrgunfi; but mucBi-fircngfl bffilt,' bengLbf'afi'Qetag'ongtL.
fox-mg'Eand-"in' the. eight corners'fl'0'9d eight it'i'bng 'pofl'st. ro'unq',
th'e';"tcp';foPS'-'f= wfiibh h'e'lfiifd'.,l\.i'fongl pie'ces', pinned" witfi 'wbod'exg,
pinegfryxfigigvhich he ra'ifeda Pyramt'd"fqis;the z'joef; mighty prefe

'11,; .I'gflhre'ybu, and joined, "verywen tdgetherflwith' iron'.

. . fifpimtwhigh; he; 2made;_himfel_f;;'=fox' he had made him-a;forge;.

' with-ayateofi woodeq'beHmbs'agd charcdal for bis'm'ork, form: _ '
ingfian'vanfil tilt of onesof the'irOn , Cr'ows,' to" with, upon,
and. ip-this;manner,_ Would he. makemimfdf-- hdb'ksk fizpl'es,

' '_{ipikC/5-, gbqlte,' rend '-hiii'ges.' ;. Afte'r- ' Hebad' fiitchedvj-the that at-

h his ignerfmpfcute-nttgbe-ma'deit to. firm between the raftets' with
'batketfwbrk';f-thatching that we? again withtr'iee-ftrawi, and 0-1
;'.__ .vflephetba'flar'gc. leaf - of-a 'tr'ee, thatuhimhbufe-Wa's a's dz")? ap'if-it' ,
Midfieeq 'til'ep't or flaked; 'I'he-o'uter-eircuit'Wachove'rediagram

: 1%97103 Quite-mum! this'i'nner'appartlm'ept; laying: lbngmifrets ..
frogtkfihiftydwo angles to thc'rtb'p peas 9f the ign'er- home; '

pggbngt. twenty .f_c_,'et,- diftantgfo' that .th'erewes'edpacc likea wa'?)

j".-Bct_xgeen1the. ._ou'teri 'and inner' \x'all,'ne'ar,tWenty' feet in 'lirz'ezgdthg'- .

-,,'-Ihe '_if1'neriPSplacc be partitioned efi' with the fame, wickerfiwoxk'y

_- dividing *it intq tfigty neat-.__apautmeat's every one-of whit!) h'adfaa -

. door," hilt-into' the entry of the main tent, and anothertintq
thefgaoe and walrthat was round it not only-convenient for-Z ' '

'- I'Ctt'catrbut for family 'neccfl'ari'eah- Within the door'of. the cm-
' may;

\ ' ..

- wmmmm tar-x flew. " ' :53:
':'jf':';reii-c'lSS, ',t-hex9eggSSwgia-a'pafi'a9'de- disgeb'y PS17533: dog: 951m inner.
oufe~';-' .0?) eight-@433: grab anwicker.partgt19n3..and?a wonky
tihichirou" go into-Krona tweqt'yetm .feetv w1dg,'-angSS, agent

I

>

' bitty gag>>, and'thrqizglt. bat mm and. her Oila'figa'zljer Aengg'hto'; -.
'33),1hht'ih ,thz'oigtenzei'uclejwere temha'ndkme doom, fix. 9 ' '
vfijich: were onfySSto' be coinc'at Ethsafig'ha thefapagtmznzs, 9f, .ghg'
'M,erfttent',fi- fervin'g 'ae'feltiring 'mgms- to 1th: pefpcetiyg regain,
'B'e'rs-of the iqacr,jexrcle,.ane.fou'r'large' warehouffis, mama; ' _

in tlxrbugh-ghe 'ainothufg. two (in-either, ,hand-'of theyafi'gggmafi.
. lied thr'oirgfi'the outer. door' '70-'be .inner map In.' {ham-2m;

' gfiiiigmuld bi; built-'mmve.iugeriioufiy,'. keg; m~z~te'ngat,"or 1.133?"

"bctgeii'bmveniehees ~92:.11331' here lived the rhrie. famygeg; wjg- - '

5 25mm. h'recempanidn', their wivce'indzchildreflg 'agjd-.,tbSSSSwiSSr .

aw'dfisheid'eceafed," IAa-t'o religipli;_~thp"incm 'fcldomutapg'bt; "
itheir-wnrcse the 'knawi'gdg'e of God; any more 'thnn'the {New '

,

.fcju'flcm' Bf. iwear'mgTbTyF'lfis-name. ' The" grgatdt .-.i'xnpro?C/}hg_nSS:

Eeiryvivce:ha'd,f._3eas, {they taught thegl;_tb. .fpcak' 'Efigliflififqe'gi, .
hibequderfiondriWV'"-' % - ' '

'L -. .ane of zheinchildreaneh Khbve r13"?C/3f5.ojd;f'gSSSS'" .

Were-allifiuitfiifi Taming]! Land-I think the bebokbsm'ate'giwi
mygbiguof-heraagm,chug; . .>> . . -- -_ .~ .
' When-1' inquired of maSpaniauds'. abant" theirgircumfignwfi'

, Wfie'ihmmg (the. Images;- athby'told'; me, tbat 455;} .fleMdorgcl'f '

jb'gm elfuu indefim'rfi-rceleohing tabtmfelsvesf qifigprnaiidgflifcm- ~
#1:; rifle, ~1-bate/2admo mean put into Main bmdg. ane .cgzgfex ' ..

~ 'ejleillt.{j'_"m1fl.IOblt'.b:QflleWd; w bdga' >> ,Tb'e.y..owned;.\tio'wmet.-

D

11:]; ., . ~
Hypvcrb, _ . . ' .

.lhat theywsre-ainrthe-iwroug-to.thili "fag-'andtforzxeflxifing.tlifl'af- ' .' '

frfiafieeot'nat 16150:: ofl'Ergd "for their {uppontpa'a well'gs futfifg;
'eleiiyarmoey co'nfefl'mg that .grififuwasga mofi .infigmfiqmtmgf-
flan; fag Littlookgd - upon'.;hing.se* as: within'it remedy/"81.1.51: flying; ' :'1
Qb,_b_ope;.qf -things to'com'S; an; whighfivggi'fiegi .thm-Jngtgflge; .

\

. .. .. ..' ' V a". " , {was '. ' l . . . i. ,0
<<'1; '1'; Mupoufiltfp fittmzzbkriy. '2'; ,; . ' Ky ' ...'

. ' .

' ' .4 I: tp~.}.za:v: your truffle 49

1

_',i {mt did._<<his,n'cm3rik9;end here;- Qfi-mgking, 0535313546" PS13130}!
amy- impwement, :and m, m 6011.6an at" *fi'flh'fliijfinimm
ngrfcathzn theirs; he told mat-bat finglifhtrlfin main-war 911.3"
filters", "greater, pretence; .qumindcthanzthgfej'.qf"'auy (2:116! gammy
that he shadlmet'xzcith ;.~anC/itbatfihcy'emd"'1_hic"~.ngLygixqfe ' $59935.
itegg.' worn. imam in H-the: florid-41:9?Ifi'mgslesti qdcr- Qmesfpttumc
Mmen 't-hev .alandcda-m ongghe {augessfthqufaundehtrF-flfiflcypue- '
lvifionexccpt- hcquul'd'mxm-Qanmhalapihere sheing,~-I~,iit '1'; (may! .

.

imoots anchher- ',mith'elituekbmtp'siein.-thzmi,iiand;pfiwhichkSSbe

\

snakes-gave? -the.m"?b.nt..a1C/t;$a;fpar~ingly-.=f tmy-i'wge mm" '

' <<6%? took-t0~-~.ciirilize.am-Emur the <<favagesokbm ,ineiaiwk- .fr

it"? Amplfi M .szmmm.(r)~sbe'ghgirfirigflgggfifihghqrggms '
WMWing-tfifihfisr'bbfiw mg?! gamma; . gxcrygrfifi.
' ' - ' -- -' --s- . << an"

s
\_ f.~' .
164 L .I' F E A fin/n DY=v<<E'=N'.1fiUgR:Eins-t

and many ddiy'be'u'zg'enfii'dy- 'without'feod; the-lvfavages them-
being more'in'dolentjend, letsu'devouring; .th'afih thol'e'whq; hadz'
better {uppli'ee', When :they 'w'engnut to battle they-were, ,obf
liged to emit 'thefelpeoplepin one of-whicllr pyfiaithfllflsl323' .:
nia'i'd Beifig'takeh', had like to have, been devouredg, ~They:hag1 .'
lo'fl: their-ammunition; which rende'redftheir 'fiae1armffu1816'313- "
n'or' could they ufe-th'e b'Ows- and arrcstjtbat- fwere glean the-Inga
{wan-while the armies were at- a diftance, theyfiad' no ghanccr .
lbutvvgh'en elote,' then' they cb'uld' be'of fe'r.vi<':e-.w1th 1181353": 8:. 1
ihvzggp'ened (ticks put into the muzzlesQofiitheinl mgmets, g'fI'hey '

_ ma e" themfelves targete of'xjmo'd covered with; the flaipe afiwd'd-a .

Ibeefl's ;- andltwhe'n one'happ'enedste beknock'ed "down,;.the rel}; ,.
df'the'cempmy "fought Over'lfim 'tillghe recdvefe'd :' and <<cheat. '

. figu'dih'g cl'ofe in'a.=~line,'- they. .wou1dmakc the): .wathhroug-h.
fa thematic! Images-<<At the return of their. friend], wile-they;
thought hadjtgeen entombe'd in the'b'0we13'of their enemies, their
j'oywa's inconceivabiem Nor'were Lh'cy ,le'fs/{tirgrifedfat- the '
light of'theloaves pf bread I had5 {cut themrythiugs'jthat they.

' had not-[cert for'i'everal' years, at the-fame time crgfling and;

3'_ =Blefiit'ig' {ti/as though-it wa'smanna fent fro'mJ-I'eaven :'b'ut'when
they gnew'flxe errand; and perceived. the beat Whichiwas to
fetiretyith'em'to-the'pex'fofi and" place from whet-19': jgch' relief '
carn'e,~-this (truck tigem with fuck; a furprifei'ofjay asmade'ibme
'pflthemftfaint away, andipthers burftlout into'tears-x .- ' - I _ _

g-Thiqi'was 'thqjmmmary amount that-I h' __d,'f:'o,m';-.thcfm-E I5 ;
firallfn'owjhformfithe reader what Ienext'did .f'Or them,f'a'nd'ihi
what cpneitioh I'left'flzefi. ' >As.we were alhef opinion that". '

'tbegfavagee-wouldsfcarce mum: them any mor'e,1fo'r_We had ~119- '

afpprejxenfions on>> that ieore.f ,1 told them 'I-'Was Come;p'1,irel_$"_'

to'efihbiifhflandnot foxemoverthem ; arid upen'thatl-decafiaa';.. _
had-{not only brought thefiwneceflaries; forcenyeni'enc'e 2mg,"
6efenqe,- but alfo.grtificerSS,'.a,nd other perform, both for theingpfegm 5
cefl'ary- employm'ents, and"'to add to their nu mbeg. Theywer'ef'

' altogether when I thus talked 'to them-7;. and before I delivered-
fc)' them'tgh'e firoresl brbuebt_,.1-aike'd them ,On'e by one,_if.'{hey~
they .'had v entirely? faggot, - their firfii. animo fitieg, wOuldjehgage
'in't'ne' firiet'eft' Mendfifipw; and {bake hands with one another I
On this'Wilefiim, [withgabupdance of good-humane; {at};
13:wa Wfiiow' (mug-b 'to wizttl'e', fbem' all/Falzer;..q:2'afiielzeznip3?
(mpg/3' f9 maepi 1'qu all friarid: : a: for _&ihSS/EURlj', . I): would live ;
mid _dPSe._:a'moqg tbc'Ifly: owning 't/mt wbqt.' wk Spaniard: 1644' '
qoM'.;b'-..birpSS-bC/'3 "orwrt 'm'kd bumbur bad'enade berg/[70y f6?" tbe'n'a ,

. ifi-desffler. had'the18paniards occafion to juitifiv the-mpmceedingr '~

to me '; but/they told'me, tbarfnce' IMt'lr._Afki;z:. bad bebavve'dj.

' . Nmfig'f'fl aeqliantb in fight; and 'at'otbtr ti'mufl'o'wed fuel: a re; '

gqr'd-td 7b}; comr'zion intrr'g/l qf them. all, 'tbeyb'adjmt onlyjbrgotleixi

qfi-tbaz'm'fm p479, but; Iboegbt be 0143/>> a; mac/3 t6 5e #190414 twixb- .

<<rim imd fieefflimfei a: (my git/Jeni, wbic'bvbey {Mi/W .eyv'zizafing'ih

:-.:: -.~ '-- ' _ .45" .-_.im,

s
a

' ,QF.1_{9',BIN1s..QN _.;CR.-.U:S O'E.-' 1:65

,.IJin_i'next in conigzzand'to't-be'gom'mar : v and tire} mq/I heartily amp,
tread -tl:e-acctSS/ioz2 pf gi'vi'fzg .fne tbi:fi1emfl,tfliC/and,fbnt ibcj
$521214! new? [epamtertbc'ir inter-y}; qgaizzm: fang as, tbcj'liq '
::;;-'Afte1f,thefekind declarations offriehdfllip; we appbint'ed an
fpfrus to 'dine 'together;the.pext 'day; upon this 1,"cau'1'ed th'e'

. '. imp?! cook- and hns mate. tO' come on ihdre for that ppfp'dfe,' tp' .-
. aunt in' firefling' our dinnei'; We Naught'from ghe, 'lhip (in; ' ,
.pie'ces of'beef,'angl four .'of pork,.toge'ther mm 031: puneh bqwl',"

. ,and materials .to fill it ; 'and 'in'particulatj lgavethem' . te'xfh bot- '
ties of, FrenCh claret, and'ten of Ehglilh hcefr,' whidh. ' was very:
acceptable "to than; The 'Spaniaraeiadsied.to ou'r,_;f.eafi, ,fiye.

' Whole Iie'da, whichhe'ing' matted, threepf them wferei'ent'a's
' fiefhmeat-tojhe faildrs on board, and the other two>> we, ate"
_ curfel'ves.' After] olur, merry/and infiocent'featt w'gs 93/651 .
_began to diitrib'ute'my cargq among them. ,Ifirft, Ilgave them
' linen- fufl'lcient' to ,mak'e ever'y ohe tom- .ihirts', and"a',t".
.the Spaniard's requett. made thegh upffix. .'Ihe thin_ gnglifih';
fiufl's '~,I,a1101teQ'to make every one .a' lfgbtflooat;likefla.'
, fmck, agreeable to gheblimate, and left them-men's; quhnticy.as":,,
'to' make -mo'r_e gpon their 'deeax ; as'alfo pu'mps, (hoes, hatqsf
..a.n'd figefiki'ngs. ;: ie nqt to be ,txprefl'ed the; pleating ietisfaetien
. "which (at, Upon the. Eountenancea of: thefe {p'ooxg men; "when-i
theyperceivedfihat'care 411001; of them,- as if): had been a c'Q'rh} _
moi: father to them an'; and'th'ey all; efigaged' dever'.to._leay~e '
-' ' the'iifland, till I gavemy, ebnfent for,ltheixf._departure. I then} ',
.pxefented to' them .the- people} brgug'ht, viz;' .the tailor, ~.
imith, and the tw'o earpehters; btit 3'1): Jackr.of-'all$trad'ee'_wa's' }
. the molt acceptable prefent I couldmakexheme 4 My tailor fell" -
/ immediately 'tqaww'zoyktand made eyetyf. one ofthem amm;
'afteryhich, he learned the"fwo.men' how to few" and hitch,
thereby-to ib'icome .th-e. ihpre 'h'el'gful to their hufbapds'. 'Nei- .
.theewe're the earpenters lefs ufeful, takingjmp'ieceg their'qltim-
13* things 3 hittead of which they made, eoh'vcfiic'nt and. hand-
1'ome tables; ftools, bedfteada. cupbbard's,f1qeke_r3, axnd,fhglves. .
But when I carried them 'to_Iee W1": Atkins's' "balketrhoute; '
they owaed they. never {aw finch a pieceo'fna'tural inge 'uity be-. '
we: I-quure, faa'dphe pf the ca'rpenters',_ Ibejgga'n. t at built
#213; bu}, 120. need a}? u: ; -A;you.izeed, Silt, dq'natbihg bargain/Jig: .

toolu'. . . . a: V e. V . ...

_ . "VI fdivided' the. fools amchg- them in this ma'nnegf. t'o everfi: ' '
impn-J'gave'a digging fbade, amoyelland a rake,j'as_ having 1:39
,harrpws or plung'he; and to'-cvery feparate piaee a pickex,'a
Grow, a broad .ax,' a'nd'a faw,'..with a (tore for a general-'{upplyg'
mould-any be .broke'nor worn but. . I left'l'hem'.."alfo riailSS,,(tz'|'-' ,
plea, hinges, hammers; chifl'els, knives; fcjfl'airs, and all forts of
tbols & iron w9fk; 5&1-or the ufepf tthEmt-hzgairc themfih'ree __ .
' tens of unqu'ught iron,,for a, 'fispply'g and as- to arm's; 9nd,"
. v. . . - _' ' ' " " ' ~' . ammu'nghoq,

UI" "dbzided into'thrg'e colonies: <<ark. .'Pho'fe Thaw??? iiO'WLIiIC'Q': .-

I

x " .Bm'fiow I'thinki't'high time-tojpeaigof the yefingFi'epcb.-SSjEURie:?
16f the order of St: Bencdiflj;Whtjiej'ugficious' andpioujs dummy _

9V V . d ' ' '
' ' ' ' ' . I

PS36 ' 1:": 1m AND fi-'D'fie'fir'x' big-PS75

,". '
.+ -

emtfihniti'ong sizitere'd -the'm' gvg-d to- 'ptutufinig ;f-C/},'=-'-aSS~1C/geg,SSm

'v'e'q'iaipa,fufiici-eatlitflc'army-ag'tiinfl .albopfibt'erhwhit'i'oefirerg; 1.? .. ._

: . _' me 'yonng =ma'n':( whofc" m'btfim'LVwae unfotuliiaiely'f'taf'vr'gglitjqfi.
death); toggther. wish me .ma'id, za .pig'ms 2951MB} <<19:2:ng
your'zgt we'ntan,' feeingf'fihiqgs fo' melt Ordered'onfithr'adfojjffi

- '~made'them accompany mafgndi bobfiaeting-'Itfic "EM xisi'eacefi-Z

ffion tag: {0 far a'voya'g'e-gs to th'efE'afi'jmdieb, t" 'e'YFBo'th' dgfis
nfed fo'f'me',' that l" \vdum- have them 1mg; a'ndjfientgr'lithemgi
among my fubjkftgy .T-bislzi'cadily agrengi Qte, 'pr'clgringthgmeai
"plat,;of.grotmd;.'on which w'cre-'three-litflc"hgyi'eSficrefi'g .3339.

l

'Nironcd with bafkebwdrlggpallifadbed iike'Atkin's'e,'a'nd 'gdjpi .. .;

"ing to fiis- aizt-ation.- 'Sd'comrii'cd'were the'n" tantiei'fhfitf'egiq" '.

'urinkiqg. " At ~tjxia1ime flie'tw'o Englifbmfen.aggmbv'gdflg'exfirxfhgg
SSbitation zto' their fijrmer place; .40 that-mow *the fflhfidgwas

fiiogedg feeen'cny That 'of WV"! Atkins; w'hefc-t exe-fiL'ej'c fQfiE'

_.

ffamflics of rEng'lifhmengj with 'fiheir Wives-'3 god 'clzrifdrer'xgt 131$ '

.....

'fgggges, 'Who-weie Rave; '; 'the'1tafldr;"'fmit1),g{SSvho t'eri'w'Ied :alfo'f'a'a;

lat-Jade's: -'~'-I~h_irdly, my: Chief china); Which 'cphfi'fi'e'g bf'tfii;

"Spaniards, 7With ,Old. Fiiday; 'Who' 41'!" "remainedatn'lypkl '

'liabj'ntatibn, which Was my Capital .city,jen,d'filrEURlSS gummy .

fibre finch. 'a'r.metnopoliSS,--it-_new *bgin'g. hfid'inr'tq dbfcurg'agg'rqgegi
$131.13? a=thonfand men might have ranged--thg.:i{1and a month," ~

' .'

'-a'nd';lqol;cd-'pt1rpofely'for itywfibout-sbei'ngabl'efofihd itdtiojtgg}; '

5th: isfianiarrh. 'hzd enlar'zecii' its-boundariayheth'htithwmnat .

within, 1n alm'oft'fixrprisixjg manner. '- '

\

'fes,,-upon'fundny occa'fibng, merit? 333' .cgraoxdimr ' :obfpfigatign ,5
'mqpacan: .hipybemg a Bank ~22pi'3 prie'ft, {pr-'6; mgis-'giiveivgfi-
fencegto- any. _df my-rgadersg' W'htfittherhavc-'rhn affin-ahge freq):

. fig; 1fli'ea't'rhe was: -a' perfon (if me man: mtxrxeoqsiififpdfitiQn,-,

{tatten'sive c'h'ar'ity, 'an'd exalted fieyy His arguments; were '31:;-

{Ways :agrec'abl'e Ato -1'ea,an,; and hisr_,conve'rfation-thp 33933;;39-1
"ggpga'blg- of any patio>> that I nad cyer'yg't me; will 3n..my;l;fC/;
:u. . 19573;, 'faiddhg' to me; one :danfinte, finder fie'dva'; -tho'1ame .
kings cigr'fiinghis break, you bu've mfprilygfizibed my '15 a; wan-.64"
_ inmmmg- by: 53 go +1231 Engage,- :bg'beg. knjwfmefl'tlzaqup 3'5
3391.3.of.free.,,tonmeIfatiavx,.-=Ir-rbink'1'; umjidgtj, ~ 43- why prof gqn: "

K .

{fiblige

~_,'&no_<1q1C/agfe' :cvf-fime ' Cat'bslic -' dqflrinc,'.necfjitrjftb- filvvqegibgg} 54nd?

jug; tbg/E'p'g'ople: are mule}? yaur5',t'nznied:'m: gown-mmmt'y, 571.37%--

'iitudgjiflfig aheldgcan, formv'bb't 5011 {them-done fin)"; 'E/bflfl"

lefefi 1:6- 'j'artbe'r gain". in. religion, than what flail. ;pcrit- jaw-
.. ' , - - apirobafioz,

.f-'-me,'-io "fam' <<whal- foul: :l-xaiz'fi'by firingiigq PS12ng to,.;C/PSpe' _

' fd>/PS_ttho3j'n ha raffoogn-apair'tltoilwg'ein; whileuthg'middlejt'ph'tifieg-._ '.
, mot ohly.th'cn: fiere--houl'e,-,' =bixt their .placc' .fof-.'c'atm_'gggg'al

I"yhid'ow'and'hei-'.c!1i)dren'SSv'tliejyoungg--zfian and meg-"mam; @139;
'by thew", we made invite o'f- before .c'mr 'depamijltefthkg - .

3; iuifmith ind m 'ot-hcrmeelebraied' " In 'ca'lle'd'j ibkefife f '
11.3 Y .- 'Q --'._-.v-." . ,....'._.,. . V..,._ 1 . V,.,,,-,.,'._. ..., .9. . .. . "Arr-fr ..,.

- ..o*-r_< KO 3 1 N:s;o N- ,cn U spur, =1 67 '

'apprpbalion. 'Be'ingvif pleafed wiLh the moldefiy -of his ~9ng

' "r1age',_l' told-him h mould not-be wo'rfe ufedfbr bdngmf a dlf- ,

' 'fereht peflhasion,jif:upon that-very acCountywe jdidmot differ"? '

fiein'fa ofliaith, n'ot decent in a. part 9f the country'wheresthe?
pdhr jIn'dia'ns (ought to :be infirueted in the kri'owledge'of'th'e '

ttpie God, and his 'Senflefus Chrift, "To this hejteptied',

that c'onvelfati'oh' mi'ght e'a'fily'be feparefed.from difputeg"; that V

- he: Wouigi jdifcwrfe with' me rather;as it gentleman "than a-reii- -

' giqh's but'that, if we did'enter upon religiOus argu'lment'st i190};

' my..desiring the fame, I'would giveihimhbert'y V'to eefe'nd hrh
o'wfi ppincigles. ' He 'farther .added, that he' Would do' all that
became h-im-'in his office, as apriefl: asv'well as: Chriftzen,'to_ '
'firoeure the happinefs ofyall that were in;th'e Ihip._:, that though.- '
"hencould pot pray iWit'n, he would 'pray' for us'on all deg? -. .'

;<sion's yam; then'he'told [me fevega'I extraordinary efvents" of hLB
life,.,with-m a few Years p'3ft_'-; but partichiai'iy' in this Iaftg...
whieh Was theI-moi'c 'remarkable :' that,'in rhis-vo'yafge,'he had;

_. ibe.,misfortune-to,.be five timesifhipped'andfunflrippe'd': his firfi: , x 7

'zejeaign'wastdh'ave gone to ,Mattinieo ; for which, taking {bib

'at;Stg,-Malos,- he 'was forced , intq Lifbon ~-by'ba1d' weather, the

-veflehu.nhing aegrband'lin the ' mouth of the 'Tag'u's :- that

from thence he'went-onboard a Portiz'guefe fhipl- beans! to the

Madeiras,' whefe malfter being but 'an ifidifiz-rent' mariner; and.
opt of hiereekoning'they'Vwere drove" to -Fia.l, Where 't'e-Bing >
their c'ommedity, which was ebra,' the? refolved to takeih their
loading at -the"Ifl'e of May,~and--5to fail to Newfofmdlahdi; 3t
Ahehankepf which; r'x'feeting a French {hip' bound to" Quebec,

'in'gthe'river-of Canada, andtrom thence to Martinigo, in this -

.fliip'he embarked; the- matter of which dying at~Quebec,-'

.-that' quage 'was-'fiifpended~; and la'fily, {hipping -himtel_t'- for,

<<Ffienegi; this 113% [hip-was deltro'yed b "fire; asbefere has-been": -

'reate.,.f, - ' *. v'

. '~.' 'At this'time'We talked he further; but another morning he. '

' "chance to. me',$j'u'ft '23- I-'was going to visit'the' Engiithnianfs

' "cgbleny',v. and tells.me, that as'he -knew,the'7proi}:erity ofth'e'
magma-my principal desire, he 'had fdmethmg'to commune,
Cate agreeable to. my design, by 'which' perhaps '12: might put'

' "it, {more-than he yet thought it Wash-in theiway'efthe'ben'e-
"Qietipn of--heaVep. Haw,>> Sim-:faid I', in'a'fiirprifg 'are-'ewc riot

gain-{be <<wry: qf G'cd'S' 611%;ng, -afle'r all_-tbe_/Zv figna/prowiglcmex,

' and .de/iwranpe:,- qf Q'ubieb you bww lJad fang/J an; afinfle relay _'

' flame" - He replied, ISSZoge','_Sir,' you. are in the qbayfiand tb'a'tjoutf

_"g'oqd :(Ie/z'gn will fire/pair but flill tbe're' a'i'e fizfiefi'zimmg' jzdit'
.'tege'i'tl' a'r'e ' riot, equally rig/2t"C/'n 'tfieir 43in: ; chairmen-fiber,- I be?

.13"): jbn, ,Sir, that rig/Jan; byvbi: crinie," remegiedf God": .Hgfli'rigfi .
'f r 0'" '5" camp if")? Children? of- firm-l} tbat'i'bozzlq'b'flx amid-"1"

V "Wiriqube're 'em'irry'..PSmrocmt,' ya't tbtfylwei'eme therobjec'i: of di'vir'z':

'ffwfizgeggzmjud bera'tbejwezget qf bi: fiyni/Izmmfaetdrdinglysse

I

v I

, .t
pm).
.

- ' '. 1
. I
\

11176.8 _ LisF-E 213.19.,>> 'aflvtfiaflz-2:U=PS*ES . '.

.r'. . , -' . I '> .-"

. , go {candy was I; touched;Twizhlzthiadifcchr-flf.'i;'t,nd fiflgfififizd - .

. ' Mix-h '4-1zl1,a.'t.'gm):n't'piery_._''--t!fi.'i1'r7SSixfla'x;C/.r.iSS'('l3.113;ise fouls; that: 'If'cfiefir'jfi"
",bim- to accompany: meggdjhe; .Engli'fl'zmefizsieplamfiiqfiag Much .'
$2,323, very,,g12d' _pf,;by._r_t'af9'n thC/yfyC/C/C/~3hC/ fiihgeeijo'EWhafc .

_ .Jie gefigneditb ditEORf1b{;SSiithvfflfifibQflffi -'=add;avhilg;1ve-ylgllSSs

-' ' .cd'iefi tozefhemze began-191$ t- farming mafinrr.;:':- -- i-' < 4%. 5 W'- .
.'9'<<SSir; 'iajd. ne,' 1' mm rcpfifefs 't "as'aigr'c at fiflfiggfiihefi'tfi at'iv:
vsdifem cc if! it'ever'al .do'ehr'in'al <<articles. "of re'hgion -; agbin' finely I
"both of 'us'a'cknptvledgt;'.this,- that. there is z-quyE'Wiio rltavi'rig
v' f-giVCgXP-JHP ,fome {tated flfies' forfmzrutervice;arid-obeeliczacernge'
Sought notpwilliqlzl'yang.knOWixtgly to Mil-pd him; sight": 21172112;

., .. Lgleci'ing'flwhat he has egm'mgx'rand', or thy;.doing;_:jSSvihat.315915.33- '
'gfe'ribizldep,-3sThes'trutih:efirer chrifiiah ems, thatwefi~=myme .

g}.,C/-;_prefumgtnuufly. gins." again ,5-Godfs cqmpxathIhegA'lmigh'ty

.r'*-ithe'n \ntbsitaifl his: h'dfin'g'from-himsatvemsaosl man tb'exer -
'50" ".00sz certainly ~~t0- pzsvent Inch}.negl'eet-eogiorfinr'egainm'

_ . ._G.od 'iandr-hig ;qdmm_anfl$,??".;1,thanked theLyptxfigprieit {zit-ey-

' jepxeaingfiigxeax aeonigem' "fin? -1131 .gandz.dC/fired'bim.-xtofi explain .,

. ' .thgitfgacsiguiax's pf? What the -h.mi.'fobPSemgd-,Tthat;xz'accatdhfig-

- 1210 ths'paxgble. Off' AEChan {I megbt. nemeWtzheiamurfed tbfiIg from '

. mum 113'"- f'I-Wfiy them; fir, <<iai'ct he, in'thefiutgpmtriym .
-- Jim" enn'Eflg1ifhmcn2. who - have-taken fiwagclwomen'mtheis

' mixes; by. whom; the}. has" ' tam! xchiIdrcnr .gthcn'gfi .'139.I},C/.'=Df' '
35m $6132an mama's-ap- the Tlaykof -Ga;c1 argd; mart xegmgqi; ~
Etheyti'fafi'311ffire 'ao -_1*c'fs~ than'cgduitcrexs. gnd- its-they? 311m
divaip adqttcryg'are-Jiztljle t6; thqcurEe-of God; .5-I*.knoxv,:,iSS1rg. ~

' ,.:tY=degh-:mhxibfSS=SSt the'mnt "95' a: vie-.8>> (Sr-{clergymanzofi'aw'

' ' .l'kiad '; "gsT-altby-pergs,'ink-and {yapergsta-'write dawn-a contraflmi- ,'

, . yardage, andzh'avqit 11ng between them;..,-B,ut'5nC/dther1bSSSSr

. [wary-11.31113? Slaw germ =1iasa.gt.eSS.<1' we>>: Loftbejh-Chogfigg
q-'_by;confent,; "cgn'...'qe rcckghed ammag'es saw anyamoxeghaman- _
, @gree'tpent to 'keep them. frq'm qugrijehing 'amon'g ;themfg_1vga;;

. I .for,;SSm;thed?ence hr {gigrgtxggqtbf-nahrimew eflaiheicgued..nt)~'

. mot-muff? Qunfitisyin' mgtuaiycoafgntg but yimth'e;-kgei swig-i
rifles; T yx'm'icbeomptls. Ith'e'mfio. ' pw'n gnd , agknowfikgigesoae' {aim-v.

. ;.fthe_1:,.tt'o a "PS33"?!me other PS31093, nut-hermit?! t9; Banging-1%):

' ,' "gathexr-Lwivqeg grifif-chileten; an . the."56mmimthg'ilgam'eand'nfiks:. _
~eeond_itions.s-m#atiC/ kwknfisg? 0mm}! flied -'ssl_1emas;y: 3.1m lime '
<<men. .upon'jtbcit sbm;plsafur.c, on; anyrfi'ccam-mismay. tome
lithofefivezmwandimfir'ry "bats andzbv-idiifiww'.ng--'-1heirY=s=ki.1SS'- '

gremlniufieritbcm mmlyflte '9er 4319.356; 833., -'. addgdizmasan;

. -:;GLSC/-..bSShnr;=1;tC/diin1:511<<an 31413125"ng .1hber'tms:t.hiSS3;.hoxSSC/aan'
- ;;'a-blC/@ing:"f{xccSSed'to the. {heft Qfldg'ilivmn's,-..ifme}1.arEUR311qud a}; g
' - 'fwfiimfieib'zgfgnqms aweyc'hiqt =WSS3zhdEURC/d fir'vuqkzmth-ithe. .
, 5. "1:328! mfeIfn-wdmongbt that $531133: mhgh kerablamei-mapi
- . 'tanQa-'gqtmale-ggqtrafighad1b.??? made, thank." had; aim-2.81%"
. *hggsaki, 'i'}PSt-{c1i.;zhamee9' 1113619119-'tq-QngasezfiMxfinebRewm-afi'

 

r

' gamma-r *fiKGE-&deg.PSEURPmtei $1.:ch fimfla findse'mffirkfle
. ,gxqthcr hilthgilrhves-'s 14.33%, lam Ilwbcn My; took-tbefiLI-gua
._ . . . . ~ -_: i <<am

\

,- r\~ ~' . ." '2 V . J' -
.5. '
-\ ~ ' '

ref/1:3<<Kio'arzeni'sgbgfi,"cf-RUE0Eo- . 1'65.

Wig-31w? aer"b'e_r,:C/;.ga>zmsit ii'ai'iuim 124-.in 51; re'm'ed' ~
. anlfrttaenvg :IgelpL-ztg ," Itfi'e531r','. anfw'ered the. 701mgfprie ] '

cfi'mc which-wad

' Wm :eazinb't-Ehe ; thFg'ed-j Wittixfifliifi {15331 of theg. \

,' 3393;: iii {@rgafibfeeea': hut Ifbe'feech'ypu; dog}: t'ffitte'r yourlglf'; ' .
- that PS91! atfi'vfindc't', 21?" Obligation. HOW -_to Putip'sriodfid it; -
1 1PS;ycu.nC/gie&ft.o d0,,>tliSS: 'g'uil't; wil'lfic'entimlv "on yam-a3)

{Whit}

- Elqhe',' "s'mceeiti's eetl'afplyjn-nbbcdy'g pewerbut yofirs', toahee '

' =tSSSSif"-SSQniditiSSfii,*" ll ;mufi'C/finfef3,;l Waifo dull, tb'a'tl'f; tlifiu'ghf ' .
,1 .he-mgmg; Hh nldgpart; them} had knowifig- tk'at?'-_-.thi3" wpulcf' ._

. a

nit-the; wligl'ejfiaqdvihhij'r'tfusibngl told- him, I cmfla-'noteon'q .

l
{- 1_e'tSSSS;tEUR$iSS "upm- any" egeount givliatfaev'er. -' " Sir',':f3i'd he';~finj
{great furpfitg, ' _I do n'ot than: that you mould ,fepamte,; but,

=m'dnryegthm,' b'? :t Written-'cgfitta'et, figficd gby'bo'thiuiem and ' _

' #6311331; ahd'bi'r a}! 'thewibe'flfcs'prcfcnt,, which-all. tn'e Eutbpearg ;

$575": acme-'15 bjg'bf 'fti'fficien' cflicaicyfi" Amaied' .wi'thjfuch' '

Ifufefizietf-and midefitfixatid 'coneidering.the'validity-ioffa writ-4

' 163$" Gamma; Ihckriofltid'g; ([211 that he laid; to be veryiljjilfi I

.' rind" Rina, jam! that I would difcou'rfe i'vith'xhe-men'abput it '5

, ufieit'het Caufd I [636 v'w'hef' rcafo'h theycould have not-ta" let'him

"inefm'lhiemg,ivhofe-Z'authoritygifi that affair is ewded'folbe-ai"
. .-.az;then'tic';as'if"the_y Were marriedby. any of our, Clergyme'n inf-
. 'En'glahd.~zig;,-u_ '," - , - .- _ 4. .- ' ~- ' ' '. .T- '
"'1': 'le'c' .r'ekflcomplaint he had to make to me was'this', thatftlxough
"thefe QEfiglifh fub'eeks of mine have: lived with-.thc'fcf wOmcfi
SSiC/fibfiSSPSeareg fla'nd t ough-they-t'vere of good'undcrfia'ndin , 331a;
_ .capab12'~o'finfiwetibn', havip'g'leatned'not-only to-fpeak, gar-to

'-'rC/fafid Efigliflx, yet. a}! this while 'thcyhad. neferf'tafi'ght- thq'm

'ejn'y thing oP'thg. Chrilfian religion,'. drthq'knowlcd'ge-of G96,

'qm'z'ch-'lefe; in Wfiatlm'a'nne: he ought a, be Quiet,>> J'Anqii'sinot '

.ggh'i'sfa'n' unaccmntable'negket'J-P {aid hgwamfifiy. ";.De}1end'-up
- jam-"1t, "Gedmmighty' willgalljthem to"'ncco'unt for, {he-h'copg

PS21!!th 'Knd though -1_am..npt.of your religion; yet I' flio'xfld' be"
{glad to fe'e fhcifc'pcopl'e-'rdeafdd from the dcvil's deer,;hnd' .

, -, 'hcifia'wedby'the'finie'cigiv'es-Sffthe- Chrifiian -. religion, the ,knbva-j~

- '- ledge'POf, 56.01;, bf afiedcg'mer, the'rcfilhdegeetion,'afid-df a'futur'e., . '

"1f"at'e'.fl"3uhi'esitia not toofIe-t-Qg if you fileafe to, give meleavtno.

- . J

'fiifflfijfi}the'in,"deubt'nclitlbat' I-ih'all fixpplSS*;thih'."g"reat .defeet', ' .

~ xttg'yfbungirggxhgm grate-the great'circle of Chriflignitfievgn-iyhile
Sydfiicqmmueifiphe 'ifland."_ f. . '35: ;; '_- . " '.;,-';;'Taj
'ii'fg'Ir r'o'ntd bold'zfxo 101' yr, Tut gmbra'eing hm, "told him, withia

- {libfifanfi'thepng' wank! grant wbate yer. l'ev requ'eficd, 'a'nd-xdg .;_
'jfir'ed.bim:.PSpf~SS;'C/:c'ce&fim like? third "aiticle, Wh3SSh;-hg'did5ili .thg -

- -'~fenc'SSwi'x_wg'.madrigiz-g'li';- ~ .
- .. .-:';e<<'sir,z"'1'aid. .Ihe,."i .
ifha'tVChfifiizm ,kn'dwcdgeaought ~_tn' ~bC/fipmplzgatedSStbv all]: ,
5bler'riagieh'sy and (In ~31] ogc'afinn s'.' r Upon/1h is. a'ccou'fit pfirlch'mjc}
'fferidS' fiaifiioiiariesgihtd _'Petfin,_'--In'd}ja',; and ' 'Chinag,"men M119 are

a,8&1ngtodxeforfihe-feke-.of$'cd& Ehe Chrifii'a'n faith ,1. in' on}? , i

I

PS;.nmn.1d,-_be5"masxi7m atnofig' an Grim??? =
a he.170 -' L I F E AND #4 Dev wrav: MES

' ,to bring pom; infigielsintq ghquaygffailyation. , Now, sit-gaszherqj
- iez'fin 'bppdf'tudity to' context fcvcni8SSfthirty poor favzigee, VI'JfiO-flg '
der'h'gwfyotitan pafs byjfuqh .an acid @911 pf,doing.goo'd,.\vfiich
71'9" really woijtbthe engncc (if a man 8 whole life.'? .s ; , ',
'- I'muft' Confefs'l wais'fo cdnfoundjed at thid difcphrfcg'that I
<<held not hf]! how' tp anfwer'bim. " Sjr',' faidvh'e, feeihg-.me'in
diford'cr', ' Him]! beyery fi'on'xif I'haiIe 'given'you offence," No
Sir; {aid 1', Lam rather. (mg/banded ; qml you knarw'm} circum-
flariegx, rim: brim" bouitd to 1/3: Eafl Judie: 'z'gz'a; mart/mat fliiy, '.
flowing} among-ll): otwrz'er: jb. mac/i. axle); detain t5: fiig bins,
:qu my: lying at vifludlgr, and wage; on their account. '[f-I/ley
' libz-ovel't'cuei-fc'e a'aj'x, I mtgfl fay-31.1]lcrling per, diemdemgrqge,'
whiny/l {ha/[71"; flop abq'ue, .eigbt day; mqr'c'; [b tbat'I am; im- ,
able 16 (mag: in (/35: work. unle': I <<would leave {be flip, am!
6'6 reduted, tb myfirme'rl condition. The priefl', though heovfinefid
.thief'x(-'ae.'hax"<'. upon.'me,'y'_et la'idit tefmy cqnfcience, whetb'er

_the' blcmzag'of fading fevcn and 'thixty fou'ls was not'xirqr'th

' 'vemming'aii that Ibaid in the worldi Sir," fai'd}, it_-i.:,.'vvei~'y

firm ,' but-d} jdu are an eerie/{wig}; iiatamllyfalli jmoj'otl'r pio-

_ fi'flian 2 rwb'y. tbsr'ejbr'e, don"t jag: m'tIm: qfi'n' to undgfla'kjtfibyri _
fclflz'b'an pref! me to it .9 upon this be turned about. making'a
{very low b'pwfy 'f'I moi}; humbly thank Godfind ygix', Sir, (faid
he) "far. {0 hfiqii'ed' a call ; and ,m'oitjw'fllipgly- undefiakel'fo
g'oiihus ar; ,ofi'vce, Which will fufficienuy compenfate an th'c;ba- .
z.' rds doC/62fiicukiEURs I have 'gbne through in a long and vaccin-
'fortabSSe_ voyage)! I . .' . ' ' ' ; ' ' . , '_ . ' '

" While he was thus, Imaging, _ I 'eou'ld difgovcr .a rapture in his
faccgby'lhistolbur.going' and earning; at .the,fgrne'5timej'his
'eycs {parklcd like fife, and'all 'fhe' flgnspffihe'rhofizealo'm-
{rampartszflAfi'd 'whcn'I afkfed whetherfhc was} in 6.511363?
Sir, '1ai'd he;-_it'czvaSS'to,p'reizrb t9 [be Indid'm'l- bbrg/Ent'ed_ta,C/omg
nlqng'flv'iw you :- tbty'e'i'ryirlelx,' .e'ven' in 2122': liftk' ifla'm'l, a'fel'n--
'fireitcly if '7nqr'e <<vortbfiban n'zj p'o_o_r If)? 3 if fo,;_:ba't' I ' 401.414
pro've 21 e7 bapfiyiirgflrumen! 'qffl'zging {bf/3'. 1509'? c'rcatzltjg: ' euls,
-:'I caffein'ot'if I "rapt-fie 'my' zm'fi'ufe' cowifijy again.",0_nC/ i :7ng '

~ "-3I1ljr'bcg'bfybzg mor'e'ix, {bane-u would have Efldfl} twill) m'p,'
{afnb'e' my" ifitrrfii'grer,' witljeut. rwbq/e qfli/lanqe neiteefbf u: will '
undeifltmd eac'b' offing- - I . ' '4. . 9 i __

2"] hi's'reguefi very-ienfibly troubled 'mc_; FJR,..'upop Frida'yk

"'be'gng) bre ,.'3"_,Prctefiant',;; and, fecqi1dY=y_,_fbr the affe'etion'l;

' bore'tnghfm For his fidelity: Bunjmme'djately fh'c'fcmcmbtancq
o'f Friday's/father gcmifi'g'into My head, 1 recommcnded himj
t'ohim'as having learned'Spahifh, which 'the pn'cfi alfoE-undg're
fin -'; aqdfo'wh'q thntcughly'fatipfigd withhim'. ' ('
' : [Sen "6. arm" {6' thei Englilh- cn,f1fer I~ha'd',tolc1jt'hem '

' Whixf nt'ccfllzi'y th'ngs I' had 'dpne for them; I'taiked' flintheirin'of, '

. 'ifie"EUReSSnda!oyis'._1ifC/atheir '1cd'.'_'tofd' themf 'wli'at notiegt--hg' 'cl'ef- .
.".'_g'yman hadtgdicn 'dflit, f'and"a'fl<_ed' 'thcm 'if'lthey wef'e' ma: -

' r" ' _ .' ' . .. ,_ _ , . A 4.5 1"... tie ~

-;_. ~"I A l I '
: OFnRQB I'NJ.3 .0. N5 {LR U 3,0 E e .3171!

       
  
 
 
  

- . whatco'nfgiente canyau-call-thefc your-Wives, .by whom 5?th
' f hattefo .mahyfihildten;ahd'yebarehot'lawt'ullyjmarried? They
.sgll'faid,>> that-they took :trhemheforc'the governor as Inch,'ha-
f' t- 3. Wing nobodyelfe to'inarrythcm; -.whic_h-.they thought as legal,

3811' theyhad had a'parfon... No doubt, {aid 1, but in the eye

. ,tept, never to defort thete poor' c'reaturcs, 'I can do nothing
' .' '- more.er you,-neither-can you expee'c God'sublefi'ing-whild, you
live. .1" fuohan Open Comic of adultery. Hereupon, Willj'At-
," 59.8, who {poke fortbc remtold'mo,>> ' '1' hat they believed their
WWCS the . mofl: .inn'occnt- and>>, virtuous": creatures , in t-hc' world ;

" . figmdithat, if there was.a.cletgyman Vln'thejhip, they would 'be
p :marrxed 10. thorn with all their'hearte.'~ I told you beftite;t-faid
," I. that I- have 'a. minifieifmith me; who mall"n1aC/ry.yy0u;-to_-

sfult, rte-night ._ with the melt about in; hold-himjtbe'eclcrgyman
. V 'waa aft; i'chman, arid: knew not :1.w'ord of- Englilh, but that
. pl Woolf}: " ,'as clerk between them; --And indee'o this bulimfs
<<,filfi'mllh luch'lbeedyfucccfs, thatthey allitold me, in a'few
film-"(88 after, 'th'at they werercadytorbc formally married'as

- 'Ioon'a's l pleal'cd ;" With which informing the prism-.11: wa8_C/X-

._ceedingly-rejoiced. . - e , ,. , . , . .
' Nothing'now remained, but that the wanenifliould be made
'fefinbie of. therheaning of the-thing ; with which being .w'yell
.Iatjxafied, fliey with their hufbands attended at my appartment
'thc next mornihg; there was my prion, habited inga black
:7???) {omethinglike- a cafl'ock, with a: fail) round irymuch'refem-
bhng a miniflct', and I was his interpreter. Bu-t thevierioufngfs
Of his behaviour, 'and t'hc'fcruplcs he made of.marryin'gvthe wo-
umen,' who were not.bapt-ized, 'gave themgan exceeding. reve-
Jgnce for-his perfon : nor'indeed would he'marry'rthem'at' all;
_'>t{ll_ he. obtained my liberty. to dil'cou'rl'e both with the then and
Women,,and then he told them,' " That in the fight of all-in.-
~diflerent then, and in the. {enfe'ofthe' laws of lociety, ,tlzcyxh'ad
J'lived in open adultery, which nothing] now, but their content
":to marry," or' finalsfeparationg could put an end to; god even
. here. was'a'difliculty-with refpee't tothe laws of Chnthantma-
trimony, in marfiymg a- profefi'ed Chrifiian to a heathep idolatcxt,
unbaptized ;~ but yet there was time enorghto-makc them
motels the- name lof'hChriR, without which _nothiqglccufd.be
301.16.; that, befides, he believed thcml'elves ver' ilrdiflerept Chri-
;fi-iat!s';:,ar:c!: conibqncnfly'had not dichurl'e v \vith-.-the!r .wwes

:' motto-w moming,.if you 'are willing ;: f0 1 would hate! You/00'3" '

.-, mm.

, , tied met-n or bachelors ?. f They anfwcred', two of them were ivi- .
"' "ttdowelfs; and the'otherthr'ec lingle' mom; But,'l'aid' '1, with _

,-.~'of God. it} i3 {0 : but'u'u'lefs I: am afl'utcd-'iof Your-.bonoft in-Z , -

,3 .chiat theywoyld never foffeike'-thc-m while. they had. breath; .'

7 1230-91 that .fifbjeetl; and that imlefs they; promil'ed him to do 1'9,>>

'hecould not marry th 33, as? being exyrc'sly. forbiddenbysthe
laws of God.', ' ' r 3 ' ' ', '
. > . .' 'Q.' . ' . i ,_ All31372 ' E 913;}? K N i)" {A DWXEWTU'IPES _
- ,-" All'tb'ts theihen'rd ettemi'veiygaha .oevnedrresafiili"; ~" " 1"; "-' '
F'Buty L'o'fd,-'Sir, {aid 'Will Atkins'fto-'Ime - abbzsufiqu'ld 'aii'e"~"fedcb
"i'b'gm religieiz, <<pm-final?) 'nofbiv'zgqfit'mlfijlrugfi'f'Hfiwfcan iv:
"talk ro'--'o'zir agi-Ua'. bf- de, we" Cer/l;v3beaY=ven,{ fih'd-'bclb? C/wby
.317>>; :szvoy'id My '16:?ng 121277115; @050 vi'ew'e'r' fitib'zxpe'pfaflifiid 'fe- '
v'JZ'g'EOrz, but 672 Ibe-'i'o'eflfirj'y'flll fizepiie'r'izf 40761913661531:- Will {71-
' bing-Ta'id I,"camtotf)ou tell your wife/be i; 'tih'ftbefibfeng,' and
fitbat 'b'er gbdx fire'idbls, 'ez'u'bicbi thflffltifiber 5 peeek 'imr unb'nflar'rd" ;
but 'tb'atlbu'r'IG'odydqu 'Iaasfmizileyfcaen ,g/It'o} a}? (hing; -," ib'a'tj
- 1 be rewards? 'tbe'goo'd md'pfifif/bes- Ibe' eui'igkqd ; yiiz'ql'at'lqfl twill
.. "Kring'w .tb jztdgrrfent -; tdfifi'qf .'o'u' toll "be? 't'bzfe' Ibin_'gs'f?- "'Tbai':
. -"ft'rgize,:<<faid Atkins, bid .'fly'mfle' l-Ie'll "me it 'J: $11859 fa'lfe, fma I
:53)>>. 930; flawed-land few we>>: "devil; gvbomb'afb 212M: Wit/21;".
. fqy'z'tig'd crlature. Tb'efs Wordsi'interprcted'to thcppfiglt! "04'
'i'aidc he. 'tell him, 'hi32repc'ntauce wiu'mak'q him 'ia wery gobd
'niimfier toms-"(9011112, arid qualify him-to pvt-33C/}; 6n.the<<?r'rxerdy
'and l'onglfiifi'cring- of w merciful Being, who - defireh 'n'et the.
'fleath- qfafindqt, and .gmrr .dcfcrs ' damnatien-to the Iiitjud'g;
mm; this, Will had 'him to fine dam-inc ~of'tb'e refg'zfr'e'flidn,' Sand
. :{win make-him an "excellent sprcaeher'fo "his wife." " -I' repeat.
2'thi3itoA1kins4w110 being more than amdiqary limited-With it,
weighed, .I'fin'aswialli #1553825 and a great dda.' 'v'flo're; 'bzk't'bdfi'u
' -"PSan I 'biz'fve' tbe'impudmde to 'talk't/Jzi: 10' fig; abffi',' 3205:9239.
'c'digfi'ie'me'witfleflesragdirflime9 Alas'l'fa'id ' he'(-wi}h'~tears'i'n'*hg,s' -
eye, angljgivingr a-grga't figh) a: far repentengytbat ixfir'wer 13%)?
3571?. " qu'ly'yauisgdibim, aid 1'; vzvb'atiio you (myth? 32"qufln'oyw '
' uwell efiofigb, {aid he, !fwb::t.1mean,_ I meanr't i: ['00 law..- I: "
,When =1 tfokl-'the, pri'cfi what hq'ffaid,"the-pnbr qfi'qetionatbfimah .
'zCould .not r-'o'sifrain .fmm' weeping ;- but "tecove'ring' "himfeif. '
JAE-21y; Sir," {aid-he, 5'. efkaim if 'hciis contented Lth'at ibis" tfdo
.'~la'te";"0r is begoncemed, and 'wiflies it were not ~foi? " This;
:queftion Izput'faifly .to Atking, who replied in-a pafi'xon,' Hdew5 '
Jean'I-ereq/j inn/late twbi'cb I know} ,ngfl terminigte in'riiy
W11): 3 for [1,5231% "believe,afime time or. 'otber, I '_//m{[ cut-1m}
.. sebum, :'tb' put 4. feriofd botb'toeingyb'fi, ,and'rto If): terfi'oflflqf'
..'fiIJ-.F?"fiieizce- ' ' a ,. -- 3 . - .' ' ' ;' " '
' ifit-this'the clergymgh mock 'lais'heady'f Sin-"hid he',=".p'l":iy
Ital-him'it is not ted-Jau- ; zChrifl will give: him 're'pentancqr-
$1:le 'h" '. recwrfe t0$the9merit of <<his 'pafi'ion. "Does he 412m};
.hefiigfifiyondithe 'pouger. -of'D'Lyine methyl '3 Then; may 'in-
.dce'd-flac' a'time/when provoked mercymill' Dolonger -fl{iv:-,'.b'ut'
never tho late-for men to repent in this would." 1Itold"'At'- ' .
'kin's Jewry wo'nd-~,tye;.px'iefi' bad kid, "'who then parted; from ~
<<1316 Walk iwith #1313 ,wifq, 'whil'c ave'difcqued wi}:h.t'.2qseft.~~
SButlthefcmZ'exe 'vefy. Rupid'jn-religious .mattersg yqt 211?} ' .
themapmmifed. tot'do thcitf cndeavdurs- to make -j'their wivea
'turnCh'n'fii'ahs; -_and'upon.whi_ch- promiqu-the- _riefi'marr,rcd-
, 4 the threacouplq. Bug as Atkins'was -t-he only- Incerc',.com"ert
.hnd Qf1moxc;fC/nfe' than the flit, m'y clergyman was came?
. 2.." . - ~ _. _ ' , _ ' y '

Q'
Q1? '"RiO'B'JN'S 9151: PS1.57 1g 1; ' 1373

lye'inquiring-aftatg hing": Sir;;"~f ' -- 13:55.?ch upwe'li'om of;
this labyrinth. BIJEQarg'fzych Rial _,fin&-tmupoon rpanTpreth-q;' .-
ing to his wifo jalready.' " And indeed we found it true ; 1917:5-
4omingSSoltho edgse: mg the wood>> W'n pereoived' Asthma and
hi8; iavaget'wife; fitting. 'nndcrithe 1hadoofi-a bum, 'in very!

uqarnefi dificqupfc ; hoopgingted'to thafun. to. 'tlic-qmrterstofflhtz ~

earth, to himfelf; to her, the woods. and; the- trees. Im'mes. .
qia'tl-y we could, perceive him fiart upon. hisfeet, fall down, up;
0.11;]:st knees,- -aud' hfir. up, both his, handa ; at which 311: tear-.33
rgg'down. my durum-43's. cheeks; but our-,great. misfortung,
waf's,: argoculd not hear put word.tb.at-.pafl'cd; betWeemthcmu
AnOther :ime he Would embrgce her, wipingsthe, tears. from hgr >>
les,_kifliag~ her with the mateftt-traaiports,' any} 'thexl both.
knggl down forfomc minutes together..- 'Such upturn 05*qu ' .
did. thiamqafion inlmx mung prism, mat.- he mm. 33337653"; ,

' contain himfelf: And a little aftertbis, we. obfcrved by hm? 331,93"

tEOu,.'as frequeritiy lifting '39; by; handy and layi'ng'them on: -
hqr breafi,~tha.t {heme}; migbtiiy aficflpiwiflhm (ligcougfqa aue' '

ib-they withdremfmmz our fight.

When We caine'iiack, wofmmdcthem'looth lw.'

itiug to be cal- \

' led" in; upon. Which he agreed to. examine him along-and fo

Ifibggm 6,11;ng 5difioqude, him. - " Prjthee,W:ill _ tkim',' :faie

W. )1. A. better man thangvc: I (1.1311; b; :j 1.15:"??? Sin-.1 5:! rd}.
gym>>. 'vghg ga'le'me ' 'ood . Innisuehqa. 13!? wrcetsoa. Mine. .1

1,"; wfi'at 'eduezitxo'n 'h'ave'y'on' '2' What was vow-fat"? 33 ~"-

. d'ct'pife "134cc a'bru't'e'ha was}, grid murdered my; ponr'fathgpfi _..

Shaikh murzlC/rPSn-!.;.,z .. .. .- . :. .. _ -' '
" {Hera 'tbe'firk/i 12am qu'laofiedflalo a; mum. br-badmealz, .
bkilledbisfatberq _'   ., ,7 ' ~ ~ ' . '>>
..R-vQ-.-Wll.at, dig! youkfllhim wiilzxputhandB-3.: . -- ->>
W2 A; No, Sit, J ouguothia thmfit'a but; broke his hcart by, '.
t c, molt 'unna'tui'uimm. of dflobcdieuce to the tpndcreitra'ud bcfl:

o fathers.' _ . _ - . - ;
,...R..--C. ,' Vlell, I'pray Gog} rant you. rgpgutaucc :ldid notgflo'

ybu' to'extOrt a' cohfe'ffioh , (it I afked you beoauih I'fee. 5'0"".

v

have more knowiodgc of what- ia good than. your oompamons.
W'. A. 0 Sir,- \jvhe'n'cver I look baok'upon' my 921': life; 'con-

{gigging upbraids mewith my father : the lips againfiour pa- .

ren'ts make the ,dccpett'; wouu'ds, aud .thfiili weight lies the-.heavi-r

. efl; upon the mind.

'yct .m'yri'epentance fal'is 'in

.. ,0. You'talls. Will-,too fselingly and fenfibly, forms Izm'

notnabie'to head it. '. . _ -~ ' J'
W. 4. You bear it; Sin! you know nothing ofilit. ' -

.R, 6.. But yes, Atkins, Ido'; afid .<<cvery moxie, voiley, and
tree iuthis ifland, witnefe th'oanguefh of my fan! for'my uudqw
tifulnofs to, my. kind father: whom I'hg-vg murdgrcd- likgxqifc $7

_ _ finitely {hort' of yours. But, Willi
hqw'ches 311;; Ignfqof'this, matter'to tough you jliflflO'fi! Z; .' '

W. 21. Sir, th'e'woxk. you hav'cjct'mo about; his 'o'ccafiqgeg-

\.. .x . . . ' Q3 ' ' it;
it; for 131111111310 my wife about God and religion, 91c has

preached 1110 -PS_'ueh .a. fermon, that I 111911 retain it in laiting- re'e
membrance.

_ ',.R C. No, no, it is vour own moving pions arguments to her,

' b'as made coni'ciencc flimz- them back 11pon yon. But pray, Alt-

kin'er, inform us what pafi'cd between you and your wife, and 111

what manner d5 11 you begin. , x -..' 1
IV A. Italkcd to her of the laws of marriage, the reafbn of

fuch'compafis, .'vhe1eby order and jufl'ic'e 1s maintained"; with-' .

out which men would run fro 111. he ir wiyes and children, to the

d11T- lution of far? .iril-es or inheritances. I
R. C. VVcl}, and what Ci 1 {he fay to a]! th1s? . . .
IV. A Sir, we began our ditcouri'e 1n the following manner,
which 1 mail exaetiy 1 peat according to my mean capacity;
_ it- yo11' think it woxth yon: while to honour- it with- your at-
te'ntion. - ' 1 . - - 1

TM DIALOGUE between 'W'xn't. ATKINS MA 121': Wy'?

.' 3/18 wood a . .' . _

Wfr. YOU tell me marriage God appoint, have you God' In
your can: gtry ?_ , _

'.'W A. Yes," clziid, Geri is in'eVer-y nation. ' ' .
<<wife; No- , great old isenamnckee God 18 in my conntry, not
ours. '
y .A. My' dear, God Is in heaven, which he made, he" all'o made
1115121111., f-h'e 1911 and all that is therein. - .

avife. Why yyon no t.'ll me much long ago i

A My .dear I have been a wicked w.retci1',hayingalong
time lived without the knowledge of God 1n the 'wcrld.

cwg'fe. What, not Lnow great God 111 own nation. '- No_ do
good ting? No fay O to him. ' that's firangc! .. .

A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no God 1n heaven
'for all that. ' 1' '

cwgfc. Why God iizfi'er them. P why makee not live Well. '

"1.4.11: is 0111' own faults, child.

"cwz'fe. But it he 111 much great," can makee kill, why no makee
liill when no 1121111: him. No be good mans. no cry 9 to'

him. ' .
A. T hat'a t1 ue, my dear, he may ftrike 113 dead, but his a-
bundant. mercy fpareth us. - ' . . *.

cwiji. Did not you tell God tankee for that. P
A. No, I have niither' thanked him for his mercy,. 1101' feared_

him for his power.
wife. Then me not believe your God be 3001!, nor makes
* , kill, "W hen you makee him angry.

' A. Alas l mutt my wicked lite hinder you from believing in

him?

l

1
91' 11031113011 11211113933 '; 315" _

<<wifi. HOW can 1115:1111qu Go.Q- lie es. there}. (1112711315, to

4342". 311132131; .119 :thba' yo? dai- ef're. '11: do

. e3, er e ea1us .. ee Uzi ,. .
'~.knC'JWs 17113;?er .evgo' thi'nk'. ? E g V F .3115; ,
. '-"115SS'- Where-1111111 11191131: 99mg; 9101.19, when, 111:. 1133111 111111

c'urle, {wear '{le' great td'z'u'n'n. P
_\ A. My dear,- this {how i11deed. he 134G013, 8114 not. 11'- 111311,, ,
' who has 11161: tender mercy. ,1
wi fiMe1cy!_'.w hrs}: yo11 gall_mc_rcy.1 . -

.../,1 'He 911133 azid Pgreg us: as he 1,11 0111' great 01:21:11.1}: 119
. is alfo our tender Father'. .
. swift. So God gene; angry, nege; 11111 wigked, thou he 110' .

good, no great mighty. .

.11. 0 my deal-g dog? 1: PS1.11 1:9, he 13 1301115111111 111111131 timeg'
.11; 1119113 terrjhic 1112911915111 111' his Juggment 3114 vengeance. ..
<<wifi. I hen you m'akee de' '-'ba1'~g31n with 111111; 1101113on
' yingg 1111119111111; 110119114 11111.: other. mans. . ~ .

. - g.NoN11&ecd, my 11113 fire all prefurnpugna upon hie 8190519 \.
lie. - : - .
goife.We!1, and yet ho 111311;.- you. dead, .a'md you} give 111:9'
1'19, tankee neither '1

4.12: is true, I an ungratefifl, gothanhful dog, that 111111,;
. ggifi. Why y, you fa'y, be 111911133 11011, why 11131166 you no. much
.;-better then i
- 4. it is J alone that have deformed 1111111111.", and 'abufed his
1101]}. Pray makee God 11116111 me, me 119 makee him ang1y, .
119.49 bad ting. .
,.. '4. Xo_1_1 11'1e911, my dear, gha't you defirel 11101114 1.11th you;
' .529 1110136qu11111" 91191 dear creature. he mutt teach thee, -
3114 not I. But 1T1! pray gaine'fi'ly to him to 1111931 thpe, and ..t9'.
forgiven me, a miferahe tinder; {Hereupozz 'lze every 4/1111; 'ij
1' moxie, and. enegling dqewn, prayed egrmgfl/j 19 Q9?! ignglig; my:
figr. mitid, 4122.4 t'p pardon bi: [14.14, wbgn this 110mm 40513, the}. cmtx- "
/ {med teeir dfidwfl 1/21: .1. j'.
- 9191;>>. What you 11111. downhneefor P' For what holdgp hahde't'
_ 'Who you {peak to E -

4. My dear, i-- bowed in 1:931:11 of f1gbmifijog1 {to hihyd 111111: -
' amide me, and grayed that he woold open yo1111 1:311:11 and 11136--
- demanding. .- . '
3' egifi. .A'nd c311 he do that too. 1" Ahd will be 111391:- 1111131: 11011

ay. -
'.4.. Yes, my dear, he bid; us pray,- 3114 has given .1111 pro-
Amie that he will hear 118. -
. {f "1139?. Whendid 11; 1314'. you 913,? 9 What}. 'do you he31: him

pea.
' A. 5N0, my dear, but God has {90111111 Eog'rhgrly to good
111311- from heaven; and by divine revdotioa they have written
all his-1111113. 99.1111 111 a. book.

1
14"

.Q3'1""' " ' wy'e

.... '-1 PS76 _ ' '12-'11? iih-Nin'kn'vzNT~fiszE-.sl._

'qbt'fi'. O 1'1'here dat good book? - ' -' " " " .'l' ' '
A I have it not new by me; but one time of otherI mam

' get it for you to read". (7'5": be embraced lief tw'itb great 1317?:- ' 1,
lion,

1: rug/gs Pzay tell a. nice, did God teachee them 'w'rite that"

Go - '
' A Yes, arid by that rule we know him to be God. ., ' '
wife. What way, what rule you know him ' '

A. Becaufe he teach: 3 what is good,- jufi and holy: and
iorbids alI wicked and abominable aetions that 1ne'ur,hiSS difplea- '_
' ure. ~-
, ' ' evifi. 0 me Fain under'fiand that, and if he do .1111 things you.

~ fay he do, {111'er be hear me fay O to him; he malice m5 '1

good if] xxifli to be good; he no kili me if I loive him;- find;

time; believe him great God, the fey 0. to mm, alofig with

_ you, my dear. .-

Here the poor man fell won [221: knee}. andL made bar knefl 'docwr: '

, by bim praying" with 2/2: jet-mtg]? jimmy; Mat God 'rwo'ulrl m- -
v[lrilfl her by bit. Holy Spirit , and Mat God by 1213 pr'oqfidence
Would find we>>: a Bible for bbtb' their zzflrufiiom; laid/itch
am: the earl pica; of this new ooswert, tbat j/Je made him .
fmmi/e- newer 10 fat/21k: God [my m'or'e, Igfl being made dead, a:

. {be called it,- f/Ic flan/d not only Want bet: mflrudor; but bim-
felflze mgfc'mble m a long eta-726:]. , '

' ;Such'- a iurprifing account as this was, proved very. .afl'cetihg
to us both, but particularly to the young ciergvman; who
L'was mightily concerned he coma not fill: to he: himfeif.

" Sir, {aid he, " there 18 fomcthing more to be done to this wo-

'ma'n theii to marry- 'berz. I mean that {he might to be 'bap"
'ti2e'd. " To' this, I prelently agreed: " Pray; '7 iai'd he, " ailt
ther hitiband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jei'us Ch'nfi,
'th'efalvatinh oifimiers, the nature. offail'b, arrd redemption in
3171213 by himhof the Holy Spirit, the refur--retion, iafi'judgment,
and a' future fiftte, '." but the p'oorieilow melted into tears at
this quettion, haying, that he had {aid {Omething' to her of- there

filing" but; his inability to talk (striiem, made him afraid, left-

her owledg e of them mould rather make her conremn reii'ozg
fg'ion, thzii be benefitedby but that if I Would diltourfe:

"with her, :it'w'ou'ld be Verylev-tiderit my labour would not be in .
vain. Achprdjng 1y Ina-lied her- in, and- piaeing myfeif as in-L- --
"t'p'rpreter betWee'n the religious prie'i'c and the woman, Ientreat-

~ ed him to go on;but_._1i1rely never was inch 3 {ermon preach'~
ed by any clergyman in thefe iatte'h days", with fo much zeal,
hiamvledge, and iincerity ; in {how he brought the woman to

gtmb'taee the knowiedg e of Ghritt'efiand of red'erriptioh by him,

.with fo' i'u'rprifing a degree of underitanding, that {he made-it ,
~her 011711 reqpeft'. to be in prized-i - <<

-' He than performed his? office in the faerament of baptifm,
felt, by faxing tome Weids over to himfclf in Latin, anagram

:. a' ' a ")8"

-r_. 1:; -or 11' o B 1-N-'s'o-N =1: 11 U 5.101;.>> 1' ' 177* '

aiking me to give her>>? name, as being1 "her godfather, and '
pouring a whole difli-ful of water upon the Wohian' a head, he
faid, " Mar] 3 I baptize thee in the 'na'fne' of the Father, and
' of the 8611-, 11118 of the Holy obi-111,11" that none could know
of what religion he was. YAfter this be pronounced the bee-
nedifiitm 1n Latin. T hus the woman being made a Ch11flian,'..
1 he married her to Will Atkins; which being firiihe'd, he at-
f'ec'tionately exhorted him to lead a holy life for the future; and
fine: the Almighty, for- the conviehons of his c'onic'ienc'e', had
hOnoureel him to be the infirument. of his wife' 9 converlion,' he
-fl1'<?1uld 'not difhonoiu the grace of God, that while the ravage"
'was converted, the initmment would be caft away. Thus end-

'ed.' a ceremony, to me the 111011: pleatant and agreeable 1 ever 4
' mired in my life. - ..

The afl'aira of. the iliand being fettleld, I was. preparing to
go on board, when the young man ( whole mOther was itarved)
came to me, faying g, that as he underflood 'Ihad a clergyman
_ 'with' 'me, who had man ml the Engiiih'men with lavages, he had-

a match to make between two Chriflians, which he defired

might be finiihed bcime I departed. '1 hinkirig' that it was he

himfeif- that had' courted his mother' s maid,l perfuaded him
not to do any thing raihly upon the ancount of his folitauy cir-
cumfla'nccs' , that the maid was an unequal match for him,
both 1n refpeet to {ubflanCe and years; andthat it was very p10-
bable. he would live to return to his own country; where he
might have a far better choice. At- thei'e words, inning, he 1n-.
',-t,'errupted roe, thanking me 101 my goodadvice; that as be had-
nothing to beg of me but a {mall fettlemenr, .with a fen/ant
or. two, or fome n-e'w necefliiries, [0 he hoped I would not he
unmindful of him when l returned to En gland, bu give his
letter to his friends, 1- and that when he was. redeemed, the
, .plantation, and all its improvements, however valuable, {111.- u. d.
be returned to me aga1n.-But as for the marriage he p1opoi'ed,
that It was not himfeli, but that. it was between my Jack-of-

all-trades and the maid Sui-an. ., ~ - 1

l was} indeed agreeably furpri ed at the mentioning this
match, which feemed very fuitable, the one being a very in,
genious feliow, and the other an excellent' dextcrous, and fert-
tible houfewit'e, fit to be governefs ot the whole iiland;

we married them the fame day ; and as I was her father, and ,

gave her away, f0 1 gave her. a han'di'ome portion, appr inting
. her and her huiband. a convenient large {pace of ground for
:their plantation ' .The {baring out of the land 1 left to WI!
rAtkins, who really divided 1t: very juttly, to every perfon' s fatif-
faction , they only defire (1 one general WI. ting under my hand
:for the 1vhoie,11'11c" I caufed to .be 111711111 11p, figned,.an1'3
fealed to them, To fling out heir bounds, and giving them a right

to the whole. possum of their re fpeetive plantations, with their
improvements, to them. and their heirs, rel'crving all tin-fret!

"L. of
I78, um; Am'lmgzvfiznw u was; .

\ofthe-iaand as my Mamipaerty, amlmmain uniform"-
particular plantazwn, after -e_leyen' years. 5.41330 .thcir. 13,325 3nd.
4 _ 'g'ovex'nment, l txhortgdgtbem' to love on: another ; augd aggq
the Indians who hygd-m. amp-ck by. themfdv'ca', I 311'?th thtcc
'- or four of- them mantagiol's, and-the {oft-:williagly Chqfe 19
become'_'{ma-nts to the other familiem by whichfmeans.;2rhcx .
w'crc' em layer! in nfiquabopr, and fared .mugh bgttgr-thax} \
v they did afore. Bgi'fidcavthe favagea' bci-n'g- thus mixed with
.the. Ehrifiians, the 'work .oft-hcir animation. might be; {apart
foot-by the latter,:,in the clergynmn's ,abilencc, 19 qur equal.
'fatisfaetio'n. The young pricihhowev'er, was.aljttlc-2nxigvua.
left .the Chrifliana thanks! up; be wilting to-do' theirpartp'fin
infiructing ,thds' poer- Inglja'ns; '1 thgficfone told him we' 9101316 >.
" call them all 'thet'ner; that he' mould {peakto-theeSpaniagdq
wheweze Papifisv, and 1 to .the Erj'g'fifh Who" were Emfifiems,
and 'makc them .prbmife- 'that' thegyia'fiould'never make any PS1142.
tinehon in'rci' top, '.but.ttCRCh flieiggneral, true-knowledge of
.fiod'; and his '01: Igfus Chrifi, in- cider to convert thg p001" fa;-
sa'gea.. And this, indecd, they airpromifcd us accordingly .
' [Whengl came to Will~Atkins'>>aSS-houfe;-I ibund'hjg baptiged
- wife, and me young woman newly marrjcd-m..my;1ackeofaallb
trad'efi-wene become goeat intimates, 'and difeounfi'ng of nehl- '
gion together. 0;.Sir', .fays W531} Atkins, mil)": Odd 1124i finer:
to reconcile to fizz/22f, berm-gr avfint: an fig/Imam; I Mafia I
We: unmrliy-affi good a warhand-tberefizre ibis 1mg; Mama?
barrier": fiat bit/Jar a; it. were .. from ,bgawn,..twbo isg/Ei :th '
' flimwrtaspbole rialiah qf-jb'u'a a; ' T be young" woman-1,1121}:--
ed, ahd was going torifg'; but (1611er her .toilit (till, and 110:-
yed that God would bl'et'srhcr in fogood :a awonkg' and than
. ailing out 'a-- Bible (which .E-brcught-'bn'pnrpofe in mypoc-
~' - ct for him.) Here {It-Hm, {aid-J, Jim: 1': an .qflflem that p31":
flaps-you bad not hfbre.' ,'So .canfonqded was tnc. pooniman, -
thatvlt was-(amt time beforcvh'e could fpeak {at 13?: tugni'ng $9 , ,
_ his wjfg,' 'Mj-dm'r. .hb (aid, diafilnatdellfgeuxbat4604? PS91414. bear
4wbat <<we fip'd? Vflsre': tbeI-b'oak Jprqyai fir, "when you .and' :P .
Meclgdmndar 1b: 615/}: .r Gad tbgn heard as, ' and-ynp-zu' Inf-Z727}:
47-. - 'TheLAwgmanrwas :fizrprified, and :thongh-t-_ really Bod )th
~fent.;,'rha.tuindividual. baok~ 4mm M37611 3 but I tnrncdzvto "the,
4:0an .momangjand dnfired hat-<<to explain to thcryozmg'coi'xvett, '
zthat 9an may properly-blahid toanjiwervcnr'peg'rtions, - when,
- 751'; thc gout-{e ("f 'hissaprossidcnce, "inch pampniar'th'mgs camp
~19 pet's as we-pgtitio'ncd fiat, " Clahjs the .nyiI-ng'wnman'r did'efi'ee-
- finally--{but furely Will Atkins; joy cannot-bet; refi'eds no
.'man beingmor'e thankfulfcr'any'thmg in .athezwpr ',- ghazhyhe
fwa's firir'hia Bibk,' no! defu'e'd it from 'a'b'gt'ccr principle. 1...; V _:
.' .Aften'fcveral-refigipus di!(r)uffes,'l defizcdztbe; ydung' gwoman
_ :etogivb' radian 'acCOuntcf- etbe. anguiih :ihcfcIt-whendhe m
'snarving to-deathwith'hungcr'; 'to which ibc-xeadiliy'mnfcnt-

',.~'~ed,~yand.'bEURgan.in xhafallawing 411311311313. ' "as" :
-~'-'?*' - - . ' . >> . 11$ '
J " Sir, " faid (he, " all our v'ietuala being gone; after I'had'

.fafted one 'day,' my fiomach was-very fieki'y,' and,- at the ap.--.

..pr6aeh. of nightrl Was inclined to yawning and=fl'e_e'py. Wheri'
1' flept upon the couch three hours, I alt/aired a'httle refreihed : .
three hour's after, my Itomaeh. being more and more fickly, I"

.lay dofvn again, but could not fleep, being' ve'ryfaintand ill.
flhus 1 paired-the {scond day' .With; a (trange variety, firfi bun-y

_gry,' then fick,,again,' with teachings tavo'mit : that night I:

dreamed I- Was at Barbadoes, .buyinggplentygof provilio'ns; and

('dined heartily. But when I awaked,'i my fpirits were exceed,~ ,
inglygfunlr, to find myt'elf in the extremity of famine. There .
was but one-glafs of wine, which being mixed ,with fugael ,
drank up; but for want of' fubfiance, to digeft upon, the"
fumes of it'got into mm'head, '8: made-me fenfelets' fort'ome time.- .

_ The-third. day 'I was fo ravenous-and furious>> that I could have;

eaten ._'a, little child it". ithad comeli'n my way-; during which'
time,- I was-age mad as any creature in Bedlam. 'In oneof theta
tits I fell. cl_own;-and firuck 'my, face agaihR the corner ofa'

.pallet'bed; where my mifirefs lay ; the blood'guflzedout of my
nbfe, hut-by my' 'excefiive bleeding, both the violenceof the fe-

_v__er', and the ravenous part otthe hunger abated. After this, I ~
grew tick again,' {trove to 'v'omit,' butvco'uld not; then bleed-'
,ing alkebnd time, -I {wo'one'd' away as dead ;' When I camejo
rn'yself.ll'fhacl.a dreadful gnawing pain in my Ito'mach, which'
wen; (if-towards night, witha'longing defire for'fo'od, I tooka
draughtnf'Water-and i'ugar, but it"ca'm'e up again; thenTl drank'
'Jevate: ' without fugar, .and that fiaid-with-'me.' I laid me doWn ~-
On-thei'befd, praying 'Gad- ouldhtake me" away: after! had-L

' fl'urn: 'e'red,.1 thought ~myfe f'a--d 'ng, therefore recommended'

_ m'y foul to God, and wilhed {omeg'ody would throw me "into -
the ea. _ All this: while , my departing mifirefs lay'by inc: the'
'laft bit .of bread .ihe 'had,'1h'e gave tother- de'ar child'my'~ .
young 'maf'te'r. The morning after, I fell into a. v'iol'ent paflien ~-
_of crymg, and after that into'hunger. I efpicd'the blond'that

. camefrom my nofelin a ba'fcn, which l-Timmediately t'walluwe'd'

'- up} Atnightzl had the ufual variations, as the pain in the {to-

'mach,,sick, flech,' and ravenous; and I had no thought but-
that I mould die before mOrning. ' In the morning came on ter- ' _

.fifible' C'g'ripin'ga-Sin my. bowels. 'At this time I heardim- young "
maker's lamentations, by _which I underflsnod- his mother was-
dead." Soon after thig,' thefailors cried,-/1 fqilp' A full-l hal-
looing as. if they Were diilraeted for jcyof'th'a't. rclief,' Which.af-;_

' terwards we received from'your hands." ' .' ' , ' .

' ' Surely neverwas a more'dittinet' account of Rarvin'g to'death
than this. But to'return to thedifpositi'o'n of thinge'among m'v'

' pebple',~l'did nottake any native to them of the (loop that i'.
had framed, neither would I leave them the two pieces of brats-
cannon, or the tweaquart'er-'deck guns that Ihad on beauty,
l'ei't, upon any diligultfthey utmld have eparatedhm'tumedpl-I
. ., . -' . g - ' rates130* LME Mia-.mwwwk 3%"- ' '

r tar-and. fqr'nndqthefiflmd- a. (gap. gi,,thigC/;SS;jflfieadt~nf'z '
Ipwatati'mof febe'r 919313 maple: hg'ttleayinz'xthezmrin a,,dpm~.i,m -
mg conditiqn; with azproin'ife to 12nd; mmf-iudfip'gr' ;r.cl_i\e.f.,'fr.,oma- -

Bram, 'atheep, hogs. and cows -Qhaihg.}035!iSSc;dlb,}zfil th'e'lattgr, "

' at fca,' havin; ..no hay .to-.fce.d._;th'cSSn)_~;l'Wentiqxrlfida'tdithgdh'ip:

' agai'ny'thc fit <<.si'ley.'1695,~after'hg-vingbecg ..tniengigdays.ag.
thong them": and n'i'xt. rfinrning, giving; .thSSm_a-fall1t,e.,of,SSie.' .

' gum; 'at'pat'cing, we fet PS43! .for the. Bxazils., ,Th'e; tfitd; dgyzg'e. .

.. towardeyeging, thereha'gpcnin'g a-,c'a!m, war. 6 cmnfbgan, -
very.'flremg,'_we wgr'e drove "to tag N., N-uE', toware-I'g'th'e Lame; j
Some! hours aficr,' we perceived' fihe: (ea: cover'gq' fifi'._it.-S$'.SSIc: .

' 'with famet'hi'ng v'erv black, not, eafily; at 62C/fo belshfgovex'e'd ;'..
' 'u'p'bn turbid} 'ourch-ief mam afcgndmgkthe {hrbudfi va'llttle".w&7'z>>
; andtekipg a shew wit-E113: Pfi'ifiwfirfl glafs,,hfC/ cti:$.n.9ut.,_; my;
arm-lifi'armflf ou jock {aid ., w/Jat'ria. 10.1! mm: LeNevs'.
Nair, faidhe, dog"; ,5; meg/9}; ;._J;321flrr.}o;4,' it ik-no,i'onlj;aigarrzygg,,'
' but 4322:: too, 'fbng [ism-w (bardfire-,a-stb'oitflmd:Qalloeefgfidlitz'gfig- "
glfinfi, gin}, mgafr'irzgfidizli gnga; bafle tmafdsl w; .-.. ' ' ' ,
n

., 4 _ eed evcryl'onq If as- Wet: Vl'arpriije'eli '; thia- rehtgipgjiandg

may at h'e'w thgcaptain couldnqttgllwhat,to'thifik.<'>fi{i,g,'bnt2 .
xthojxg '_ t..v_v.c mould a!!'_be.dg\got;rC/d. ,' Narnia" flee-.gfsomxwriw _ .
ccr,n,~;when 7,1. confidgred: how ' mush we were. hecalmee, and;
what-a 41mg 951mm Ifet .tOWarda :the 910m}- .homyer."lj.eSS;sa-
cpinaged 'Ehi'm..not tq humid, but bring- thefiijp.' to'an'mrfign;_ ,.
" Iasl'foon asyle'azercgenain that we- mufgggngxg'e. themfiifie'. I
;\ c'otdingly 1w; did $3,, and fslrlqd:all.dur,fafiSS=;ms to. mes-{mg

gee-,we feared.nothing,_but onlythgg; they might fienmgmig-pn:

516g,t9,.prcvent whieh, I; ordergdjthem to .get.thPSin'bb.atSS39.fiiz{
andrfaftenlfchem>> one clef: by--tliei'hcad, and. the ozhchby.-thSS;

"6m: ".11! "13911841"; with; meets and .kuckets;,t<;r exfingmgh 35133;}; _ ~

fiameg,rfl1gbukt~it fO-..h2p_pen.f' Thq,{avages:.fqon. came up; 31533;:

I18,;-bt!t there; wc-rggnck 1'o_ magmasfthe "mate: had'faid, it); me; , _-

figa'dof a'thoufand canoes 'thercflrerg only onghhndrcd; zipdi .:
' twenty; the may indeed :for' 113.;- fcvcral of; then: EUR311,068 29912.pr

ta'ining aboutfixtccn ag-{gvggtg'enlmcg}. ,5 f'm ' .' E>>.

. As they apprpaqhedius, they {gemedxo Be ggjh'q greatflt,
'an'xazement, ngt knowing whafi to 'mke "of. uSS.,_;~:T,hcy)rpw'e,d,_ 3
<<round the (hip; which Occgfionedg ustb .gall:.to lbs 3136", in)? '
thevboais, net'to {affer' them .to (wipe. near-them?" Hergg'gomj
they beekc'm'ed t-o't'he iayaggatto keep back, \Yliich thgy .aciEthgi
ingly did ; abut gt'thgir, retreat they let fly abqut fifty grr'pvfl 39.
mam 21$. "mid; Alene: much wouyded: one quour'mm, "a. ' thez'.

long. oat; 1 called to they; - not- to fire;ngop\gnyace'c}1SSt_, bug. '
-"hgndig;g t-hgaafiowmfome, deal- bgajzds, thgearpegtcrls' madef.
'themaskilkd ".QE-fCHGQtO flzield'them- imam arrow. '11}. ME:
\an:.baurpaft.. tbwcam; f0 .ncaI-.,afiem 9.51:2, that \waheiamr -

feeb PS3th .. them>>; than the]? mm'ee a little>> farthfi! - 9,11%: PS133

they, game>> dlteetlyealcfig-l'gdq 9? in>>! and than" Vagpfigoaq'heifq
-- W: MW.'cwldficalefieifisfietbezmgems<s2$SSm1SSSSg_ - -" 'fiy'bf--L'IMfl-'WTMUV v.\,'.'d'I-l"..l4 . . .7 V .

' =63 ZRrof;B'-x-:N.:s.ox -'C,RU s 10 E. ' I , 1,8:

men-to kee'p c16PSe,l'ana=zg;SSt_ mqir. guns". zeady;...:.1n._the;m.eap..: '
fixfifljfifflgfiflTFfifii'fisgovbutm'pqpt'deck,' and ifk'th'pm-in {no ;
gingtmgcfwhat 'gt'hey'flimfalht: -'aNojfooner,;didwh'e do'fo', but fix: .

' ofl.' he'gffiagee,' th'Wefe'igl'th'effcrcmofi'Ganoes,'(to;;pin'g~dowg",_ 0.:_

'gflmW'cdi-ius 'thc'i't- i'i'a'kjeei, {Hackfid'esz _ asrfihdi, 38401" ay in ling-
ling-'4, may.>> " 4':'-;b'i1t;,'-Efidgyrgquickly knew What-this j N
meant;f'b'yfiimmediatelyrcifying out _-fc_hey' were"gh'ing to mom: ;, 1
unfidrtfinatelyfior h'i'r'n',z'pobr--Creatureigwh'o fell {updc'n ~the' cl'dqd \ 1.

_ ofkhyeejzhufidred"arrewssg nozlg'fggthanglfeyiefi flaming thrqu'gfli ".'
hieviz-_SSde,='killfn" 'ofie'-Qf.the'-:bC/[t,,{C/jrvants, ands...PSaitlhfullefi"of' '
.cbfixpfiilgoqs 7'n.a [my "felitudes and :ifilieliion'sw~ , . - J -' V

51156: 'hraged'LWatfs'.Ina_.t the d'eath'fql-ijoon Frgday,' :'.,t_hat the

-gufi'SS,5.yiihfich, b'cfore' wage charged ~9nly.jwitb'z powder; tov-frig'htcjn' ' .

'Ethe'm,'I'.;brdcrC/d m'beiloide'd <<'ighfmalllhot ;. nor did 1:13:3ng

:<<neeerffailziin' their aim, but at,-.'this'-'broadfi'd,e -fplit -andl;;oSSrer;fi;'t '
JthiE-te'en br'fourte'en of'v'th'eir'gca'nog's; whigh killed hu'qrbprsfi bE_ ,.

. fihemf'ind'fet' the' - relt 13' fv'vimming, thczothers, fr-igbtenedout ,
'df itheiryits,' little regarding? their'fellows. .'drbxirnin g, zfc'ogir'ed 1.1;. .l'
"flay deffatt'hs they cduld4.. .-O:_1_e fpo'or wretcb our 'pegapleg..tdo&. _.
'mpg'ztwimming {othis life,<<C/a'ri.'hour after.' He'was vrnyjfuflciivit ,

firm-:fdthhtheiivand n'eifliqf'-.e'a; nor {peakgxbut I'.'tgdk;9f '
yway'ideeure him; byfiorderingj- fhcm to thfow -Mcp--i'nto- tfig' (a, f
Avh,1C/ht?-'_thcy' 1did-,..-and "their :h'c'cain'e 'fwimmiu whack IIikcj axle .
zgtbrk; ".calling'inlhis tbpgu'c,"qSS I/fuppofg, td~fave 115mg Sm'we'
-.took'.~'himj on hairdr-butiitwys a long {time fb'eforc -'WC/ coihf '- ,

' ymfakehim ~f eak-Ohyndefiftand. Eng'lifh; yet when; we "had '
wtaughtwine.' 3c. =-told= my ' they \ynte going with their PS928 1075. ,

' fight=a_.gre'g>>t :b'att-Ie"; ' and whim. we..aflged' him,'.what midefj:
rtbcm 'eomeiup~t0;p8=3 she-fetid, to. fmtzeg'k '21:: great Wonder Zlo'o'k ';_ ;'
'thrp it is fab: fieled,"that thbea natives, and thofe-.of--'Af1:ica, r.
>>;alv5?gys addt'wo 223' at the ehdoEEnglifh' wordsg-as .mfieq, mm; { M
aim; the Olikew'ifrdm'whichgit'la'a my difficult; thing to_ make -
'Tthem' b'rcak'gfil '1 " ' ' "' ~-' ' " -

 

. ' B'eirigm'r-iw defifiuxg'flve fob}: bur lafi farewglof- poo'thoij>> ;
,. "inbttsFri'day, "andfiliintc'txte'd him wiftitgll pomblicfdecencynand-fofie .-
'-.lex_mity, _pattififiihimfifiaitfzoffingfifan'd committing him 'to 'thz' '--'
. Adeg'p, ratffthe {gmcffimjemufingiglfeycn gtmalto be fired-rat him;
. jThpg: ended-the lifer'of' tine 9f thsfi'mofigratefid, faitbfu'l, <<honefl;
and:agfl'qctifiite'ie;vants,i.:that ever any'iman was blefl'ed with in; ,

'_'-.th'efe~'vbielde;.-<< '

fiafiihg'fiom'zyfiirflind fpr Brig]. in abouf-'tveelvc'day; iime' '
.we"f:._madSSciglaxi'd: in" the. latitufdefioffivc 'de'gxeee fnuth'of the
~..line;:"FQizt-'dayarjwe1kC/pt on. 7S.j-bcy'E.E~ifl;SSfigSShtgof (hone, when we. '
madc.'-'1.Cap'e "Stafjffiiggu'fl-in, ~and'gihzithxee days'xyc came fig gt) '
. an; ahehprglf theggBayofijall Sain'tqq i. had great difiicnltyr ere - .
-tq;-gEURe;tulea'v 'lteflxd'dxaorfefponaencc :on'na'm $er neither The; -~'
figpretrof my partner,-_~my two'm'crchant ti'nfieea, homhe fame ,
offlm'y Wonderful prefgiv'atioxi in'thc; iflafld,',_ could prepare me '
the favo'ut, till fuch' time as the Win of 'thc monaftery' of flu;
.' _ - . ' ' ' ' -- Auguflmesl - ~Rex'en'gifig _the-death .o'f'Fg'mAY.'

 

_ ..D_r,.'gzug.aza,_cC/zmlSSm. A". I >> i .\'D-ieWRQBIINs'oN cans.o:E.. 183C

"Kugultines (to v'vljom'f had livenI5oo moidores)_ohtained leave , "

from theGoVerndr,for'ine per onallywith theCaptain'Sz one more',

together With eight Iailora,' to come on more ;-up6n this condie

tmhfih tnelliould notland any goodspubo'f the llaipmor carry;
anyz-perlon away Without licence :"I found meanSS,_ however, to
get: on"- fliore. three 'bales ;of 'Euglilh'goods, fncn as fine broaci-
cloths,i fiul'fs, and-tome linen,'which Ibrought asa prefent for
my, partner, who had'fen't m'eton bbard a prefent of frefh prowl:

' .alons,-wm'e and fweetmeats, worth about thirty moidores,'in-'

' sprit'oner'. 'to- be hisflave. - ' All things being ready forthe voyage, .
' myoldpartner told me therewas an .aquaintance of his, a Brazil

'I

l'

the gteatelt' :flec'm. ,

eluding fontetob'a'cco, and three or four line gold medals.~ .5' ,

of' my-'tfland, in' order .to fend their: refrelhmmts: angle at;
five wagihe win this Jmatter, that he had theyefl'd finilhed in a
fexfi'days,3t0'the'1fiafier of' Which!- g'ave particular-infirhetions.'

to 'find'the'placcu 1 foon loaded him'witla aflnall'eargo;;-and .-
' _ one of our failorsvofi'cred to fettle' there, upon my letter tothe,

'Soanilh governor, if! would'allot' him tools arid'a plantation.

This I- willingly granted, and gave'him the favage we had taken

pla'hter, who having l'all'e'n under the'dil'pleafizre of the church; 85'

: in'fearofthe Inq'uifition'. which obliged him to-be concealed, would

be glad [of {itch an opportunity to make his efcape,witb' his Wife 8:
two. daughters; 8: it I would allot them a plantation in my ill and,
he would give them almall flock to begin with, for that'th'c
ofiiecrs had already feized' his effects and eflete, and left him new

mitighut a-little'houfehold ftufl' _and.'1wo Haves. This re'qnefi-I. ' .
- 1' prefently granted, concealing him and his family on-boarclbur

mip, 2- till :l'uch ' time.as. the .flo'o'o (where all " the'efi'i--ets wine)

,was gone'c'mt of the"bay, and then we 'put them on board,' who 1

carried fome materials, and plants for ,plantiri'g fug'ar-canea, 'a-
long with them. . By this . floop, amon'g Other, thing", I fent my,

'fuljeets three milch .cows and five calves,~ab.;mt get-hogs; -
three" lows big: with pig, two mares anda {tone horl'e. I we

engagedthree' Portugal women to go for take of the'

_' ' Heretl'delivered my. partner. in ,goods to the value ofir'c'olf '
fiedinggiand obliged him to fitup the. floor: I bought forthe ule

$paniards,- which, with the perfecuted man's two daughters, ' '

were;{fiifiicient', since the refit had-wives of their own, though
in another-country; all which cargo arrived We, no dohbt tn
theirxexeeedmg"comfort,~ who, with this addltio'n, were aboizt

,'sixtv or>> Seventy people, besides ehildren.

.7 At this lace, my truly'honeft and'nious clergyman left me;
fora fliip. emg ready to tet fail for I .Ifbon, he all-zed "me lca'ee
to. go? thither; 'but Ilafi'ureyou'it 'was with the greatei'c 1'eluo'

'tance Ipmted from a perfon, whole Avirtue'. amt piety merited '

.: Ftom' the Brazi's, we made directly over the Atlantic Oat-an
to the Cape of ~ 00d {0,- , [having a tolerable' g-'odwcyage.

flecringufcr the melt part S. B>>. .We were on a trading voyage.

_ .-, . R , ' and

.1"V ' a ' :'4~n.._1 '-:.'-'"-._'y- .v - V. 'I'T'lflrgl' .2." .I-(vaz
V \ ~
\. .' -

e823: "1. tie an.>> Annette-cm es

and had a"fiipercargo on:board,rwhd wait- to direct all-thei'fhip'e
motions after'lhc arrived at'the' cape); only-*rbeing limited to

. aeettain number of-day's, 'forttay, tby charter party; atrthe'feo' ,
veral ports line was to go to. ' At the nape? we ~-only :tookiiu '
fcelh water; and then tailed fonthe coattsofCoromandel';;we .
Were there informed, that a French "man'of ewar of so git-n3, and
two large merchant-{hips were'xfailedsfor -,the. indies; but-awe
heard no more ofthem. ' l. _ - ' .' ' -'

. . In our 'pafi'age; we'touched-at the .illa'nd of Madagafcanwberq .-
a thorigh the inhabitants are naturally fierce 'and treachenous,
& go confiantly armed Witnhows '8: latices. ' yet'for'd'ome time
they treated us civil'v'enoug'h'; and, in exchange fonkniveerfcii 7_

'{ors,=and other triflies, they brought n's-eleiven good "-fat bul- f
locks, which gwe took partly for prefent vietua'la,and'.the're'-'
maindet'toi'altfor the-thip's' ul'e'. ' . " - " ~ '

- , ,Soycuriotus was I 'to view every corner of. the world. Where?!
came'te, 'hat I went on more .as often as 'I could.' On'e"even.'-
.ng when on thorax-we jobferved' numbers ct thrpeqp!e'ltand-
gazing at 'us at a dilthnce. 'Wethought onrfcives in no danger,"-
as/they had hitherto tifed m kindly. "However, "we c'ut three' ,
bonghs 0.11501: a tree,- 'fli'cking-them at aidiltance from us, which

. it-feems, in that country, isnct "only 'a token ofxtruee' and' ,
entity; but when poles or.'e_o_ug'hs,are fet- upon the other side,'i'c?

' is a rfign'- the trace is accepted." 'In thefejtreaties', however;
there-isome-principal thing-to be regarded, that neither party ,

. come beyond one another's three p'oles'or bought; to thitath'e '
middle {yace is- not-only fecure'; biit is idle allowed'aaa mar-
'ket for traifi'c'a'ndacommerce.""When the tract: .is thus accepted;

"they {tick up their jav'elins and'lances sat. t'he'rfirfl' ~poles, and
,come on -unar'med';- butit' any violence is 'ofi'ered; axvay they run-

' to their poles,'take up. theirfiwea'pons, and then the truce ~is

bitten-end, This evening -it happened t'hatmg'reat'er number of' ,
'epe'opie than mfual. both'men {and Women,' traded among us

' for-{Itch toys as' wehad; ' with t'uch egreat .eivility: that we made

_ tw-nlittletent. 'of large bqiighmof trees, {omeof the men retell-v
vingito lie "on here all. night; but,- for my part, I-and- tome
others took our'lndging~in 'the boat, with bounhsof-trees fpread
.over'. it, having a fail lpread' at thefbottOm 'to-lie upon,- About
two'o'cl'cck _in"the mojrning Eve'were'awakene'd "by-the tiring-

-'-"cf imufltets, and :our men crying. out for"help. 'or elfe theyr would-

. all be murdered; Scarce had We tlme' to getsthe'hoathfligre,
when our men. came phmging" themfelves 'into the water, .
with about four hundred of the iflander's at'their heels.' 'W'e

. took aip'fe-ven of the men; three'of'themweriy mceh'wound-

- 1 ed, 'and one left behind killed, while the enemyponred their ab;
,. news {0 thick among us, that wewereforcedjomake af'barri-q

trade), with boards lyinght the" fideof the boat; to lhield :11;

from danger: 'and,' having got ready but fire-warms, wefire'tutnetli
the-meat volley, which wounded feteral of them, as we eiuldr: -

a

. \701:" R: extension :6 n usage; i {1-8-5
heat by their . cries; 'In this eonditionweiay'till-breal'e of day,
and th'en making li'gnalaohiiitrfls- to the Thip, which'~rny ne.
,phe'w the captain. heard and underfloodgr he weighed anchor. 86
afio'ocl as; near the more as poilible, and then 'fent another

' boat with. ten' hand's'in her to alfilt u'ej ;- but we called to them
:~ ;not to come near, informing the'm-_'of our unhap y c'ondition.'

- However: they ventured-g when one Of the men ta' ~ing. the end ,
'9 of a tow-line m one hand; and' keeping our boat betweenhim '
.and our adverfaries, ri'wam'to us, and flipping curve'ablee, they
towed'us,entraiieach.of their'arrows, and Quickly'after a.
broadli'de was given them from the (hip,.zwhi,ch. made a mail}
-_dreadful havoc among them.- When we'vgot-on board,'we,_ext
amined into-the o'ccafion 'of this fray; ;The .men who. fleet
informed; us; that an oldjwomanpwho fold .milk. within the

\ poles, had brought a young woman With henwho carriedrroots'
-"_<'>r herbs, the light of .W'hoin {0 much: tempted our men, that ,
. ,gh'gygfigred rudeitefs 't03the' maid.' at whichthe .ol'd'i'vo'man .fet -_
" up a great cry '3' nor would the failure part; with" the prize,-but '
_ married; heramong the trees; - while the old woman-Went, and
ghr'ought a whole army- down open them. At the beginning of
' the httaciry but; of- oiir men-was killed with Ia lange, and the _
" fellow who began the mifchief, paid dear-enough] For his .rnil;
'tre-fs, though as yetwe- did not. know what h.ad-becqme"bf'him:"
..the - refi: luehiiy: diaper}, 'The "third'gn'eght after. the aftion, '
being cur-ions torunderitantfhow affairs flood; .1 todk' the fuper.
cargo-and twenty flout fellowe'j with me, . and .-lan'ded about >
two hours before midnigh't','at- the fame pIa'eewhete'thol'elindifo '
.ana hood. the night-.betore, and there wedivided'oixrrmen in,>>
"to two-borlies;_the boatfwain commanding one, and! another; '
ltmraa to dirk, that 'we could ice nobody, neitherjditl- .we' -
bear any voice near 113; but by -& bye theboatl'wain falling-0:.
-- Vera-dead body, we agreed to bait till the' moon ihouldlril'e,
which Rte-.lmew Would" be in'a'n hour after. We perceivedhere
no) fewer thaw-two and thirty bodies upon the ground, where.- '
'1' .oftwo were not Quite dead. Satisfied with this difcovery I was
for going on: board again ;'- bier-the h'oatfwain-and'the ,refi: '
"told me, they, would >>.maite a. vifit- -' the Indian town, Where
nthefe dog&' (to they ealied- them) reg-Jed, aflaing meat the fame.
utirne -t_o_ go along withthem-z- for the)" did- not doubt, bcfidea'.'
-.Y=getting%e good b'ootjrybut they fhould find Te'm J-efiery; there, '
'fort'hat was the unhappy man we ~niiflkd.. But"): utterly re>>-
.fufed toga; and commanded them back, being unwilling to ha-
' mare-- their lives, as the i'a--fety of the {hip Wholly depended up:-
.on them.' "Notwithi'tanding all I could fay to them, they alliet't
me. but one, and'the inpatcargo: ;. {owe three returned 'to the:
- bong-'where'a boy. was lett" refoiving- to. flay tillrthey- returnecfi.
{At-parting l tgzldrthem' I" lupppted moit' of them Would i-un'the"
- tfa'me fate with from Jeffery," To this theyreplied,' - Come [10},5'
am: along, we'll ~ warrant We'll pom: (gr/"afi- enaugb' ; and fair.
- ' ' R>> 2f . . ' way
- way they'went,' notviithttanding all my adrficnitions, either con;
cerning their own fafetyor the'preferrati-:-n'of the fliip. 'lne-
' deed they were gallantiy armed. eiery man'havznga muiket,
bayonet, and a piftol, b'c-fides cutkafl'esz, hat? ers;_'_pole-axe3,"anct
hand granades. They came toafe'w In ian houses at' firft, '
which. not being the town they-expected. they went farther, 8e
finding ajcow tied-"to a tree,- they concluded-that the-wetlld
i-w'e'afnfiicient guide; and t'oit'proved; for, after they untied
. lier', {he [led them directly to the town, which con 'fted of a. .
"have two hundred houfes, fev'erai fami'iies living'iu fa ne of the
hnzs together. At their arrival. all being in a profound'fleep, '
the failors agreed to divide themfcjlves into three bodies, and
fet three part3 of the town on fire at once, to kiii thofe' that 'were"
efcaping, and pi under the ref't of the houies'. Thm defporateI
, 1y refolved, they went to work a but the 6111 party had 'not
'g'one far, before they caiied out to the rei'c, thitthey had fo'und
Tomjeffery'; whereuponpthey'alllran up 'to'the place, and
, 'found the poor fellowiindeed , hanging, up naked by' one arm',
a and his throat 'almcfi cut irom ear to ear. In a [tonic ' that'was'
hard" by' the tree. they- found fixteen'or feveritern Indians,
' who {la-.9: brain concerned in the fray, two or threfelcf them be---
ing grounded, yere not gone to flee'p: "thisuhcnfe they fe't. on
,fire .firft, and in a few minriies after, fire or fix places more
'in the-town appeared in flames. T he conflagration {pread like
wild-fire, their banks being all of wood, and- covered-"with .
. Ba'gs'or-rnfhes. The poor a'fi'ri vhted inhabitantsendeaximuied to
. run 'out'to lave their" lives, but they'were driven'ba'ck into
. thefifla'mes by the tailors, and killed Without mercy. "At the fir-ft
.honfe above mentioned, after the bcatfwain had-thin two with
. his pole-:ax; he threw a hand-granado .into the houi'e, which
, barking,'r:ade a terrible'hav'oe, killing and wounding r'noitioF
them ;' and their king and moft of his train, who were then in
that houfe, tel) victims to their fury, every creature of them
.. being e'ather'fmothered cr burnt. 'All thiewhiie they. neven'fi-
' red a gun; lett'the people {hruld awaken efafier than they
'could' overpower them. But the fireawakened them-fattenough"
~ which obliged our. fellows to keep together inbodtes. By
A this time the whole. town was in a" flame, yet their fury rather
i inereafed, calling out to one another t,o remember Torn jef; -
t'er'v. -T he terrible light of this eonfiagration made me very un-
eaf'y, and routed my nephew the captain, and'th'e ref! ot'his. .
men, Who kncw'notizing of th matter. When be perceived
' the drea'dtui fmok'e,gand bear ' the guns'go of, _he readily
I Concluded his men were in danger; he therefore takes another.
. boattand'mmesafliore himi'elf. with thirteen men-well aurora.
' (2:21.. 'He was greatly furprifed to Rome and only .two men in-
theboat, but more {0' when [told him the fiery : outthongh I
:argued' with him; as I did' with the men, about>> the dangegfi
_._'Q

I\ ' ,

. v- ' - ,. .

, ,. or? x o n: met-om" arm/n sj 0' a: 43'7"
. the voyage, :tlie intereits ofi the merchants and own'efs'; andtlie'
.i_'afety of. the ibipg _yet .my .neghew,.>>like the_rei_t,~ declared,
'that'he Would rather lofe the . imp,- his voyage, .his life and"all,-
thanhis me mould be "loft for 'Wanti'oi? _help' ;:and {of may he
,,went. - For'my' part, feinghlm refolved to' go, I had not power
.to' flay. behind>> He ordered the pineace back again fop'tw'elve'

a men xm'ore, and then we marched di'ret'tf'zyasthc flatnejguided:
113.. Bu'ti'nrely never wasiheh'a; feenc of liortor'beheld',_of'
more _-difma.l .criesgheard, except when Oliver CromWell-took
{Jitriadghedagin- Irelano, wherehe neither {pared man; womangnof

<<15".- - ' ' ~ .' . .

~ The firft objeet, I think, we met with;- wae the-ruins done
'of their. habitation, before which, layfom men and. three

woman killed; and- two-mote' burnt raideath'among' the fire,- '

"which wag now decaying; Nothing-count appear more bar-s~
.haroue than this revenge ,;. none more. cruel than;,.the.attthor'a'
def. it. As we 7went on,-. the fire inereafed,- and' their? pro"

seeded in, proportiom We hid not gone much farther, -_When

. we_.beheld' three naked Women, followed by fixteen or {even-- '
~teen-..men;'. flying with the -greateit-, fwifteefs.-from' our'men's-
whoihot one'ofthem-inonr light. When they perceived'us,-
whom they fuppofed alfo their murderers>> they- fet up, a,-
moit dreadful ih'riek, and bath of them fwooned' aWay'in-'tlgle' _
fright; . This was a fight which might haydfoftened' the'hatde'

,.;eit heart ;'_ and in pity we tookibme ways to let them' know we: ~

"would not- hurt them, while the poor creatures .'with beneedfi

_ knees, 'andlifted' uplands, made piteouslamentations to 'us
'to fave'i-heir lives- I-'. ordereiria our" men not: tO'hIllt any of-
the poor c'r'eaturee wh-ntfoever; but.being.willveng'torunderftand'
_t-he poecafion 05 all' this, I went among- thefe' unhappy Wretches,

' ,yvhoneither under and meynot the good 'I= 'm'eant t' em. How--

' ,ever, being refolved top-1t an end to this-barbarit ,I ordered the:
,men to follow me. .We hadmot gone fiftyyards. ,efo're we came: .

, tip with theboati'viain, With four of nur'men at his heels. allot" '

them covered with blood and dnit', and in .feareh of'more ~
people to fatiate theirlvengeancer A's fOon as we {aw them-,we
called out, and'made._them underfiand who w'e'were';-'"npon-
which they'name 'up-to 115-, letting up a holloo of triumph, in to-
ken that more help wasco'me. . Noble Captain; faid'heto-my
"nephew," Fm glad" your 'me...' nor/721w: gotta/f done "with,

' 3h]? evillairgqu: bell-bound 0g: ; ' we'll r00: cuisine-war} nation of '

. tbem "from. {be {tart/1,; imd'kill- more tban poon'Tom ba: bairJ-
m>> bix' bead and thus he went. on tiil'l interrupted him;--
7" Blood-thirfiy dog," {aid I,.':'w.i:l your'cruelt'y never end ?- I"

4 -'e'harg'e you touch not one 'ereature more ; {top your hand5.'a:'.d

, fiandi'till, .0! nuke a deadma'n this-moment." W/jy Sir, {aid-

ffi he, you neither know'nqbom you are protefl ing,' nor eta/mt they?

' have done .1. (gut. , 1W] come bit/zen .and (gape/d an iq/lame of com---
h , 1,'_'. <- .. , - . . ; '. 12.; 3, - pqfl'on,'. .. l ' . " ' 7""!"3', 'V' . uf'. . ' {"1" '-"j'fl"" V"? "('5
> ' '. C/ ~ ' '
\ . _ I , , . , - ' . '

.4

"1.11.83 ,7 _ LT m: '.A NngIIL-1D11VIEF'N 1-1" {1 if": s- 4 .

- 73175;:(5 fffiwbsca'm'marit you}? blamefiiy. ,t'andEWith'th'at he'fh'efia'

5: me, :11 Lpoor feflquiux his throat; feat; hanging-iupqh die:
ee. .;:.-,-"v f , v j , .b '. -- g-'

. . Ifidced, here waa-;enoughztofilltheir'bre'afils'fith-rag'c,-'-fiwhich..-
howcver, I thought "ha; gone too far, agreeable t6" th'cfc Warde-
of-Jaeob PS0 his tans-Simeon and" L'evi : (fin/Ed bg-ibeir ang'er'fdr'
fit. wmxficfic'e';,' and: tbtir twm'llb',' fir'-it qua: "tor-Ike}. Bur-this"
figbpm'adc my'ncphew and-the rcfc- as bad asthcy :' nay; my-ne-- .
phe'w dcdaradshismonccm. was (only-fbr'his men {as Err-the: '

- EUR99ng nope-.iculcfithem cught tg'liv'e. U'pon thisg'tfidbo'apn
wam andgight more direetly turned .abcyut,~aind ,'fltsl't'fq'fi'w
mil}:theintendcdriragedyg. which being out bf my power to,
prqvcntJ returned back-from the difmalgfightgsz the_:'pitedus=cxfijetz;- ,

~ flof'vthofc' unfortunate creatures, who swore made ' v'ielirii's <<.156>> '

, theipiury, - Ingccd; -.it Was an egregious piece'ofi folly ifi'me'tbz'"
"film-to the-boat \vitll'bnttone'att'cndant ;: "and I'had vcz'v'y new

' *paid'fhriitrhavi-ng 'namowly'efcaped forty armed Indians; 'whey
had/{bgen alarmed-by the cpnflfigratipu ;-. but having__pafi'c);1't'n'e: <<
place-where they ftoc'd, I-got' td Lh'e'bna't ac'ccmpgnird with the:-
mperc'argogand .fo Wen't on hand, fending the pinn'ac'e back;

> again; touatlift'thc' meh'fin what might. happen. 'Mx'enJI-ha'd

_ g'otggg<)';-be bloarmthe.firagwas'almofiexting'uif'acd;' .a'nd. the'n'difen
abatedfi; but 1,.hadz. {carcq bsm- half an \hour'bn board. the 111ngw
'ahgnl-L beard langet'hcr- vulicy' given- by' our failors, and a gi'eat:
'fmpke,-yvSSzich, as Laftcrwards found,'_ wasfidur' men>> {mug-mom-
tho'fc_,~hquies and per-Ions that {tced b2tween'them- and than

' fea';.~;b_nt'.herczthey' fparc'd. the uives' and- child-ten;- 'an'dz-skikdz4- '
only the:m'C/n,;t<~z'.tSS1e number-of abcut'fi'Xttenpr i'eeentccn, By,
the timeimeyygd tel-thejhbre, .'the'pinhzce'mfid 'the'flfi'p's' --
baafi wrr-e rcafi'y; to 'rgeeivc, .t-lmm rand-they~-'a-*l.got"fafei=0n beam; .
nctgman cf5themfh'av3ng received'thefleafi hurtxe'xejp't'two; ,
yone'of Wham Ibrahim his-foot, and.the cth'cr bmhti-'lzis hand: 31.x- '
Elde- {ft-m 'they pad with 'noirefifiance,~ the'po'or Indiah's'ihcing} -

'_-unprSSparcd, ama'zcdiand contounded;-~" .; ' " '- 1" "5""

.. 1: was extrcmfly. anggyWith every-me ef--th'cmy but ' particuPS~ 1
larly mm the captain,'v.-ho.initc-ad of cooling ghe rage {of th"e.-- ' .
mm); had prc'mgtedfthcm Ion to_t'ur.t_her mH'ehicf'r n9: Could'h'e , 1":

. Amakejmef anyczhejn exculfe,..hm shat as--hc was<< at m'an,~;'he,.~.--
could'n'ct mafia" his'fpafli'ozgs at t-he'fightofj one of'his'men'fi)'
. cruelly murde}:.;di....As fcr the-rem-"knowingjthey wave: n'bt urn--
[der- xpy-cqmmanfig they'tockgno notice ofanyangcr; "b'iat rather
boaficd or their'rcvcnige: 'chordipg. to (anath'eixf, amounte;
their.-killcd'crv'aefiroyedabcut'150men, Wanna," 'aind childrefi'y.
befides-bazrningxhe town to'afhes.. Thcytook th'eir compa'nioli'fu I
'R'Lm JefiEry I'rom..thc.tree, come?! 'him with fomdbfilhe' 4 '
nuns; .nd {0. fcf: him. But :hbwevtr 'this'aetion,.of'our m'eni' .
might fce'm' to them *jpf-tifiable, ' ct I"a1ways_. opsnl'y' con-'1  -  
34mm} it-Txyith the agpeliaaim o _-::t'hc Mammy: of-M'adagafi- ' _-
_- -: _ ..', '- w . ~. 1am.>>

I' " "" 'WWF"WFTW'P'W W ~71 I!>> "'
7'61 P110635! it, slrozN; vamp-$032.: 2 8'9 -

' c'f'ar; f--.For'thc'-flex-nativemhad'flain this iefl'ery. .yet eertainly he '
was therfirft'raggreifor, <<by attempting to 'vxolateatheWc-batt'itgL
on young. innocent woman; Who ventured down to them, '0".

ethetaith'of-the'public Capitulation,- which was so treacheroufl'y _ -

"broken. ' .. - . -- . . .
'While wewe'reunde'r fail, the boatiwoain would often defend

."fthis blacd'yaenon, by tayin'g,that the Indtanshaobfuk: the truce
5 the night before,- by 1h ao'ring one of our men Without jufi Provo.
"catio'n-t'and' what if the peer fellow had taken-aiittle- iber'ty

"with the .wencbyhe ought not 10 have been mqrdere'd in to

Ivilla'tnous a manner : and that they'hadaeted nothmg but What
the divine laws com'mitfioned to' beg-done .to fuck homicides;
'Ho'v'vever I Was. in the lame "mind . as before, ~ tel'ling_ them! that
'thei'were-murderers, 'a'ndvbid, them depeud'upon._tt-that God
wvouid'bia'lt' their 'v'oyug'ez-for fuch an unpauileled-pxece of bait-
'barit . r.) 1* -- v - a. .5:

. Wg'ep <<we came to'thevGui-ph of Portia, five 'of,our mam-who
venturedon morcg"'werel"either killed or made {lave-s by the
,Arabia'fis, the refit of-them havingfcarce, time to efcape to their
boat, .1 Ihimxfiade me u'pbraid' them afrefh with the jail retri; '

' button ofiHeave'n for inch actlo'ns ; upon which the boatfwain --'

~.v'ery*warm1y4afked'me, W/Jetber tho/f: men 92 rip/gem Mario-10::- ' '
of 8:70am fell, were greaterjmzer: than 2/2: rg/i qf'ttzc'Gafileans?' .. '
azzd'_bg/idc:,, Sir; {and .he, none of the/F: five year mm 1/24: are ,
~10fl,' 'tiverexwitb m at, 1):: Mzgflcrc 'q/'iflfadagafiurfa: you ail} it, '
arid'tberefire' your repfefemation {i3 wry all/'43, mgd yearn/)3.
flicalion'gimproper. ~ liq/Mp, added he, .10" are teatime/l] 1: ng

. {be mm' wry'ill apart/:5: <<twang; and, being but a pigflenger,
qufilf, <<we arena: obliged-to bear it ; nor "can we tell gubctt mil '- _'
deg/{gm yoga mayi "babe-10 brirg m to'fitd'gm'mt-fir'it'ifl' Emland: \ '
'dh'd; there/brie,- if<jou :do not leave this difcaaife', mug/a 'i'zat'mnp-
'cem'yomfi[f cwz'tbu'evy of-our 'qfliu'rs, I rwilL leave the jb:p,-,ang '
not jail amorzg'jiubl'darign'ou: dampen}, ' . ' . _ Er ' '
-' '2 'All' this I heard very patiently; but, it being often repeatgfl,

\ .I at'length told him, the conCern I had on boardwas notifier!"
his bufmefaq that I was a'cbnli'derabl'e owner-'in'the .fhip,l who 3
therefore had a-rightto. lipeak in- common,~and that-I "talent"
way.- 'aCCOuntable to him; nor to any body elfc. .As no more .
Ipafled- to; fame time after, I thought an had' been over. At this "

.'time 'wcxvirer'e in the road of Bengal, where, goingonjihore" '

with the. fupercargo one day, in'the evening, an I. Was preparing
to goonboard, one of the men came to me, and toid me, I - '

"need notltroubfe' myfe'xf to come; to the boar, for that :the' ' -_

' ..coc'kt'wain and" other; had ordered him not to carry me on board * '
any motel. This .infiilent. mefl'age numb-furprifed me; yet}!
:gave him noanfwer to it,,'bnt went gircetly and acquainted thei- -'
>>fnpercargo, enueating-himto go on board, and,- bylacquainting ., '-
tile Captain 'with. it, prei/ent '-the >>mutiny which/Jyperceiyed'f'"

. Would'ha'ppen, But before Lhad :'poken thiaptne mattfe~ a";

.- , . , . , c e .

I
'.'

: qfi'eeted- on hoard ; for m)! fonne'n, was he-ggnejqfi' in;the boafgw
- but the bewntfwain, gunner,- carpenter, find'jallthe inferien 9,31>>
-.ee'rs,-ceme to the mater-deck; dcfiring'tafpegk-rwith.thngpr '-
3t3in-; 8c4hcrcthc~ antiwainmadc a long haran'guene'xglaimmg

' -. 'again't-me; as before mentipned;-tha't,' if 1 ~hnd_\n_ot=g9nc.0n {hose'

/

We

:fieaceably'," .fiir'my. own 'eive'rfion, they, 'b'y'iviolenee' wiouki

' ,ave_compelied:'-ine,~for theii-fatisfaetion ; fhatag'thexhad {hip
"'ped:with'the' Captain, {0 theygwould faithfuhy terve him; but
. if [didnotqnit the fl}ip~,'0r the Ga tain'iobfi'ge' Inc Ito. Niamey:

'Svonldleave'ttkc {hip Immediately: ete'upon,shaming-his. facet."

. about by way ot'fignal, they'd) ctjied but, << ONE "and- 'Ala-Lyk'"
,.':_QN-Ez_and.ALL&;': ~. . ~ . M, . ,

' L

' You may be:ifnr,e,i,thSSat.thOWgEi~ nty ngphemw, "IL-tam}: '0'? ..

~

2%reat. couragea; yet he could not but-be furpni'fed atf-their"

adden- and unexpee'ted behaviour ; and though he talkedfio'ute
1y=to them; and afterwards expoitumedwiththem', that. in'

- osterninpnf jnl'cice to me,- tw'zto Was'a:cdnfiderabl'efoWner-.'in5the.

ibip,' t-Lhexcpnld .not turn ' me as" it -'weree..ont- of'i'ni'ne own '

. 'houfe, which,nfight'bringtheirlives:ifi: danger mould-they e-

- we]? be taken :in .England-;- nay; though he 'invitedtthelfioatw

,ej'wain; on {here to-accomodate'ma'tters with-me>>): et' .altfthjs: .

'1' fay, fignified nothing; .Athey would hav'enbthing. ado-with

' "meg.- and; t ey wet: rcfolved' to; go.,on'- {hone if I-,-cam_e; on-_

<<board. .Wel , faidzmy nephew,.SSfyou are/o tabbed, permit me: tp'
$4116. Twitbvb'im', and that] have done; and-j?! be. came-Zia me;
gi-vmgmqazz. account of their rrfblqtion, bow ope-and all 'dgfigrzetl
Ato- forfafie the/bi; when 1- cam; 97: prardnjbr .qubicb, be was"
mightihmmemed. "Iain gladto feeydu, nephew," Iaidly -
,tttand rejoice- it' is no worfe, time they have-not tebelled aw

.' gaintt ypu :31 onlydefire you to_fend.my,necefl'ary thihgami'

.Ihprcr. withn ,fufiieiefit {am of money, and Ie-will- find my"
7Way_t9. .En land as well as] can.'?" Thoughtthis grieved/my.
nephew to t e heart, yet there wasno remedy'bnt compliencg 3. '

n ibor't, an :my necefi'aries- were kntme, and to tbis" matter

wagoverm a. few hours. . , _ _' _ - -

,- - 1,.think'l>>was nqw- near- a thonfand' leagues: fartherev'ofi
_;England-byfea, than at'my little kingdom, exceptthiaf difier; ~
. ence, :that 'I. might traVel-by land-otter- ~the Great'MvguVS'
eonntryto Surat, fromzthence to Bafi'ora, by" feaa'np the Perfian-

'L _;"Gulph';, then take the way of the-caravans over the Arabian:

( .

.3.

- s
I

\

fiefext: t6 Alleppo. a'ndfi .Scand'emon, there ~ take ,ihippingz'tw .
' Italy,' and'fo travel by land: into France,:anc}:tnomlthencesetqfer.
.fi'heka'tv Englanda -- .. :. .t ' '.-.

M _ .My- nephew left me two pet'f'qm to attend me ;- one-.of'
:'them' was his tervant, -a'nd' the- Other. clerk- to the purl'er'g wwho

- ,en'ga'ged to_be mine. Iitook .lodgmga inan EngliIh-jwpman's-
A'...hou;l'\e, where-fungi! Ftench,.on_e Eixghfn; and two. Italian?

imerthants. refined. The ,handfomc- entertainment; 1>> met-"viii:
1".;11SSF'PS..09Cflioned me. mm; min: manna-continuing what.

' cdnrle

,--

fi'VTwr--~v;l.*SS,rr",a W . .- \fi-M'I'tfl
' . , . .. . ,A

   

.* *O'P'ROBINS'O'N'CR'U'SOE.e - 19-}
co'urfe -I {heuld'takei " Same Engliflligeode I had with men?-
greet'_value,-1be'fides a-thoufand pieces'jof eight, and a letter for '
more; 'if. there was-Inch pe'cefli'ty." The goeds fI [0'03 difpo'e-
.ie,c1'-of-to'advnntage',land :bought here feveral gocd'diamanda;
, which I-ycituld EUR31in 'caizr'y ,about'with me. -' On'e mormng the:

Englxflnjmenchan't came to may/as beingrvery intimate toga,
th'er,>> Comtryzyan;..thid he, '1 [mm fa projcfi toeommzmiean to ' -
yam; -wbec/J_"I bope'willfltit tabotj) our advanragea- 'To' be jfiorha

' Sir; 90: are eot'b'in a remote pad-'0}? the world frOm our (:0sz!

[by ," but yet in 4' pique <<where when qf big/372%. "target a grc'at: _ '-

'deal ofmoizey.' :Naqv,.-zf_you <<vi/l pueai thou/(2:261 pound; to'- mt

.t50'4/"fld"1'7ufld~f,.quc evil! bin a/biplro eurfixtid'aflgon ;" joy/1217!:-
be'Capta'in. I Quit? be merc'bmit; and-we'll go .a-Iraziiqz ruo'm '

agee'ta Chinawfor rw'by j/Jould cue lie/Ii]! like (Ir-arm, avbiletbf
tw'bole'qearld iJ-in'a continualjhoti'orz; ' V '~ -. ' '1- e
' 'f-i'his p'r'qpofal foen'agnt my Capri-at, sing ver'y agreeable. to
nay-rambling genius ;-and_the>>mnrze fo, ecaufe'l looked upon"
my countryman to be a very atincete per'fon';' it' "rcqmred -
fame timeb'efiofie we cculd get 3 WM] to cur-mind, and failn'rs,
to mengit ecco'rdmgly ; at length we bought a (hip; and got an
End!!!) mate, boathain, and gn'nner,' a Dutchlcagrpenter, and;
'three'Bortuguefe foremafl'men; and; for want-of'ot'ners. made '
_fllift with Indhnf-feafnen. >> 'W'e tit-R failed to'Achin', inzt'rie ill-4nd
'ofiSis-matra, and 'thcn to'Siam, where we'bar'te'red our wares:
ion-[ome'arrack 'anglo'pium, the 'lafiao'f'which bore a' great? price
ampng 'th'ei-Cfidnefe; in a w'ord, we went up to Snfitan, ma.>>
' 'kingaa'very- greatxo'yage'; &,'afa:er eightrmoutbs.time,'i-'remm- .-
ed'to Bengal, very well fatisfied with this adventure, having '
" no't.'<'>nly go: a fuflicient quantity of money; but an insight of
1. getting a'grea; deal'mor'e.' . ' - '1 ' -
The qext-vpyage. my friend prepofed to' me, "was to go. a- '
.mong the fpice mand's', and'Bping home avload" sf clinic's from
the,_Manillas, of thereabouts; -iflands belonging partly to Spain;
-but.'iv'-.iex'e.-.the' Dutch trade s'ci'y c;mfi.'.erably._ I'Wc were not
laugh-preparing for this voyagq- which We made nah-fa fuc-
cefsmifthan' the lalt, touchin'g"at-.Born'eOg'and' Metal-wet '
places which I do not_.perfeEURtly remember; and remmirigahcme ' '
--'m about-five months' time. ~We foon foid cur fpicesfiwlhicty'
'TV'v'e-re chiefly .cloves and fome nutmege', to. the Perfian mer-
chants who carried them away. for the-"gul'ph _; and," in'
'ihprt, making five-to one advantage, we were loaded .wiih
meney; :3 a .. ' -' g
. Not' longleafterv my friend and I had made up our accounts,' .'
to' our entire" fatisfae'tion; there game in'. a Dutch comer fmm
B'atavia; of abant . t'wo hundred tons; The crew of-this veflT-PI - '
pretended themfelves folickl'y,that_there were not. hands (uh;
-~ fieient>> to. undertake a voyage ;. aud.the Captain having gio
:ven' out" that heintegd'ed to gate Europe, public notice was gi-

.l

l('>- '5' .' . .,. f . q. - J

'5

1592 ' 1.1- an A-NT'D Air-v E K1? if RES

#enthgt the {hip was to he fold.- . .No {Qaner did this conic-

~ to our ears, but we bou ht the "up; paid: themait'er, and: took
poii'eifion. , We wouig aif.) have very wiiiing'iy entertained:

' forficef the. men ; .but they having received their. time of-
,booty, were motto be found, being altogether fled. to_ Agra, the
great'city of the Mog'ul's refidenCe ; Rand fromithence went_to -
travei to Surat, and forby'the fea to the Permit: Gulph'. And' .
indeed they' had 'reafon to fly in this manner ;-for men 12th of it _
was the .pretended'Captain was 'the gunner only, and not-the
c'ommander; that having been on a trading voyage, they were?
attacked on_ihore by the Maiayane, who kiiied'threejmen and. \
_t'hc,Captain; after whoiedeath the-other lam-men ramaway, .
with the"ihip to the Bay of Bengai, ' and 1 ft the .'mate and five
men m'oreon more: but of this affair we ihali have oec'aiion toa
{peak more at'length hereafter. ' - ~ . - . ; - ' .<<. '

-- However theyeame by the: (hip, we'thought ire-bought'it!
honefiiy}; fieither'did'we [uipeet anythingioi'the'. matter; when'
the man thawed us a-'bili'otfai'e'for the'fltipiiindoubtje'dly for:
ge'd) to one Emanuel Cioflerihbveas'which' "name'lhe went -by..
And To without any mere-to do, we picked. uplibmeDl'KtCh-Rndl' '

Engiiih.Icamen,xrefolving- for afi'other voyage fo'r- Clovee'a-mong
the Phiiiippine and Moiucca iflahds:.-in- {hart} <<we ccntin'iied'
thus-five qr.'fix years; trading fmm' port to'pb'rt with extraordin-

' nary_.iuecef_s.1 'In the 'fe'vent'h year, we, imde'rtdok avoyage to>>-
{Jiiingy defig'ning to touch at Siam, and buy fome ricegbythe;

"wayg- Ia thisivoyage; contrary \'vinds'beat us up ant-1' down for "a; \
eri'niiderahie time annoii'g the ifl'afnds 'in the Straits of Moluecs.

1 No fooner werewe char-of thofe' rugged'feas," butw'e perceived!
0111' {hip had ibrungakak, which~obl9gedus toput 'intd the-
' river? Cambudia; which lies northward-0t theGuiph, andvgoctl'

ng'to 82mm, . ~: : , . . - . . .g . _ .
_. > -One'day/,' as human {bore r'efrefhing'myfeifi there. games ft)
the an Engliihmam'who \tcaS'gunner's mate on board an Engiiih
' Bait India. flii-p, riding up the river near thee-Sty of Cambodia-
(Sir, faidife, you 'mttyrwandczt' at "yt'bgfi'zrft, bawing'flewer few. in: '
in year; 19!}; 'bu't rbo' {am 'a-flrnger, I bzieveflmetbing lte'tali'ybz't
that: war; nchrbrmm'rm: jazz 3'53" indeed it "2': the imminent dh'ngetf \
you are. inter: "rowed 'me to gimyd-u this timely" write. -.:."DangerSS'
{aid-Lf'syhat danger? I knmti'nfueone, except my .{hipib'eingileak'y}: '
_' for which .1 defign to have her runagroundsto-momm m-'oreing I
I 1120p: yen-<<will 5: better :mfliy-ea' .qubm gybu 1/}m'iii'be'mz-l szbb'qtz- _~
(24m: tofu} rayon. 2'01; know {be toqufi of Cambodia 2'4. about. fifz'
tce'n' league; up flair river: ;_ about/Jun league:- on Mafia-'42:,-
ltberei Ire 'two ngcb-aud they: Engl'i/b/bibr. And eunuldjuufiimi
{are here. wit/Jan! corgfidcring .rwbat flrcnfitb j01L~"de' to an>> .
,' g4ge;'tbm 3 _l knew'iiot what hemea'nt by thB dii'courie, and
tuning mortified him, '5 Sir,' Taid I; ' I kiibwm'o reafon ["h'ave
gape. afraid-e er'ofanleppteh-o: Englifia-flaips. I am n'oiin'ten
1:5 '.; '1 f' ' ' i " _ toper,

'1055:. '3; o 13-1 N 9014' {oaths o E. 193'

floper, and Qhat'hhfinefshave they withme? Well, :Sir;faid the
man, ifflit do thin]: yaw/elm: figure, all 123.! can. fay, you mil/l .
takejourehance inhalwewer, I ant wary-firrj'yoa are'fc deaft'o
good add)?" .," but I aflhrejou; iffyoa do not?!" tofea immediately,
for: will. he attached by five long-hoats'flll of men, hangedjour-
filf for a pifate, {fyou are taken, and the <<particular: examined afi- , .
terwarda. ~ .I thought, Sir, added he,'I might ghawemet a het-
ter reception forfaoha fingular piece ofjer-viee. " .Sir,'_ {aid 1,".1'
Was never ungrateful to' any man ; but pray explain ~yourfe1f
.and .1111 go on board this minute, whether the leak be itop- '
ipe'd orno. '9, W171, Sir, fald he,- to hcfiort, hecaufi tithe 1'9.~ pre- -

' dour, the Matter'ie th'u' : Tau hnow well enough that. you rum: _
acwith the/hipatfiumhtm, when your Captainouas. murdered by
"C/he Malayam, with three of hirfailor: ; and that either firmnor,
fame who were on board you, ran away <<with 'the'flziji, and ,

A are/inc: turned pirate: atj'ea. Nosw, Sir, this i: the/it>>? qfquhat,

' {had to fay : and ;I can fofltimly aflure you, that g'fjou fare rag
hen, jou will he executed without much ceremony, fir undoubtediy
you (Annot bathe fenflhle. what little larw merchant flip: jh'ow to'

' piraten'quhenemr theyfall. into their hand:.. - . ~ ~

' -. ." .Sir,' {aid 1, -' I thank you for your kindinfor--mation ; and
though Iain {ure'no man could_ come more honettly by, the
{hip than'! have done, yet knowing their enterprize, and being
{ati'sfied .of your honeft intention, I'll be upon my defence.
.Prfyth'ee, 83", and the mail, , don"t 1'th qfheing upon your defines,

' the he/I that. you tam make 2': to he out of" danger 3' aud'therefore, .

' if 10!; home any regard fo'rjour Jifefifl' the live: quour 'men,' take

. the advantage, dvithout. fi'zil', quutting out. to fiaat high-water:
.6} which meam, a: you have a whole tide hefire you. you will
:he gonetoofarout 6f their rear]; 5efilre they can come down; '_ .

" I am mighty welt fatisfied,' iaid I, " in this pa5ticular, and _
aforyogr kindnefh, which'metits my great efieem, pray,~.8ir,
\what amends {hall I make you? ' He replied, " I known-not
what amends you'are willingto make, becaufe you may have a
form: doubts of its'certainty :. but, to convince you of the truth A
of what -I fay, I have one offer to make to you. On board-one
-:of the 'Engfiih fhips, I have! nineteen months pay due to' me,
and this Dutchman that is with me has fev,en momhs pay due to

.fhim, which if you will makegood. to us, we will-go'aiong

. <<with you. If you Ihallfind that there is nothing in what we ha'xie _

, raid, then weiha'fl desire nothing. ; but when you' are confinced
thatwe-'have {aved the thip, your lifeyand'thejiwes of the men,
.wemillleavc the whole to your generouity.','-- i . . \ ' . '

=S<rreafonahle did this every. way ap ear, that I immediately

t contented,- and .we went .direetly' on card. As foon Aas'we
'caz'ne (inboard, my-partne-r calls joyfully out, That 1/!!! ha}!
flopped. the lea'h ? " We", thank, God," {aid 1,." but pray '
:lctus weigh anchoriorthwith."'-_ Weigh, {aid he, what ix'th'e

, .. - meaning

I

'.'rk' "'q.'-H"
. .

51.94 - .L'i FE'AN 13' an 'v'm: srU 3 ms

'vrzieaning 'of tbi:,..barr} 2?" Pray" all: no quellions, f" fiid'l,"'b1it 3 ,
all hands'to work, yithou'tlol'ing a moment's timefl',' Upon
Which, in greatgfurprite, the Captain was." called, who'immea
diately ordered'the anchor to .be got up"; and th0ughlthe tide '
xvi-as not quite down, yet being <<allilted "\yith-a-little' Iahjd
.'hi'eezc,,\t'\:'{tood to lea. I then called my p'att'ner'into-th'ecfi.
bin, and related the llory at large, 'which was confirmed 'a'n'd
'-1'rnore-' amplified by the two ,men "I had br'ou'ght on board.
Scarce. had we fin'ifhed our dil'courfe' upon this head. ' biit'n-'fai-
Jar-came to the cabin door, with'a mefl'ege from the Cxptain, - '
that we Were chafed by five'floops full of armed men. "' ,Vet'y
"fibell," lhid I, 'f itl'is plain-now: there is fomething in'it';?"
-A'nd fo,r'going uponvdeck, I told all the mentthere'was. a delign
'for. feizings th'e'lhip, and of executing 2119' for unitat'esg' 'and
"aficed'them whether they would faithfully fiend .by' us',-ain'd by '

' gone another 3" ' To' which they uninim'ouflyfepli'ed', ' " That ,

..'th'ey 'veould fight to their. laft drop of blood." ' Il then'nflced the '

LiCaPtain, which .'W3Y' hc'thnught inch to? us 11'0" manage the ,

. 'bat'tlef.' Sindhid he, the. only ._mEURle0d it later} them "of with -

'ourjgrrat 1/20; a: longa: we a e able, and than have re'cou'r/'c to '

"our [well-arm: : and :wbezz barb t/Jefir fail 11:, 111:)! retire f6 alofe

; )'quarte'rx', <<when perhap: [be enemy'quarzfing man-rick, rim when: '
~6rea'k ' ppm our bulk beads, rio'r get inf "ROWW- "Mean timeztbe

'. gunner was ordered to bring two guns to bear fore'and-Eafi'out

, (of the fieerage. and fo'load them with mufltet-'bulkts and 'fmall

'. pieces of old iron; and the deck being cleared, we prepared

, for}. the engagement, fiill, howevef,-k'eeping but attfea.' The
boats' followed us, with all the fail th'e'vleonld 'malee,"'a.nd vae'
fccn'dipereeive-the two foi-emofi we're Englifh, whioh'out-'fail-
ed the re'fc by two leagues. and which w'e fmind Would come up
'with,u8_:,;hereupon, we fired a' gun without a ball, inti'mating
,that theylihou-ld"bring to, and 'we put outia flag of'trnce, as'ia

'fignal. for"pa'-."1ey,; . but finding them crowding after -us, till
they came within (hot; we took in our white, and, hangingiout
,t'ne 'red flap, , immediately. fired at them: with ball,:.1we when a
guilt-d to them withv'a'praking trumpet,' bidding tliemlat their '
..-peril keep off, ' ', .- . ' .y .2 '

.-B_ut all." this fignified nothing ;:' for depending upon. the
-i'tr'epg'th that followed them, they were refolutelybent fo'r- mar.

"chief :' hereupon-AI ordered them to bring the {hip to. by which

3 gmeans. they-lying- 'upon our breadlide, we- let fly: at them
,atonce, one cf whom carried'ayvay the; item of 1thethindermolt
bait, and obliged them not onlz'toftake down their fail but
<<hade themiall-mn to the head 30 the boat, to keep them Jr'om

sinking, and {0 {he lay by, hav-ing'en't'ngh/of if. latte-mean,
rt'time, we-pwparedto -w'eicdme the \foremoft' boat-instige :{ame'
emannefl' iWhile.' we were doing .t-'hisijoneioftheeathreeglrihf

,'temofl boat'efcanze 31p. to the reliefof thittiyhich was difabl'i'k,
.4, . f." ' ' '- _ ' an"~ .1 '._ ' '
\ . ,r. .93. gfiionIN'sZo N; Cf R USS,- QILES: '3'95 '
nude-tack the-amen <<out ' of. her.>> We 'again.ca.11 #0:. 1931*? . -
twith them:;,but,;,ip'PStead of an .anfwe-r,.'onen ogthei oetSS canine
glotqun'der aim item; whereupon {ogrlgnnne'ex'let fiyhie 9&0:
zchafe gun6,.-but<;m3fiing, the men _ifn_.thel boat ,thoutegl;and,~'1'ayao
' .- ving~their-.capgxcame: on withygreate'r fur-y, '; To;}te_'pair~. .. Hi8
{ceming.difgrace,_ the: gunner then got ready, ans; flying-(a v'fec ,cl
- .-,t.i,me,.d'!d-.'a gteat- deal ~oft'mifchicf. among .the" enefn '.SS.. We
. waved ag'ain,and,bringingoupgquartetp tobear upon g em, 1i...
and, three g'unsi .more,,,_when. 'we ~young! the boat 3.1".'115138Q and
{eyeralmen alreadyin the feat; hercupon, manningiour-pimace,
:I.ga_v_e orders to "favesasflmany. as they could, and ini't'an'fly-to.'
game. on board, beeaufe the reftjof their boats Were, 21th ..cfi-,
ingexvaccqujngw they did. [0,. and tool; up'three otpthem,' he
of whpgnxw'asaimoit paft recovery ;-and then crowding 31.1,th {ail
tweioould, after our. men~eame on board, yefmod, pittfant-er - ,.
stolen, to that; the, otherthi'ee boat's gave-.oyer the chafef, When
they, dame. up :to the'firIt-tvyo. - ,fI'hus.-e1elivemd-SSfom;imminent
~ 'ganger, we changed our courfe to the eaflward,_qniie_'{outfof'the -. ,
~__courfe,bf all European (hips, , , , , ' _ ._ .'-;: '3
. .-'_.Being now at tea, and incqluiring moneparticularly ofzthe-two "
'feam'en, the meaning of} 1 this. _the Dutchman, atgiopceJep
nointo'thefeeret. He told us, ' that the fello'w'iygho foldjustthe
{hioiwaszan errant thief,,who had '1'], awaywith'.;her,.;',jthht
the Captain was. treacheroufly murder don the coatte efi Maine, _
sa;.-by...the natives thexje, x'v'ith .thgce of his, men n;, that: hef'the
Dutchman, and four more,' belng obliged,tohfiexgmi'rfeto ,
-. the. woods for, their 'fafety, at. length efcapegi o'y'fi'means of;
.,DutchPShi'_ inite w'a'y to-Ch'ina, Whieh.ha'd fentjrthe'itzboagon .
more for, emiwatet: That, after this, he went to Batavia,
. {where two of the feamen belonging _t,_o.ther flup4mh'o' had defe'itg
-. ,.C/d theiefl in their travels) arrived, .a'nd'there ganeaniaccpqnt
' that the fellow whoranaway. with thefiihip "had :foldher' 'at Ben]-
gal' to a fet,_oPS,-piiates, who went a crmfing, and haddlre'ady' ta...
.-'ken'~one Englilh and two Dntc'h (hips, richly laden, 7 " ' I..'
11;;Novg, Itho': this was .abfdlutely falfe, 'my partner..truly'faid,
thatch; geliverance waste beefieemed fo'mnch "the moxie,'.by;
reafon.'had_;we' fallenyinto their hands, we coulfi havejefiec-
.ted nothing'fcom--thembut immediate, death, ,confidering on!" ac; ,
.eufers would have beenour judges; _and,, tjl,erefore,.,h_is "Opif
-;pion_ was to i'etum direetly to Bengal, whefe,_helng known, we
. eould~ proOe how honefily._we came "by the {higgf 3171.0!!! We.
. bought-her,"'_and the nee, jam}. avg-here wewere'fnrez'ofi [ornejuf-
tfce-g; at leaf: would not .be' hanged firlt, andjudged afterwardsy
VIWas -at\fir._tt of my partner} opinion, but when [than fmor'c
{eriougyz confidered of, the matter)..1 told him, Weigh a'gi'eat
hazard inaatte'mptinrgfl'to retain, ...-hSSing' onthe; wrong" I' e"of '
. the 'Stg'iaits ofMoluecaua-adfihat, if,.upon.a1annj gigengve; o'ifld'
be taken ,by 'ttieg'putghat Bateswa, ,or _Eng{ifif1_;g',_f"etY=here,.'oge
~ , -' ,, " f f , rufi'm'n'g _

L.. \ ~ ~
. ' /{bl/'5' .'

19% Eifvfi'liND fibfi'fi'fitfi'iflfits
' mi ._'aihg'~f way-mum ib'e aifuffi'ci'en't; 'efiflcneefitd' ,confledm 3118.
' fl? .!'8' dangcrh ipd'c'ledfiamlcdunfit an}? M-p'afimgz, but likewme
a} tye'flxtp's-'gpmb'a'x?"; fo Wei'chanee'd buff>>; {camer- "Wuti'dpy
3' drefOIved-tq~'g97- Q the ebafi of'Tbfiefuia;Namibia-thatof?
C '_ 'a,_. where,..purfuing our firfi" edefighjesitbwrzdegffive-might;

".

 
    
  
 

1' .ewxfe-have'afi qpportunity'todil'inEifififlieiflfip-lemefiayof ' .
0 er, and to remark-to 'Bcn'g-aP 'iri'any'bfiMtryfiEefL-we-mtzld ~

D'ZOCill'rF. 'Ihig'ibeing agreed 1:01 we'fieerfgdzeway'Na'N-i E2 '3:- ~
bent -5p;-1eagues 'ofi' fth'e ufual- conrlfc'tq" the em; whichxphfilnd-
-tQ' 'f' ' qe-fquonve'njefijees; 'Aig thawed-umi'flea'dily'agai'nrbng;
mgr-1 oyg'ge'bgcame more-tedious, ehd fieaacgan {atheia-fpaideof -
W?" ofvbi'mifi'om and'whafiwas'fiill Work; we "preheating
{ha ;a_sf-thofcgflnips' frdm whore boats- We "ha'd'lelbaped, w'cife
be ._r'3d' tof' fining-fly: might" get'bet'Ore'T'ux; find"--have-3giv<'zn , .
ff. {h infidfmatiqp,' '-wbic'h;r'night creme--abather=-vigm011SSpurfflif..'
lgdeedhi. could fictihe beifig. giiewed;,,~vehen~'t 'confidencdithatvl
. whofiiadvneier Mange :er defrauded any,-pc_rlbn' itvmy 4iPSe;~wae
.nbwfpfii'fixedtlik'e' 'a-'Eeomm'orf (thief. agn'd i'fi-taken'm in'firrfhfe

' .l."'SSxeeatc&.dan 'j r;of'being executed; as .fucht; and; 'thtmgh'xinnm,

 

' _ fitgi'l'j'fonfid; mifelf--jindexfithe neecfiity 'ofr-fijt'mg formwfiafeo-
, 231; End fibereBy-e'fcage being-brought to flame; bf Whio'lr-'I'Wag ~
bilge}; fibre'aft'aifl than ofdeathzitfelf,' "It was eafin to'sread my (15%;; ,
3mm in'my;.cbfintenancges Mymipdwas oppvefied'y lik'e'thofe
ufiuhapp'y :ignqeent perl'ohs, who'lbein '- nverpeivercd-fby- Maia
rhemcua' 39d: perjm'ed evidences wic edI-y- refolvEd? 'towtake 3.

away that 16199,; or ruin their: regutasion; ham ne'other 'r'e'c'ou'rIe
initihimworId-'to cafe 311a: {orrbw.. "but W53,:.P"3YC/f5SS"3nd'
{can}; My game: feemg inc PS0: conc'el'ried, 'enc'ourggedume 3's

Well}; he, could; and,'aft'er defcribing td me-theleveralspnrw
' pf;-that'*'coaft,' he t'eld me, {he 'weuld"-eit{3eSSr-Iput-me_ in'ofn'ethe,
,cpfifi'of "Cnchindtina, Ior fife {in <<he 'b'a'y Of'T()ISSSS1'.ii'fl}_"fi10$'
whehccg'we might "go. to'- Machm'ita; =toivw~qhgefifC/cPSefi3dfibyc .,
31:! 'anngdefg. Land ,wh'er: {tillmeiy "'Eancpeeepr miIiES' 'refie

. .; ,1. "' ~ ' ~ -.. "a

K: i-3T07thie'

"ii; .
fight 'of'thefiwaft; "But hou'ghtit-'afivi? 'ble to put i'fltoiafmafl

fiver-Whats we} could.; either oven-land, tor :53" the mip'eir-pinnhoe;

fiaecm afi'ecre'd, 'ahd; l't'afi'Y "m mmfi"! mm"

kneii'i vjfihat 'wc'fi'ele' were" in ariy fibrt's' th'ere'abeute. " 'Th'iskhapis

{gy lfie'gfprdved' o'ur deli v'cra'peca-I; <<far; next- morning, 1]an e'vc'ame;
fg'QTtlie;-'.bayRot-Tohqfijf two Dutch. flfipsfiandfi thin-5'1 " witho'nya' -
aigy'toloure-uand -inl'the-evening;*'tqungliihl-flfi-ps fieeiedzthe: .
{afie-zc'burfe. 3"1'he-iriver where. :we w'ere Iwas- lb'ut IfmaIIJ-gagdl -
min but 'a_fe,wr.-Ieag'uea up the-icomjry,-n'orth-wmSS';' the; timings;
, $58 -'wilg_l'3-axj1d"barba_rqus, - ,and- the} 'peq'pl'e thieves; flaking '110
'- cbfiefedddence with. any 'ot-per ' natioii ;'--'de_alin$z.,orily in :fiflv
git, md'i filth graQ-comqu_1ties 3' end-lone~-bagh'neustcufitgm= .
they-1:111; flaking-1'; '-that~ <<when my "Vefl'eli' was 3m 'appfly flflpif-'I
mfgted'mnzthnfimafifibey'mafieethemebwfawe await? -
3" -":~...:i".' .4-- ,' . ' .g, I' o ,

.
SS . I'. M? R-GIBINSGN onus 011:. 197

Jortbat now. we might faii'ly, fay we Were fucrounded Ibyt cue--
esboth.by1eaan.1 15311er - ..
1A0 ghs ihip had: been leaky, we took the oppormmt m ,th'i9
place, to hatch her,- and. to, (top; up the pisses,- whieh sf i'q' the
(Yer.-\3Ieaccordiug1ylightened her, and .b'i'iniz'in'g 'our; axis
grad (other, movable things to one 'fid'e',' We (My kid to ifi'g
her. down, that 'we ,might_ come to her bottom: but, spot 124
09nd conttdnatiou, we did not think it Safe to let her lie on: dry
.. ground, neither hideed; wes the, place conVenien't fer it. The
~ Inhabitants no; 9&4 to fu'c'h a fig ht, as to fee aibi'p lie dam on
~1>nex iiQe; and beeLin toWar'ds tgbe (bore; and not..erc'e1SS1ng
he? ,'mese who were at work on. her, bottom, with a girls and,
:0 its .on the 01?: siiig, pref'ntiy imagined. the. ibib', 135d hem
fiwggvgy} anpi flay. but on the-.gr01ihd.Agreeable to- this hip.-
posit (093-, they widowed: us with. ten: .01: 41inch]: gangs boa...
with airtfomtbon, undouotedly t0 plunder me {1319, audio ., "y, .
ass/PS32,. 3mm they? found a-Rire for wires to @1211". king: "
when ,chey- eigeixg ii: 0'ma :13.- 211,201! .at work oh the 'Ihfi'e; otr'
iguana 6 WT wa fling, ravmg, and flopping her, it i'flied .th'e'm
aiI with Mobile rife 4: lat, 1.17.1197..- good: gazing-:35 PSI;'o b'tbey'
we}? eo'zifoundcti3 .. or} could we magmegwhai their deszgs: ,
(PS33,135 :hawgvey, ironies: 0f: danger its ha " "dew aims gait ,,
9191130111000 to ,thofe..at work, morder 0612f: 'dLike tin, girlie;
aid, indeed, th1s.precaumon wasabfoiute Iviiece 01,;5910
_ meg-Lo amhqavat'mr: ,il'ye, nanges, concluelmgpin mange}!!-
, gamed; ,asQ that :We' were favmg, outlivepjnugood "
wh his}; ou ghtp beie' ged t9 them, .came down 113909135 ..
, u {gou'ghdmiiaq 0,039 iri line -ot kitties Wei ay at grain
- 1911134311: 1131;. ye $.35}? 90mm: to tight - Eand "before'the ha es:
eon-,4 .be 5301:," ' 3729? moisten its the boat come omboare
they PS0ere orsdttred', the: Cochmehmefe were of? their}, Milt" .
two. ohtheir/boats boarding. our long; boatfit ,eg- beganf
-~ hold '0;- our menas: pnfonersi The fair they ifeized, ,wafi a.- {PS0 ' -
Enguibu tailor, who he er- fireti h1s'muflvt files a' fool; as :1
imagined, - but: 1614' it 0m in the boat: 'but, tie knewnvha
ms: do Lighters by. x9323: ,sforee, he, drag}; ed the Fagan. onto?
_' the boat 'x'nto 01116,; by the. two' eats, and mockedmisbrams out
ag/amtt the boat-2,: guansm; a Dutchman that: wassncxt him,
- batched. {the mnflees', and makes sewn. tifve 13119150 with
bub-end .0 it , however, this was doing .ve'i'y little. t0itiie1r
1:11er ,. bnt'a rang ,c usekpcfbed geqident, whiciiu'a her' mew-
', giis laughter than as} thing she; gave our met: aoomplute W'y
my over them.
At, flying the- .eavpentcr, who was prenamng to grave the out-i"
bd'e at the his, as well. as. to pay the ika'ms, where he caulk--
ed, to {top the leaks, halii gotten :4qu kettle: jiitf let" down to

glue boat, .iope filled with badmgfipitch, slid the other Wi'th-- r0.-
. 3; tabs; 011,. a as the migwnghts rife; heist

:s::~, ~' mess' . 1' - -. ' '_t- " ' "' -"'"'"'T"'""w'--.--7'.'"--\""- v" ".\',', SS "- ~l-y' . 3' L'
, .. . . - .

' I

--

~'.'_c'arpentcr's. ma'nzhad a'great":i'r6n' ladle wit}; Which-he lied to
ddpgly Thew'qt'km'enwith ~hot: fiufl','& as ,tflwozof the ,ene'micsen-
~'t'c'r ' .'thc bpat;WherSS.tlfC/ fellovi ficOduhefahlitcdfit'hjem with'fafull'.
1" - 11353; 91 ot' the haggbtjifing'liqfidry. Which; 'I'the' 'poior; creefi.i_1tEUR8>b'eiti '
. - ;' 1.13% naked; inside; Iltheiixh mar" oiit, aridjj'igmpiintb {be {6.84" 'We'
-- "at?" fad-5'Ieygthecagpentcr, gipef-IJ/jdn'r'ilje' tit/m: :ilo 1e".:_'and '
" if'p: ,sfiep'pin'g Yfpgwafir'd 'hlmferf, takfia 'ai'xfi'ep'; "arid? dipping 'it into '
-r't;hC/.piteh-put,~.::trer and. Mama .,PSor;pt.em?ifiu.lly:mm amm'g
- -'. infirm; asxehatfno'gq efeape'd being. fcaldequfgupdzi'; iv-hicfrflthef'all ,
-I'I'n'jailc {Hythre' befii Of' their inn; :crymg; .. hag 3-.hoxi'zl'ing-fifi33ffich? la
"t*fisiSSh$ful~mannEURrss :fihats .in'aklv'myfidfi'rentmteke" If'hever 'hmdf'tfie'
~ , ".lxkeis"Afiefi;'--rii;'t;eSSd, never fivesdfifiefitrffilcifed Withafi'] "coh-
..; ..;_-;:qii'2%PSt_C/a9;r1{:Wg'3*fixvitlz this}, there""being-1b?)ittlfihlpbdfli'e "53:66 -
:, <<fffflesgw:39pfrefipa;1,9.;.l;fi,ill.ing:fi1.ch5weg:matches,( "fire than
'- "31??abse'fiamszilsmwmzflith62:63:11,::pn-'Itffapd953's'Wh'ieh-ithfiii'
flag??? ifielc'fiifibmmdeQiemfthl'fifi'fiere.iig'fi".a'tid'"EUReifiitiblefliY=BY
. ~"'2<<*1._i..ekeifikst'zalt'.'tbjt:zs'.."beins:"in-L'brdigriiaffida the=:-'1htip2PSwimfifihg.
3<PSSSSSf'fefufisiiiithsindzmifiazgrffei'thex:Emit<VejfiSSfi.FeiaiIe'c.Idegh'dfSSt'- '
"iififikvziSS$17hSS8EUREURY=idC/ePS9fimfm97 :-' iffighafii'fiein'aiz'fi'efifi *o.t'---;r.ic.EUR.. .
;, "grflbfiefim'xggfiteffi'iqndfifixggeI}; gqod; ,pgsz'exi' $3iSSdflfC/tdSSSSfibedrC/ifR ; .::
' ":'F-ffetfiffii'rei'e335367216'2"to":i'fite'tbe'tbi""f'f-sz'i--iiiti-'ffiz'bfi'ifi'ee'rl, --
{:fifggefie Q", M", L.,..g. ..\ :va 9 y. V

, 4 .4 .. a:fFomorw-asthowerwcmd'gsgw
;- :Mme'qfiogrh fisfigigmafifis;SS9'fwf'cajitififmfeetifiSS Emma?- 'fj

   
 
 

   

Mfl'tthrda "*e'n

' '3". masmna s'3'"I,Wh2n'r<<'g,v'eLfififehceiecffjatfighfefifiefifffifi'finfife ..
, . 'Eigfii'fifi'efiifiifigi$695??? ;C/6'i'1Et-'s'bfiflfitfiififiifiefiith'7I'WH'W; '
...-;;SSg;SS;7aSSf{egSS3w'g'fe'rfibytf'gealtViewirfeirliiia' dmgnefiligze imam: v:
"ifi'tfi'wflhifeaififi*endfies'rfiiideatg'f'ffiiezfi;e'232m???'fiefii'fi'eefe'd. '4'
EMS =KhSSSSa73SSC/9hSS 'fiill'fW'i-tke 693'" Ambit???tiufilve'fi4e'r'ebeiefifi - u
: ".3391'fitfiifigflsis'EfihciejfEi'IQPTeeiigfifiiPSiwfreeilySSleSSih'e?'?fihfi'fii'fi '-
" "'Jetjz'th'g'.3-pe'1fi'g' *C'om'e'ite,"thje::.latitji1d;C/'feffhi'ctfiflerfirefiis's'z.fii'ie' 'i'efdra' a,
<<if ' '<~'tdegf--p'iit?v-:Lnlt6'<'tfiC/".firfi fraeih's'fiort'fifib 'iuldscamf';.sdr;'afiC/-- . a
ftj fdi'fi "+-'-f.c$>"irlefi_ier fhfi're;'a"bC/iat.7C/ame.. off. twakfignfiltbiisfivith' ' ~'
ffiii'efiff'bfifiguefeiWotL-ict'g7bbgrd; --'wh<ii;'~egfete,<'fihi".Tefijepie'fiif'c "
,zisrryeefi- glfidlfjgee'e'pgcefffiiifikmdi.ient-L'flxetbg'at' bee 'gggig-hihgf'Afi'
__ , ' . ,. "g'f'tfi'e old'rhhnion'hoar'dfl gamed-to hirfn"'t>f~"goin',f .6
:ugfi'qgififihe man: now: ghwasd phr'tsofthe'ftveoan yearling???" '
3 Ebifijgwdafdwe :9 taig'he,.1miyag;g I t'ojgl- him-{wewemg- >ng
UuSS9'2cafgb;"a_n'd 'purchafea calitxjes'e. raw>>- and ' Wreught'rfilks; ; it"g'a",
~-,~,nigSSz'C/.{afid1fo'=_;'C/mrn;the game waiba'ek.' o; fa'id. 31C/; 36%;?" 3mg
fie7'f'3)zli'~*iii'2itflyfim'o; (ID/Jere jot: 1m?!) (c)5105-0112" -c'zvaee':--a:t' we?>>

. Wiiiiiwwzfiiifngmuff"? year opium fe't- a-'gf'ml'ef- adm'fi 'f'e..'"-~'"?B"lit?

  

I

' fiffiiv ,'r- h'fv'm

-'f;iid.31EURWeare'gehtlemen as Me11'-'aa;mC/echaqes,f~ahd qgfigmagree ~

' , kthgng'r'eatg..C/ity' of Pekin'mnd th'e'magnificen'g cdurtabi-ghie-igfoz
-m 73.11'3f. chinks?" "me'fei fai'd'f PS5134.>> fieu'ki'igo wizzvingiw. - .
' "'gz'e'berg f5": '1'! dfid'ljigfaele'fi'pei'Vt'ee} gpe'i 'lb'ggo'flgb Mf'lze'art Lof '
' ' =Mdt'fov'czflffinkire, flea-bandied gfidfiqe'nb'ikdgflfififi0fl ifbfiffe'd; ' "
:"Ieg; Magi-raffles: all-~35! fiver}; film}; 'i byzgfiflerablec'.'elxllfi Vb}; ;fb:l)if'lfi '
_' i: firm/1mg"magmamgdggm {#:8711910 fbc'cifiquPekiIrfi {621- . "
. '3' ~--..: . 'l u . . s. .J | ' 7'10}. -'jeasmbggcmgcymerg . 1; :

7'. {5'3" . I, 1'. Cal", Edi!"
may go to Naugm'nf i ,ybu piety}, and tra'gvel to Rabin, and ft'befifi:

' i't a2 Dutch" gig/I be or'e. bofi'nd Mat 5190}, At"? 5'31: name of a:
, Dutch 62" @1111 PS1119,va was {truck "(lib confufifi ' tb'e'f'bhemg
._ .239 'g-i'e'at aj tercer .t'o me iii this vefial [Marni] tine-mam war: -
,,,-. is to' them?" 111 the Medl'erranean. , Thesold 3 111a
troubIed, VSIrnfald beg, IAa'p 'e' 'tbe Byte!) are-mag, time?
3",: $03322} our whom, '1,"Noi.' -'fai_'d 91,, ,'but God'kndw Mum'li'ben

' may may take wheq'out 6f 'the rack mm 13"" 173721;>> "32%
9f

tiqbafi 1943412071 :1 Mgr: for peaceabfe merebpm} t'o; fear. bu;
,,1:ewevne,.tbgt 11' ernpudefle witb (1.795114 PIRMTES, ,f'i 'u'i PS2
\. :fAithe menuonm the 'worgi: pzrate} my countenaqcequbqfi
' 2' _. 2'i'f13fi'fl: at'cf icarlgi $31101;- .wa'e it. pofiible :fo'r-2-me to; fc'bnc,'
0.. , omy'th'e old: plat who takm ','nence'oF-Iz; Sqrflta'i'd h'"
;. ' NW?>> @9120? (our)? aw flag/E, 1'112-do yo'u albj :besfewzdej'ifi gag;
s _b'etgm'bi'" {mg '1 am a- littleiconcerned at': your menu 12-111 ,
grates ,bope .t ereme none--fact: 1n: thefc feag, ubecfiu't yo};
. 1111's>> hat weak'conaitiorb'vve ere- t'p' defend winfelves. '2 'Q,
" '-'-'-f",d' Iiaf if 1A0" :15 411,1~ 4911 t {be 'e'mebrmdt PS11,011}? 'I'nben' '
J 12%? 044,111: {tee yam-5,. a??? babofi" ' 9121124120 wk
flag/bani); #6:;be ,Szam, {but be; PS5 geue tw;SS_, I.jhn'bq'ugzrd ,..
gcrlbet--'tuiafi ,'e bdilf'fiac 4 9191141007, but" 4114.1 rm 31304} 491?}: 5'3
reprobdfe Captam, 411815271: 3')? 251':- mmg, tb ,"tg ,pt bribe? '
22g been pimrd} rea'bflb: M410} "'3' - . .22 ' "1'12 {'1
- .ff'What'h'fird 1, (11% thoimgh Ignorant-id? vi=ha .Ii'ad h'aj9 med)
d1d;they tin. that-Captain "' "'< .3ng {aid 116,314: generally ~tbongbf
J56"Ma.gam murdered' mg: but' perba 3-2 we} m 3/>> fromrfg
'1me 1,07: (10' II, .and'itbequoxi tbey 11171114 daybr'ue 1124): mg" 7.250;.
{0321" we>>: lately f'di tbgye't'ei .mi. {150 bdy 9f 1510,31,: m ,Ibe rtfiver" bf
Cambodia, '_by flme Dutcbman <<wbb belb'ng 'edz te tbe' Jb'ip 9,2 01101 bird
.2 much aHg '_-to blag): lb: flye' boafJJ/Jat par/11:11 ifebi, bu}. tbeyxbamv
filmmb' favam t3 g1".- i0 quarter 10'; 1b: Captam or '91); fig" 2
' -'~-- mong'but' bang tbcnuw 55731;? ._20'ne Tap. qt 'tbe, yardmrm. qwtbout my,"
fir , 4115145113 ,Jjof brmgmgqbem t.a' 45201115: of juauamre. ;.-
31311 cm bk; 't'ha'ft, ggving .1116 old man 011' heard; he 'Was 111--
.. cam}: etdomg riic 1mm:l [L'uef "iY'ell Seigmor, (feud 12) if' 18' .
Io'rflbs cry-5163mm 1' Wowd- have; 31911., cgrry us 11;)" to *I'Tanqain,
._ where name: Englifl'i, nor Dim-h Imps. come, find I mutt 't'e'ili-
#34011" thgi't Captains mt'elpaii'ce} 9_fi'-afl1,:rcud, mfoient rafcale, .
.-'thae:pe1the19know wha't' 'biflo'n'ge to 'j'_ ice,;:-;_'nori bay; to 56-. -
:- have-ib'cmfelves as We law-s oi God or: naturesdircet fellowe

frag 1.1:-

  

   
  
   
  
    
  
   

   

         

   

  

  

. ihx'f'jvmflci pnove.murder'"i&to puniih, robbers, and take u'pom
' 2' 'et'hi'g' ' '9'; ad'udge innocent fife-$1: to death,- Withgut afiy=;'1rebPS

" .10 life- them guilty};- but per-1139's I my five to', call 1:11:11: :21
accountfomt, in: 'place, ivi-ien'e thewumay be- 1:11;}; 'h't2 how jufe-i

-?ti'<:e ie- {0 be executed "- 2Au'd,' 121 I :'eid bim' a1} tire gory of. buy-

jug Vthe 11319,. and bow We v'm'e'i'e 'i'ived b'y {bee 11163113,:be two

_' 3:91;, '-2' that 113': murder of the Captain by the IVIRIRde" 'as alfe):
the mnnmg My 'v'vgi'th the fmp, Ibi'lieved to be true} But
. i. 31:

 
   

V:n". .... _. ' . ~"--'Ww--WV"" -.-- ...-.. .. .
.

.. .osrfgmoan IN 32:92:14: c ;-'-'re?'v,1SS'b~ r} e . 66f
' fiafiwtrwborbbugnt'in,were-turfieaebi'ratee;was azffiiz'eee. Mon
[:9 to???" their; c-awardjce ' ' and: fdphflrj.behfazeitgug,s when -' the? ,

'Q't'thkedefi'ss'I-'sc'ithe blood oi'thble'rfien 'we' Efllfli'ifi oi'nt' dgvy'jp'lfig

" eifence,.lay' a3: tilde-Gabe, What--"fed: ffid 'awfitaek'hSSSSfiy."funpujfiSS,,3; ,5; .

: is".Six-gtgfaidfthe'owman, imagedxybw 'helfivefifaken :heffiigbg
emzrfeilfo-fieer'.tgjthemm-thg'and; if?! might. adfii'fe 5-011; means. _

. .hg-'ve-"ym'ifell= yom'thipv'in Chinla,,"md buy-bn'build' 'anogheiz'.
inathat shimmy ; and J1," procure people t9"bW1hcmeat-14.1%};
'theiotfiefl': "Well. but; $eigniox'5 (faid -I)f.if I-ll'iru' theJhip-'i'ri this;
'magmeryl'may. bring- fom'e innocent perfphe vino-the filmedanfg
gifts}, 'haYe-x go'n'e 'th'nmgb , ,p'erhapb-- work; :_ <<yen- dcetzz' fifielfig
W'hgpeh'yflj m'dukj bee/g guilty ofitheir murdcrj-'as theigyijiaivhpug;

L exeenti_o'ne'zSSs.','n .ff'fl. hat -'need .nqt'trqublefyogg,' (aware: 9qu
ganja-manyway-19 wfixevene that; 56er iiliefe-'commanderg
ypwtalk of;'kn'ow'fiei'y-'ivellg and Will, Iififgrgn: t-lierir'figlgtljgfgg "
the-matter as Yenihaw're'r'e'lated; a'nd'l'amT'IJer'fl-tejdeq' "they Wilt '
net bnly'belvieVe me3'r3'but, aft more -cantioxt_}}.y;l;far. the (ft-191W}:
"EUR41dewfd-l'-y9'w.deflyer onem'elfage'from r'n'eitg), gbem-Iif'. "',,Y&SS '-

.. {faid _he),~;:3it'..',ry'9u will g'ivelit u'nder'v'ycuehahd". the? ail ma?
'thoveit'ts apt a of my 'oifn prodlietioni'?' HEwupon-Iwrotegp
' ,ai'ge laccqun't'of: their..attackizxg"_'me'_ ,ip ,.tllC/ii'5;10llg.-b'93PS3'"th'ifi

pretexjdedfiealbn sand unjua deflgp of 1;; that fftlley had dime,

What they might beaihamede'ofpand 'co'uld not aufwex; liorrag.

' . dfi'yiribuua:fizz-England; .But this letter was'Writ in,vain'.' Pm...

'v-idencegdn'dered thmgs another Way; We i'afled direetlg for_
Nanquin; and in ghout thirteen day's fail, came'toa'n a-neizo'r at:
gh'e,.1buth.-fweft-'pei_nt ofthefgreat gulf. cf'-that-p1ace; twhdfi:
w'elleam'cd; "that'two'Dutch fixips were gone thelengflyhefom '
us; .ayxd that we would :cc'rt'ainly fail intd' their h'axids.' We
Were altar-'3 g'reat'lofs iri this exigency; and woul'd'.very "gladly;

- have been-Onshore almofi'an'y where; but-ourfc'zld pilot_to'ld'me,~;_
PS131;ij ",wpmd'fail-'tb thefoqthward about two land foggy;
leaguesythefe 'wgs'a' little'pdtg called Quinchapgeytwhdre'h'bf
Efimpean fthipai ever Cain-re,L 'a'ndf. where {we'mighthCOpt-ide;
what was further to be done; Accor'dhjgly, five weighedvanchdrf >>
thenext day',ficalling on1y_ twice of: (hereby theV-way-Z'towgei. l\ '
frefl1;,_\va_ter.. The country people. View cour'teuufly. fold in; rsdtg','

, :ea, .I.gi_ee;2fowls,fl'amd* other prdyifions. Afte: ,fivencfiays fa}!

. i'wye"c_'_amejto athe port',' and lafn'd'ed'with unlpe'akable jays, ("Fe
; refolveda'ga dit'po'fe of ourf:hie_SS"$in'd efi'eels in my. othcrijgaiyv
~pqfiible,-~than'- enter-on board ftl'iet'ill-fated "vefi'el mbi'e .; .- form) *
. fiafefcanybe-'m'ore miferabl'e . than": cofifinltcd {ea-,1 which'ils a

a life 'ofjderith',.a~conf6under bi'b'ui' underflaqdings,i\that'.(7ets the -' .'
the-.imaginatian- at w'm'ku to fo:m'._a :h'omand i'rjggtful;\tizings
- .t'lut may n_cv_er h'appen',. .And'we'lcaxc'e flept pneinjgh't whbout
dreaming of halters, yard-aims, cr gibbeta, of fighting, .being

~ _ Efrem-arid beingxkilled'; na'yfi'fo .vi01ent- were our apprehenflons;

that we would bruife 613x hands" and head: against the tide?
. - - , - - 9' _

. n

sm "'3 Afiafi'irVfiNTUREGP 4443;;

A 4
if the: min?3.3;"-itmw-:.aeanallx.agnsagede:-aflc'r-iibrwr't}? '
Elfifekipime}:iiefiiifibgmfififmfizgamg into 911n- .SSliqsigSSt$fiwh.._ .4
.awelsisrta'nds PS92.73? '1 33.33313:qu mzeonditmvyhmafg
' ' flit we? ',fC/-:!I.SSa,fiirirsf. . .tzie'e. flawsizigefi;figpfli'ddlfiexafiflfis.
flldfik'd"be-fiihgecijiidfiw'ofifi-$395131abysmdimoqgfiflbhggwsigma -

. witl'fiefetiedfi radii-.4P1m3hfilcn't; qwcrrlihiisiofiz'figfiiwfifi-

- 333393333333; 39131::- at thqugh'.2thi'C/f'ioi'C/C/.f 'be ig:%!SS26*?!.aiC/ifC/bfit -

. 'fider; Q'mm'k'WVMt'Jfifie:3101?.'ihaxe'3-beenfiormfiflfl LWW'QW '
. .-'\'vliic5.iiC/?5v4ffipiy'aY=SS"'C/a}17c.d1to mgaecghhti.fag--:36;hug; ifeg'mfii

.. fh'yvb'Io'od' 'Ardas .,t~<Y=.thy.'i'nn0.eiefic'et ' wim- 33347.: 4 ou'.:~mate~

Wehehfilgafi .tb'y .blcfie'd-'f Redcemcr; was 'Ghriftsicwfib'fi'ffl

2 fetttivf'efl'qdecs,_and-to. ia'vho'feszeiaidenc'eyefi. qnghftofubmg '.

' WWW? 'WiSE'hTappmt-EL" ' Aiter- 3' tfiis; ':. madman ddixfzai"'er-imfir .-

1 .4444 4. . 44 , g
' migyye'tQFmfiw-ifmhe lat:drop-.obbloadnndzfaon, .ficlmxi

. ' .. .33} .',....1'fSSfSS-SS.es-.t&kEURnby" :haagifhag;4"rflcfiflfinifiefiifiefififlfie ' 4
Ii'a'eeirt'. ate; tgrm'ent.;be74>dC/SSPSgatth1~itie1f ,2. "* If?
iefffiflfi'ffidifie ithe'iflk'ikinsi-Hewett;'?.5.C/1311SS?'tfi'3?9'?Y=<SSi1. 'Bfif'iSS
grocixreckusai-'kzdgiyg; mas :x- :wmgheu-ra; form: 4 .4"; 3
_. .'wageml'c'h"kt-Wuh'viailavgc mffibev'fi: 19minggtozeit' @913 . W}? '
.. fifth/cinch; a9d,.paifiiadpeC/;wSSnd-.With;l'dtgfls'oSSms;~f9 {Eg'epaio'izfi
' filfeiflfie-Fthifivfes; which}. are wfi-finfimmueilifi- 34113:.539391333:
3EhE'i-ZHQESXEE4Z'WE' 3?.bivfidfi?98:sa"3itt1C/:f@ef'si'fiirrinr 311253233;
an?! ,we' ie@.239ycd- 1a: {mutinc} flittiagk-in'd. 'ofimalberit'l..for~~t;hreaf -'.

" Ian-L 1'.

 

 
    
    

.~ jag-<<4297;133:3344 :4T'1e' fair; or .merrlsgiWiilgfdw'eeha'ie'ibifih2021.6? ' .
' git '.:'14qi__r4;ei1.'.timg; ;4 ;.';h9wPSv4er.,-Z ,tbere. remam'e'd-.zin,:ttrC/5.>>m&SS5%fi;{ -

ngg=.afx_idimo' man 'fiiieSS$:i'-'the..mefbfi"" tfiiibf- PS115 . 'Iattema're'iiig -'

ibowli'lj-'tbe'sfirtt plaeei; bur-0.161'fii'ioflfiaenght,"iiiiieeeiieieie
. ew'tfi 'thefiiffmfiart-'Rgimem; iefi'fii'Wb.Were;C/C/9fi?eY=PS!bgSS
$38. 153921? .1 41:0 lChriflizhiiy 3:; quf. o 4.,'tbem'3 w'eteimfefim'A' 5381434"

anti-awry? .' .! 'ir'i iffhemklvrfiififi'fhei'flbnkfie tear-121.341.3311 ,
Mihfgtqet-gsgggnegfi";.i Hui-ma. thiidmho wet'erwentfimag '
431,332.41 :Eafihegfsjmgni wig-.9}: - itefii'e.Ceenfit'ihfiqfi'ifnmgkefitifige
lair? fefisfigns.angd'r'gxavcx.yst.affio fiefikffirififixf-'zafife-theifothfl?

. .t.ve%:gteneiC/>f'fihmn' fias'a'RirKugfisfei..'ah&"PSi'rC/f'C/th.EURr-'$3KQ?SS. .

n hf??? 1231:1133- Simpn, nagging:'gvvtajs'iappoixitea'tbige tb"5'.PS'EURSS5fi.;

.#133;:.;39Y=3Y=1e3eat.32PS4h'ez'Emiaeriee'fifxtb'e'iChi'nt'Eefi's'Izana'h'SS~.;'s'>a'i1fi' .

' waigk'slfi-z4595fepgghervrkfiififlwws'eigrdefisk*'fr9'flzsze'930' #9 Elk-1
.. 15031933251333; We "nesr;ar.,'i;SSEURt;. figmhery-bm: EQMS; 13130133121"
'. .293'fieit9-aeeeomhv-fii-m-'ifilfifatzfiewner: 'Sieilflififi Mfg-@311! .
' fibfiz'gfiwfleflefieui tbiiazii'eflieh'izfigbfz. Myralghds 4.? #3355118 - >>
<<stifligefiffieeei 3%" exeeeefiza'i--Tilseefifiz.4fiY= Parish-15:3 3m. 1:66:13.

-- figflfivaafiiqnfisiawn parziimayzfiibi'ifig at. Adinhem'x'ithj hmJ!
:fidxfiv'ecmf gazipclinatioa 35:35:34: 'xyhifch' imadteiiiim -.p'rcfs' .t'he'
293? menu-rm midi-my. parfncrgzimseainImK- Per'feelf'cdfiten'tw
288?.2..134!72et;e7!??SSn1'fa'rd'fmv .'XigtmslrE'sv/idt Jhtisfdiei'ivn. tan. L70}! '
ff .,_ "2721p; idoflifggyfiaqgfiubbfbi ;@ 5414335333: 'bcrklicg;~.ahzY=;;oq;g'/SSgiu'6{z_t'SS: _'
"Z: vlgyfifwobjefiq pdt'j'qo'Qrtfij- ,jourl'flf J'O,13ld 'h'e, fati- inaj'fia 43";-

' " ' gn'ofl'fq'tbg/ifi' in 'z'im; a5'"tb' ambb'fleflo cod'zie'rt 5M, mid/giant-

1524 fix {and 1,,gve4/lmll have 10:; Breathing 10-14: all {be way,

iiyiead;

v ' . . . ~ . A .. - ._...2201" R'9 B 1 N30 N:-' cimU' s 0' E," v 203' . '

ih/Ie'adrofp'leafing a: Emit/2 a' may>>; 'of "we (awry; '35,; rm
he, , bowemgrpur religion 'may be fifllwed-bjfime'people, iti: wry;
Z'ci'tainit ngitber dim/l;- 'w 9f giad (Zzanner: or'flbrf/fian chafiity ",'f-

97;". q: tang/"are gnu/amen, a"; fiu'lz we may eo'nv'nfe 'togetbefy
'efiilfiegitfifiakfiyig 67;? aadiberfimgafi" .7" ' _ m, f ' u -
'~'ButY='iw'c'-fhall.lcaire 'himja/wmle, 'tb cdnfider durx'fixipr'and the '
'metcha'ndife' which 'we'_ had' to difpdfe 95:5 .fThcfr'g'. Was-hint. .
very. .fittlt'>> trade in't'h'e place Where: we, wercg'afqd I, 'was onee.
tefolwiedl'to xcntut'e "t6 fail to'.the"rivler;Ktlam', gand ifozto the'cih'
~' ty pfz'ZNapquip ;' but"'Px'0viden'Ce'drdeitcd if otbemife,rby?=ouy
' 01d '. "flat-75 bringing .a Japan merchant:to 118,-;0 fe'ewhahgpmds
"We": 'I'ad; He' .irg'xmcdiatply b'sug'ht oarhpiu'm, for -w'hi<_:hSS"lie~'-
' ' ' gag/9ft>>?au'i'mryg'gmd prite ingo'ld, by, weight; .l'omewcflgeg' at?
,which-'f'wkt'v- abput-jten brat-veal Ounces. . It upca'me 'intp' my
'hgefif'thet-fiih'gpa bafffii'ghtflbuy thifgflxip-tog .;'.--'and;tl"bifiderC/d' .
"his: interprets: to ikrepek- if 'to him; A.. 11:51am.- rijo'thine- the- 2a:
but'ihri'lgged up his'nmulders' ';'-" yetisi-gfew days "when 18'.
.ae'c'omphni'ed: pr '5, 'miflic'ifiapy f'pr'i'dt; 'whcjy'iwgs " his int'erpt 96,":
'. " W3"TSS'iY=is.'SSf090el,\'Y=Tbet-tfee.*b'e.,bad502.1351,.agieafizlfii'itit-y'w air:
' - 'gaazli,;dPS'ej-_;_fSSSSd24:75:. may(Mgbg'tdf'jbzefibafi,gym/14%.;.butefl
_ Wfifieflz'e-'ef'epihfldlbii'e'lge'rfi-fiwgb*aIL"(fmehi'fitbegafto {febamhmjd'
--   gazi'QEszeewii'b-mazber;s'lgeadigzg. Tioi'r/gesw/jijlipgiria3725345319? : .
' fifierbrmiforbiewbiebwer:mo'azzziwry-'swillinglrscpafiztowMow .
' awaxtzfivirrzhem "Ffflfieiiijwfid WI>>? (5%: Uponzzhismg-I
>>. .a'ficcd urge} C3pt31ri"a'h'd'hisj;.mSSng. jf; they-'wercazfillingfio' ; gmjtb -
. Iibehziit'fiiwhichffiex- uwpi'moiiflY-'asrefid:a"=fWhiFd'th'iS'"(8'85"\
d'gfiatibm'the Ypunfie'ifiefifmy" nephew .lcfbfwitt'endairinei'ftolje
' ma: '4".{17hat ""53?:[i'did"notcareitoia'cC'efitjthie';"grpfpt'et'bfiaggkite
' Qagfia he'.i"\vbl_1".d'_'manag'c it .fd'rgme 38_ .ILplefafedfidndxrcndetme"; '
I'atniehful'ae'cfzgimt'aof'hgs'?fuccelb, which vauld Bbmixbfly mine-s"? '
> 'Igid'eed'g'l Was-{very 'uh=wSSllifig to pir'tangjth-'lzhimfg.but'cqm'rdgra-_
, ing'it; might bafo'xj gheyoqng man'e'good,;ldiPSSSqi'grPShd )vith'my:
_' pafifnfiab'cfit'i't','".who,s'of "his Tow'n gcnerefity," gave .jhgm'f'hts
<< _ marczof the'vgfi'el; Tg'i'that 1 1:01:16 " 661312); ptheh'vjfe: thumgwg
" . - hm mihe' :" ,bgt', hswe'v'ery w'e let shim have- but' Lthcrz-pr'oacf-xhaglfi
'"ofi'it,'afid" prefervcd'fagpgwerg'tha't "their we meg-in" Ehglend," '
iiiih'e.' ha'd i'obta'tneegfueggis. hg' mould aechunltto 'ugT-fgyj $99511sz
_ "(sf-[the profi'teof thc'flfipx'k 'frcighty'ane'ghe~oSShSSr1flmuldbC/
hi3" otx'x'i'? '2 .'-T.-'.ms- having Itaken'a Writing uC/udqf'zhi'_a 'bagdu'Away;
the-faited'to Japangwmrefithe merchant d'eflt'iyfiry-honemybyg
him,':gotl him a" licence: to>> come .on fiefeffenfihim'quaded t9;
' f tke' Philippiaies 'withhakjepanefi:fi'ipngifgo,' from await: her
. . "'Camc-'backlh'g'ain fielded:with'Eui'e'iseja'ngoodgfclovgs, 'ariq'othgn
fpiCCfii'esz.' '5 3 By .' ' this.) voyageflefief'claarg'edya "cpnlfidgrab'lptfgtm: of:
_ mbneymhich.detefmirice'himnot' foreign his.f{hi'xy,but 19" trade":
; 'onf'his-dw'n- account {11b.heatunmbfiumitheshfmiliag,where;
15,"? gettm'g" afCQuaintante, he' made his. may: -'fx'e:e,=PS-vas-' hired by the
' g'ove'rxior; gummy ' tq' go; tosfieapulgo "mtmmgica;y;PSn ,kth'e'
:k'u' .' ' . I {man

I

'11 294: 1 . 1.1612113 '23 11131111313311.41331111.133

Mexican, coa-ft, with 3'- licence to travel to the great ciCy ohm>>;
, iep. 1'1 his traffic turned. 0111. greatly to acc'ount, 1111:1211 my;
{deed finding means to, .ge't' 1,0. Jimaicag minced.- <<1111,51 year-'3>>

111m, exceedingly fish into 13111131111111; - ..ie..1,1SS7<<_1.v.1
In parting with the ihip, 'it comes in couri'e toconfider 0.5

thofe men who; had fairest our Eives when. in (he riveno' Cambv'v'
die; and. though, by.- the way, they were 9' 3011111le regime;
, who thought to him pirates therfii'ciires, vet Wee-11d. them what

they. hating befOre demanded, and- gays each of'the'm a {111311.11191
of. money; limiting {be Engliihman .-a gupner, and: the Dutch;

man a boatiwain, with- which they were very; swan ,c1)n~ -

tented: .72;
We were 111>>? about. 1009 leag nee, farmer from home, 8191,):

,when at- Bengal>>, All the comfort-.- we: could e119&6! (wee;
- fimtdhere beieg 33011131311 to. b kepgix; amonth's "times: we

'might, not 011W purchafe all forts nf that coiuritryr s manufefluhfl- '

"bu; very .ppflibi tind- fame Chinefe 15119163, or 11111131811111.1135
' 109911111, 3,051): 9'}. , Which wesiidj, .caifry: 113.3114; .9111"; gqede_
1' I. wherefoever 111e,?- gpieafed, .U-epn mfeWIOpcs, \Weerefmlved 319'
domflSSSS1963943 Co-dmeitemiidvee .1113.- MOM}; 1.31931 htiiedburg
- 131mm. 1113' 339919) About ten}: d'afiir, after 1111c. $11 1171.199").
3113.111 wine 11131131112111.1111 feethecitxy 10123131131111)" eke
1m31aumde~301 degceee northrefi he has ':-' 111. 13 regiflarlyebmlty.
3931 the 1111:3313 are en&,ly. Mghwand erofe .0113 31131119111:

1.1111136?) 111135; 1117111ch 1i; cont t'o' the.greateih advantage>>... 1M:
9331311113,.we3139npd1the1pr1c3 1113339153: PS19111 M29191? 311th

was, toaccompanydiather 81191111119. Hakim That Either earnzftix: .

fiii'cit'ed 111310 @3031me 11.111936! I 1133131111313 1111me trier):
13.111013111311911: agree and prepared;- aceerdingly 33513119:
were f9 11131131139719 have liberty. totravei fhxiong the recimie of-

0113'- of their? Mandafines,1who is a.- principal magifirate, 3-951

'- much reveienoedbifthepeo 3311' . - 1:11.11 ,

-We 31:11: fine and twenty days 1121113121113 8129'- this mherabie
countryninfiirigeiy3331110113, but- as ivdifiefently cultivated,
and ettheiiwxide 13 infinitely grater: then their. 11911313351 in'fe-'e

muc that the priefta thamfeives derided them. Ags we gaffes!>> _~

1 11)! the, 1561113 1.017 one of their chantry-'1, 'entlemeii, twosieaguea}
91E,Nah9itin, we had the tumour; fenfao't', to ride wish the 8111-. .-
tide. {91,1116 about two nausea-18153113311139 Don 'Qgixqte PS93
911161.; 1169113131? Never {11611 a;- compound of porn; and. povere

tee a: wre-

,Wfiw 11111512,; made 91 eaiieo, wan: dirt}; greafy, and very primer.-
PS119, :11 Meg-'11)? Andkew-L on Seatamoueh, with, all its: tawdry?

' tr'aivpin e, as hedging? fleeces; tnffais, 6:13. though>> 1.31111 'a'nd rent;

3112911111)- every. 153}: , his veit underneath it was no i613: digtye

511t- more? yearn-1353111111919;- the-111995 exquiiite Haven :93.

grew-"y hatchet; his ==h1')tfe-(;wonfe than Refinante, or 31115 1111110113). l

3:311 at 119113111); 1111111131113 Wire: pop: fluxdsdomepid 111111331 53?

3313151119.

6'Vr'"'7'""r "~-z-~".~.-y.. . . . _

, 9:155- mox-M N s o. biting. 3353.03; ""5

thatflwonidt :notglfelhf'on. thirty} ihillingq...ineiqulaqd ; and: ya:
.tbis piece, 'of- waxfili-ptiai ;pfomp :migzattended-mth- ten; or: twelve .
. flifieeowhoxguudeet their with: to his' connuy feat.>> 'Mle'
, ficpp'edngffififile; village: for refgdhm'ent ;: .and. whencw'e'came
' Mime-enuntm'feat 'Qfi this great man, wejfo'und him-fitting
' flndef}azftm beteremiadmn-ueating. a 'mefs'nf bbil'ed rice, with
asgreat'p piece . of garlic "gin _<<the- (middle, xahd: a bag filled with
"greeni'pepper * by whim, ,. a'nd .an'athenpiant like. ginger; together
with 53 theta-of- lean: muttonan m: >>thxs;waa}hxs .worfhip's-trepafi:
but? pray; I'ebferye":jhe 4am of_.the--food !'- ting-women 'fl-avea
. brought Ehit'n'ehjefood, which: beinglaid before him, twqfothem
appeafedzto 'erform their refiyeehve offices;- one. fed- him Wit-h -
.mffiobntzw 1Le~the10therfemped~ofi what-efeli- nann- his beard"
aha tafety nekfiindgave 'if-to' ai~particuiar..favounterta:eag,. mid -
thus; we>>-1eft'athe.-,\ivxemthleafed :mthgthe -ccnceit~~of- our. adi- "
mii'ing his n'fignifieencc', which rathermeritfe'd our {com and deaf ~
itcfiztiqn. y>> 7. =7; . . 2. ~ ' . " '
.-"-i;&t,1ength we-anziveti at theegrcat- eityi otT-Pekm, accem-panie'd
hy'twokmaflts, and- the old; Portuguefe pilotl whofe- chat?
get; we 'bnre; grid? whodetjved us as.-an-,.mterpreterubythe way; ~ '
- llfifiiehad fearee been-at'weekeatcPekin, but he comes laughingto"
"use; =~'.'-.Ah'.igseiginor Inglife, :(faidhfi) 1-me' fomething--utdi yo"!
-- makeryounheaxt .glad, b_ut make me forty : "'fOrTyOw bring'gn'e
hene";~'-twenty'afiye~daSS(o gout-new: and. now you-leave'im'e' go
A back, aIOne:;;and. whnchnway-Jhexil- [make my-po'rtzafttf, <<with--
eutgdeylhlpg-mithout-deshade, without pecune 2-"'~fo'-he->>czikr"
'edsrmoney 'in'migss-brohen Latin; He then.i_nformed mouthat' -
- there-wash great catamanmff M-ufcowite and'.-Polim merchant-1t
. inethercityfivho wen preparing to fet oht-fonMufcovr-by
' ' land:.3nifih1ndix.iweeks;' 33C/, that he <<was centaih we would
take this opportunity, ' and'confeqnently, that-he mutt go'h'omie
by :him'felfi , Indeed thispewainfi'nitely furprifedn&=p!eafed?ine.,:
"SS<<Are' you 'ce'rt'ain of thisr'? faiddy :"Yea, 'Sir; .(z-fayszh'e') (in: {are
, its-time??? And, fo.vhe'-'-tolds'me,- that havingfinet' an. 'rol'd'ap
-. quaintanCe ofihis, "Armenian; vinthe' -fireet,'.whoxwaeamong7
. them,;e'and;who 'had abm'e from :'Aftrac'an, with adefigh'fiox-'go
_to-'Tonquin','_but for; lie-Main Jealous having alteredfhis'refblub?
.\ tions'; :he-was new: refol'ved to, go with the Caravan, fin'd' tb'fr're6' '
turn:byi'theagiverWoigh-tofifitacan. '"'Well',"Seignioriflaidi'ld' -
adon'thedifcontentedabout "your'ret-uming-alone; andei'fy'aby
this meansgi can find'a pafl'agerto Englandgxit will beyourb'm '
fault if. you-return to. Macaomt alt": And.}fd.eonfniting- wish
myi'pa'ntner what was. befittwb'e done, hewrefe'nre'dit'i'td-'ine'as'ri'_
pleafed, having our 'aflaira- fo well: faded-at Bengal, fthat' ifizghe "
'eould-conwert'sthe good _voy.ag'e .he'had lmad'e'inZChifafrfiikef,"
monght'or mw,.he- would beifatisfiedetes'goto, England; audit-f6"
' return gto'tBengalg-in the company's'afhips'; Thusztfldlvedgawe- .
agreed thatdfi-ourfiiot would 3'0- W1tfi'-ll8{WSS<<-Wu}d"bEURh3.fififia~'
~ ' ' . . .' 'c large!

|:206 L I .F E- AN 9;: A31) 37 ENS." U 'th 3

charge: eithersto Mei'eow or: England-{and .tO'figi've.him.in~'a .
ptetentlthe-'fu'm of one hundred andgfeventy'f,pounjds-'iterling,
--H'ereuppn we-called'lhim in; and~tclclvhim the "emf: ofhis'cpnih
\plaiatl' {hoizld'be removed, iijghe.;woul,d ,aecomjpapy fis;.-,.w_ith
the caravans; ap'd,v'therefore,_ we defired'to'. know his-mind,
At this he tho'q'k htslhead,; '3Grea't lohgjoumey; '(faidthelyme
tic pe'cuhe carryl me to.'Mofco'w,. orheep' nae-them?!- .'Bpt
fiwe'focnrputhi'rn. cut' of that e 'ncern,' bymaking him- feheible'of
. .what we would give-him here to lay out. t'o thexheft'? adva'n-
' tage';;an_d'. as for his charges, ' we would [at him fefeyonthote',
- <<Godivillin'mgeither in Mufcovyior England, :aeeheefile'afed, at
' rourowhteharge.' except thecarriageof hlsg'oods. .. At-thi's pro-
.pofal; he Was like a man. tranip'orted,. telling Jus,-he fw'ouldfggo
Ewithusiall the world over; and wemade-preparations{odour
journey. ;' but it WAS near four monthe'beforeallfi the, merchants
We": ready... '.'-"\' .. .. .- . . '2. I"
. {In the mean time,_ my partner - and. the Pilot went egpt'efs'to
-PSth'e' po'rt where the firfl: put~in,'f-to', dipo'feiof Whatzgooda
had been left \there, while I accompanieda Chine'fe-merchant ,
, '.who was ageing-e to Nanquin, and 'therezbbught 'tw'e'ntyeniue
"pieces 'ofzd'amafkt With about three hundred more bfiother fiite
, .tiuts ; and,'-hy the" time. :xziy pa'rtner' returned' to :Pekih,' 'I had
. .them all? carfied'thither ;-our cargo in fines amottntcd.t'o.45'col.
flerl'iug,tvhich, together 7with tea-t tide calicoes, nutm'egs,.'and
cloves,'7loaded- eighteen. catnelslfor'our (hare, befideswhatwe
rede-tmonfi'with. two or three {pare hopfes'," and. twog-more
_ Widen-with .rovifions ; the company now was 'very'. greag,:_x'x_ta,
' kingmboutx our hundred horfe,.-and..ahove- one hundred7F'atid
twenty me>>, well armed. and. provided, t We'lwere ef'fe'veral nag:-
. titans; amongwhom .wer'e 'fi ve Scotch 'merehaqts, jihabitihg
in'Mo'fcow, and well eXperien'ced- in trade. ~; u .g f "' A .' -
.' .WVe". fet but from Pekin the beginnjngof Febiuary .c'ur'fiile; .
and in two days" more, 'we-{pa'fl'ed thrdugh the gate'of. the _'
great China..well,'; which was .ereeted.,as a5 f6rtificatio'ri' againft .
_ theTaitatmbeing onehuhdred En lilh 'ln'iilestlong'. ~We then
' entered; country. not near to p'o'pu 'ous, chiefly under thepzuwa ,
ere ofplutidermg Tartan, feveral companies of whom" we .peeeeia
.ved .riding. on poor'fiarv'edhorfes', centemptible' astheinl'el'tes
:without *order or. difcipline. ,One time"'our leader-{for the
"day, gave" 113', leave. t0" go "a hunting ; but what 'do "you think
' we hunted? only a: parcel of {heept [which indeed exceeded'any
it! the woylcl fo'r wildnefs'" and. fwiftn'efsy but while" we Were
gpurfuin'g thl's'game, ~ it wasvour chanceto meet ,with aboutfmy
' Kat-tars, who znof foone'r 'erceived; us,' but one of them _bl_e'_w_ '-
za barn," at the found of w .ich there font! "appeared; troop of .
'xfOrty-pr'fifty more, at abjofit 'a mile'e difi'ance.' Herea'poq,,one ,
of the Scots. mercl;aptsfi( Who knCWgthelr Ways) ro'rdjered us to .
.adyence; towards. them; jand'. attack ' :thjegn imxfigdietelyg..;SSs\
{J , . ,. . I ' / ' h ' JWC

\:C/' '

6 six Maxwwrc'rm g. a E . 257

'we ae'mctd, #21:?" {$9117 51 "91.1.63? '9? efiefifia which 'b'a' 'pfiy'fcll
mugs:- .{bp'nnqtfis,z't.h}e',fp.a'd'e-mha1SS.'3-1if$!C/..:.td fetuxn. he coin;-
..;p.l_igfie.nt might-1,1116%j;_'jax}<,1'ftben @6937 .le'fii-ny' 3.12;: {she had. Sept. '
";}gc,fifC/SS guy pittplabigi thegy'.quqs; 9nd" dt'gjwi'mgt- 0,13% fsyords;~but '
jfifirqflag up PGCLafiqn- ; 'ffpr 'Lhey'flgvy kfs'cltimdthis fl'ieep; :8; 0th
'1. frke ;cf . tligm' remained, '-b_dcSS'qning 'gb'tgi'e" refi't'o 'dome'baek.
. 7gpt_-"_ on; 531?: .gbmmander 'gallopa '.up"_t.i)"them by 'himfelf,
Eight cab deg'd, 'Ehpdlied'anotbc'r'pf his hbrfc, WEiIE-the third'ragn
.iawev's..'md mu? 92:34:84 9hr batthit'n 91.56. Tartar?>> .' -' 7 " "
'-~ W9 frav 1.1. ,d'a mqhth' mdtc thrmi'xsh-tfis'fimp_'eror_'9ffibin'ak
ficjnifijpjflgrand a5; lmgtbcgming tp._0pe.of-th;ir15tdwns .hbeiit
"3457' audia'hatt'fijc'mr'acy' from 'thq city-gofilNaum, [want-ed
{PS0 buy-wand. 15193"?in {Puke ,to..v:'.0~C/'d have. bf9uglit
"me tine, but; Jig; 3.3799111 mutt-go 'giqngfyv'it'hhi'm, eonttwp
_.1_'x_ii1e,SSfft:o_ni{the 'xillag'e'." My old pint-and I" @35ng 9h4"fgof,
;' {torfopth for femc-vezifitys Wm coming 19C/? blece wherc'th'e
y'bainele'jwer'c kept asain a park gha'tfied'by thpefeiffpldiefgs,
Nether; attad'apd- bogeghiqnc, which the Chkrefdamaii'that

. w
,

- @me along, withmfi PS6. . along the-*bidx- 'Btit""SSe ilie'fiot g'ene
"-:f?<ta"'1?C/PSdeg1'SS we.'w'ers'-a:tacted by @3755 Tartgrls; mbfififib'd'bn
hQTEbacls,. ma 9f wqu ' fei'zeei ' 1h; PS3.05 .Ateek'itfle ; 9am!
rimmhim, .ayd-rodcwax. wbflefihc Cfihsr fh'rcc aaneCQfiyfig .
SS:thC/.-.firtt.zof'Wli9m' 'fiiddenlx-fcizgd-me. as..1'wdezdr_awine mv'
. mm 1.11; ,f'econd, knocked. me. .dqwn's' but 11117 01d. .tfvfiy'fi'm-
'gugfe, taking 2'; pifiol out 9f 'th qu'ckefie,' whiqh '1 kngw $101:th .
pagans! coming. up to" thefellow that MW? maize With/0196'
' "Magi pnllgdj'iim'qfi'his .horfe,and then {hpt'ghim dead upg'il
tb' _'fpot;; then '_-taking his (tymita'r,.'hc flfuck'gf'thc inau'thext
t "e

I-
a

_'{-i_tgprSSed. m, hilt 'mfifing ' him; cut'bfifbrle Qf 1116' MRS 13m>>:
. .ly'gip 9f mhich'mgdc him thrqw hi'sferCr t? F53 Sfpuna- The
2:999; @hincfewhq had led' the_' Vciamel_,'_ {ceing'the'Taxjter ddwh,

Ltn's .,0 him,>> 2mg! [cizing nppn ibis. iaglgax'," mgfighed'ifi from
Jig. hands, and kp'qcked- his 'bijains Qut. But there'wah' anbth'er
;.,_T_artgr.td (1:31 with, who" {cg-min}; ng'ither' inched-t9 'fighfnbr

- ":I.;fl'v.,' .a'nd my'oldman haying. fiegunto Charge. his Pinch *hevefy
fight'of it Lfimc}; fucbVa tgnrqr. intp .t'hc v'vrgtchyfihatfeway he
.I-z'fi'collz'tcd, Icavingmy old 9119:, fathqmycbamp'jia}: and defe'nd-

.-....er. an Abram: victor?>>

I. 5. $35M} tithe Jeging awakened. .fnom- m?" trafiee's'l began '10
9.52:9 'mv. ezqs, AYQndering' $211.9." W233: .2haVihg ' quite forgdt 'all
_",.tSSa.j': -,pafl';gi ; but my .fgnfes .rctumjng,' and {siding a grg-iit pain
Lia. my hands .and.f..eeing]the blood wzis Infinifig'oie'r mY'thes,
j'-I' in'fianfiy' jumped 41159:). my .feet; and grafpsd mi-'fword :in ..
any, Mind, .'.\,vi.th'a fgiblutiqn tam?" ricVeIjg'e :'..bu't ho knqmigs
.310>>! .tglhgincd,,SSxgep,t. the d'eaa Taxjtarj; . .wgth hiSShqfiPSc.fianai'ng
thy him, The .on magi fecin me tscovretcd, who!" herthonght
.-'.3.31ai.a;- tan .Eowaxdfi ,mgaa.an__- qmbgaqed me with [the greatcfi
. I,_.:(_c'nd'ern'c.!SS, "attfic fame'tinie cY=emming inteLmy 'fi'mnd,-,\ir_high
. . . . ' was
\

e98 . 1...; "m: mg>> Apvwr v 3- E S"

was fanfemqbeingjmgggah When .we- returned to theyillage, -
"the man.demgnded payment forms-game]; which I refufifiggwe .
(prohght the'eaufe. beforega Chiuefe .j udge,}u,iho' afield with gf'eee'
.';m9artlality:.Heying_.heard bothkfides, he "allied the .fihinefe' mini
--.that..went.with,me,C/ whofeferva'nt he ._xvafi'? .. Sir, {aid he; I din".
.nblociylf, but went witbrfbeflmmer a: bi: feqygfl': 714%} theft, .faid'.
't'hc judge, yaugarfc 11);.- flr'wzger': firrpant for. 'tb: tithe, anal~ the
fame! baby; deliwerqd to bisflr'wayzt; _it.':':' {be/am: a: Ibo .qb db'
"meted t'a kiwi/Elf, . apd; accordingly balmy/I Ipaj'for it, ' ndee'd
.the cafe was'l'o fairly ligated, that [had qothingio objeet 'to it': - -
f0, h?nViY=13.,15aid tbr'that I Was robbed of, .I fent for another;
fgfidtd uptlgemyfelf to fetch it, as, I had "enough 91" that {port
.. core. - ' . ' .. -._ k ' .' "
. - {he 'citytof 'Neym' isa frdn'tier-- of; the .thnel'e empireyfo
fortjfie'd, .asfomewill- tell you, that millions 91" T armrs cane
.get; batter down' their wall's;'by' whieh. certainly one" .might'
.think {0 a (four canyon 'woqld do' mere; execution ' that); all

-their'.legionis,.t_, , . , , V . . _ , - _ -
. . ,When'we Tere within ada'y'a mar'ch ,9f,that..cit'y', we had ihe '
formation eh'at ._the'~ gevernor.' hadTent mefl'e'nger's to every
'partofftheiroid,tqlinformthetrave'llei'sand caravane.tohalt,'xill-a~ - '
gugtjd was fent;to ,prdteththem from the numerous. .bodieeof 1
'Tartarsrthat lately app' gred about the city; Thisin'ews. put u's
into great 'contternation ;' butirobeyingithe :orders,-We Ropt ; '8:
"two days after, there came twq hundredfoldiers from agar"-
.rifqnofithe Chinefe, and three hundred more fro'm.Naixzn;
thus guardell both in the front apd- rear, with our own men in
.the flankeywe (boldly advanced, thinking we were'able to 'cqmo'
. bat with ten thoufand Mogul Tartare, if they appeared.~-~ :'Zv
- ' Ea'rly next morning, iii ou'r m'arch frem a-liukfldlfitfijakd
[town called Changu, hftetjhafihg palfed ,a "liver,- and entered '
upon..a'.,defert.of about'ffi'ftee'h Or'fixtee'n'miles over, we :{oonsb'e-g
. held: by: cloud. of'dufl: that wast-aired, that the epemX wag
d'pprohdxifig, This mfich'difpirit'ed the Chinefe. =My.ol- pilot
tdok hotieel'pf- it, and Callca'out,' Seig'nor Ynglifa tbq/Zj fillqw: . ..
emf/Ll: encbufqeel,'_ pr tbcy will Min .21: all 5' land I .am afraieflif
. zbe Tartar: {mm um,- tbqy' will all run away. -"f ,Why, "Sag-
nor, (1m Li) ,what'1hall'6edone'in this cafe 2'" Dope, fay/she;
nay/,3, let .' {Of our men advanee', am! flank them on em!) wittg;
. find-iv". tbe fiilprzylflvilllfigbt <<well .eriq'ugbiiz egmpdnyf' _We"a'g:-- - '
mrdingly. tobl; h1_s;qclyxce,'andmaxched fifty to the. rightuwmga, '
- . .d _the fame. number t9'_._the.left,,~and v'nth the .refl: "made; 1
$31.05 r.eferve, leavmg .helaft tWo'h'undxed {3163310 guardithe
'39-'35 or-to aflifi us,,~.as' occafion required. '. ' . .
. .cglfil's' prepared, a party of he enemy" game PS0Mard,"viewing
. .--P u-3'fi-u1"e,t. ,and traverfiug the ground" [oh the \fr'dnt of
3:1." 15-; '"ZHereupon we ordered .<< the two Wingefio move git;
. .335 -give__them .a falute with. 133.631" the}: -; -YlhlSSh Renting}; 'b p. l'gioi'n't <<:6 a" 61:6 so as. . ~ 239*:

vitae done. {Thie' 'pnt' .'e, (top totheirj pi'o'cj'e'edifig's} "for immedia_
ately wheeling off'to theirfleftg theyallfgnarchedawfay;land?
" we" law no . more of .them. ~ _Tl_xey had' undoubtedly 'given an"
amount. to "their- companions oft-What recegtioiithey' 93535"-
expeeft; which made'the'm.'lb eafily ive ov'e'r ei'rf(g'nterpnzej.~
_ '. When'w'e Cametothe c'ity'cf Naum,we'returneggtlre goiv_em6rT'
hearty-thanks, and'difirihu'ted a hundred orovifna among, 'the'
foldiers'thatl'guarded ue. fWe reited there one day, "and then"
yboeeded onoue travelsgpafling fever'al great riyers'iaiedrde-rg
fins} and on the 13th of. April vye game to; tli'efrontiera of";
Mjifcoyy, the firfttowniof which wascalled'Argun., .'_ " ,' .- i '7 '-
j Thisjhappy occa'fion,_as I thought, of coming into a Chriflian
country; made .me congratulate the Scots. merchant \upoi'i' it;
He_frf1iled'atmag-telling- 'me not-to rejoice t'oo' room; for; {aid \
13325 'cxtept tbe Rz'gflanfilldief: if? gang/on. aadafenofffibabi-r .
tint: {of the 'cities; upon tbe: road, all wrrayzwba mommy/5r. ~'
above a {boa/22nd 'milei, i1 inhabited by tbe'ith/l igna'rg'nt {widow}:
bfirotzfxfagmu, - ~ ' . ' _ .. -' ' _'. f ' ' ' '3
W: advanced from the river Argu'n'rl, by Moderate 'jot'u'inie'gf
and totmd con-yeniehtgarrifons on themad, 'filled_'\vith"'(,;li'i:if '
' tian folders; for the'iecui'ity'of oommer'Ce, 'andrfo'r 'tlieeonvei-i'
anient lOdgings'J of trayelle'rsw: butthe inhabitants .of'th'e. goon-9;
try were more P8393935, Worthioi'ng the fun,, moon, and fiafia
Weflparticulafly

obfetyed this. idolatry near the river nights,
at'a'oity inhabited by Tartars and'Ruliiahs, called Nerifinke'y;
Biting, .cnyious'; to fee' their way of living, while the" oarelvan
continued to rel'c themfelves in that} RY: I. wentt'o one ofitheh'
villages, whereutheife Mud be one ,of their __fole'm'n .fac'i'ificea.'
There Ibeheld upon'tbe Itump of an old tree,'an idol of wodd;
moreu'gly' than the" repr'el'entation of thedevil himfelf': its'he'ad'
(trematoliviagenatate y. ita-earaweteashigand 38_.,13igh1
'as goatSS?.horns, a crooked nol'e, "font-cornered mouth; arid horer '
rible teeth: it was clothed in 'flieeofltins, had a great Tartar
bonnet,_with .twoh'orns groniing 'thro? it, and was eight feet '
high, vnthoiitfeetylegs' or proportion. (Beforeflthisiidol their
lay fixteen-oxj. feventeen- people, who brought.tlieir'ofi'erin'gs,"
and were making their prayers,; while'at a diita'nce (1005) three"
'men; and one bull'ock,'as"viPSl:ims .to'this ugly mo'nlter'.- ' . ' .,'.
' Such ltu'pendnus facrilege as this, in "robbing the-true God?
of_hia honour. filled metwith the'greatef'c'aitoniihment and'r'e'a-
. geehon ; ,which foon'turn'in-g to' rage and fury, l rode up tothe
unage,' and cut' m'pieces the bonnet that was'hpon his head
Wu}: my,'f\vord,'fo thatit hung 'down by one-ofthehorns";
_ w'lnlepn'e .of my men that was with me~.pulled at 'it by his'
\ {heep-flti'n ' garment. Immediately an hideous bowling and out- '
cry {an through the willage, and two or three'hundred'people'
coming about our cars, we we? obliged to fly for it. ' '
" ' ' ' ' 2. ' ' ' But'5' l". _ - 5

25179-3 1; 1M; EN}; fi-P'fiifi'filfifl'TR-ufis

113111;} had not dent: Withflrthemonfler; fontiiec'aravanv being..-
tqkreft three' .n't'g'Eit's 13,156 town, I ft'old' Ifie Scots..\mcre_ha'iit'
whgzt I badgfeen, "ifi'd'th'etf-I Ms 'x'efbfv'e'df'tb take *fo'u'i' b'r-fivel;. '
men, We]! arffied .fiith' the; in- 'o'rdc'i' 'te . de'ft'roy' th'e' idol, ' "and;
th'ox'y. $5292 phopTe". h'efi li'rffle' reafdnjtbef" hid jz'o t'mfifin' 3,8547 .
who 'eoul'd not g-t'aee. Hirfii'elfn 'At 51 it he daitghed 3;: me; yam?"

{gating the dingexfi bfi'it'} Quid when it vii'hsfdefifey'ed, what}:

tiyi? had. we'toprefi'cliftpfihc'm betterT'thingeffivhdfe' "zeafl telfid'l .

ign'oriance' Was-"mfg? "hi' heft, degree, a'ndrb'o'th _(mpa'fa_lle,led 3 .'~

~ 19:12 if'I- I'bloluld beiaken' 'y'fhem,; I would be'Te'rVe'q a'saffiecsff; .
. rufiian', <<vh'o'cpntemlj'ed 't'lzeii'i'wqtflfip'; thiat-'ih,;'te' be fifipp'eii'

, 'nakezi,"argdfiie4 to't'r'ae' 60??ch the idol,- 'therc' {hot 'a't With 'ary'o' _' '3'

, tilleinyjbody' wisffil, ct them," and-'thc'n'bxirnt' .as'avfaerfi' e}

' t91th'egjsjdfifl.er_-;z 55C/; Sir; 'Zfaid he,' finch, jqzkr gteliceflieijbdflqu' .
'_ fag-$1M .jtbeml jazz fipu'ld 1 be $701131 dbilI 'acfigmp'th you, 721%?
hwy-4.x fitifimoi'rq'daw-.ra-umm ~ iffiufihflb {6 M '16:: 252i:

' t'ljigj {/1 )3: _ma__ ,aiecgtdingfihe' bro'ug'hy qne'Ch'pIa'in ichefSS1Y=_;.
'ioh,vjw'gb;C/he':ififiSS the fiery} feadilyf 'edpiegfied; but my pair'f-fl -
nergdecfined131t55beitg ~a3toge'th'er du't of his way :afid'fd>>.we"
'tlire_'e.j'fafljrd-'filigifefia'nt, ,Treibmd go] negate this 1eipbi't ab'blitff
midnightjzi' bnt'upqn" fecpn'd tho'ughts we'defcr'red it'tdthe-fieit: \
night}: by: 'jeafog' f.tfiat, fhe: tamin- being 30 go 1?ng heriee', ,
therq'exftgizxfier'fiifi' {fie 'Egeuld' hermit :6f the gSSvernor.'s'._pgv'ver.tf_
Theb'agg'tfr tbLefle' mate. xfij.~defigb, I- 'procujt-ed a;T:itf'a'i-'3 mace-7:

_. Irgingbqubennet, With" high 'en'd artetv's', me:- e'v'rei'y ibiie's'of.
11g: geti: {11:35-13 habits," .t'fie'fi'tfl'. flight We" fpefit 'in' m'ixit'rg' c'cimt
bufiib egmetter'ivilthfle'Q'tla 'vi:;e,}'gSSu'1}>bfid&r,-.efcq. ha'vil'l'g ,3",
gEOdvguafntity' hem-ma Hare 'pbt' : nc'xt' 2;;ng 'w; ea'in'e' up, fob
t legiagrjabc'igtggeyea: "o'elcfeli; {We mo'o'n .beixjg 1:15.- vweffmma:
gqn'cgnardfing it}; 5115: we .pefdzive'd a night'i'n' the ahau'te, vfifi'e'fe .

~36th iefiri the?! ma One.919%'-;rSSefi;_zv,aSS-'fofr"e: '

rgmmf'httf Emmet fdf .kiflifig" the 'peqp'fie," apa a=t51r3 331':

. ' ma "pg-'tfieifi'fiiiwh'e'r'es x'vh'ileth'e idoIfWaa "deemed. +We' 1-i-
U ' 'fis'e'a'to'tficfiIzfitef; fol. k'hdckip'g a't the ,dodz'," .vir'e ifZi'z'edg't'h'e -'
- ' flit-Heft b'fiefied it; hfld'fiobgifig h'ie mepth ahd ' tyin'g hia'fe'ef,

' . Weil'e'fi him." we "fc'f'vefl. the oth'er' two .in the Ifkefii'amie'if;

a'fiaj Itheffi the seats merchant ,retjgfim _ hi my: "coming'fit'ioh',

,xivhiefi Iti'ghtefied".thefi1 {6 much, that we brought the'fii ail'a'W'a"_
".rifonersxtfi'fheii' wdb'der'i g'od. 'Iliex'e_ We telI' t6. wark' Mg 57

: iifi,;deubifigfhim an 'bv'ewith tar t'rfii'e'd Withjallo'w a'nd Brim;
'fcbhe; (topping his eYCS, 'ear's; and mouth full of guhpbfidcfSS..
fiifh-h'gt'eat' p'ec'c 6f, 'Wdedfire if) his bonnet, and ehvirenea'if:
With' an: forage. An this being done, we numbed-awfuu.' ,-
gagged me ,prifo'r'ier's, an}! {gt the idol 0h fire, Whieh ' the gulf-
powder blqwihg' tip, 'the. Ihgpe of ite'was' defOrm'ed,'rexjt a'h'cI.'
fplit, Which the fo'rege uitel'lbefifumedg' fer ive. ,flaid to Ice
it'e. 'dcfti'uetioh, 1311",: the ig'no'rant idolatmu's'jjeogle mquug

- have thnoWn'tfieinTelVes"itit'b'the' names; And' thus fi'v'e' ei'r'n'e

. , .. .. ,' - atvay'l'o it, 1103.1, N's:.,0.:N can 3 o E. -- 2-11]

0

x

' away undifeogerjed, ,in'thegmoi'ning' appearing. as bufy'arnong - .
,Our ~fellow travellers, ; as no body could: have fufpee'rcd- .any
'.other, but thatwe had-been lit--our bedsfall night. ' _' . -'

t ' Next morning we let our, rand'ha'd gone but" afr'nall difianCe

' gimmxthe: 'ci'ty, when there :came a multitude 'of people-of

v' ~.the.countr_y- tothegat'ea of the- city, demanding .fatist'ael'icm of -
the Rnliian governOr..forg'inl'ulting their Apriefis, and bn'ming'

' their. rear Cham Chi-Thanhgn', Who dwelt in thefun,' and no"
inorta <<would-violate thisli-mage but 'fome Chrillian rnii'ete-
ants ; and being already no 'lel'a than thirty thonfandi'ltrong,"

'- they announced war-againl't him and all his'Chrifiiana; " '

The governor amirednthem he Was ignorant'bf thematter,
and that none of-Ihis garrifon had been abroad; that indeed
there waafa'caravanithat went away that morningh'nd that he
n'ouldil'endi after them to-inquire into it; and, iwhoeyer'was .

' .the-'ofiender, would be delivered into their-hands. Thisjatiee
Ip'fied them for-the .prel'e'nt", but the governor. fent'to inform ,
"us,- that it any alps had done it, We mould mahc'all'thelhalte '

away poliible,' while he kept them in play aslong as. he could.
Uponthis-we mare-Ind "'20 day"! and two nigh-t9, flopping] but

-1.yery*little, till at late we arrived at a village. called Ploth'nsi

and halted to .Jerawe'na, another of the Czar's'coloniee. On '
the third day, haying entered, the defert, and patfl'eduthe lake half

had Shake _VQfer,_twe beheld _a numerous body of hnrfe' ori the
gother'lide of ittp the north, who fuppofed we had paired on, that

.I'idefofijtheglake -;' but either having found-,'the mifta'ke, or be-

;ing' certainly informed-ofthe way we took,' they cameiipqn' us

"' towards '.,the 'dulk ofthe evening, juft as'We had\pitcl_xed_ our -

' 'eamp between tvirolittle abntvery thick woods; With; little .
,4 {Wei-running before our-front and" fame felled'tree's with which"

. fwe Covered ourrear}; a precaution _.we always; to'olr', and which -
. we had juft finilhed when the enemy came-up. They did'not

' "fall on us immediately, but fent three ~melfenger3;'_dem_aiiding .'

, the med who had inlulted their prielt's, &-burnt._t_heir go'dJChamr
Chi-Thaungu, that they might'be burnt with fire ; that if- thins

' . was'~comn_lied with, they would; peaceably depart; b'ulif'not,
they 'wduid-deltroy one and all of us. , Our men fiared'atone .

- '. another on receipt of this m'e'fi'age, 2 but Nobody was the word, . -
t as indeed nobody knew it, but hepwho did it. ' Upon which the - '

' leader of the caravan returned for anfwer, 'Tbat may-m2: peduc.

. a5]: mere/mun; nubameddlc'd witbgzane of their priefls'an'4 garb,

' and'tberefore rig/ind, tbmi not to diflurb w, and put a: lo the ntcc-fli- .
x) of "(E/Ending: our/Elms. But f0 far was this from latistylng .
them-that the next morning coming to our rightyithey let fly 3.
volley ofarrows among us, which happily did ndt hurt any,

' becanfe we {heltered oiirlelves behind our baggage. \Ve expect--

! ed howeverlto-come- to' a clol'er engagement ; but were hag).-
'pily raved by a cunning fellow', A'Cofiack, who 'obtaitiim: leave
ofthe leader to go out, mounts his horfe, rides directly from

T' 3 _ ' ' ' ' cur
21.2. . '1.11:2.11511;).AVDE'QVENTfi'K E's;-

qurerear, aud taki "narrow; cum-mil: to meTafia'rg-iae'tw
hfihaidzbger} fem: ex fC/f9,-3nd.tEURl_19{_thcgn azfd'rma'l fior'yg-that'l'hqj '
wretqhes who efia'thurh't {-1112 Learn Chinhanng-fiy-Wet'o PSan
$9-Shlhcilk33w1th-a refoluliddi'tebufi the-g'od-Shalj-lfar,belepgaay -
mg'.t.o>>the Tongfiefc'sr. {Upbnfirvhicm b'e'lie'iing 'th'ieiieurimfig" .-
- :TgrtSSSS;,who-Waa {Eff-(ant toquf'Mt'tfc'Ovitan affirm" (11'9ch to '
SSh1heglkamndfi4h lcfis than thtee' manta-we're .ofit'ofi fight; ,--
_- nan-dis! weeever"hearofthem'"mdr'ej~.j-'g'ufi- ~ 4 1
. .. {met we quite to, the <31; 5 cf-'Jax'aWe'ha'; vifc relief! five-'dfifls; '
afldgthemcntcrerlt-in'to. a";frighY=ful~' dawn-Which Them: us'tmntye-gf
At'hre'e' days;;jma,tch-,=.ihfetted --v6ith~*feyeml final! 'eoi'npanies of _ '
PS01513;ng 6r :Mogul' Tamara, who - never hadfibeicburfagege atg
Eaekgueq'z-Afleawax-had paired over. this defe'gt; (we fougid: Rf>>
' 31ml: y'garifdngq t0. dc'fqnd the caravans 'fiomi'th'fiibEfieT-bfifiheI
' - 'Imam}.;-:!n.'particular the Gb'v'e't'floi' :dfkkaifiirqby _ cfi'ereg. as}:
' sufidgvf'fi'ffy then mime fiekt'- fi'atign; :ifym 'dfipreljehd'ed any.
fiaq'ger. Therpgfopi'e here! retdined'tfrie 'fa'ffie jiggigiujjx' and 15314- _. y
- _hairygflyeweygw'e're.n'dtm ddi: erbusibjeifig 'eqijqngrcgd-bfy gag ._
' M'fi'fefifitpgufl'heiadvising, bath 0 .r'tie'ri &.wbih'c'fi,iSS'o'PS_the fitmfi. '
- ofbefaifs, Jiffiih'g u'nder't'he gnpund ii:}va'ult's'& .caw'rea'; ivfiip'lt'hzifie"
. ' agbhifiindieegkibn:Withlohe'fanbthe'r. 7 ETheyil'naii'e i'dbls' Almqft .ifl: '
-' cvety family-4 bkfides,..they.a'dqr'e fh'c fu'fi .z'ihd flaws", watenan'cr.
' inbw- gin'dg-theflcafi hnt'e'mmbn thih'gjthatjappepsi 3;: jt'he'Te-f. . .-
' . leniciz'fsfg.','aidrm3'them asm-ucii as thinnder'afid: lightmfig-abtfi' . ;
the.UBbEUR1iEURVlngJe\vs_ . . . ' ' . L " .' ; " _' ' L I". ',
. .fl'ofthingrremzeka'ble occurred in bhf'xfiatgihjthrofigfi PS11m. -
eountry. V'Whtsnvew: had go'fi'e. thioi'lgh' t-He'd'e'ieftyaftgr-'twq .
. dafl'farther-fifivwwe exacts'Jefiez-'ciy,='a'.'Mufebfite cityz'ow _'_-
21:: great rivethQ-"called', "mauve were tb'Rjglfifift'edlwfiugope-j
' 20:11AM." . Theihhabitafigs-hefe'WEfe "very lit't'leubettefM-Hqughv '
intenmjtgd- with tfie Mn'gevfi'es; but;.the~*wan'der Wall chars; - ~-
when Ifinfmm my read - :'ef'x'v'hat Vacatibi'efi'ried 'td'meyzthgt
the Czar :rath'cr' crinverw,' ,x'e' Tafta't's -wi'tfi"fol'diex'5' fflh'lfkfi'
swab, and " ie-"mor'e' imm- A. to make them'>> fairway ffibj:EURts,'
than g'OQd Cbriffiahs.._ ; .. , . \ ' -- _ ' '. f
- ,_ Frpm this-city to the xii/Er" OBflwg-t'ravdled {N x" a flagging}.
'. ftuiLfizl',_bitt; my uncultivated'ebiifi'tiy, for. "W311! ci'gbbdfmgfi
. mgrzmenbandzpabpi'cflngkthdfe ch'at'e mofily;.Pa'gifrs. -- T1113-
ie. the place Whercvth": Mtfichvite criminals? are bannedjtg,
_ if:th,;-'y ate'not put to dkatt'f.R .Th'g' if'ciit. -city- WPS-C/1.mSS_to,.jfi*a'$
the capitalcity cf Sibezia,"czn'ed' Tobolflti' <<(hm ha'flfig bee-31f
- 3.13101: {eaten mcnths cn' cirr'ijnfimey,' and wmte'r'drawmg .011"
apate, my partner and I commit-ed":about'our.'prart:cular atfgxrs
in \ftfiatmazmcr'we._ihould (fii'pofe'of rflrfelv'em. We hac'i-fbeeg
~ tc-lc-'t cf 'flrdgts zmd rtin-dfieer to' carry us over the {my} "3'19?
wmtcr feafcn, -the,t'n0'w' 'bcih' frczc'nffd'hardgg tbs-1t the fled'ges' .
can Tim'- upsn 'the Tut-face wahbm anyjdangef-ot_-gom;~d-o\yn.'g
Asi WaS'bountMo'Engsand, Know behaved tit-her togowgfle

\a at 3m d 2% n s a n. 6 Rv'fsb'm . 2;;3

_ flit: Safamfilorjerofi'zm frdm'the'iicewett-td Metrva, and the
"gul'h 6f Fifiland,-'and.-fC/ Byia'n'd-(fi' feautbpetjmatk ; onfelfei-I-

' 'it'm v-leavc thgtat'afiifafi at'a littfe 'toWh-fdri, 'thcquina', and 1'0,
to'Ai'ehehgeT,'ibhci-e 'I wase'eitam bfflii'p'ping eith'er'to Emglan'd', -
'Hollaha,' 6t Bambi-13'? h.>> On'e':ni"'lit I'happefiedrte} get i'g'ltoithb'

. i'co'rhp'a'hy of; afi'nm fidueyfb'ut'. afiifhed Prince, wuo'fe- 661313 .
- " efiif and 'virtfi'e's' ficr'e- iiich' a3 madame tofirobofe toh'ima'r'he;

bod-how he might obtain fhie'libcrtye- M} dear fiimd, {aid H6,"

' - fis'J'rI (1392' 5th happily fre? fi'o'tiz 7ft] fizijei'eble firearm/x. 'qvltb j
rill- it: at'terid'rifit: o' priife, M:biiioh,-eC/zmfice,~ aizd'lugur'y,'if 1/255de '
Jefi'apefrdin Mi: j) eee';_ Mia/E fierfiii'iatfjfiedJ nzajzilgain fe'vi'b'e'; Yb
-'fiij;.le_i/Iiri 'a'ifq'itietiiz'ic _,deg"'tb5fef/7Ji~e left. me remain 1'72 alblg'fledxo'ii'. ~ .

, - fkefigfiii; or I fim'buifleg/b, ,a' 515? mail} with 2447;an find (#2:. v
't'iom' as. gic'la' '-;'.-_0' be flat Shyfiiend PS1,in 'tempter' too," Struckj, '-
dim'rb' wnh quprife, 'I' [feed {Elmira-While ; n'or Wash'e lefsit'g.
-dirordeiC/,=--bv'whith 'pereeifijlg he wanted us give, Vent't'o' hia

_ inifid; I'dcfire'd"'fiim to' cUnfrder'of ft, efid 't'o' mmmw. B153:

; 'a'bciu't tiiro'hpu'rsvafter-be came to' my 'afsamrie'ht :v Daa'rftiane'r \
{aid be,' :bazng- '1'candot'cbigfimt'io'attoifipdizj jozg,' I/ija'll- 1:1sz
25;}.- ftifiwflion in" 'pertiizgi,' - that )521' fedwe Ime A-aiz bo'ngfl' :imh .

' jam-.2 w a: a tgfliir'zeiy'quj gym>>); :4 you, be plezyw w my>>:
tbigprgefiiV/ab/ei; g .; "' - :- - ' -

' In'tg't'iirh for hi's compliment, :I fent ,my' krvant 'neflt smote
ningftdb'is- L'oi'dflrip, 'x'a'vith'avfmell'prefeht of tea; tWopiec'eE.
.of .China (la-mam, and four little w'edg'es of gold; buthc'onlys
accepted the tea,- ohe' pitce of a'mjk; andbne pitce: qfigold;
foithe'ctri'ioficy of the-Iapja'n fiamp 't'hat'veae fip'o'ij it. 'Notgldetg
Marne fen: 'fo'r _fxie,_'ai:d- told are; tbri: Wbaz'be' ba'd reflg/E'J
fiimfiff, b3 PS01531 fipon bis' (It'd'o'zmt2 I <<w'ouldgrdnt to' 'enoiifief
hobo>>) [vi/liquid iz'mr'w: 'in 'fll'ort it Was hisvbnly -fon_,- wh'o Wail; '
about'two handrcd mii'ce} difla'tz't :fi-o'rii him,. on thfe otheifide bf-

. the "cit" 'W'hdm hc'fiid he would fend for; if 1 gm: mf'ICbfie-
't'efitr. 'This'vi fooh-coqip'liee wjtfi ;. uebfi' which he fent hiscfefa .
Vanfs hefit day'fot hi5 foh', w'h'o' retilrn'et-j in twar'lty dais tirfrjeg',
bringing {even h'oi'fee IloaQedIIWIih- valuaibfc fn'rsi At-night 'tfie-
young [mid wae eofidue'te'dfi i'nmgn'itc' --'iu'to o'ui' .apartmer'if',
ivh'e'i'ehisffither ptcfented>> Him- to Me. . We thenconcet'tcd tIie

' heft ways fox: travelling, arid efte'r heviag bonghta'conlfiderai
5'": quantity- of -fa'bl'e8,-- blaCkfoX-fkins,fihe eimines, Ste. (Whicflfi

j {did-Tat Archangel at a go'odfiritc') We. {at Gut Jtroth' .th'is'
'ciw t-he beginnffig' of June, making a lma'llcziriiia'n, bging about '
thii-tfy-tgiro hogfe's'and camels,.df"wh'rch I raptcfefited the-ham..-
my Young Lot-d' giad With hfm a vary fziimfizl Sitcerian ferfignt,'
Wel't acquaintee Wifh' the-roads: 'We_fhtni1C/d'.the-princi;ifiil--
tow as am! cities, as '1' umefn, Spli Kampfleoe, and fgizeral'lothers,
bvvre'afon'. o'f 'tfieir. tfiictne'fe- :in examining trav'g'liers; 'leflany

v <<Effie, b'afiifli'ed'1peribn'9' of difiin'ttion mould efcafs-e. Having .
'ga'fi'edfilimi'Mf Kain-3'5. we ca'me' to' a' city 'on--the'EurdQcSSH - .
' '-' . "Cog,___ w--m '. w.

,

I

214' LIFE AND. nova-Nirvana

lide, called Soloy Kamolkoi, where we found the/people mofily
"Pagans as before. We' then pafl'eda'detert' of aboutfitwo bun-
dred miles over ;- but. in. other places it iennearyfeven hundred.
1n pafling this wildplac'e, we';were'.befe't by. a 'troon of men
on ho'rfeback, and about five and forty men armed-.with'bows .
and arrmvs; At. fiifi: they. looked earneftly'son, us, and then
placed themfelves in our way. We were 'above fixteen men,
anddrew up a little line before. our camels. . My young Lord lent
'{out his Siberian lervant, to.know who they'were- ;*but-,_when-
~th approached them, ' be ,neither- knew a'WOI'd they kids, hor
. ' would they admit him'to come ;near._th'em at hiaperil, '-bu.t'
. prepared '-to lhoot. him. - At'jhis return, he. told: no he :heliev- '
. _,,ed. them to .be'Calmuc 'Tartars so and-thatthetet were more
'iip'on the del'ert. This-was but afmall 'comfort'to pagjyet fee-
._ing a little grove, about a quarter .offa' mile-'3 .diltani'ce, .we '
moved to it, by, the old Portu'guefe pilotfs advice," without

. meeting with any Oppolition. Here we band a Triallifhst~ liece
'of ground, and a l'p'ring of_water running into alittle 1.31709 on .-
one 'fi'de,_._Which joined another' like it a little further off, and '
(thefe two.,formed the head of the river called 'VVrinau, As

' {don as we an'ived, wfe Went to Work, cutting great arms'ofi-the
trees, .8: Ilayiug' them hanging (not quite ofi'fr'om onetree to
another. -' In this .litnation 'we waited the motion of the-enemy,
without perceiving any advancement-they made- towards us.- A.

.bout two hours before night, "being joined by Tome others, in all

.' Ab?" ,fo'urfcore 'horfe, among whomwe fancied were 'fom'c w,o- '
' men, they came upon 'us' with great fury.. We'fired-without-
ban,- calling-to them in the Ruflia'n tdngue, to know their buli-
nefs",but, they, either not knowing, or feeming not to under-
,fiahd us, came direetly to the'vgmod tide, not conlideringxthat.
.1 [we were .fo'fortified, as that. thej:could not break in. 50.11:
Old-pilot, the Po'rtuguefe, proved both "our .captain andeogi-
neer, v-andfdelired us not to firehtill they came Within piitol
mot ; and when he gave the 'word of command. _tlfen,to. take
the fureft aim :. but he 'did' not bid us give fire, till' they were
'within two pikes length of us, and then we killed fourteen of? '
~ them, Wounded feyeral, as alfo their horfes, having every one "of
_. pus loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at leaft.' ' ,So '
, 'mueh 'werethey lurprifed atonr undauntednefe, that they reti-
. red about a,~hundred mode. from us. in the "mean while We.
' loaded our pieces' again, and fallying out, l'ecured' four or five of
their.'horl'es, whofev riders we found were killed, and .pefCCi-
ved them, to be Tartar-st About an hour aftei, , they made ano-
ther attempt, to fee where they might brea'le'in 3: but finding
'us ready to receive them, they retired. ,I. ' ' >>~
All that night we wrmight hard, in firengthening our fituao
tion, ,and barricading the entrances into the woods ; but when
day-light came, we had a very unwelcome difcovery ; for the
' ' - - ' EUR116ng"or RoB'INso'N.'cnusoE{ _ '215'

'='enemy,. 'bein'gfenc'dufegEd B'ythei'r hutfib'efs,3hid Fe't u'p'eleven
oritde'c tents; in form; of acamp, abOut'three-'quarters of g
fiiiehdm'v'fis: ~ I tfldfi-pohf'efsg, 'I WasEUR~neVEr fitb're co'nctr'n'ed m

' 'myllifefii'giwyg 1:1wa and all that I~bad 'o'v'er forxlof't. And my
-parthe1'"-declared,' thet'fi's-'th'e'ldfs Gf'his g'oods Noam be his
' min, before they {hquld'be 33km {16m him, heyou'd fight to
- 'th'eyiift dr'dpfof'his' bl'odd.' "As We libuld'ndt pietenJ-jq force
Qur way,'.,' we had recourfe to-a fir'atagem; We kindled a'large
fir'e,.'..vir'.ii'chhh\ix'nt all night; ' and. no foqfier was it dark-,fiut '

'We fafn'ld'e'd bur-journey t'bWards'the pole pr'g'orth Remand-tra-
6211ifig:9.'ll night; byfix o'clock if: the Imorhing we came to a,
Ruffii'n'village -_.c'a'l'led Kertza; .and from thehce game toa large .
fojw'n' n'am'ed_0zoriz<<,wyt,SS Where we heard that fevergfl pro'qu
aficuhfific-'ngte had Beet} abr'oad'izp'on the dam, bthth'ag .
We'lviex'e pafi'all dizfi'g'er. J'fi' fiiie days after we dame p9 YCQfii? '

. ifie, _'1'1'159nfthe river- Wit'zed'ga.' ';Viroifithe'nc','e'ihe;cameltgLaya-g
'fefiikdyg-"dfi, the .;'third 'of' lily/Where, provx_ding',onrfclves'with' '
ffib:ii1g'gage b'n'et's, and a. canv'e'ni'e'nt 'b'a'rk, we embark; g! (be {99'
itehth',' aim "arrived at Archangel the eig'fiteenth, aftgr'aa 7333':
iii" mehths",.a_nd three 'da'ys jo'm'ney, includihg the eignf memes '
'fiii ';odel;day'e fit'Tob'blfki'. 'We' ea'me 'fxz'dm,'PSrthgngel._the'

- 56thf=bffiugfi1f Injth'e" fatne- year, ' and arrived at Hambumh'a'the. ._

. gfo'tfi'bf Sefite'Ifiber. 'He'x'e m'y firmer and I madea' verx' good', ' \
. fam-'bflehs'fdbdfi 'Both' tho'fe of'Cpina'a'trd Siberia ;' fiber; givig
@153] 6111?" eggs, may, mare chiiie mi 23475;. 178.:3Ld; git-emu

211:: may: had-magma, afidt'harg'es We'badbeenm. .. Here

me ,'ir'bfin' L'O'ijd (fibkfii's' 1'6th 91' nit, ig'brdgrfiogo tg'tB'e

fjc'qu'xwf ,ie'SSnSS,_ndtpntytqfeek..grote'fli'oh, But',._t9 cuter aria

- fiii'gli'b'ia-falher'fi figiend'fi, Aft'cf-Wehadfieiid four mom .9; in

lH'aFnBfiP'gly IfWefi't 'fi'efii th'enee $9ei'1a'gd. totbe Hagye, where

mam: Hubs; -'g<<::SS9.,.1aativs;C/ m Longpn-lemgfzotbegt...

*fifi'fixiiygi'qfif, "file <<an ye'am'f'and-,n.i.n.e'"'fmn;fiSS abi'encefmjm

'rganr ' . ' , '. "'fi-'L'r

' >>\ ,}-' ~ ~

~

\

. ~ chmeo'x, l R 0' B INSO N "a 12,21,310. '33 _ .
i YIS'ION'o'r Managua wgnw;

.5. "3'3" . .

j . ._' 'K'

._ - . n>> ,. _ .
It's"! a.>>

Cane. I. 0': s OLITUDE, '1 .

-- HOWEVER folitude iselooked upon as agxeltrajnt to the
. ' ' pleafure of the world, in company and Con've'rfationnetf It
is a happy {latte of'exernptiOn from. a tea pf trouble, 'anjnunf;
elation 'ofi'vanity and v'exation, 6f confufion and difappointment'.
While weerjoy, onrl'elves, neither. the joy nOr forrow ofOe
the: men affect us : We 'a_re.then at liberty, with theyo'ice'Cf out:
fountb fpeik to ch. BY this we ihun {ughfgfequ'ent'triyi'algd'fli
equrfe, as Oftenzbscomes.za,n'ohfirnetion..'to_ virtue ya'ndhdfir'pfi '
' :tennprwe find that we;had._realhn to \'v'ilhawe 'h'a'd,'.n6t'j,hee'_n,'
innompany; or: faid nothing When we'were there .3, forgne'it'hejr
We offend God If; the impiety' nf'our dimourfe, or lay A'onjfelveg '
e'faen tome vi 'ence_ of, 'dellg'nin'g ' people by 991' lungarc'leel'
. expreflionsj; and frequently feel t'he- eoldn'efs and treacherytcf
pretendegl'frjfends, when 'ionee involvedfin. trouble and afiiiel'rqgg
~, of'fuahvnrifaithf'ul intimat'es.( I ,Ihould. fay .enemies')'SSyho ras-
th'er 1597: falfe-innehdoes'ivould accumulate miterieafp onus,
than honefil'y alfilt-ns 'when' unden the, hard .hand oia yIcrfity.
But in a'fiate of folitn'de, when Our tongues eannpt be'heajrd, $1."
. ee'pt'ffro'mf- the gtfeat Majelty. of Heaven, how hafify; average,
intheblefled enjoyment .~ of con'Verfing' with our akerhlalt ls
.t'hen'.w'e/m.akeg him our.friend,-. Which fets tis .abovefthe" en,-
73' and'COntempt of wicked men. _ When almanconverfes with .
,himfelf, hejjs 'fure that he does not converfe With'an enemy.'0.i1r
' retreat._..fiacu5d. be to .gohdjcomlpany, and good books; 1mm
. 'not- by folit-'ude,'.that a man .Ihould retire into a cell,_a defer't,
or a monafiry _:;_ which would be , altogether an ,ufele!'s'.2ind un-
profitable reltraint : for as .men are formed for fociety, and have
an abfolute neceflit'y and'depcndance 'upon one another; 10
there is .a yetirement of the foul, , with which it converfea'in heae
ven, even in the, midft of men'; and indeed no man>> is more
. fit'tO'fpeak freely, than he'who'can, . without any .violence
>> himfelf, retain his tongue, or keep filence altogether" As to
- geligion,"it is'by'this the foul gets acquainted with the'hidden ,
. myfieri'es of the holy writings; here {he :finds thofe. floods of
_-tealjs,,in which good men wall: themfelves day and night, and
, Only makes a vifit to God, and his holy angels. In this'con-
verl'ation the truet}. peace and molt folid' j'oy are 'to he .
'found ; fit is a. continual 'fealt of contentment .on earth.
and the means of j attaining ev'erlalting' happinefa in hea-
th. ' - l- ' . '- ~

I

 

"K '3
'o

.-)'
.

' U I . CRAP.

)n o 3 1le o N. c'k v;so.PS'.s'. .V ,1 s I o N'8cc'. 217
I ' .~--'cau.- pg puimN'Es'rx. ' '* : f

~ I.
.I'IO'IIESTY is .g~C/irtue' beloire'd by go'ogl "med; and pretelidedjo
13th other perfqns. 'In "this there 'are fe'veral' degrees : to my
LCVCITY man his own' is the cemmon law .of honcfiy ': but to do
gogd to an mankind, is thetchancery'law of honefiy: and this
fchaneery court' is in every man's breaft, ~where hie conicie'nce is -'
'aiLord- Chancellor. Hericeitgee, that; a'mifer; though he pays .
every body their own; cannot an henefi.' man', whcnfhe does
'hotf'dijbhargc the good'officea that are incumbent on a friend;
"If; 'kinfl,.- and generous perfon : ' for, faith the' prophet J't'aieth, V
"'chap;'Xxxn-. ver: 7,'8. " 'Tbe .in'flrammt'; ofa cbzcrl are evil {be
Ami/ink (wicked! 4e11iccPS3adeflnqy tbef fioqr emit/J b-ing "ward"

him when the needy/jieaeetb rigbt. ,_But ib: libem'l foul dew/a5 1i-

Ize'rezl wings, {and a, 'liberal tbing: {5421' hefiq'nd.' his Certainly

'hpneit;v.tq'do-every' thing the~~1aw2requiges ;.- b'nt {hould we
throw every poor debtor into ptifbn tjgl hehes' paidjhe utmqft

;. ,

fat-thing, hang every malefaetor__ withQut mercy, exag the -pe-
naIt'f of.every bond, and the_forfeiture of every indentuye,' this
{#01361 be downright cruelty, and not honefi'y : and it is_coi1=-
ttraty. to that general" rule," Terdo to another, tbat <<Iv/2x251 7b."
415on- (my; doizewzta you; Sometimes>> 'necefl'lty makers as; ho:-
, fiefi high a knave : andaeich'm'an a honefi m'a'n, becanfe 'he'haa
no :.oecafion. to be a'k'nave.' 'The trial of hoaefly is- this :' Did

\

V you ever'wmt bread; and hadiyou'r neighbour's, loaf in keefiaifig,'
' 'ahd-~ Would fiary'e' rather then eat it?" Were ,ycu' eveterr'ett; '
ed, 'having' in yourficuftndy "another man's eafh, and wohld
- rather goto gaol, than break it 3 if [0, 'this indeed,- may 'be'
reckoned hqfiefly. For Kingfiolomon tells uSS,,"f Tlmta' good:

' 'name'i better t/mn 'lffi', and i: app-adieu: qintmcnt, and which,
when a man . bar" m; 19/3, be bag nothing left evenly/keep-
mg.- . ' "' 1- J '* :

CRAP. III. ' 'Oftbe pfeflghtflat: qf'Rcligion in. 2/)? Goof-Id. "
,- I New, indeed, there is much more devofion'than;religiop
in the w'cfldlmore adoration than'i'nppli'cation', and . more 'hy'po.
crii'y'than fince'rity ; 'and it is very'melatacho'xy t6. confider,
'what. numbers of people'there axje furnjfhed with the powers'of -
reafdn .emd gifts. of nature, and yet aband'oned'to't'he ,grgfl'eij:
L ignqr'anee ahdl,depravity. But it' would benncharitable'for us
10'imagine'(as fome Papifis,-abounding~ with too m'uCh ill 1121-,

I

turf, . the" only'fCandai' to teligihlt, do)" that they iwill "certaifify '

be in a 'ftate of damnation-after this hfe ;'fqr howean' :we'thi'uk'.
it confrftent with the matey and goodnefa of an infinite Beg-j

ing, itodamu thojfe creatures, whenhe has:.SSn_ot"fSS1en_ifhed_5therSS;-
with the lightof' he gofpe'l!' or how can fi'ich proximeo'nceipy
ed and cruel bigots, prefcribeyules to the jufi'tce'and'mercy of

God 2 ,:'(I r1231 1"" '7>> :x >

 

.\'.
.- .v ~,

2'18 ROBINSON crtusons vrsroN

_~ We are told h'y l'ome' peOple, that the' great image, which
King Nebuchadnezzar Jet, up, to he adored lay.- ,hifi people held
the re'ptefeI'ItatIon (If the' [an In its right hand, .as the 1_pI'IIICIpII.l~
,ob'jee't of 'adbratiom. 8311: to Wave this (11be Irrle oE her; In.

' lat-w many {elf cOnIra'die'tirIg principles are there held {among
Chriltians. Y? and how do Ive doom- one another. to, the. devil,
'I'yhile all prefers to worihip the farne Deity, and to, expeft the

' 'farn'e- falvation. '-.
_ When. V was at Portugal, there nine held at .th. at time the

, coart 6f juttic'e 'of the In quifitiont All the criminals wer'e car-

,ried in procefiiont o thmgi'eat church, where eight of them
were habited ,r'n gowns caps of cahva'f g, whereo the tor-
'ments of hell were diiplayed, and, they were; eonde tied and '
burnt for. crimes, againlt thoCatholic faith and blefl'ed Virgin
- Lam lorry to make any reflection 'IIpc'n Chrittinna; bur,;ir'I'- .
deed;- in Ityaly the Roman heligiou feems the 151103,, cruel and
mercenary. I'Ip'on eatgth 'aand, a'very judicious Lperl'on, Who tr'av'el- ;
led through Italy from Turkey, :tellsg 'I'lzat rim? 1: my the fate
and oylwz'rrd, pomp of religion were]: that {be eburgb protest}: mur-
;d,e,rer:~ and qfl'q'fin; , and tbm deliver: t6; cwil magflmte.' _afv-

' {er to, Satanfar doinngl/I'ice , .inttrdifl: {whole} In Jami; dam flit!!!

{be :chil'rclx: for want of fiaymg a few ccclq/l'gfltcal Riki, and
fput: at, pp to religion fir lump: oftieir many 1,; that 't'b': co'jltt
ef' hold him}. 6mm: two men for flanking difionaurablj. of til;
'Blglrd Virg in, , and tb: m'I/i'onariei, ekaizza initiated the Irigor-
jb'ippiggy the dmil- by. their new PS021,603}- ',-t/J't.1f Italy, was {be ..
flint/re, (rig/acre 't_eligjqn swag tbe' grand- ,po ,era. ' gnd t/mt'tbe-Pev
121/}: nlergy we". 71,0. elixir film tb'eflag'e plyers. .

_As' to religion In Poland, they, deny Chriit to be the Melfigh
gv'or- that the Mefliah has .come- in- the fleih'. And]; sto theI'r
'Pr'feitante, they are the folloWers 6f Laeliirs Socinirs? wh6 (le-
ni'ed our Sayinur' 'e divinity; and have no concern aborit the di-
vine Inl'pirptron of the Holy Gholt. - I - - '

- lr'I Mufeo'v'y' their churches are built ofw66ti, and; indeed,.
they have but wooden'-- prieits, though of the Greek .ehu'i-ph; '
't_b ._,e',y prev as, I'mich to St.Ni_c,h61as, an the. ,Papiils (19,10, the
Virgin Mary, -fo'l- proteetionf, in all their di'fliculties o'__r afflic-
Paioha. -

A; to Lutherans, they only differ from. the Romans In, helic-
VIIng~ccmf .baanfiatiori; inflefiad ofs tranfubfiantratIon ,.bIIt1iiI,e
_them}, thr y are 'II'EIgh pleated with the external gallantry and
pump, man: I; n the true and ,real praetiqe of It.

9 ._ lanrance ,oimd aworldofprrelt theirrect .etery Iiihfere
ctowded with them;- and the climates full 6 .wmnen: .int
$113:le neat-r was ,a nation to full of blind griides, f0 ,ighpran't of
nail 3196;, and even'ap mid of morals, as, thofo people ,wh'p. eonfel's
thexrfiniltotcm- - . , ,, , ,- , ,, ..FOE THE-ANGELIC WORLD. " 2'19

~ Does it not feemltrange, that, while all men own the Die
vine Being, there mould be to "inany' 'difi'erent opinions a; to
the. manner of paying'hin'i obedience in the Chrii'cian'chnrch ?- I,_
know not what reafon.to afiign'for this, except it be their
.d'ifierent'capacities ahd'faculties ' . '_ ' i . '
- And, indeed; upon this account. We have perceived, in all '
- Chriitian countries, what mortal feuds have Been/about relic
gion ~; <<what wars and'bloodihed have moieited Europe, till the
general pacification of the German troubles lat'thetrenry of}.
Weitphalia: and" fince'thofc'" times, what perfecution'in the
..fame' cnu'ntry' among the churches of the.Lutheran31;. and
{hould I take a profpeet at home, what u'nhappy' divifionn. are .
'betwcen Chriitians in this. kingdom, about .'Epifcopacy and"
Preibytery ; the church of England and the 'Diii'cnters oppofing
one another like St. Paul and'St. Peter, even to the face; that
ie, they carry on the difpute to the utmolt extremity. - . ' - .
It might be a Quefiion, why . there, are fuch' differences, in re-
ligious points, and why thefe breaches 'ihou'ld bemore'hot
and ineconcileable? 'All the anfwer'I can give to this,~ is, that ~
we inquire more concerning the. truth of r'eligion, ' than any-
other nation in'the world; and the anxious 'C'o'nCern we' hare
about it, makes us jealous of every opinion,'and'tenacious of.
our 'own; and this is not becaufe We are more" furious And
rafh than other people,- . but the truth is, we are, =mor'e'concern;
ed about them, and being ienfible< that the {cripture' is .the
great rule'of faith; thefiandard for life and doetr'ine, 'we have-
recour'fe to it ourfelves, without fubmitting to an'y pretended i
infallibiejudge upou earth. , " " '

' . ;Th'ere is another'quettion, 'pertinent' to the former, and that.
.is, What>> rained] can eurapfilj to this malady? And to' this I ' '
multne'gatively anfwer, Not to be lg]: religiahr, 'rbdt'rwe ma}?
dffi'er the [3/3. 'This 'is firiking at the very root of'all'religious
differences; for, certain! , were they to be carried ofi'With a
pEaceable fpirit, willing o be" informed, our variety 'ofl opini-
ons would nnt'have the named differences; nor'ihould we fe- '
parate in communion of charity though we did not agree in fe-
veraLanticles of religion. ' ' : , r - '
'Nor is there a lefs ufefulque'ftion' to' fiart, namely," Wber'e :

.'will our unhappy religiou: d'fermcu and? To_which',. I hope,
I ,may anfwer, In Heaven; there ailunchriftian and unbrotherlx
differences Will 'iin'd aperiod ;.' there- we {hall embrace may'a
iinner, that here we think it a difhonour to converfe with ; 8: PET:- -'

- ceive- many a heart are have broken here with cenifurest, reproach}
ings, 8: r'evilings, made who'e again by the balm-of the fame R'ee .
deemer's blood. . Here we -'iha",l" perceive there have been other
flocks than thofe of our foid ; thatthofc we have excommuni-_
-ca'ted have been taken into that {uperior- jcommunion ;' and,
in a word, that thofe 'contradietiag notions and principles which '

," .ediathafihefliygbgd e'nfi

. "#1393393 if thnypu tau--hm an finality:

ru--vja'x-ngfi-TSFr-rv <f-:-. '.- - y' I

' w ' ' ' - - 1
MA ~ .' J \

32.0. R '63 III .I'QN; gagmgs: In: 33M. I

m. then IiBCPIIfifient'r-xith tine; Isligiena. mihall thenfind' '
"mm! a k I? tbcmislvfieestaiqne another, . and-t9 the fpuntain

'1.-

" aftmtha iffiang main 33k 'mto' thofifelifimnm canngthe

c edgy with .' "I'afiI; er, Wegfl <<19;; q'lL-tbxorbu l4! 5. <<Jami;
t' (if 'tfieh- tbtj'kwojuld "5e' Zcbhl'iledfxlzufgqudd' pgtgq; 91%;?) 313mg, "
.befor: :' 614 #54 '55.. imfll'l'! ta-'eflmfii If>>: 4.3. ".1me firtq'in.
"mam. qf 21%;;th (If; raqyfegqu $07912; qanbep, 'or {be '10qu qr.
flgftgfgqngxpfjucfi{muggy}; fa agitate??? ,4. gm'erql, Afiflif
{1.43 r'flair' 5:11:14?!ch 5oz. tleiifld: 97' the; ' .. " -. =

- iBetoreg-I; pnguzde'tmsizhapter, 'I (hall. beg leavg'tmdifgburfe' .

giitgle: _QPS' thg. vgc'mderfigl- 'ekc'glgetgey: 'of. 'chaijiwg feligigmapq
ne afixexvirtues. The lam .1?PS;,degu.-tv.i?SSC/~the1?haxifeC/.- with: .
(is: 2' Iz-tbenfi the: a"? wee: ofrreksiouszpa'gfiwtwathfi .hs'. 9n

cfite's, b'ng'L'and; m".-19:SSQi:d,,'iit.degis;poutiyg- 2153C: .501: Ins-cit a,

almafk 'tqf .dgqeim'e, 0121161., or a rim-2w _.dgcSSirSS,,;anr{c.1Y=C/s; A;

I u'xefi'fthat i3 c'lbth'ed with fisgaitxveg, thus arg,uc"s.-g 'I.4','Z'l-2710.t~fyC/%' 2'

-.

a..- drweari-es'.mj. lq'rzdlojrdgjucb ,4 rabid-4.57 .91! may fflcha .

fwtafkr :21!" In? nei '1: our ;. ngitbez..am, I, a cLQIt, gn.qtb.:5'fl.'.q:

rdfitfrfiI/Wro'fii. 12' ..vfl'jh14ai No!- I Zing? a'folzett, "xylem

: _- refit!!! lif; {Yamagpefimmy 1gp :thwljzggicf; -; Gad,'L1/;g,_zg.;.ibc:e,.
. N9Ws'th39uah 6!? .enhofifieot his", Ifrtuc,' Inscfintnadifilonxo>> 'thm.
vic'es' 'mctgtibficd 'yefia'neflbfl had .b'ttter'have fhcmaltggejhm,

than-m; man;= 'mreliefasgr he, is!>> full at big; egg.,.,-rq'pp.rfuadx+
. .. .. "Idigiohe'inmfla alteidg 'that.he:._~hass
na'ztfipilghES-ofwytlIIns, <<xsept'it he to pull. of..- .'.s 11891.3). God}:
Nmifigy fibj'izfindgfhfina and'fihqnlfi.'bjrq' that he; has; no 90:.
;cegsiqn. Egg 1M} 5.3M has tpgsgamgy tgihxyk that his; flGigthym '
mfifi'imagine'wel'f 'o'f Mintobf ' i '. ' 4, .~ . y-- .1 .9 "

gmherncgatew man; they ' .111 .hC/.=ia-,n9,dxnnkar<%is YCI'zintczitiqa- ..
"(is With: -*.'?9;BridEUR5 0f ' 11.1.8; own'fworths I as 89% flcizhbqurenfi"?

~ A .

'PEQW'WEEE.' in _0thef-fa':milies% b-Rt '4'?!th isipW-n 5'-.3PPC/a[EUR;
mifi'chWCPIL-LW whom <<but Hem-fab @999 has. 'kfiscasin big:
Cldfe-tr'is '1'?"- 4') Ins dflfibfifm 1139",. PS95" {99". 9?: them a '63? i.
g'ggjliquflfi' dnSS1g5,'9_f.'SS;hSS fechgl,' tablg',' hut 'zgegardlcfs;;of.-.thg4
' W I'Vaiwrslrelimoha, ftb. hex'aksn max. ofgbymcn, but withn'f '
out"- iafcrqw'rfwr.'qmamuaiqati'oni Warm God, mam: own;
{0111} Thfifiwhat'ie this' man? '(ir'what~ qomfort'iq them ofi (figs
lifg Qgflijesjfhe Iis_infenfib1C/:of.:faiPSh,fi rcpcptange, and 3'30"".
tian mugs? .1152; in 3 "EM: 11-9 i8. Nfszfifly a firangcxr. t9 thd- -
eff fitfal"Part;qf.~rcligiQh-' " -; ' ' 2- '-' -_ - _- .
.. ..fiszfox.SS'while .e'nler intolthe p'riga-te, 231d rcfined part 01;?

'hifiifiiS'mIerg 19a Whatl'nbtidns hesrhe' Of'.h1SS_;_.ihifpC/nn-houn; '-

I' add big-1th: 'prpgtefs' Ointirfie-'to .thg g'iggtmntrc andgulphof

.lifef;...etC/;9i'ti3 - 3.6%..hc-JIMW - how 101;. Fat-3 right may :01).
1199?, 0r..e1teem.;he,11PSe-b1_. 4.9! hgslqgl, gg.lt,really.m,' mam

"ingajlggthpf momenmof if, :amzsexbgr mutt accmlnt fin'i;

, amen. what; be 1:33: .
- 6.13; cagzbfie prydssl: 3199,51,. PS18,,
' _ I negatwe ,.

60a ans) xhSSSS;hSSiiheel.;rsseiis s'....-----W ....'..--'--.:
- u
c

. ' -'0~'F T 'HE <<Ami-G E E m. we It'll-15;: . 22::

n'egetiv: 'virtxre; dr'yvhat'he 3121's fdfborxie {padb'z 'x-Atrd if neitli'er
'hiqfl negative nqr pofitiv;5:,bie.tyfcarrbe equal 'to'tfip'remrdw',
and to the eterfiity' that reivard is to la'ft tox',l,iwhat-;then.is '{o'
bthmevo'fihe Pha'nifer, Muenfhejs to be'judggd 5y 'thc'flhcefi-
t). of' his'rcgcntarrce, ehd-a'efivarded; according {tb' -the' infinite
graEe, of God, with agate ,of bieficdneik to<an epdlefe, ntcr:
\nity . . , 5- 4_ . ' '. " '.
"When the "negative'cman 'converfes With'the infiiflbge \'vml'd, '
he 'isa'fifled with. asmuch Mud? and- 'd-rezci a's.-Feli:t,'.wt;'en St;
Paul marched to hid;~ of thmperanee, vri'ghteoufnefs, androt' . '
. judgmpntfib Come ; f'cr' "Felix-h though-a-great phildfbplier, of."
great phnier' and reverg'ncc, Was gnegaz'm man, ahdfihe wzsz- .
made'ferjfi-ble By 'the Epome, that, as a life of virtu'g: and term;
annealing-it; own yew/3rd, ibysg'iving a 11231th bod' 5.. a'clear' j
' Em...'andia~'ccnf ofe'jd' life, "10 etc'rnai happi'ngfe'mu *'pwce'kgl . '
from ahbt'h-er'ipr- gag"; namiy, the-infini'ee nn'bauuded'gsace (if 73'
prb'vok'ed ' God, W'h'e" havihg ereetsdwa righteousftrifiangh Mus"
Chri'fle would fe'pauflgf 169?: 413 57 faith in'd'rep'zntan'ce ghe'ffiad
' brbught', home 'an'd'_ "imitai'l-'to "hiu'ifelfrbd'y .tgze gave of any
(ion, fa'n'dfi'on "tfic 'fodt efi-fii's having laid ownm fife-"as a rain-<<i
f' m" f01'~'th'edh haet 'appcifiwd MEWIG filtration; thn- REY-$1185
'fl'ofoibhy>> tem'gdragce, and If}; teohfncfwin'giie worl'gl'bhfiflrrsh
udxbgen'ineffeetkai. ifondgbiayl fay; it wag-tbs} mpmamix;
thiamegatiqcmmtrembta. >> _' 4 .. a ;.

_..bash,1v.'r;_"'ojy:zyigs:gajC/ '2; it; iieix'cqffifiqazke'fiiagg :37

,. EBA magnififentgand ,yeifefiih' - Sblgfiao'h' 'bidafhier'y 3H6",
M'Wgedg'eygdd'liftfup Qfi'i'v'ofefi. '__or. finderfiandfg'g;g f 2&3")?ch
' 'e'l'flefimasldikibfiikfidmfiflee,' 'fdr'it'fQUIQn'efr-LI 'n" 47: 253.14;
ungg/Ignd-mq, flair, of ' bazgr'd,' 12ml 5ng ~15: firibeb?! 35am;- ..
B'xyhleh undaubt'egfly {E'e meant, to'c'nijfim'; aiftergveryghigxg,
.hgjhaa peyfigitt'ed'p's. fajknofir'," andth PS9 iea'feh gfito'figfo'ig: <<$331
thgg'aire funfcatchhble, 311d ark: fifl'eetuhllysldckedjip .rdih-Qef'f
Hpgwledge;.+Ndfv,. 22':_;Zf/}e}iin'SS .29 Ibe'eiok'e -'o'f Pr'paiide'ijgg - sang
prefgqt.mbjce't,'?1igite,nd, in thg'firit 'plhee,"to-verfie"to,=fhjcfjf

:ho' own; '1'. Th'a-t' th'e'f'e is 1'de, 'afirfi'g'r'ehtmofing :ca'u'fg; _ '
6f_all fihigpgg, andxtemai-lpgwa, prior, and cenfethnfly'fugfi-l
flap-to 'al] Cfc'ate'a'i fioi'veif or, being-+7..- Th'aflh'is elergflmye,
EUR13 Whicf; is 66.6336, the faverqigh creator and gever'nor 6f
heaVeh'hnjd ghrfh, <<J ., , .'- '. _ .~' .. -' '_ ggf: '
.LToavom.a11. nezdlfifs diff-maid", What gserfon's it; th'epoa-L
head excrqire the mating and w'h'at the governing "fiQWet, I--' .
gifer tjh'at glori'ou's refit, 1?fal; ix-xiii.f6. where. the. \ighol'e Tign'zt?'
-. 1's fontitl'ed 'to the Who]: c'Tcat'in'g "v'ork': arid, theref01fEUR.,.ip'tii'd'

' rieitzp1agc,,_1 .fimaufilgy gown ihefe t'Wo'prqpofitivotfe; , I, _ ~2.22:, R 0.311%: O.N:'-C "n v son's 'V,I'S ,1101N "
. I I . .

1574."; {be "email God-igniting 6) bis pro-videh'ca; 2b: swbolr'
' ' ""'T'"f/23'Wb;'b was treated}! binoqverf , ' ' ' r

J}. 77m: 1111': prbwidmce marig'fif/I: a particular am; over," nd' .

- concern in, the 'gowrning' and diteflizzg man, the mqfl 75.171: '
l_- ' createfeupgnmrtb; ' ' '- ' '
It isplam, that natural religion proves? the firlt, -by.intimaling

3 ~ the neceffitv of a-pzpvidence giliding andxoverning'the world,
- from" the confequence of. the wifdo'm, jufllce, prefcieticd 'andl
gomlnel'e' Qf'l'de Almighty Creator : for otherwile it wou-ld'be
abfurd to think, 'tlia_'t'God llznulcl create a. world,; without-any '
care or. providence 5 over it, in wuidiag the Operations of nature;-

0

{0 as to, relieve the order'of his creation. . ' ~. .
Revemcd religion gives us a light into the care a'nd concern .
of .ly'a providence, by- tlfe .ciimate'swbeing'lmade. habitable, the
"creaturesiiubjreted 'and made hcurffhibg, :'md elLvegetativ'e life:
made medicinal; and all this for the fake'of ma'h, whole.
made, Viceroy-tome King'cf the earth; rTh'e {hort_.defcription
1411311 giVeof providence-is fhis : 'Y'Ijafit'i: tbat-opemtion', jof-
1/>> power, (If {be moi/doze, jzgfliie,'and goodnq/qu . ad, bygu/Jigb
be influenza, -,eowm:,- and direc'm "not. 'onb'tb'e rm am, ~butvtbe
epezzLS'Of all .Ylsings, whicbyonrem w in {bix'filblwmrj ququd ;-
tbe jb'veneiemj of all/git]: <<we augb; alwaflcto "vermin-3059' iu'
mptiom, .clfiriz}? it: (1}flatek, (1th 1(7):): 'to it: 'wt'ee'; - 3171: Wade>>!
"(gm figfeet/zf'tbaqeyii, and bidet}; ,bi'm' 431/ ;. that is, a: 1' take it,

tberfigi'. dflte'Z'fi'firo'videme' 'intim'dtee' Ib-'w; tbal'jbmidkzrgefl
' firearm. {fweflri've no); toflmnit ' ; ' ' ',. . --.~ '

f 'The'fame'day that'Sir Jshn Hot'ha'rrx kept' out Hull .a'gaififb
51.11:: royal m'artyr King ,Cb'arles'L'the fame day 'Sir John Horhaz'n',
~waaipu'tgto death .by the parliament for that very mien:
The: firm; day: tbaflthe King hlmfelf ligned the ,wari'anti'for the

'eXecution of, the Earl of Stafford, the fame day'of the month

,..

'wasf'helfberberoufly, murdered by the blood-thlirfly Oliveriah'
.crevir' :- gn'd the'faghe'da'y that King James II. came to the crown
again'fi: tho-bill of'exclufi'on, the fame 'day he .was voted IabclicaA ,
tedjby the parliament, and the throne filled with King'William
and Queen 'Marv. "" ' *' ' ' " ' .' "
Tbcvvoice of fignal deliveranees" from fudden dangers; 'is'not ,
only a jult call--Io Fe'pemance, but_a caution again'fi falling
into the like dacgerv; but fuch who are utterly c'arelefs' eithema
{elves after, {how a lethargycf the-worfl' nature; which. fiema,
to _me to. bc' a kind of praeticalatheifm. or at lealt, a living '
in aeont'empt of Heaven, when he receives. good at the band of
'lii's Maker,'vh'ut is unconcerned from whence it comes, or'to .
than]: the bountiful band that gave it; neither,-when he re- -
ceives evil, does it alter his manner of life,' or bring him many
fiate'of humiliation. : ~ W
. . . . e
'6 F 'r fix:- ADN c; m: If: '>' 6R 1 15.". "2&3'
:..', .. ~ ....=. z. -2." 9... P>> --' " '5" " .1 - --I'.~ v1. '-.*,_." -
Wcshave a'remfitk'abieitgw-,9f1w<5-'fql.dl'<efrs'=bcing.co'ixdeghheci
fdh'd'ezith iqr'Fiandei'gg ,'Ijhegfignpel.;SSeiSSg .'p'tevailed ufidfigfia
Tpa'rc'bn'e>> pfit'h'em, ,qrdgred '_t 7m :9 [daft-fi'ic'ie- up'dn 7m; 'dfur'fie '
_"ea'el 'fb'xfijthein iii/gap; 'th: Y1}(t 'h'aym'gjchrbw'x'; 'twe .fixe'e, 'f'flee
'ffi'etpffid'fefl.a.. wrinzide.h1SS"h,an.dp, having 13> 15.96%?! mahcktoi I:
c'ap'e {host'vefie'r'u Mungj'thtgfim, he'wae Turbfifed'iifhefi'fie 2' f9
threw;.othtr,t'wo.fi1$=SSs.,T,-he 9mCfit.SSP2QintC/dt9..,fPSSS-thSS expcufib;
ibr'ee'rea tfier'n..t0't'h:rC/<v Frigaifi ; they :sfisi '59., an, ' 'ee'cti 'nfi m
thaw. (13938;;31 413'11'idl 1:96- iiiidie'r's' .thas'..1..t'9;.oid mafia,- .Ihbuti'eq, .
anelfiifi, neithar.,'.<2f th'effi. maisofiiea . 131W). Tylii'gk .tlie'oflig'ct
gieqliaimed-the cmg'a fo'wa'r: 'evhsa pfdarre' -.t'h'e.si'1;.;t<'.>v.xh'r'<'>w'a
third~;timu,,,yvhC/11 shay! shrew'ft'xirg Tom: '6 egeeiraI-ipging :aic'e
fifiefinfitfi witch itai'cnttffifthc ffiefir mzel fifiidoned TWIN-C.-
if). ig,"SSatid.he,' in flair quarz'iimj' pefisg M'to, iii/1.53:1: iev'i/iegmicg'e.
I'M! e'flce'o " . :. ' __~'=,' l, J...
.'. W.' >r's'ad. 'ih \fhe'fial'ir'Writifigssl'IIQW Giod iiicaka'Fte {my 13.39.315-
, mm? of""'1'fiSSels;' 6.17613? .drrhmifahfdifflfiohb 'ef..,'.fheyfi.i'gh.SS-" '
A3 ng, ep'pe'aix'edl 'tb fibyfififcI-m,,119t,'SSn3 139.015,}, {253:1 'Els? Mi;- 1
.apficared t0 ma'ny @1536:th 'Iuafeggme, 11:9 M1113}; 'ahdiiaflfe",
$1C/Chfirlali,_tfi'c._ mm Mafia , ammo-1111:5395 ,Ieir ;, diheroegfiei
"53.61:. Warped in a'drfim; flirting -.:Abi'.melcth; the. ...fificfigdgihC/i
31.1 'amzjandmniy-o:crtr'r'$et<:Y=- - ' 1 ' 1- 4771i?
1 f- ifis .hhrm'tril '3! WY greietiiand hbbifi. inqgi'ry," 1. 245mm fig 1
fieja air-"212i: '1}; 9. flor1SSnSSfe= is 'rgzrcgaagmzm, Hi ,Ihglje-Eig 31.. -
iaee'frefervestfor tn"; ficcfitfiefi tip? in}: feats, :aftje'r. dim}: PS91"
. PS;~'v'C/.ar_c..m be, ,gwtfmu'h 319:: a Iv'ncm which 'fh' ,fdgir>>, 11196 ag-
M'Hy 'th'e 'ex'am'ples 'of mm an'gi Lam}: :1: ; dd 11%;;
fpiritsswaa long hclicvgd. Mom. prfiazifitzt'eihme 3301:,- when
he diet 1&8 arm blcfidfic'qufieflgewgsi 361:? savioigy wag?
pith. 163', 'tb'es'r W'ete. .eSQIfiqfih.'fm;priitdtae;ific'ifi'z'hrth'ey' 1% -
1cm .35'-135itet- fN'ahi-in'thpfaz-aga'eio:;..the,.sC/'<>.r1SS,isswh's. Bjeu'eyg'
1123.: "pririts. inteffmcddied'f m'.SSfhe"'etffiiirfs :bfi'a'fiihfiifid '3 T494,
' i'hfbnfiofit thE'Old'Tefie'nmnt;Tdblhptfitfdiani thinkmfiafijn '
til; ieafi '.<:9ntr.adiet.8, 1%: ,..A..11 th'ei".r>fains;21and'.1i1fpyrSS.2SS1fitlifefife
fle'irhed men 155.!!'6' saken, $0.. 'co'nfufe the It??? 9! "fifflitgydfifin-
- $013153".theeidpealjanice"Ghanjoidimazi 'pet'fon'atihglshingel;cin-
<<t'w't-- 'ma'ke -fuck;appdrfiiopSS-'ifiC/onfi3ent w'xthjflgfpigefi or. rdi'gigjg};

with plan! that it. wasitjchzer.i4.89<2d.0.i:1'b;a:ai.f . .
" {Bs'fieally :te'! .ehfe'IIngfdthnet: king-Whitffhb'ix .';.lf1'i,'13}5.ctn $13.6:
. ne'xi- 6127;; for, 'fetid itbe {pix-1t, .975: 1491'?! 4221114 4C/liigpr 22x1: iiip..t/ec:
f'lz'anakfzftbe Psi/Mm; 4nd rzogmqrrbtzb mic-1mg gnaw; {was
.'e'etw' me; ' ' ._ 'j'k' ' 1.. LI." - -,:,.
--.-: fibu'n'c'ufitb..'o"f.'fi'r'ane'gifidti'jdne;"inflated. :p'ef; N'li'eki Ifliey; in
5%.,cfefol'a't'e' Wands 'C/.EURPC/tietl.Y=-..dm'fimobffiineem'gh't; @121};ch < '
' "bufh'f;erhed'a 115512,.L'ai1clf 'exf'erv;t'r,e'e{ a [ma bit": ."bo'r'fiElqac; .
I? ":1391'EIPt'ihto 'tb'e.'di?'rfiarl. cm. MU: t1)?" bldgfiitfiv EUR39,31-
Piyg, finch: gramme _.jg;bfSS.r,,s'_'C/ven, rambled 'tti'ofe of. a m ,
. "gow' was-1 {urprmea 1 my 'b'lood" chilled 3:: iii? 'v'e'i'x'le,"a"co d
'5'" .- . U 3 . fweaty(

'4

I.

' I .

2M .R '0 B' m 3.0 E45919? s 035-797'V'173 13M '

{flaw de'wfat on Ipifforfihead,' ~my.hair {toad fipgighg,'~afidifif~"
Jomtg', like, Belfhat'zar's' knees,:".t'cruck-' aga'm'ft "one'.\anot,hep..

. A3118, iSS.C/C/EURd,'tfidugh I afterwards. 'fbun'd"What "it Was, .thc

1332.3,ih311'flf this _;furpriic .did' opt \v'vea: .ofl? 'for.'r_&,."gr_eSS,;
.Whtle. 3.: and :I. had' frequendx returns of that?! 1372390133. .91 -
dillfi'cgcnt .lo'ccafion's, and fomc'ti-rhes without any'qgcah'on 3!;-

.al'. .- ,:"~ _ A , ..-":"' Vt. .. . " ":1... ,
'.,' Ot}:_~nigl}t, after having feedfome; afipcaxjancefin tbeal'r, as I
had-111R [am down in 'my bed, .one of mygfeet'rpamed ' mg ;

- a'fter' that cai'm'ea numbpefs, fhoceeded with 'a tingling in'my

1310de 3 "wh'efifpn a fiaddca' I'tho'ught fom'cthingufilive'gaylupqfi-
me, from my 'knc'e toz'above halimy' le'gg Upon'thxszl flung
gnyfclf out-of'bedwhere'l thought the cr'eatureley '; "but 'finde

, .mg nothing,"_Lbrd;'delid'lerr me frat/1f an_wil {git-igfaid. 1-,'- <<Ia/Jail.

l'ZI'fl'}/)1'J)be 3-" .Wh'cn 'l lighted a-Candl'c, 1' con p'e'rc'eive no. fivmg}
cream: ,5}! the. placcwith _,me, butthe fipq'px ';.parrot,.' .whq.
being,frightcd;pried.dxi't,"f_1-aldy'o'ur tongue; and .Wlaat'ls ibg.mqPS._-'-I
Rf rwitb'ji'ou, which Words 1 'had'tajught'fiim,' bylaxingaibtd.

03-3, ..

him", when he,'made filchffcr'eaming noifcs.as.l'did n'ot'lik'c;
lord, raid I'.v31011'd',"filre;ly we devil m 'm mg; , Hbl419uh
fpngug 5.1m ,Pon; , was then madgat th'eL'Bixq," and :ggmmg;
on my7clothea,fcritd, Jami terribly fig/2:21.": WZW'J _wg._mattea_~-
Mitbyou} fays .Po'lLA few-.1604, .ia'rd1,i.1.'11'PS'n'b'c"b ja'ur' 15521;":

. flit- :"HQ'tyflur'gongue, cried, :herzig'q'i'ng and,' f6 fell a chattering"

hiC/C/degPS(r)9fi(r)gmflelfl and w&Q{,tbi.-'bed.3gain',l Ij;bC/gan,pl_.SSSShly
3deg 'fgcfiawaga dlfic'xfipergtb'af; afifegtcdgmyxpchcs, andifo 'my
teflQf'eiXanifllcd,at'.onC/e,.'-f'. __ (-j j 1, ;L ;. g ' -.',
5 ,.' Hiyyff'intelligences' 'efe'ei-Jerj't. 0'1? 'figeeiycdSS,,-We. do not; kne'jpyE I;
nor arelyvg' fgnfibl'efhow. thafar'e convey'gd from'fpipitsielmb'a;
ii?!) ".to', ours that ,arehin. life 3 or, 'Oxi we: contrary, {frpm 11311;? '
{them ; ; t1}: lattefis'eert'gifily idea! fiitbbixt; we, belt}. of ,thegy'e. ,
33 313,7 SSnC/"the..fo'.vmei~ {a qoqirey'e'c'ljgby. triefund'erfl.1ir_1ding_;,"jgxfi~
'the'letlred fabulti'es of'the ,fmil." - ' " ' '5 ' ' 4 "

. , , ' '

Stamina; 'Wil-heut' ltfic',.hclp oftvdi'cesg; 'eom'zefxfe,'92h'ci .tfie

n
r

'ahd ehifinifjkobimon Crdfoe; es'he' did threif. Buf, after '1

. 'mgt'ejegtieufgr:.difecver'iqs.of? cohgerfc ofthg fiij'ritfiafe'mfifi? '
_ .'mc as: ioilo'vwr'g yogi/is, 'dr'eemiz, voicgs,'nbifes',. 1m,pplieSS,. buggy:

'appnchC/,nfion'$, init'oluntary fa'dneis, 31C/. \ ., 1 ' '. :
i. 5.9???" Ofgfdfiwere th'eiva'ys by whichG . ' himfe'lfyvas Jed--
5SfijFQ'Wafli'hWfi whatfervic'cs to perforfii'," and what'to lulu-
'3'913Ph. was dirc'fled of' Gb'd in a 'dream to go to 'Egypt' ; vand 1'0;

1 iwere the wifef'fnen' j Wa'f'thfin a'dr'eam to depart] in_to their

' "WW" dqfi'nmr another-way, .to,avoid. the...fury-pf-.Her0dr I am

- 3135* ""Hk'c'i" 'fihdfc': '{Vb'O ,fiiink' (1:623:15 ' a'rc .thej. mgrpdefigns. (if-a.

- ' (tefigfgnkhgedppr 'tbeliefi'cs of'a "d'ay.'$'_'pefplcSS:ities' 01: piC/5aEUR1greSS'L;'
'bt'eti'Oel'fihg'anfirhry, '1 )hfiff__bcg' 'leaiic-tp-,f.}1y,'l'.l"never meg-with" -
"apy'fgapitajf-'mi'fchief-in my lifegfbuj'tfl had fome notibe'pf'pit
7.13 A'dream {and had;1'noPS Becn'ekhoughtlcfs' unbclieyigg'frgg-
.3 1, x: "' ' ' . . <<- "we,.~ of THE ANGELIC 11101111111 a $225

em, I- might have taken many a wai'nin, -an,da oitled many
at the evileI afterwards fell .1n10, merely-'31 10:11 negleel: of
thofe dreams... ..

.I was once prefent at a dil'pute between a lawman and, ,a cler-

fly. man, upon the lahj ee't of dreams. , The 11111 thought 1111' 111-

\g gard {linuld be given unto them, deg that their communitatioii
from the invifible to the visible w orld was aeneie chimera,

without any {tilid foundation.' For", .,firft fai, he, 1t dreams

Were from the agency of any prefcient being, the motives
we (T be more direct, and the. dil'co'veriet more plain, andhot

ilego1ie3 and emblematic fancies, exprefling- -t11i11_g11"111'1'-
perfe'et and obfcure. a. Since1with the notice of evil, there was
not a p0wer given to avoid it, it is. .n0t likely' to proceed from

a him, but merely forthitious. ' 3'. That the inconitancy of, ,
inch notices,. in cafes equally 1mportant, pio'yes they did not:
eroeeed firom any l'fuch agent. 4. That as 01117 11191111131115:
dreams. had nothing in, them of any {1 111hcancv, it wonlfd be,
irrational and vain to thinlc' that they "came. from heaven', And;

- 5. I bet _as men were not a'l'vvays thus warned or {implied with
nOtiCe of good'. or evil, to all men are not alike i'u'pp'lied ,ipvith'
them; and What real'o'n could We give," ivhy one man or one.
woman lh0'uld not have 'the' fame hints as another. . ~

_ ' To 'all, this the cle'rgymen gave. anfwei .. 1. 'That as to the fig,'
ni antion of dreams, at the. objections againtt them, as being-
11111.1: and doubtful, they are eXprelfed, generally by, hierogliphie
'eal,reprefentat1ons, limiljes, allulions, and figurative 'erhblem'a'l
tic. ways, by' which means, ior 'want of interpretation, the
thing was not undeift'o'od', 111111,. confequ'en'tly, the evil he: ,
ihunncd. a. That we charge God toolilhly, to 1ay', that. he' 1131'
given the notice (if 'eviI,', without. the np.0111e'r'.1:0 avoid it;
(01)., if any one ,had not pOwer to avo1d the evil, it was, 110',
notice to him, ' and it was want at giving 11c liea to. that no;
'tiee, that men firtt ne gleeted theml'elves,'a1,id 1 en charg
tlie Judge of all the earth with" 11 Jrflue. ' 3. That We ongh

not to find fan, it with. the inco'riitangy 0f thei'e not-ices , but;

' .ifath'er with our weak 11nderflahdin;gs, by pretending dreams

were not to be 'r'egai'ftled, and neghg tent when the voice really.
iiioke to us for our good. Itisa, 'mittahe to fay, dreams, have.
no import at all: we m1fiht, with more Jealon, have ,i'aid',
none that we could perceive the realon of, owing to our blind;
nefs and fupine negligence,' too iecnre at- one nme', and, tea

, much la'rmeii at another, {0 that the 19111, ,which We mi git:

' be fan. to be cimverswing with in a dream, Was conhantly and
eQually. kind and careful, bht Our flowers. are not always in the
{acne hate of action, not equally attentive too, or [etentive (if
the hints that were given. A11d,5' .To aniwet the lait queltiofi,
Why peopie' are not equally fupplied? This feem: t: to be" no
queluon for Providence ittelf might have fome fhz'tre 1n thg; ch."
. ' re 1011

I,6116' R 0'11 '1 N3 '6N " 0311511 's'e-fi's- 31% 110711

13611011 61 i'f,' 3621 111011 15371 'vad'ience l6'1g'bt be 111111106 '5

a 111110-101- dir't'et'loh" 15113133, it) 1158 60111161160? fia'frits, be 116111
'not call it 3 Rated converfez'l fuck 3 111,163 there 1173's,; 561 1vh'y'
111'th W3316 much 61"." 1t, 3111'! no 111010, 113's n'0i1'e' of 511,3, Bfifi6efs,
31111 11131. '00 T6011" dii'coveiy 633 chf 'yet- Bee'fi 1113113 'to 163519
kind.':Ni11-, Weie we 10' 1111331113 1e'1's '6? 113311111311. 11133616 113112268,
via-61130019361113, impulfies, 31,13 3H th'e w 'ing 'te 1111611133
6fai11_f1v1fib'!e wag-id, 36d 01' the commfimcflidn (11131 'there 1.6
3121191213 11,3 3110' them, iv.hich commonly entertain 117,5 thb 61:15
93 es. " ~
$056366 6111311037 fbafed 0n 6135,60 fee ivh'at cifdoveiies I
5.011111 11131116111 iho'e Clearer fegtons I fomi'd t'h'a't 111011 621':
'iflenie 1106125 2111 1111211121, 631331311019, 21118 11:10:13,111 1110' "3163'"
611611: 6f 111610356 Wait-11,310 fair 110m being 10611;! {111 1118
ftudy 6f 6311113 0113-111: f1'1r'f'3'de 0f th'e 'eaffh. Here I 313 11131136
11161 91--11131 we C36 'efit'er'jain little'jdr 11'0 111011011 01,111, 3 {1,363. ,

01' 0011511160610, 3116' tbe 1216151111311; '01 .'0111- 11011011; 16,111: i113p13-j '
11,1113 '3r'e 'hab1tt1bi'e ivoi'lcis , 1:113: is 'c'rcate'd like 061,11, .5101 11111:
'- fubfl'fl'ence 3368111113an 'of 111311 3116 311', 3116 51,110 pi'ei'ervaudfi
8f 16011531131116 31163701166113 111;>>. 5 .. 0, 1110, this '61,- I, 3111116
{7811, 3" fw'bgfifi 61' 11111113; PS01- 61216 I'fa'w 361331" demofift 3,8196 0?
33131115213 1,113 pr: n'fl'ce 8f zbe' 'p'oqb'e'rf 'b 35': 'air, 'k'e'e' 819613 .1516
1113 coutt'o c3313 with inflmmbk-m as to 3110111,! '11 111,, 511,1:
618 61161133! is n'ef.' 1'6" PS11232 'as' we maybe, be 6311 're 2 ..
{1186111110 bd'tjchbii'et, 1313:6313 00116313:- 6319131111971 '2'}: dfiei
,N811'11,e1- 11331116631111 povver 1'0 "Em-ck eh'e' 1110113 1111' 551-4133:
11011 3g31611' fle ve'n, 111011311 111.3. regions a'i-e arm-3 711631110111;
garage-13110115, 10 Temp t'heir 11131101" 161'" 3 0,306, 11:60 111,331; the,
56311112113 'Eit'h'gr 117011111 him '16 11313106, r'l'gy 5118 re 30131111135 '
11113 16613 3116 11101511619, With the 'b'ii6el' 1301111008 161111111311:
61006 va', 38 t,'O' the 5111111360113 011111: dg'vil's p0WC/r Ybfi,' 11,1111;
2316:1111 ,rhje'g 11 111812 are, 1111111131111 0101,11 11511-35. employ-
- 01 111112211161" 50' thdf'e' arefnfx'mbers 61",gedd 31139.11; feht 6011151118.
' 211%,11'65,' 311d 1516111111 3136569, 1:67 dlfcorrcei't and 61390170 theirmea-,
fdifes', '- 3156 111111 eyei'y! Chnihan, "I 1100 3,7 'IJCiiE'V'es;,. 111711136 118'
$313.16 3118,1601311101 0111111118,,- t0' give, 511s 311g 0'18 063% hi 6-,
fhimivhfle be" 'Hfi'fnbe'lf'e'ib 311d' neepuh :'Fbr if b' t'h'e'feg pie-2
iieutm 6616613 1116 devfl iv3's 60trefl:3111e!3,"t,11e.,e 1111' 111101116. -'
bi": mbfeeted ~10 "(11331111 ,'dropgiiig, Sand, 131111110, ' 1-110" 311- mi'eflbd-a
WH',110311011'3 $111685 _,'; 33,1111, 111361168, 11131121110 1111011111 110' {11"-
te'rly" (refit-oven which might bbhge 0111- Mike'i' (if I 6131i,
68: aliowed 'ftbe 'ex Yeifion) 16 the riecg'flit'y 0f 3 n'exz fa}, ,
31111: 113% 60 111010, 0&31'11139 t0.b0n'011r 311d wqrihip' j ,
1m. , ' , .
,' ='-:-'-'ASS1 111-8 'deVil 68151217 iva e'd 1111' 111131013, '1 162,111 bbferve,'1'h31;'~"
I 1123131126 3 11937. 11016 10111 e3 1336 df'ead'1 6,1 $533 I "pleaie'd. ,
Fbr 11111111183 let '33 1116p bfe 011510.612 i'o'und 311.6 ' l'e't ahdfhei'
133.1111; 111013111 6161561681113 1111-; 3111 wyifper any P611115; {'0' 0111-
. . Yor THEflANGELLCIWOKL-D. - .' 227'

lyas not toawake him,- the fleeping'man {hall dream of. what"
has been {o whifpered- in his ear ; nay, I can afl'ure you, th'ot'c . .
inlinnzting devils can do this even when we are aniate; which I >>
calleimpulfes of the. <<hind :-for'from whence, but. from thefe .in-'i; ,. '
'linuators, 'come our. caufelefs' paflions, involuntaryjwickcdnefs;
Q: iinfuldcfires ? Who elfe form. ideas in the mind- of man
when he'ia afleef), or prefent terrible on beautiful. figures: to his
fancy I -Mr. --Milton reprefcnts the devil, tempting Evcin the-
ihap: of a toad, lying juft at her car, when in her boWer. {he "lay.
faft aflee'p 3' "and brings -in- Eve. telling Adam what an uneafy'
night's refit ihe had, and relating her dream to him; And likewiie'
LIbeiieve that good fpiritshavc the fame intercon'rle with us, in
warning us 'againf'cthole things that are evil, am; promptinghs
to that whichis-good. . . . - '. -. ' I" . A
--. Were wetohave the eyes of our fouls. opened, through the:
eyes-(Wont. bodies, we thank! fee this very i-mme'di'atenregioni
- or'air-which we breath in, thronged .wit'h fpirits now invifib'le;
. and which. otherwife would be the molt ten-ib'le ; we-fhouiat
viethhei fecrets. tranfaelions ._ of mole them-tigers who are cr'n~
gloyed when the parting foul takes its" leave of the reluetiant;.
7my, and perhaps .fee things fnature, Would Ihrink- back from}
with the utmoft? terror. and amazement. "In a wordythe'eurw
tain ofvProvidence for the difpolition:so'f thines here, and"the
curtain of judginent__.}for the determination. oFthe Rate 0: fouls
. hereafter,~Would be alikcgdra'wn birch; and what heart could
. etippoit'here its, future hate-inglife ; gmuch leis that of'ltsfutnre'
- ft'ateafter life, even good or bad.-- .-: - ~- - -
.,.;A'.gentlemanof' my acquaintance, being about feyenm'ilss;
~qiiitant' from London, a triend;,\that came-to dine with him;
' {elicited him to go to .thecitv. What, {aid the gentlemanr'ixi
'17:"! atrium/jazz jbr me .3 N0, Sir, .faid'flze other, flowing-"at '
a175, pimp! [be ny'qumz 'of-your. good company : and to 'gnv'e"
over importuning him; Jpn: then a firong impulfe of mind lur-
geid the gentleman, and puri'ufzd him like a voice, with, G'o'm.
London, Ga-to London. Hark ye, fa 3 he toms-friend, .is'all
stucll-atLondon 3-. Am I wanted Ibrre .- @r did you (92 me to go
with you. anon}. particular account? zlre all my family <<will:
3"", indeed, Sir, fa'id be, I perceived t/zem all very/36mg; am! 'I
did not afl youfo go to Land-3;; upon any particular. accormt'
' nubag/bewer, i-excrpt if two: for, 1/2: fake of your good company;
Again .heput ofl'his'refolution : but {till the impulfe fuggelted"
tq-him, Go to London; and at length he did-f0. Whenhe came"
there, he found a letter and a meiTengcr had heen. there to
feel: him, and to :tell him of a partieuiar'bufinel'e, which was at.
firfl: and laft above a thoufand pounds to. him, and which>>
might inevitably. have, been loit, had. he not gone to. London
that night. - ' . ' . ' _ _
- The2287a o *3 IN 3:053. 53cm U 3 03153113 3:041?

I. The obgying 6f fe'vqral'hinth, offfizeret irb'pnifesg'arguggsgrezfi
4 'w'ifd'om.' I kriew e." man'ethat'was flutter" firisfqrttingaf beef, '
ijgl '- nilty n'f mifdemeanors sagaimt'thef' gb'icmrefrtyg. 'Whexi; gm".
{9'91 mg for.feat';bf,.hi9 'ruin,;allihiSS*fribnda advieingih'i'rn' uot'i'o '
putlfimfelf in' the Handsfiffli'e 13w,"6nc.margiirfg'gsz'hc 'a'wati.
lied, Hcfeltm {trong izixpulfl:~ darting into ms mind 'th'usfi-I'Wrgjzr i
a'lemr tolbemr'and this was rcpe'atcd,feveral'tigfies-to-his-
mind, and at'l'afl: he anf'fiercd tr') 'it'; as ifithjd-be'eha wits; .
-_ Wfiom'flmlliwn'lg rd {Immediatelflt te'fzfiedii-ik tdtbe:juzlga::; '
aid this wimpulfc ptirmed him fOi'; feireral 'daysytill at length I
I hetoqkdpcn, ink, and paper, andfizt'do'wn to wfite 10mm :' .
.- "When imrfiegtiately words 'flgvfiedfrom bib .pemlilte"1treaxti$ .~
from it 'fairquuhtain, (that ehermc'd "even 'himfelf with hopes
of i'uccefs'. "In fhort, the letter {was foffenuousip argmficn't;
{o pathetig: 'hi. itS'eloquepee; and' '16 it: mfivcfy' mdfing"; thm: _.
wfien'thefir'dge' hadfr'ead v.1,xhelbht, - im rzq--ai2fwcr'h'e might _
be .eafy'," he woul'd 'ejn'dezwdurj to Make that _. matter , 'li'ght rm
thim'; "and,'itiat'cd, hgvcr 'kftfiitflegg' h'ir'n'feif';_t-illfiheuhadi f
fi'g'p't: the ~ptbtjtC/utidn,ganfi re. '61de"hm?"tb-'zh'is'fliberty je'tr'drfaa- '
,mfi-y, 'I . , 'I'. . 4. .-' . T." '. . ...I 1.. I .12.: ,II'.
t " 'ii'k'howfi g'erfaii'who had"fo--fti-'nhig.hn'imfirc'mon'tipmiiher'
ngmd," [tbatI the" heufq'mt- wa'sfid -'~Wou1d'~'15'e'gburnti thguveyy '
' qlgbtyfthatvfiig': 'cptfld 1'10; 'flee'p; the idryulfc'ihg had'ijprIr-bw ' '
mint; Rama her hot't'o 'iof to'btd; Winch, hQWfiYCW'flIeEgpt
dv'er, 'anq iiigeht'to'fbed'; ' at; m'fo'tgx'rified . wrtk;thg:thdtig'ht-;
which', rumin' her gfixindg'. (that-PS116 hrsqfe wculdsb'qbumt, 1h}:
_' ' {he could not. gate 38,613.; 'butIL-icqnmunicmng r-herv @732:th
' atom to'angthtr ifi'thg'fafilily," they'ficre' ~botbPSin 't'uch'a. fxgght'I,
- thagtheyrwpfified theyfilVes -tb~rfC/atch,.gfrdm Glaxo? 0,>>qu I
'1 . "126M qto the-batten}; 8; tbrfee eyer'jr'fittiand candie-Tfa $011310
" ' .t. jslas 'tbzyvall'faid, it was irfipcifiblc'that 'aily" thing 'chtrl'dIhapl
.. p'en thejiy.~-'a;'nd':th.ey";fent touth'e'>>: neighboursOn both sidis; to
.' dQ-rthe like". . Thus fatthey did-WEE; 'But.had-"fl1eob'6yed'tha ..
hint which-prefect upo'n h'cr 'flf'afigel'y, Wit It? 780 "to 15834913"
masdon'e' much'bettEr-g for the fife has aetually. kindled x 'e-thgit.
'vey'y tinge, though it'ot 'b'rcke'n' 'o'u't. Ab'aut-ah'hgnr -"afte 3th: '
~ Whole family Txvais'fin beag 'tfh'e hofifc 311R Over thg wayfidireetly'. .
e ' Ositm'was .111 in flames, 'ahd'xh'c' wii\d, Which wI'as'very high;
,b OWing .'fli'e' flame upon the ' h'eizft thi'e 'gentlcwoman lived-in)
'fqifillcd it with 1mok'e-an'd fire,,/itl-a.few1minuteEUR, 'thC'fireCt be."
in; .namSwL that they haaInotiair'to'breathe, ~or time to do any -.
thing-t-'btttieiffixp- out 'Qf"theirbe&b, zildifaVe t-lieirliir'es; Had
"fig: obej'et} the-hint givc'n, "an?! 'tip't go'ne to bed; {hemight'
haye fazed '(eve'ral thing's; "Bu't't'he few moments the ha'difpja'red'.
' ' to; her, :Wcre 1m j'u'it fiffl'i'tittit to leak) m1: ofbe'd; put- (om
1610811330ni-fillmgei'd'thiz-'fiai'm'f0r.'t'h'c>>hou{e was on fire its -
. 'half a. q'uarter of au~hour.- " W In! '
' 3'1"; . _~ ~ - . I. - '; '. e

. N

_
.33.
! .ot

: , 0,5: 1:411 22:. A; 34} E upww an; 33;.) 2.29.

i - ' i 51- . mSSntiening.thefe-thingSS.zMethinks his very. hard -

,. wflngfu Eng-{betwhfinctzofievil (pinks; 3%.;9012-mucb',' -

:' mm ~r'myc'the; notices wjucgh Wanna. are .pleafed'to give.

, W9. Rey/5'; pgmeyqxthc .mgsfoxtgne 'of fins, bufwhcnin teal
Japan 3; BPQ'thfin; WE Q'yanfli}! Mind. mifgaglc "hm qubet; 'Icwa:
w'ng about 1t: but If fo,_ why (3.9 you 'fl;gfit['_thc'. caution}

{lp'l'bwnotdmerj tpjpag-to a-vojce.-.?~ and then that/e 1-.an becn: rg'o' ~

re,a..f.onf.to mdkfizthin hemp'aint. , .
. ~ :I.;rC/tSScmber_abpu$aPS9.11:an*oryfifteen Years agg.(as to'time I
946th Exempyfiti'eagthcm- wan. warig' Ckrtzyman im the
city'-9f , ._Ibl,in,"__m- Ircland, th.-dreamedi a fiery. uncommon c

. drfij'fi'q 111th gfignupmn had;l;illgd hiswife, a' relation of. his,'by'
11g hung, her 19 .fgycral-plgegt; A he fright ofthis-'awaked him,'

. b'ugfigdfipg itaavqgeavxp, h; qo'mpofid himfclfiagain' m'flgcpi-whcn .v. '
ligzdg'ei'fieflaskmdxtimg ch: fatne- dream; This made=him'a-

ijtglfyngpfy; but, thmking itpmcceded fz.om.~the:'imprcflion

m3..SSi9n;h18.- 'miadby; thc .f9xzmer, ' heavcntz toflfiep '2gait'a'and. ' '
d'rgamed the faine dream a third- time aifo.' 'Sb'itroublcd "xvii

. mantis, math? arofer ap'diknmkgdnt his. mother's Chamber,
toldjiqqeggern, and his apprckgenfionmthat alll'wz's 1:10: right -
a}; this!rglatjon'srhoufe. Dear/bu,- 'fays the geod old gentlcwo-r
mm. 49 219.6 vial! tfitfl faoliflz- dreams? and 11,2? m'ucb. wort."
(gr; PS124 Jam: 'beizzg-a 3);:an in bobwadnrs, fiozk jam-regard

' 19-12962 {lyiqngg inpggtbisfig went tb had again, fell a'flaep,
aqddrgnmdafpw-flyfimgasbgfore; ~Andithep indeed hcput
'q'qvbjs nightngwn,.agdC/wcngrto Smithfield, the: placc'whefe
hissrelatiqn dwelt. - mtg-imam alas 3-. be perceived his dream' \
tg,9.-faldly..fu_l_filtlgfi,l byfgcjng r-him'elmiou the youngjlady, bi -
with ghfldzwho was a. Brotefiayt, flabbcdin 'firvcral planes by,
h' gbaxbgrquahuibam, My. 15119366, aviolent Pzipilfi,1'0n1.fox-'

.. femaldifgqyylbgof.rgligien.thathappened thedaybgfore. 'j fiery
imiwffilsih hae'fiabbgd her injth{ee..placc's; hewent to make his

.cflgape; ogtat-a window; but, {he cricdvuut, .134} dear! :21an g

' Iggy; <<1g; camc-,.baq.e, and 1/5411. 5:; we)!" again; ~'APS which he r85.
mtg-(251111 a} hellifla rage, and gavc'hcr four wounds more '; 'whc'pi .
excg- Iii-Abra. cand'gtign, rifing from;her bed, {he Wrapped hen. a '

. felt m .hSSr'fi!$.htvg,owm endgwgntm thfiLordBWp .omapho's <.
phamber dbpr (the. 'Bifhop. lodging. at thatzfimgin thc. hbuflc)?' ..
M} 150"!>> {and 4115: 0 my Larch. make.bq/Ie u'nio m: : But'is'foon

; as. 'hjs,,Lordmip cmgfflxg expired in his; arm, refi nin'g" her '
pfec10u8__'f0ul into ththa'nds'of Almighty'Go'd. " he.*cruel _

'WrC/tC/h:bcr. hnfb'anc) wag "19th the. puriilsrss. . moggquga '
dlegth'fQF-one; who 'defgrvgd Attic, gigbctxz and the. 13.de W618 Univ,

. rerun-x ;lamcnteC/ I??? tender? and. . rcligiqus. . chpk'. 5114;,
gthjtrggxcalxclayiop; 'fiafzcmefitiomd; 139mm achuxltz 0.531%?

~. 1me 2.0" drcrama thatxhs'cleszman. bash at the," tantalum 032i"
tlec'blosidy amen. .. - ' -' "I" .
~'.," ' ,L ' ,-. ,, .-' , '-"WW-"wry" ----- . -- . ~ --- ,., .._... ~w-~--- -. .

':230 no 31 N5 ON a a u 5 012's v Isa-0N
It might be expected I lhould enter upon the {abject of ap-
paritions, and dilcourfe concerning the reality of them; and
_.whether they can revisit the placeof their former exiltencq
and refume thofe faculties of fpeech and lhape'as-they had
when living 3' but, as thefe are very doubtful matters; I {hall 'only

{make a few'obfervationa npon.them. ' . 7 . '- " c l , g .
. I once heard of a man that . would allow the realityot' ap ari.
tions; but laid it all-upon the devil, thinking that the fan 8 of
men departed, or 'good men, did never appear. To this'very'
. man fomething'did appear :' He-faid', he faiiv- the {hape of an
.ancient man pafsby him in the'dulk, who, holding up his

hand in a threatening .pofiure, cried out, 0 wicked mm re- '
pail.- repent. Terrified with this apparition, he'confirlted le-
reral (fiends, who advifed him 'to take the advice; >>'But after.
. all, it was not an apparition, but a grave and pious gentleman,
' who'met him by mereacciden'n and had been fenSible of his
wickednefs'; and who never undeceived him, 'lett'it'fliould
\ hinder his reformation. ' -. ' ' -. '
Some people make a very ill me of the general notion, that
there are no apparitions' nor l'pirits at all '; . which'ie worfe' than
thofe who fancy they fee them upon every oc'ca'lion ; for thofe
carry their notions tarther, even to annihilate the'devil, -'and'be-

. lieve nothing about him,~ neither of one. kind or other e the '
' -- next Rep they come to, is'to conclude, Tbm: i: no God, and f0

atli-eifm takes' its rife in the fame link; with a carelefl'nefs 3- ~
" bout futurity. But there'is no occalion "to-enter upon an ar u.
.meat to prove the being "of the Almighty, or'to illui'trate" is
power by,words, who has {0 many undeniable teftimonies in the
.- reat'ts of' every rational being to prove his exi'ltence: and
we have fufiicient roofs enough to convince us of the great fu.
'perintendency of ivine Providence in the min'uteft affairs of
this World's'the manifelt'exifience ottheinvilib'l'e world ;.y the
reality of fpirita, and intelligence between us and them.
What I have laid, i hope, w'illnot milk-ad any perfon. or be a
'means whereby they may delude themtelves ; for l have. {po-
he!) of thefe things with the utmolt ferioufnefs of mind, and
' with. a fincere-and ardent' defire for the general good and

benefit ofvthe world. ' ' ' ' 1

_ cup. v. of/zgpringg'AfizaamL

.A'Fruc'rums are cnmmOntolall mankind; and whether

' they proceed from loll'es', dilappointments, or the malice of
film, they often bring their advantages along with them : For
this' mews mam the vanity and deceitfulnefs .nf tliisi~_life, and '

' is an cccalion of rectifying cur. m'ea'ures, and bringing us toa
. more mode'fi- Opinion of" ourfelves: It tells us, how necell'atrxy

' " . .- , . V ' - . t e

.-
-

\.op me. ANoaLtic "W o n L n; '23!

" the amfiance'o'f divine grace is unto usfwhen life itfelf becbmes ,

' aburden, and; death even deiirable : But ,when the 'greatefl:
oppreiiion comes. ugon' us, we mufl: havgrecourfe' to parience,

' begging of God to give us that. virtue; an the more compofed.

' we are under any trouble,-. the more commendable is our

. wifdom, and the larger will be our recompenfe. Letithe pro-
vocation be what it will, whether frOm a goodLnatured and con '
fcientions, or a wicked, perverle, and vexatious man ; all this ' -

' we ihould take as from the over-ruling hand of God, as a p11} '
niihm'ent for our fins. Many times injured innocence may be
abufed by falfe oaths, or the power of wicked, t jealous, or

' ' malicious men; but we often find it, like the palm, rife the higher
the more it is deprefl'ed; while the juiiice of God is eminently
- remarkable in puniihing thofe, one way or other, who . deiire ,_
to endeavour to procure the downfal of an innocent than: Nor '
-does God fail comforting an aifiided perfon', who with tears

' and prayers folicits' the throne of Heavenfor deliverance and
proteetion. David PS378,151: bi: find was full of trouble, and

' bi: hfi drew near ,unto'tbe gram. But certainly David's af-

" fiie'tions made him eminently remarkable, as particularly when
purfued by King Saul, . and hunted as a partridge over the
mountains.>> 'But one thing whichitands by innocence. is the
loveof God ; for were we to' fuffer. difgrace, nay, an iguomi-
nions death itfelf, what confoiation does our innocence probate '

at our iatelt c0nfliet, our'lalt moments!

.Char. VI. "0] ti): flatworalitj' of contradiction, and (be vulgar .
.' . ; - error: of behaviour; 7 ~'

As converfation .is a great part offhuman - happinei's, i'o it isa
' pleafant light to behol a Tweet-tempered man,' whois always ,
' . fit for it ; to fee an air of humour and pleafantnefs lit ever- upon
his brain and even fom'ething angelic. in. his very COnnte-'
nance: Whereas, if we obferve a deligning man, Wefhall find '
a marl: of involuntary Iadneis breah'inuponhig jo'y, and a .
certain infurreftion in the foul, theft-natural concomitant of
-p'rofligat'e principles. . ._ . y - . .
They err very much, who think,religion,.or a itr'iet morality
difcompofes the mind, and renders it1un'fit fonconverfation ;
- .for it rather ianires us '-t'o innocentmirth, without fuch a coun- _
'terfcit joy as vitious' men appear with; and indeed wit is as
.CQnfiitent "with religion, as ..re'ligi6n is with good manners;
. Inor'is there any thing .in the' limitation of virtue and religi.
on that lhould abate the pleafures of this world,1 but on the

Contrary rather knee to increare them. . _ ' _
/ ' , X . ,9"#32 3114.6 am 3:01; i: R. ;fif3e.~E23"V'I s Lb'fiU

- ' 0n the other hand, :--many<< men, by. their ownrice andine
vternperance, difqnpitfy themfelves for ConverfatiOn,. Converfation

. 'is :mmorai, where rheddifcourfe'is undecent, immodcfi, iean- }

.-'da1cue,'flanderous, and eibufiv'e. How great is their, folly, anfl
how much do-they expnfe t_h'emfelve$,when they' afi'rqnt their
lien: friend. even God-himfelf, who laughs at the foclxz'v/Je'nbi:
rfmr comet/J :' V , ' , ~ . . . '
4 1Thegreatfcandalatheiflicalandimmorai,'d-ifcourfe gives'to
virtue, .cught, mct'hinks, to:be pu'niflted'by.-all good magi-
:firates 2' M-ake'a man once'ceafe to' believefi. Gc'm'and he has

nothingiett to limit his foul. How incongruous is it to go. ,

nemment, thataman' ibail be puniihe'd-tcr _drunkennefie; and
yet have liberty..-to affront,r_-eapd even deny the .'Maje'fly c'f

. heaven :' 'Whep if,' even .amnng men, ' one giveawthe .lic. to a gen':

tleman in; company, or perhaps, {peekg an a'fi'mnting yvordfil

'. quarrel will-enfue,' and a combat, and perhaps mitrder "be the '

' confequences': flit-the leaft, he .wjligpro'fecute hini-at IEWiWith
:the utmoit virulence and oppreflio . ,- . . i "

. Thggpext thing't'q be refrained," chicane 'difcourfe, which is'
.theianguage only 9f proficients in debauchery, .who never res
-'pen.t;;b.ut~-in,_-a; gaoLophofpitalu; and wipcharca'fes relifh no
:Tbetter than their difcoin'fe, till rthebody becomes too natty for
- the ibitlato'fiaypny-longer in-jt. _, ..

y-Nor isfgife talking to-be :Iefsvavgc-ided'; 'fer'iying iei'the {heep'rs'
,.ciothing"hung upon the "wolf-'3 back; :Jt 187th: maifee'o pray;
"er, the whore's' bufs,' the hypocrite's paint, the murderer'a fmile,'

.' the .thief's cloak ; it is Joab's embrace, ,and~ Judah's- kits;

\

"init'word, it"is mankind's dariin'gxfin,' and the dei'iii'o ~difiSSagttifh~ ~

ing character. .~89me add lies'tot'liesg-"tiiiit not only comes
to be improbable;,but even, jm prambie tco : Others~lie for_gain
todeceive; 'jdeiude, and'betray :j~'-'degAndv-a third iies'for 'fport;
{pr- for. fun." There are _other iiara,' _-who are pcrfqnnl and maiig
'eious ;' whowfoment difi'epences. and carry tales'frnm- lone houfe
to:anothe'r,' interder to'. gratify their own- enyiopdgtemperq,
1withSSptany regard to_ rererence or truth. ' ' '. '1735.5.- .

' fi'EM'ARKx-ABLE..- HiSTOR-Y

ALEX A Nine R; Sis-L K218 K

190722 the. swayigge" Qfi Qaptaizz ' I/Voodc': <<Rogers to
212;: South, Seas; and rotate! tlgc- Mrkl:

" 9N Feb'mary 111, 1799, wekame before that iflh'ndfii" ha}.

' .- .'-ving had a good ohlervatiOn the da before,"'and found'
our latitude to be-34~.degrees"io minutes outh. mute afterrr
noon, we hoifted iofiit eul- pinnace ;' - and Captain Dover, with ;

I the boatletj crew, .iwent in. '~ her to go "alhore, though we '- '
coulcl'n'ot he'lefs thjan tour'leagfies off." As foon'as the pinnac: .
was gone, 2'] went: on board 'the_.D,-uchefs, ~' who admired. our .-

._1_)6at.-'atteinpting going alhoreatdha'tx difianeeufxemollandL lti

' was-againtt, my inclinati'on'; .hut, .to'oblf'ge Qantain Dover, [let '

~ her go; At foon a} it wag (lath, iwe iaw'a; light afhiire: Our'
heat was then about a league ofi'the ifltmcl, and bbreaway'for the '
{hips as {can as life {aw the lights :' We put our- lights a-
h'oard torthe boat; thonghfiame were taf'opinfonz the lights . we
ianwere' but! boat?s'.-liehta :_ Butt, .3; night'eame on; .'_it appear.
e too large for that-{We fi'red our-quarter-deck gun, 'and'fteve- -
'r mulkets, .fhowin'g fights-incur mizen and foreflhmggqythat
our. beat mightfind ua what-"we Were in the lee of the

' illfind :' About'tWO in the- rnnrning ,our boat came tonnboayd; .1
having been two hours on board the Dnohefs; that took them '
n .atte'r'n'ef us ;:we Were glad-they got well 032- hecaufe it :
bg'an. to blow. :' We' were all'tconvinced the light was on the
fh'ore, andt defigned 'to_. make out (hips ready to engage, lbelie- *
ving them to he Frenchnihips_at;"anchor,._and-1We mutt either
fight them, of--want'water.. All this {tin and tappyehenfion
anofe, as we afterwards found, frog; 9;}; poor naked man, who
'pafl'ed iin ou'r imagination,' at prefent, .foi'a Spanilh--garriton, .
abody ' of .Frehchmen, .or a' crew. of pirates, While we were .5
pnder- thefe apprehenfion's, we itood On' the biic'afide of the-
ifland, in order to fall in with the.;fontherly wind, till we were '
pat. the ina'nd; and then we came _b'ac!-:"to it' again, and rang
clofe aboard the land that begins>>to-make the north-eat'tJide.

We-ttill continued .to reafo'n .uponrthis matter; ' and it is in a .-
manner incredible, what. {trange notions: many ' of our pcOple_-
entertainedfrozn the fight of the-fire upon the-inane, ,Jt ,,

- ' ' X z ' _ fetved, t

"Yuan Femandez. - '934 REMARKABLE His'ro'nv

ferved, however, to {how people'stempers and fpirits; and we
were able to give a tolerable gnefs how 'our men would be; .
have, in cafe there really were any enemiesppon the ifland. '
Thefiaws came heavy off the more, and we were forced to reef
our topfails when we opened the, middle bay, where we ex-
pet'ted 'to have found our enemy ;. but {aw all clear, 8: no fliips,
- norm the other bay next the north'eait end Thefe two Bays. .
are all that {hips ride in, which recruit on this illand ; but the, , ,
middle bay is by much the belt. We guefl'e'd there had been '.
~' Blips there, but that they were gone on light of as: We fent our
yaw] amore about noon, with Captain Dover, Mr, Fry,' and
lix'men, all armed : Mean while we and the Duchel's kept turn~
mg to'get in, and fuch heavy flaws came off the land, that We .
' were f-orced to let go our tap-fail iheet, keeping all'handsfitol
(land by our fails, for tear of the wimls carrying them away:
R'ut when theflaws weregone, we hadJlttle 61' no wind. Thefe
flaws proceeded; from the land; which is very high in fl"? '
' middle of '_the,ifland." Our boat did not .ietiirn {we fent "our
.pmnace With the men armed, to fee what was the occafron of '
theyawl's fray; for. we. were'afraid, that the' Spaniards had .'
a ganifon- there, and 'might have kind them. we put out a . -
' . Signal .for'o'ur boat, and' the Duchefs mowedra French ensign, ;
, Immediatelyvonr pinn'ac'e returned from the more, and brought-
abundanCe iof- cry-hilt, with a man 'clothed in goats fkihs, _w110
lqohed-jviilderthan' the firit' owners of them. He had'becn-on i
the ril'apjd; four'ye'a'rs and flair months, being-left" there by Cairia .
rain; Strajdline in' the Cinque-ports, his name was {warnnnna :
Santana sectchman, who' had beefn'maiter offlthe'Ginq'ue-e '
ports, 'a thip that came here l'att 'with Captain Dampier, who .. -
teld me, <<that this was , the beft man in her. , I' immediately a-
greed with .him-' to be a mate'on board our mip : It was hejthat;
made theme laft night was>> he 'faw onr ihips, 'which he jnd-x'
ged to be Engliih. Du ng 'his flay hefe' he fawleveral fhi'psg'
paisby, but only, two came into anchor : 'As he Went to yi'eivi'
them {he found them \to "be ' Spaniards. " and retired from 1
~ them, upon {vhich they first at him :lHad they been'French,5'~"
he" Wouid have {uhmitted; but choofe to ril'que'liis'dying a4
lone on the iflandyratherthan'fa'll intoth'e hands of Spaniards '
in thefe parts ;~ becaufe thenapp'rehended they would murder '
him,--; Or 'malie'a'flave of him in the mines ; for he feared they,
w'ould {pare -no\{tranger that might 'be capable 'of difcovering j-
, the South Seas-t '1 ' ' .- ' " , a _
The Spaniards had landed, before he knew what they were ; - .
. andthe" came fo'nearI'him, 'that, he had much ado toief- ': .
'- cape; - or they not' only ihot'at him, but purfued him to: the *

I ~ woods}? Where he climbed to the top of a tree,., at the~1foot .-

ofi which'they-made'water, and killed feveral goats jtift"by.','l$ii_'t'
went 0!? again without difcoveringi him'. He itold'us that he -'
' . ' '- ' was' I MW. - ,"' ~
I ,t . '

on A'LEX'ANDER SELL'KI'RK. 235

was born at Largo, in the county of Fife, in Scotland, and was _
bred a failor from his youth. .' The realm of his being left ;.
here,'was a difference between him and- his captain ; which to- '
gether with ,the {hip's beifig leaky, made him willing rather _

to ftay here, than go along with him at firlt ; but when he was

'at lalt willing. to go, the captain would not reeeive him. He .
had been at the ifland before, to Wood and water, when twdof
tne'zih-ip's company were left upon it for fix months,.till the
iliip't returned, being chafed thence by two French South-{ea
ihips. He had with him his cloaths and bedding, with a fire-

' lock, fome powder, bullets and tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a
kettle, abihle, l'ome practical pieces, ,and his mathematical in- .
firuments and books. He diverted and provided tor himl'elf
as well as hecvuld; but for the. firli eight months, had much'
ado to bear up againlt m'elanchely, and the terror of being left ;
alone in fucha defolate place. He built two huts with pimento ..
trees, Covered them with long grafs, &'lined them with the {kins 7
of goats, which he killed with his gun as he wanted, {0- long as-
his powder laited, which was but a pound ; - and that being .-
almoft them, he got- fire by rubbing two hicks of imento- .
wood tOgether upon-his lgnee. lnthe leil'er hut, az'brne dil'o, '

'. taoce from the other, he dreii'ed his vietuals ; and in the larger. .

_ he flept, and employed ,himi'eif inreading, ringing pfalms,.and;
praying ; rfo that he faid. 'he was a better Chriltian, while in :
this lblitnde, than ever he was before, or than, he'ivas afraid, _

he ihould ever be again.>> - -- ,
At firit he .never fate any thing till hunger confirain'ed him, {
partly for: grief, ail'dgpartly for want of bread. and. felt: Nor ,
did he go to bed, till he could Watch- no longer ;. the pi mento- . _
wood, which" burnt ver clear, ferved him both for fire and 3 -
candle, 'and refrelhed'him. with its fragrant fmell. He mi ht;
have had fifh ensugh, but would not eat them for wantof alt, , . ,
becaufe they oCcaiioned a'looi'enefs, except cray-fiih, which are;- a
as large as our loblters, and very good::Thel'e he l'ometirnesg
~boiled, , and at other times broiled, as he ,did his goat's new, of,
which he made' very good broth, for they are-not fixranlzl~ '
as ours he kept an account of 500 that he killed while-
...there, and caught as many more, which be marked on, the ear,
and let go. ',When his powder, failed, he'took them by l'pecd.
"of feet; for his way of living, continual exercife of waikfuig-Iand,
running,- Cieared him of all grofs humours; fo that he ran
with wonderful fwittnefs through the woods, and tag-thesrcfiksn.
and bills, as we perceived when we emplo ed him'ntbgcarch,
goats-for us; We had a bull deg, which we cut with-.feveral of
our-nimbleit runners, to" help him in catching goats; but 119?. '
difianced- and tired both the dog-andthe, men,"'cau"ght the .\
goats, and brought them to us on hiaback. - " ' '-- - ' ' ' '

.. .I ., 4
g. .n .I.." ' IL

_>> U I .' -3 't..., '. 'Hc
. ' . . ..'.-' 2,. ..,....J

c' .
\.

'3'

He told us, that his '2giiity in 'purfuing a gcatf~had ' once-like."-
to have colt him his life ; he'purtued' it with {0 much eagernefs','.
' that he catched'hoid of it <<in the brink of' ajprecipiec'e, of:
which he was nOt' aware, .th'e b'uih'es hiding it'fron'inhim ; {9
that ' tie-fell with -th'e goat down the precipie'ce3~a great'height,
and was i'o finiined and-..bruifs-d ' with the fazl, .th'a't:he. narrowly '
efcapcd 'with his 'lifc ;"and, x hen became to tfis'fenfes;'fgund " '
' the'gqgt sic-ad uniier him: 1;. lay their; about twenty-four
hours, and Was (Came able to 'crawl to his' i:ut,'whiC/h 'was '34-:
h'ou't a mile 'difiant', Gr to'Yiir abroad again>> in ten" days, . '
He came at'iaft ta rciifh h'is- mes; inelienoilgh'withput'
{gilt o'r bra-ad ; and, in the {eafon had '"pLeiity-of. gppd tnn'eps, . .
_ which haxi'be'en {eweQ'there-byCaptain Da'mpicr'e'men'. nd .
have'noig-CVFripread [nine arireg'of grcnnd; 1:1; had/enough of f
good 'cahhage from the cabbage-trees," and 'i'enfonedi'his meat:
with the" fruit of? the pimento 't'rees,".miliich'~ is We fame-2191a:-
maica' 'pggper,' and {meils 'deii'cinufly : He-fc'und alfe abla'ck 5 .
pepper, caflzd " Ma'ageta;_ Which "was "very""goodfito 'expelz.
windgangi-ag'ainft Erippin'gin the @1123" " ' ' ' .' ..
He {den-w renout {all hi: times and cioatheslifiyarunning in the" -
woods} and, at- 1511'; being. forced to' fliift 'fiithcufi'thenir his:
16% became {0 hard, that'he' mi eyeryz'where \i'ithnii't ditiic'lilzy'=;' :' , i
and 'it ives {dine time before lie-could. wea'r'flzbee'afiwr We" "faund" '
him ';' for, not being ufed to any fo Yong, his f_e"PSt Mailed; when":
he camt-fiffito wedr-themiagain; ' , ' _
" After-hf hard cznzqueredghi's.rngianchc'fly;.h'eldive'rted'himfeifiz
. {qrhetimes with cutting his 'namgehh-thdtreea, and the. time-
of his bEing icf:,_' and continuance, .'thetfii?' H'e was'et'dirft'"
much peftfired with cat_s and rats, that bre'd in great number".
frbni' thine of each {pgcies "which -had,.g'ot-aflmre from fliips'i '
that put in there to mind angl'water-z .Therats"-gna}x:ed his feet I? .
angi doathes yahilfi aijeep, , which ' obligedr'him '_t<').'c'i_1er'ifi_ii th'e -'
'cats 'wirh hit .g'bafs Hem; 'by. which 'm'nny of them became to >>'- '
tame',- that they'wourdi'iie ab'o'ucihim'in' hundfeds,~' {rid-food."
delivered'him from the rat's ': .He likewife' tamed 'fem'e'. kidgg':
'apd, to divert himfeif, wbii'ld; now and then, fing and dance?
_ " with them; and-hislcats; So that by- the favour of Brbvidence," ..-
jand vigour of" his Youth, being now. but thirty years c-ld,' he ~-
_ cgmeiat'iafi; to 'cofi'fi'ncr'ail thea-inconfenienCies- 'of his {oiit'ude, .
'a'nd tii'fic.-ifer;y3eaff.f.' ' ~ ,' .r , _ , . -'
' Whenifi's'cinath'esfi'wlzrc.worn out, he made 'himftif a chat-and 4f
famap ofigibfit-flgins,~=whioh he-fliched together with little-.thonge-
of th'e'ffz'm: geitha't he. cut with'hi's knife, 'He had 'nofother'nee-
die but-'a'ir'i'a'ii": and, when his-' knife . wa's wcrn 'to the-back; .'
hemddectfiets', .35 well' as he cbuid, of fome-iren boogie; that '
fiierefldi'fifelhotei' which he beat thin,'and graiind-upon-fi'ones.
Having foin'eiihnen cleth-bjr him,':.he7'fe'Wed-'him'f-ib'me'.mitts-g .
gen} 3 naiifiandifiic'hed themiiwiih. the .worfiedof his old flpck:
' 1ngs,-..- -.,'.. n... -.. ------------~ w... ..
.7. I 7---- f

7370.717 A DEX-'1: R mil-R. :9; Le'ieI-ttv-K'z '237'

,g inga, which hisulled out on pttrpofe.-_' He had his uni-(hm oh,'
"when we .fou him in the iflmd. - .

'At hisfirfigcomngzpnbcardeus,' he .had'fo.much forgot his .
[langua e, for want of nfe, that .we could fearce un'derltaed'
' him :- or. he feemed to (peak his'xvords by'h'alvesr. We ,efi'xed

him a..dram.:,;but.,he wouldnot touch inhaving dnank nc.
r'thing but 'water fince his being there ; ,And it was tometime be-
'fore he could reliih our_ vie't'uals. He could g'iveus an ac-
.'count of no other product of the iiland, than What we. have
mentioned, eicept'fome'biack plume, which are very good,
=but hard to come at, the trees, which hear them, growing on
high mountaine and rocks. "Pimento-trees are plenty . here,
- :and we faw'fnme of fiitt-Y'feet high and aboiit two yards thick;
rind cotton-trees higher, and near four fathoms roundin the
Rock. The climate is'To. ~g'ood,'thatrthe trees and grais are
-Ver'dant all the year rennin-The winter lafls'no longer than
.June and July, and is not then fevere', there being only; fmall
troll, and a little hail : but fometimes: great rains. . The heat of '
'the fummeif is equally'mode rate; and there is not much thunder,
or tempeituous weather of anylfort. He faw no venomous or
- "favage ,ei'eature on'the illand, nor any fortof healts but goats,
' the firttpt' which 'had been put. alhore' here, on purpofe fora
breed, 'b'y Juaii 'Fernandez',."a Spaniard, who fettled there with
' ffome families, till the comment fof Chili'he an to fub'mit to
the Spaniards; which-"Being more profitable; tempted them
tacjuit this ifland, capable however, 'of maintaining a good nnm-
'her of people, and ,befng made fo firong, that they could
shot be eafily=diflodged from thence. . ' . -

'February :3d we got 0hr fmitli'a fonge on more, fet our cooe
'~ pen to Work,_.and. made a little tent for merto have the benefit
' -of the air. ' The 'Duche'fs'had'ja'lfo a tent EURfdr their lick men>>,

[0 that we had a {than toWnuo'f cur oven here, and every body
employed. fifew men mpplied us' all with 'fiih. of feveral
' forts, all very good, in fuch abundance, that, in afciv'liours, we
could take as m'any. as would fer'Ve goo. T here were {ea-fame
in the bay; as large an geefe : 'b'ut eat hilly. Thezgovernot: '
-never failed of procuring uq two or threegoats a-izlay 'for, our
:fick men; "-by which, withz'the help of the greens, and the
wholefome air, they rceoverea fvirery foon oi "the'fcurvy; fa
~'that Captain'Dover and-I thought ita very agreeable feat, the
V 'Weather being neither .'too, hot nor too-cold. 'VVe {pent our
"time, till thefr'o'th, in. refitting Our fh'ips, taking wood on board;
and laying in water,,that'wliich we brohght'ftom Ehglanfd .
'and St. Vincent being'fpoiled'hy the badntfo of the call-ts. We
*likewife boiled up aboiit'eightz gallons of feaelions 'oil, as we'
might have done feveral tons, 'a we been provided with vefi'els.
'We refinedit'for oni- lampa, "to fave candlee. The failors'
=fomotimes ufe iftofry their meat, for want of-butter, and find :
. _ _ 1*)yara'vwg: 2- 7.1'1ggfi'uvv-v-'u--vTu-J--u
, ,

 

 

Q, _

1'238 REMAR-KABLE HISTORY SIC.

- it agreeable enough. The men'who worked on our 'riggi'ng,
eat young feals, which they preferred to our {hips victuals, <<Sefaxd

' it was as good as Engliihlamb', though} would have been glad .of .
Inch an exchange. We made what hafi'e ,we couid to get an
the necefi'aries on --board, being willing 'to lofe no. time; for

' we were informed at the Canzries, that five {taut French ihipa
Were coming together to thofe teas." .

THE" END;

 

C"-

Prx'ntcd by G. an, 'Duyztbizre